

cs
GAELIC) WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Mi FRY’S MALTED COCOA
oooo>_£k. OF MALT.
R. G> W ATKIPffS fc CO.,
107 KI ent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
lining arc? Con 4 raCtors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXP] OSTVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
.V*
vim
H '
n
Mite
■
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WINE^>
AUSTRALIA.
JtST Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss Pitt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor Sz Co. !_■*?-
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
BCOEHTHIO TSHASHIISO machines, saw BBHOHBBI
&C.,
“ c *
WHISKY.
lister’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE
kept by Mrs. Kihniiister for
Twenty </>0) Veers.
erlooking the Pacific Ocean at
BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
in;
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
wrMI'OLK’S GEORGE H OTE L, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
-tiL
•v-e&£.
oo
a-
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month-THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST,
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed fur Dui'a.biiity and Cheapness
Used exclusively by theN.S. VV. G-orerament.
Prices and Samples Free to any rddress.
J. C. LUDOWICMk SOfi LTD.
117 -SToitSs. Strept,
SYDNEY. 7
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth,>V-■ Atis
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, b. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE
Edisvau - Lamp.
EDI SWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency lor Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC! CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nslaml Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHERS “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
')
SOLE AGENTS
Flummer Love & 00.
249 Georye Street, SYDN JIY%
The Bulletin
Vo] 20—No. 1026,J
f Saturday, October 14, 1890.
Per’stored at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SOIOA ‘JLV&SHI otW ‘St>jm*l aiw aoj
Couyhs, Colds,
jirottc/i it is
and
Influenza
Cure,
■ organ of
windpipe.
Tubes of a
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
A
SUITABLE FOR OLD
AND YOUNG.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poiaono ns O
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d.
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province.
Or from
SYDNF If AGENT
poisonous (l rut/
l h^ m ?lPPfjetor-G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
THE RED PAGE.
"Maoriland: and Other Verses."
AG-ijA 'E at this book, pot up i<> the
latest style of art, witii tUiok paper, fine
- Hear type, gold top, arid portrait of the
author, may well set one thinking about
t.i > changes that have come over the literary
world here of late years. It does not seem so
long ago that Henry Kendall came up from UJla-
dulla to Sydney, a boy of 20, with a sheaf of
manuscript verses, in search of a publisher. His
story is worth telling once again. After many
uns locessful appeals for assistance, he at last
succeeded in finding a printer, and a thin little
volume, printed in the plainest style on the
cheapest paper, was issued to the world-. Any-
one who will take it up now, and judge it fairly,
will admit that such work as it contains ought to
have been well received in Sydney. Shabby as
the book may seem, in comparison with such pro-
ductions as this, it represents the finest develop-
ment of poetic genius known to Australian Litera-
ture. Where else shall we find such originality
in thought and expression, combined with so
much force, pathos, and melody? In local colour-
ing, technical art, and general aesthetic effect, he
may have been equalled ; but, taking him alto-
gether, he still stands without a rival in his own
sphere.
A new star became visible in the literary
heavens then, and it still shines there with un-
diminished brilliancy. But if anyone asks—what
sort of impression did it create among those who
beheld it for the first time? the answer may be
read in the fate of his book. It fell flat from the
press; and he, thinking it was due to the poverty
of his rhynfes only, resolved to “stop the sale,”
and did so—no doubt on the advice of some
friendly sages who never understood him. Now,
if such work as his were to appear for
the first time to - day, it is perfectly 7 certain
that it would meet with instant recognition.
Nothing more would be needed than its publica-
tion under proper conditions —such as those which
Mr. Adams and other young poets of the present
day have been fortunate enough to secure. It
cannot be denied that the crushing disappoint-
ments which overclouded Kendall’s life were
mainly owing to the wretched circumstances which
surrounded nis introduction to the public. His
book was not “ published” at all, in the sense in
which we understand the word ; it was simply
printed and laid on a bookseller’s counter to take
its chance. Had he fallen into better hands, it is
only fair to suppose that he would have met with
the encouragement he deserved ; and that, instead
of dy T ing at 41, an utter wreck in mind and body,
his powers would have expanded under the genial
influence of popularity, for many 7 years—perchance
even to the present day. As it was, his life and
work were sacrificed together.
There is not even a suspicion of resemblance
between Mr. Adams’ work and Kendall’s. His
lines have evidently been cast in pleasant places.
There is no_ gloom, no shadow, no my 7 stery, in his
views of life. The wild scenery 7 of his native
Maoriland has not left him full of haunting terrors,
ghostly fancies, weird and mystic whisperings in
the night-time. Nature there is instinct with
life and joy in all her moods :
But Mr. Adams has felt the peculiar power of
Australian scenery, as well as that of Maoriland,
and in his lines, “Written in Australia,” he con-
trasts the characteristic features of the two :—
Patriotic, as a poet should be, he looks forward
to a time when Maoriland will be great among the
nations, and “the name that once was Britain ”
will be nothing more than a memory. In a vision
of “ The Brave Days to Be,’ the charms of his
native scenery shine as vividly as in the present
day:—
In the same strain, a father’s sorrow for his lost
cm Id is handled with equal ingenuity in “ Bereft.”
Jnit this analytical faculty is Seen with singular
effect in the description of a struggle between a
neglected wife and a wanton over the body of the
man who ha,d loved one, but not the other —a
thoroughly French conception, by the way. The
little drama is worked out with remarkable power.
I t is difficult to do justice to it without quoting
tiie whole ; but the final stanza will enable the
reader to see the drift of it, at least: —
hut that 18 exactly what most readers look for,
| n a youthful poet conies upon the stage. They
look to him to see how the ever-changing process
ot thought, feeling, and sentiment have crystallized
m Ins verses. With the past he has littie to do ;
he is not a pedant, come to teach ; he is an in-
teipreter of JNature solely. The moving scenes of
i e among the men and women of to-day supply
the material from which he distils the essence of
hares philosophy. Mr. Adams does not pretend
to be a sage : but he has something more than the
learning of thh Schools—lie can look beneath the
surface of things ; he has, in considerable measure,
the distinctly poetical faculty which enables him
to reveal their true meaning.
G. B BARTON.
Land where faces find no furrow,
With the flush of life elated ;
Where no grief is, save the sorrow
Of a pleasure that is sated :
Land of children lithe and slim,
Fresh of face and long of limb.
This is a very different note from the one struck
by Kendall, when he poured out his solemn in-
vocation —
Swarthy wastelands, wide and woodless, glittering miles
and miles away,'
Where the south wind seldom wanders, and the winters
will not stay.
The land lies desolate and stripped ;
Across its waste has thinly strayed
A tattered host of eucalypt.
From whose gaunt uniform is made
A ragged penury of shade
But o'er my isles the forest drew
A mantle thick -save where a peak
Shows his grim teeth a-snarl— and through
The filtered coolness creek and creek,
Tangled in ferns, in whispers speak.
The dreaming rivers of the yellow plains
Rippled and rustled ever ; and the creeks
Thro' green-draped gullies of the listening bush
Ran garrulous ; and in the shadowed gorge
The great tides, placid, imperturbable,
Marched to the distant sea.
Maoriland landscapes will probably have less
charm for the general reader than poems inspired
by “ Love Motives.” Here the author evidently
writes with less effort and more, conscious power.
Several pieces of this class will attract notice by a
peculiar method of analysing emotion and passion.
In the lines “To You,” for instance, the old theme
of spiritual affinity—twin souls that never meet—
is presented with unusual freshness of conception :
So you will yearn through life,
Or may be you did not wait ;
You married him, and his neutral smile you learnt to
sullenly hate ;
Or you have lived a lie,
And drank the mockery of his lips, believing that he
was 1 ;
You dreamed, content that you loved him true,
But the soul of your soul was dead to you —
So I must y. am through life.
This power shows itself with still greater force in
another poem—“And Yet ’—in which grief for
the toss of a wib- is dissected with a skill that
reminds ns of ‘ In .•leinoriaui. .. he mourner
rejects the col i c m 1 1 oueieti by orthodox sym-
; athise.s, hohiin 0 .t the spirit vi the departed
• ■as m t taken night to another .. rid, but is ever
; resent with him :
She wiiir- In no drear Heaven afar.
Her woman s soul in all its worth,
Yeaniing f ,r me, for homely Mirth,
No gates of beaten gold could bar.
No, she is near me, ever close ;
One with the world, nut tree again ;
One with the breezes and the rain ;
One with the mountain and the rose.
And tills is a question for answer in Hell :
fo which of the two did his spirit belong, can you tell?
1 hink, was it the woman he loved, or the one who had
loved him too well ?
Mr. Adams forms a very modest estimate of his
work in some lines on “ Myself.” He may be, as
he says, a
Product of the present only,
Thinking nothing of the past.
These Artists.
COJSibIDER the sea’s listless chime ”
consider these artists. “ Time’s self it
is, made audible ” —mediocrity’s self
they are, made visible. We are all
mediocrities together, for that matter. No matter
for that matter: like can appreciate like.
Consider these artists by and large ; consider
them before and after. Blank—affable, and
ordinary. Dash—jovial, and ordinary. Colon-
romantic, and ordinary. Asterisk—very young,
and very ordinary. And so on—some promising,
a good deal; some performing, a little. None of
them extraordinary.
We know that: for it is permitted to know the
artists. They do not segregate themselves from
the herd ; they are common objects in the streets.
It is permitted to converse with them ; to walk
round them and admire them ; to praise their
paintings and to listen to their invectives against
other painters. All ordinary. If they possess
artistic genius they take uncommon pains to con-
ceal it—in their port, and their talk, and their
paintings.
Genius is uncomprehended of the multitude;
many a genius has lived unhonoured, to be dis-
covered by posterity. Yes : but not when the
multitude is painfully anxious to discover genius ;
when it goes searching the studios, scrutinising
the galleries, for some manifestation of the divine
spark ; when it is all eyes and ears in the temple
to see the lightning and hear the thunder. But
these small gods of theirs never thunder, never
lighten. There may be a midnight radiance
round the brow of Apostrophe; but it
is only when he is coming out of the
cafe. What- is the use of pedestalling deities
with a placard “We are marble,” when you
have only to stick your pen-knife into them
to see they are putty, not too well compounded ?
Ancient Michael Angelo was a great man—he
was sculptor, painter, poet, architect, and a dozen
things beside; you had only to stand in a room
with him, says his biographer, only to see his brow
and eye, to recognise that you were in the pre-
sence of a demi-god. Modern Whistler is
a reasonably great painter—the man would
suggest it if his paintings did not tell
it: to be privileged to Whistler’s intimacy,
tritely says somebody, is to receive a liberal artistic
education. Buonarotti, in his great way, looked
the artist: he is out of the comparison, of course.
But Whistler, in his small pose, is the artist; he
redeems his pose: these artists have only the
pose. The cowl does hot make the monk. Hair
and queer hats do not make a painter.
Which trends to this: painting is not the
artistic character, it is only its manifestation.
When you consider these artists, in their every-day
suit of tattle and squabble, you see that—unless
the universal law of cause and effect has been
suddenly broken—from such ordinary persons
ordinary paintings must come. Their pretensions
are proven false a -priori. You do not gather
grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles.
Thus, when you are told you underrate their
paintings—because only a painter can appreciate
a painting—you are naturally contumacious. That
daub map be the miracle they assert; but, if one
man can appreciate another, it has been most
miraculously begotten. For, since paternity was
invented, no child ever had a more ordinary
father.
It is admitted, of course, that a man may be a
block and a stone, deaf and dumb and crippled,
yet still be a great painter. It is not the absence
of the marks of genius which convicts these artists;
but the presence of all the stigmata of the Com-
monplace. We do not complain that they do not
show their artistic birth-eertitieate, but because
they show another which stumps them inartistic.
If they were hermits in cells there would be only
their works to judge them by ; but they open
their mouths, and, lo ! cloven feet are in them.
The work matches the men ; the men match the
work.
This judgment of certain extravagant preten-
sions from the highest stan 1 point is quite com-
patible with recognition that many Australian
artists strive hard, | aint well, deserve honour,
and are disgracefully underpaid and under-
esteemed. But from swelled-head and coterie-in-
flation preserve us, () Bunyip !
The Simile!
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Taking the “ most curious and most piquant”
simile first : one of the best I have come across
occurs in a child's picture book, published
about loifil—as part of a line in a set of verses on
“Jack and Jill,” illustrated by “Hop.”
... his hair
Was the color of straw—
You never saw
Such a crop— as long as the moral law !
This reminds one that an old English simile runs:
“.As hasty as Hopkins, that came to gaol over-
night and was hanged the next morning.” (Of
course, as the lawyers say, this is to be taken
without prejudice.) “As bold as Beauchamp ”is
another old English simile. Others there are of
old identity—and coarse such as, “Like a
barber’s chair, fit for every buttock ” ; and “ As
sluttish and slatternly as an Irish woman bred in
France.” The last is from “The Plain Dealer,”
and is said by Olivia, Act 11. Ho. 1 -being by that
sad sea-dog Wycherley.
Some similes are slangy sayings of dubious
origin. Such are the American’s definition of speed
—“ As slick as greased lightning ; ” or “ a mouth
like a torn pocket,” “an eye like an oyster”;
while the high collar of the dude is “ Like
a whitewashed wall round a lunatic asylum.”
Sheridan’s simile put into the month of Mrs.
Malaprop (Act lit, Sc. 2, “The Rivals”) is
quaint :—“Slieisas headstrong as an allegory on the
banks of The Nile. ” Then there is the expression:—
“As lazy as Ludham’s dog, that leaned his head
against a wall to bark ”; also “as agile as an
elephant,” “as cheau as last year's almanac,”
and “as wise as Waltham’s calf, that ran
nine miles to suck a bull ’’ —all of them prim-
itive proverbialities. Southern has the phrase
“Lie. as close as a man in a proclamation.”
Sydney Dobell, in “ A Musing (not “ Amusing ’’)
on a Victory” has “as grand And griefless as a
rich man’s funeral.”
Milton in his “ Areopagita ” writes : —“he who
destroys a good book kills reason itself, kills the
image of God, as it were in the eye.” Herrick has
“ Her pretty feet, like snails, did creep a little out,
and then As if they played at bo-peep Did
soon draw in again.” Sir John Suckling in his
“Ballad of The Wedding”—“Her feet beneath
her petticoat like little mice stole in and out, As
if they feared the light.” In Young's “Satires ”
we read—“An opera, like a pillory, may be said
to nail our ears down and expose our head.”
Someone remarked of certain oft-referred-to mem-
bers of the Royal Academy “ Even Solomon in all
his glory was not R.A’d. like one of these.” Don
Jerome, in “ The Duenna, ” alluding to serenaders
says These amorous orgies that steal the
senses in the hearing as they say Egyptian embal-
mers serve mummies, extracting the brain through
the ears. ”
Lawyers are said to be “Like keen shears,
Iseer cut themselves but what’s between, ’t
appears-., Shakespeare has in “The Merchant of
vemce” (1.1.98): “a sort of men whose visages
Do cream and mantle like a standing pond.” Some
more of Sheridan’s, from “The Critic”: “He is
as envious as an old maid verging on the despera-
tion of six-and-thirty ” ; “He shrinks like scorched
parchment from the fiery ordeal of true criticism ”;
“ Your commonplace-book, where stray jokes and
pilfered witticisms are kept with as much method
af Vie ledger of the lost and stolen office.”
‘ Tom o’ Bedlam’s Song” (which with Francis
Thompson’.* additions appeared some short time
since on this page) has “As a burst and blood-
blown insect cleaves to the wall it dies on, The
smeared sun doth clot upon a heaven without
horizon.” “Her breast was strewn like the half
o the moon with a cloud of gliding veiling”—fol-
lowed by the connecting reference, “In her snow
beds to couch me I had so white a yearning,
Like a moon struck man her pale breast ’gan to set
my wits a-turning.”
For the other or “most poetical” side of the
simile: From the Bible, Homer, and the whole
grand range of writers of all time, literature teems
with these pretty parables that may truly be said
to have been oft met afore. Bishop Lowth has
with others shown us the Hebraic simile to per-
fecfcion, and Professor liiackie, with Heyne and
Green, the Homeric similes. In fact, to take out
similes from poetry and prose would be “like
taking out the artistic element from architecture,
leaving mere bricks and mortar to coin an ex-
pression. Pope gives us the idea of their value
in his “ Horace ” (epistle 1, book 2, 1. j.)-.
“ One simile th.it solitary shines In the dry desert
of a thousand lines.” Though, strange to say, in
another place Pope ’verts to the extent of saying,
“A simile is no better than the shadow of an
argument.” Prior also writes, “Similes are like
songs in love—They much describe they nothing
prove.”
Still, we have Sterne’s authority for the state-
ment that “ a good simile is as concise as a king’s
declaration of love,” and Tilton’s “Swords have
not keener edges nor flash brighter .lights than sud-
den similes drawn by a poet’s band.” Shakes-
peare in “The Taming of the Shrew” (act V.,
sc. 2), makes d ranio say, “O, sir, Luc-entio
slipp’d me like his greyhound, which runs himself,
and catches for his master. ” Petruchio remarking,
“A good swift simile, hut something currish."
The celebrated American, John Quine# Adams,
considers “similitude is between good arid bad
“comparison is between more or less,” and classes
the phrase “ Hannibal .... hung like a tempest
on the declivities of the Alps ” as a likeness by
similitude while “ The sublimity of the Scriptural
Prophets ext-eeds that of Homer as much as
thunder is louder than a whisper ” is held to be a
likeness by comparison. The one refers to
“quality,” the other to “quantity.”
Homer, who reflected “as accurately as a
mirror ’ what he saw, used the most striking
similes, as tor instance: “He came like the
night’ ; “ Ids words fell soft like snow upon the
ground ”; “1 followed behind him as in the foot-
steps of a god.” The first of Heaters similes
(Antiion’B Homer’s Iliad, bk. ii.) runs, “As the
bees came forth continually m fresh numbers, so
fresh bands of Greeks keep continually pouring
forth from the ships and tents ’;.and this, with
numberless other tropes of his, has done: duty
down the ages. Tennyson has, perhaps, re
phrased it most happily when he compares a
miller to “a working bee in blossom dust.” One
could cull many choice bouquets of such flower-' ol
fancy from Tennyson’s poems. “ What lit you.
eyes with tearful power Like moonlight on a fal-
ling shower.” “We coursed about The subject-
most at heart, more near and near, like doves
about a dovecote, wheeling round The central wish,
until we set.l id here.” “Lightly was her slen te
nose f|ip-tilted like the petal of a flower ” (Garetli
and Lynette). “Hidden as the music of the
moon sleeps in the pale eggs of the nightingale.”
Alexander Smith has some fine thoughts. “ His
soul was ricu ; And this his book unveils it, as the
ni?l!t Her printing wea’th of stars.” “It was his
nature To blossom into song a 8 ’tis a tt£& To
eaf itself m Aoril.” “The stars among’ the
within 80 ho] ™ Wt ‘ re thick
v ttim me. My heart us weak ;as a great globe
all sea. It finds no shore to break on Imt thyself ”
Coleridge s description in “ The Ancient Mariner”
nliSeH 6 * 861, o A ' S i(,le “ » 1-ainted ship upon a
painted ocean, is suggestive. So is his remark
Lo most men experience is like the stern lights
dLsccl ” P, W hK | ' ’ ?, lla ," e nnly fche traek it Kb
pasM.d. Wordsworth has in his own exquisite.
way snndised so to speak): “The Holy time i s
qmet as a nun Breathless with adoration.” “ Thv
soul was like a star, and dwelt apart.” Moor/
full of Similitude: “Like moonlight on a
troubled sea Brig. 1 tens the storm it cannot calm ”
as he phrases it m the Second Angel’s Story in “The
Loves of the Angels.”
Shelley’s splendid epitome—“ Life, like a dome
ot many-coloured glass Stains the white radiance
ot eternity, is a beautiful piece of imagery
L ” a -I itious and unpoetical, is The Bwltfellaw's mdg-
nmnt.J So is Ins description in “The Skylark”-
Like a cloud of fire. [Again, No.] Longfellow
gives us in “The Spanish Student ” —“And like a
lily on a river floating, She floats upon the river
ot his thoughts. ” And his. description of Autumn
Li;ve flames upon an altar shine the sheaves ”
A nne Shakespearian simile is : “ She hangs upon
the cheek of ISiglit like a rich jewel in an HSthiop’s
ear, or the apostroplie to a lady’s tears: “As pearls
irom diamonds dropped. ” Poole’s “Parnassus”
contains “ Dark as the drowsy mansion-house of
sleep. i Davenant has—“ Dark as if the funeral
Were celebrated there.” Greene has—
Her face was like the blushing of the East when
litan charged the morning sun to shine.” Glover
lo blush like day’s first dawn.” Randolph
has, ‘ ‘Blush as if Modesty herself had there lain
a “ ef | °f coral.” Joanna Baillie poetises:
W hen through the morning’s fleecy veil the early
sun looks forth with softened- rays, Like a stilled
infant smiling in his tears.” Cornwall’s lines on
‘ Ihe Nightingale” are effective-^“Like hidden
rivers that we hear, singing amongst the forests
green.” In “Melpomene, a Poem,” is—“ Her
“hflpiid head bends like a lily charged with rain.”
Willis, 111 “ David’s Lament for Absalom “My
pulses thrill like a rich harp-string.” Milton—
“ Anon out of the earth a fabric huge, Rose like an
exhalation. ” Marlowe— “Oh, thou art fairer than
the evening air Clad in the beauty of a thousand
stars.’ In a poem, “ Destiny,” we find described,
“ Three roses, wan as moonlight.” And Bailey, in
“Festus,” eloquently sings of “Morn, like a
maiden glancing o’er her pearls. ” And the origi-
nal of Andrew Marvell’s—“He hangs in shades
the orange bright Like golden lamps in a green
night.”
This selection may be said, in the words of Sheri-
dan in “The Critic,” to be—“A composition of
dregs and sentiments, like a bad tavern’s worst
wine,” but I hope for a more charitable judg-
Yic.
E. WILSON DOBBS.
The Man with the Hoe.
(After seeing Millet's Picture).
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans
Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground,
The emptiness of ages in his face,
And on Ins back the burden of the world.
Who made him dead to rapture and despair,
A thing that grieves not and that never hopes,
Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox ?
Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw?
Whose was the hand that slanted baek this brow ?
Whose breath blew out the light within this brain ?
Is this the Thing the Lord God made and gave
To have dominion over sea and land ;
To trace the stars and search the heavens for
power ;
To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the dream he dreamed who shaped the suns
And pillared the blue firmament with light?
Down all the stretch of Hell to its last gulf
There is no shape more terrible than this—
More tongued with censure of the world’s blind
greed— . . : ■ ■
More filled with sighs and portents for the soul—
More fraught with menace to the universe.
What gulfs between him and the seraphim !
Slave of the wheel of labour, what to him
Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades?
What the long reaches of the peaks of song,
The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look ;
Time’s tragedy is in t.iat aching stoop;
Through this dread sh vpe humanity betrayed,
Plundered, profaned and disinherited,
Cries protest to the Judges of the world,
A protest that is also prophecy.
.) masters, lords and rulers in all lands,'
Is this the handiwork you give to God,
This monstrous thing distorted and s >.il quenched?
How will you ever straight m up this m vpe ;
Give back the upward looking and the light;
Rebuild in it the music and the dream ;
Touch it again with immortality ;
Mak • right the inundin >riai infamies,
1* u-ii lio 1 < wrongs, im.n \lieable woes ?
) masters, lords and rulers in all lands,
Glow will tue Future re ikon with this Man ?
Mow answer his brute question in that hour
'/’ben whirlwinds of reb iliiou shake the world ?
How will it be with king lo ns and with kings—
Wbtl'h those who shaped Inin to the tiling he is
Wh m this dumb Terror shall reply to God
After this silence of the Centuries ?
EDWIN [?]LA[?]KHAM, [?] A[?] rica[?] paper.


KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
r Nl( lVrec?u a liymnove2DanXufl I PERMANENTLY,
Hair and J . rr ;l ; r Reiuvenator. By its use the
and is a most fbreaking, or splitting.
Hairispreve lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 1010 and Hit - P« Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG 6l AIT KEN,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
~tfkin%)kea4e4.
$ Welt) WkeoCery
“*£igmo{(iene. JJ
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
n.ornn RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Boreness. _ _
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY: —
“ Woolloston House, Oastleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,' very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
sneaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it-Youn truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.” „ „ _
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says :
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
g; r __i have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
savs it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM N€NRYMALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
sa. and 73. 6d. Eacla.
fyPosted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKOHCHITIS,
DIAREHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLUS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingth constitution
to 1 esist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
I Highly recommended
for weak and
I debilitated children.
LANCET, “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-' ‘lthas all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
“01 l> BY CHEMISTS AM. THE WORID OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER.
NOYES BROS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
STDNET.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHAEGE- 3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
BRUSH’S
IKUIISTIBIII BEIIT’S SIDDRES.
BR.USH
N*kn-
tvonw.
faWtvr 4»+&r /.
\ ttt
Natural Saffron
AND
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
BRUSIJ.
fVitr
S»#NW.
i vrfsrf ***
auuy. jdjmuu oauuio
MaKer, Sydney, Registered.’
These SADDLES nrem'ade with Fine Pißskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, witl
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped
*" BrUSH, - _ - -
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit foi
any gentleman to ride on. They are made m nine qualities—AX, A 3 ss; A, A 3 los, &, a
C, V A4 10s ;D,AS; E, £5 10s, and up,
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s tc
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired. „ ...
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
S 'lf navment is sent wi’th order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, an
say which style of Knee-pad is desired-No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations oi
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THJE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
anil BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Biding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Beady-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Bainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15,9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress, also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Bugs Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us “ We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 trimmings included.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
' ±1 Saved ia equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.) f SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
sm
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants & Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens Bamboo Baskets, General Baskets are,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes,
Natural Curly, from Si& eiA
PLAITS and TAILS,
Jfiln. lone, C/8, all real hate.
CUTTINGS « COMBINGS
worked up, V 8 per oa.
\Ve ara the cheapest!# M#
tralla for all Hair Work.
Stnd Color of Hair.*''
w: n."wi
*»l» WfIAUU STRKBT, v
oaroer of Paimer-str**t>
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Dow..
Seed stamps for full Prioo Uft >
rinpiil otteotion gSyen to Country Orfltm
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
buy the best.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
nsw. acmnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR MALIN G’ S REMEDY
jfftassasssss sffisffisss
Oan beS en secretrv in food or drink. This remedy ta
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write Jor
rSS ,, 'Sr.h.nto™i™m‘'VelMNOW “ SSIZBNS.
AdSls-B. CORNWALL, Manager M»lin« Remedy Co.,
Aaaress Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DEAF
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
■ to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
k
sfnVv>;-«.
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
HIGH-GRADE TftRM IMPLEME MTS AN DM AC HINERY.
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Falir
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Bud. Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents—
<5 LEM &
359 Cteorgfe Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.


JL
ATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO,
ADAMS, Hobart.
Caulfield C. October 21.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me —_— _ shares in the
Cup.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address.
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
CAULFICLP C. S^SliL
Drawn Morning of tlie Race.
' ' . ; : ' ’ ■
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_—- shares in above.
Name .• i
Address.
M€LBOURH€ c. special
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
-f
Drawn Morning of tlie Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name, -
Address ;»
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
-,;v. . •* .■ *' **. \ ’* .. £ . *. ' •' 1 . j : §g_
■ 4 t%"- *; v -v ' v •_v,*,- > 4-. .1 - • • ' ■* ' \ • L, • . ■'s Tj ':s* **i 4;- *
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


SNEEZE
And sneeze again. Then
keep on sneezing. Per-
haps you think you can
sneeze La Grippe out of
you in this way ! But
the trouble is La Grippe
isn’t in your head alone.
It’s in your back, your
blood, your nerves, your
muscles; all through the
body, everywhere.
It don’t take a doctor
to let you know you have it.
And it don’t take a doctor to
cure you, either.
Assure
Chern
pectoral
is the cute. It’s a sure cure and a quick
cure. It quiets your restlessness, con-
trols your fever, stops your coughing,
and drives La Grippe right out of the
system. One dose relieves; a few
doses' cure.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing over the chest one
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
SVoIIVIIWJ
jo
M fold) SwjJoeD
SatiooM Jwiv^yr
%%)d3
Ssf^S
lo^Vd.
Modern
Milling*
Machinery.
m
\
\
\
\ \
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
william Fleming,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
ANTHOS--HAIR
Discoverer, Christopher Mudd, r.L.s., Prince of Wales’ Botanist
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Dr. J. Robert Lee, M. 8.. B.S. (Melb.^University),
• Antn
teiNob
e: ults
tiXfieti it brAn otiSi ihars®Qeu growl
qniniit yas kv< 11 hd sircnr'lh.f V
iWi
hell at
u [is sispnr on j
alliVnt/iuitj Uaijd
Ant ho
Bottles.
osteil
rr taiio
ish
i.I lingß t o dd
rp/th
fti i)
i la
belo
OBt (D
P< r
you
Anthoß.
sample
Colonial Representative for the Proprietors:
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
CHM&aiE
0-0 TO TTTFST.T
I(IOLAND for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real pood' stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Atistralian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY is prepared to LEND in any amounts,
at lowest current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN ; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods. ' \ ' >
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made fop a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bona fides on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses -In connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale. . , • •
The Societv is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager!'
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary; ■
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
BUggies, Buckboards, - £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
Send for Price List. 1&
H. HILLIEK,, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELROURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
m
m
m
m
am
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£l3 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers ©flight Vehieles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIL.LIER, 135 & 137 Sugsex-street.
Works: M-ELBOIIRNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Brougbains &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
For Infants and Invalids.
A Recent Testimonial.
[copy.} Silver-street,
St. Peter’s, Sydney, N.S.’W.
Mellin’s Pood Company for Australia
and’ New Zealand, London. * f
Leap Sirs. —Having used your Pood< for about eighteen
months with the greatest success, I have much pleasure in
stating that I think it superior to all other Poods. I have
been using it for my little daughter, who was left mother-
less when only twelve days old. After trying many reme-
dies, without success, I tried your Pood, and found it most
successful. My little daughter is now two years old, and
as well and as hearty as can be. Mellin’s Pood has done
it all.
You can make what use you like of this letter.
Yours truly,
W. BELGKE.
Mellin’s Food may be obtained of all Dealers.
fHK
Plum ’
THg
TOT?
• Plum’
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor
7T trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the,
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use tor a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
Price
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 31s.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle'’ in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world .
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
KT.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Ma,nf-
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pav ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 IBs. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog. Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not .be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
ffrnold’s Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
ATOTIIING so quickly cures Coughs,..Colds, Bronchitis,
•V Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often v cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTION. should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name cf
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1/6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
Omy heart! O wild heart! the voice of Spring is
calling :
Shaking out the blossoms her herald wind flies.
Wake from thy wintering! awake ! her light is
falling,
Flashing and a-trembling from blue-hearted skies.
I will arise and go, the heath’s light bells are
ringing,
Powdered with flower-dust the bees softly hum ;
I will arise and go, a glad wild bird is singing,
Jo-jo-jo-wikee I—ah,1 —ah, the scent of that gum !
Yeining the gum’s white stem is gold of God’s
refining,
And round its bareness the bark-string rustling
sways;
Lofty spires of fresh young leaves twinkle in the
shining,
Keen and warm the scent flows down the bush-
land ways.
Yellow as the wavelets from Dawn’s brimmed
fountain streaming,
The light of the wattle is Spring’s robing hue ;
Heavy with its perfume she stands in mystic
dreaming,
Pearled with clear delioate seeds of rainbow dew.
While through the leagues of bush we hear the
soft wind blowing,
Go we forth to meet her, delight in our eyes;
Veiled with glory she looks —ah, whence these
wild tears flowing,
This ache of the lonely heart, these yearning
sighs ?
T.
JAMES HEBBLETHWAITE.
In the West.
Out West where the skeletons lie by the score
Of the sheep that have died in the drought,
Spring’s pitying fingers quick cover them o’er
And weave a green net-work about;
And the land that lay parched, brown and barren
and dead,
For a short space glows vivid in yellow and red.
Then the needle-bush spreads out its spikes to the
breeze,
And the hop-bush is spangled with rose,
And the yellow-bloomed yarran lies thick on the
leas
Where the cool, drooping wilga-tree grows;
And the emu-bush blushes a delicate red
When it feels hoyden Spring’s kisses fall on its
head.
And e’en as soft Spring like an oasis lies
’Twixt the wintry winds sweeping the plain
And Summer’s fierce heat —with its dust and its
flies —
That burns the land barren again s
So, brief are the moments that lighten the breast
Of the hapless who dwell in the waterless West.
N.S.W.
YARRAN.
Merry Brown Eyes.
They taught her to twitter their logical twaddle,
To strum on the harp, and to bang on the keys;
They drummed and they drummed on her pretty
young noddle,
She drank of the cup of their lore to the lees ;
But when she was rid of the wearisome bargain
We found with delight she was fresh and unwise,
For the schools couldn’t kill with their cant and
their jargon
The magical joy in her merry brown eyes.
They taught her to prattle of Pope and of Pindar,
To put a big name on the innocent flower,
To label the fossil and treasure the cinder*
And elevate x to its ultimate power;
They taught her the reason why curtains of azure
Were clouded or cleft in the deep of the skies,
But she found out herself how to make an em-
brasure
In hearts that were soft—with her merry brown
eyes.
They taught her to weigh and to plumb the
Atlantic,
To analyse passion and catalogue pain ;
They told her the source of Emotion Romantic
Was only a bubble that bothered the brain.
They warned her of Love as a perilous tipple
That flattened the fool and confounded the wise ;
But she shook back her locks with a marvellous
ripple
And laughed at the crew—with her merry brown
eyes 1
And since she hath flouted the logic of Science,
Hath cozened the teacher and- conquered the
school,
What hope could be ours if we bade her defiance,
And rose to rebel if she ventured to rule ?
We’ll learn from the past to content us hereafter
With grace in its simple and innocent guise.
And wish her no learning but musical laughter
To mate the joy in her merry brown eyes !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
oa:
‘ ttopxio'j
>H ±S NON M VO
ZZZ
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FFt A.KTK J A RVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms'.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE,
victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. J. Adams Manager.
What Visitors say of this Hotel
Tar:lF: lOs. per Day.
per Week.
Everything is new ; and
everything is of the best.
We cannot suggest an
improvement.”
Fainless Dentistry,
THE .. ..
[ondonflental
Institute.
]>]{. S. TjEVEIS, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mu. S. 1). ASH Kit, Dentists.
J3T” Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY— 9B KING ST., SYDNEY— ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH& COB 3 YORK ST. SYDNEY.
★
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
o
L
pADEMAR
3C
a
c 4asg°
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTIT€.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
fey
MOI3TUEE.
im
TE
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING- BALLI3TITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over .£lOOO more than any other powder. Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PARVO 2-ineh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS:
N.S. W. f Messrs. Ealgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant <£■ Co.
OVER
Tobacco
4
TONS.
DIXSON & SONS’ Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being 90i Tons above any other manufacturer.
00
Dixson’s Great Leading* Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vo U 20.—N0, 1026.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1899.
Priob 6d.
The French colonists of Sydney
have entered a protest against
Gov. Beauchamp’s ill-advised re»
flections upon their country.
“ Up to the present about 100
men have volunteered to go from
S.A. to South Africa, but many
of them being married men, their
services will not be.accepted.”
Kingston says they must stop behind
and fight the “ Old Dutch-”
Toujours la Politesse: “Pardon, M’sieu, but you
do me ze honaire to stand upon my what yoi| call
corns. v
The first quarter of this financial year shoiys a
deficit of £393,125
Reid and “We’ll leave this at
his door for him to work off.”
“ Mrs, Elizabeth Yates, erstwhile
celebrated as the Mayor of Onehunga
(M.L.), has once again been elected a
councillor for that borough, and her
return was signalised by her supporters
carrying the lady shoulder-high *■
through the streets, whilst, it is re-
ported, that her husband, Captain
Yates, proudly proceshed in front toy,
keep ofF dogs, small boys,
■other discordant elements.”
“ Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan paid Captain’s Flat a. flying visit on
Saturday last. During his short stay he gave an open air
address in which he briefly outlined the policy of the Govern-
ment. He emphasized the importance of his position by saying
that there were now only two individuals in the colony that
occupied higher positions than himself. They were the Governor
and Premier.
If the O’Sullivan’s head keeps on swelling there will soon have
to be some very important “ public works ” carried out in the ■sv'ay
of repairs.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia, for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bui.LET.in
Newsprpe” Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21-1 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0A- 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
Bit sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note ,
One Bound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed'to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea ». F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
1 Correspondence” column all contributions submitted -
whether in the form of Political Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not extending two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivheti
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending 1/ S. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
o' her topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted.for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on accent mice. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 H 00l Lxchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.—rite Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia ,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial JV ewspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. 1 Vales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Ihynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1899.
Concerning Simpson and the North
Sydney Bridge.
Three things which are always coining in
New South Wales, but which never arrive,
are the Local Government Bill, the North
Sydney Bridge, and the new central Sydney
railway-terminus. All three have been
coming for the past 30 years, and have
broken down on the road every time. Now
and then some unusually energetic Ministry
has looked, in a moment of unnatural
activity, as if it was almost going to look
like thinking of really doing something at
last, and one or two, whose abnormal velo-
city showed an ill-balanced mind, even took
the desperate step of referring one or other
of the matters to a committee. Other
Ministries, with less diseased activity about
them, threatened to appoint a committee,
but abstained from their incautious purpose.
By latest intelligence, the Local Government
Bill hadn’t been alluded to for four years.
Premier Reid, after five years’ conversation,
was understood to have done the rash act of
nearly making up his mind to suggest to
Parliament that the new station should be
built in Phillip-street, Sydney ; and then he
went out of office, and now Premier Lyne
has started the long thirty years’ think all
over again at the beginning, and is re-con-
sidering the forty-times rejected idea of
enlarging the present station and making it
do a while longer. The North Sydney bridge
is keeping the other two jack-o’-lanterns
company, as usual.
# * * *
The North Sydney bridge has apparently
become a matter of three alternatives. Either
the State must build it, or it must be built
by the municipalities, or engineer Simpson
will do it by private enterprise. At present,
the signs, when there are any, appear
to be in favor of Simpson. And it is
by way of again alluding to the utter
foolishness and ruinousness of the Simpson
business that these remarks are written.
The Bulletin’s theory is that the bridge
should be built either by the State, or by
the Sydney and North Sydney muo’ npali-
ties in combination, or, if necessary, by
North Sydney alone. The latter idea is
based on the assumption that Parliament
would grant all necessary authority for the
work, about which matter there appears to
be no reasonable doubt. Of the two methods
municipal ownership is certainly better than
State ownership. In either case, tolls would
be charged as a means of raising money to
pay interest on the cost of construction, but
after a little while it is practically certain, in
the case of State ownership, that pressure
would be brought on Parliament to abolish
the tolls and make the work a charge on the
country at large. The municipality would
be subject to no such pressure. It has no
convenient country behind it on which it
could shunt the burden.
» * * *
Supposing the North Sydney municipality
undertook the work by itself, the case would
be somewhat as follows :
It could raise the necessary funds at a cheaper rate
than a private company could do. The co. (which would
presumably follow the usual practice of putting- up a
part of the money and raising the rest on debentures)
would offer as security its own small capital and the
revenue from the enterprise. The municipality could
offer the revenue from the enterprise, and the security of
its powers of taxation on nearly £4,000,000 of property.
It would probably get the money at 31 or 3£ per cent,
where the co. would have to pay 5 per cent.
It would have to raise much' less money than the co.
All the municipality need pay is the cost of the bridge.
A co. has to paj' boodle to promoters, vendors, and other
“ first robbers,” also brokerage, flotation expenses, direc-
tors’ fees, office expenses here and in London, and all
manner of sundries.
The municipality, if it borrowed at 3J4 per cent.,
would never need to raise more than enough revenue
to pay about 5 per cent, at the outside—the odd IJ4 per cent,
to cover repairs and supply a small sinking fund. The
co. would want to raise, probably, 8 per cent, so as to
pay heavier interest on borrowed money, keep the
structure in repair, and furnish 'dividends for share-
holders. The shareholder’s natural and inborn craving
for 8 or 10 per shent. dividends, or 50 per cent, if he can
get it, is an incurable emotion.
Therefore, it is practically certain that if Simpson’s co.
can see its way to make the bridge a dividend-paying
enterprise the municipality, levying the same charges,
could not only make it cover expenses but make it yield
a splendid profit.
* • » •
Assuming the bridge to cost £400,000, the interest on
borrowed money at 3£ per cent, would be £14,000 a year.
The Simpson co. reckons on making enough to pay a
much higher interest out of revenue alone. But even if
the takings from tolls and tram-fares were so small in the
early stages of the enterprise that £9,000 a year had to
be made good by levying extra rates in North Sydney,
that municipality would still be a gainer on a very large
scale.
The value of rateable property in North Sydney muni-
cipality is set down at £3,736,000, and the present general
rate of Is. in the £ on the rental value yields about £9400
a year. To raise another £9,000 would mean increasing
the general rate to 2s. in the £.
And if the opening up of the district by direct com-
munication with Sydney increased property values by
only 10 per cent., which is a very low estimate, the in-
creased rentals would far more than cover the rates. At
present where a house brings in 20s. a week rent the
landlord pays Is. a week of it as general rates, leaving
him 19s.net. If by making North Sydney to all intents
and purposes a part of the city, instead of a mere suburb
and one not too easy of access, he was able to get 225. a
week rent and paid 2s. (twice the present figure) as rates
he would have 20s. net. To speak of adding Is. in
the £ to the rates looks a huge additional burden, but
in reality it would be no extra burden at all. And
in course of time the increase in property-values would
be far in excess of 10 per cent, (probably it would be
nearer 100 per cent.) while the increase of revenue from
the bridge would probably, before very long, obviate the
necessity for any extra rates whatever. The Fat Men of
North Sydney are cheerfully throwing away a fortune by
their failure to recognise an opportunity when they see
one.
And, if North Sydney, or the two Sydneys in combina-
tion, set to work and built the bridge that long-desired
work will be a certainty. Simpson’s co. isn’t a
certainty, or anything like it. N.S.W. Parliament has
granted a dozen concessions to similar companies to
build railways and other works which never got so far as
the turning of the first sod. N.S.W. is covered with the
ruins of dead-and-gone Simpsons. North Sydney may
achieve its ambition of getting Parliament to assent to
the Simpson scheme only to see the years roll on without
even the first brick of the great Simpson bridge being
laid. And if the Simpson bridge is built the people have
to pay the interest on its cost just as much as if they built
the bridge themselves, only the interest will be heavier,
and there will almost certainly be more money to pay
interest on. The Silverton private railway co., which is
a case in point, makes the Broken Hill people pay nearly
50 per cent, on the cost of their little line, whereas
if they had built it themselves as a municipal enter-
prise they would have only required to pay about
5 per cent. In seven years the Broken Hill people have
paid not only 5 per cent, per annum on the cost of their
railway, but have paid for the line itself more than twice
over in addition. The moral of which is : Put not your
trust in Simpson.
« • • •
The idea herein suggested, in short, is
that North Sydney should follow the example
of Manchester. Manchester wanted a ship
canal just as the other place wants a bridge.
It also entrusted the work to Simpson (who,
in this matter, may stand for private enter-
prise in general), and he commenced it, and
failed. Then the city put up the money
itself, and the result of this stupendous out-
lay was that rates went up, not to 25., but to
6s. Bd. in the £. But the increase of*busi-
ness and of property values more than made 1
up for the increased burden and Manchester
is better off with its taxation of 6s. Bd. in
the £ than it was before when the rates were
less than half that figure. Unfortunately
it requires a municipal statesman, not a
commonplace grocery alderman, to seize a
great opportunity when it presents itself,
and N.S.W. is full of grocery-aldermen and
has no municipal statesmen. So it prefers
to trust in Simpson.
Two Bones and a Shadow.
The Westralian Premier’s latest Federal attitude,
as reported by telegraph, reads like a feeble imita-
tion of the famous “Yes-No” position which
George Reid invented last year. He proposes,
in the first place, to submit three issues to the
people. If his scheme is accepted by Parliament,
the people may vote for the Bill as it now stands,
or for the amended Bill which the Westralian Par-
liamentary Committee advocates, or they may
vote against Federation altogether. If they
accept the Bill as it now stands, John Forrest
says he will be sustained by the proud conscious-
ness of having done his duty, which may mean
that he will accept the popular mandate and do
his utmost to bring Westralia into the Common- <
wealth —or, again, it may not. The situation is
uncertain, and Big John commits himself none i
too violently. In addition, there is a great lack
of information as to how the popular verdict is to
read. Supposing 20,000 votes are recorded at the
Westralian Referendum, and they are divided
thus: —
Against Federation 7,000
For the present Bill 6,900
For the proposed new Bill 6,100
Or again suppose they are divided thus :
Against Federation 7,000
For the present Bill 6,100
For the proposed new Bill 6,900
* • * *
Either way there will be 13,000 Federal votes
against 7000 anti-Federal. Yet the Forrest
Government can read the vote in either of two
ways. In the first case, when the Bill that John
Forrest objects to is on top he can simply say :
“Of the three votes, that for straight-out Paro-
chialism is the largest, therefore both Bills are
rejected, and this Groper province will proceed in
the old separate groove till further notice. ” In the
second case, when John Forrest’s scheme of
a proposed amended Bill beats the present*
measure by 800 votes he can fix his other eye on '
the returns and read them quite differently. He
can say : “ There are 7000 votes tor Parochialism
and 13,000 for Federation, therefore Parochialism
is hopelessly beaten by a majority of nearly two
to one, and is out of the running. Then it becomes
a question of which variety of Federalism wins,
and my proposed new Bill comes out on top by a
majority of 800.” Which way are the returns to
be read 7 There is a huge Federal majority either
way, yet it can be read as a Federal majority or
the other thing, just as the reader pleases.
* * W *
Also, there is still another possibility. Suppos-
ing things go so very badly with the Parochial
cause that it has the very smallest vote of the
three—like this :
Against Federation 6,000
For the present Bill 9,00(1
For the proposed new Bill 6,000
Then the Forrest Government can interpret the
situation after this fashion: “Thereare 9000 votes
for the present Bill and 11,000 against it, therefore
we have no mandate to support the present Bill.
There are 6000 votes for the proposed new Bill and
14,000 against, therefore we have no mandate to
support it either. In fact there is no definite
mandate either way, so we can do nothing—and so
provincialism wins.”
* * • W
In another way, too, the artful man of Bunbury
apparently steals a long march on his opponents
and loads the dice in his own favor. So far as
appears wp to date, it is proposed to submit the
three issues as if they were equally attainable —as
if they were three substances instead of two
substances and a shadow. It is almost
certain that there is a large Federal majority
in Westralia if it only gets a chance
to assert itself. It is almost equally certain that
the Federal majority, other things being equal,
would prefer the Constitution Bill with the
amendments proposed by the Westralian Parlia-
mentary Committee, to the Constitution Bill as it
now stands. The former provides that Westralia
shall be supplied by the Federal Government with
a most valuable railway, and that for five years it
shall have full protection against the other pro-
vinces and shall thus, for that period, enjoy all
the advantages of union with none of its draw-
backs, or supposed drawbacks. It is almost a
matter of course that the Westralians would prefer
the Bill with these special advantages to the Bill
without them. If the amended scheme further
provided that Westralia was to receive a perpetual
subsidy of £2, 000,000 a year from the other
provinces, and to have all its railways built at
Federal expense, and was to annex S.A., Victoria
and Tasmania, and that there were to be two
quarts of beer in a pint, yet the price of the new
large pint was to be only half that of the old
small pint, and that there were henceforth to be
abundant rains at Kalgoorlie, they would prefer
it still more—other things being equal. But
other things are not equal. They are as unequal
as a scalene triangle shattered by lightning.
• * • «
As already mentioned, it is a case of two sub-
stances and a shadow. The true issues to be
submitted to the Westralian electors are these
three:
(1) Are you in favor of remaining a separate province.
If so, you can have separatism by giving a majority vote
for it.
(2) Are you in favor of accepting the Federal Consti-
tution as it stands. If so, you can do so by giving it a
majority vote, provided my Government and Parliament
don’t annul or ignore your decision afterwards.
(3) Or would you prefer to take your chance by accept-
ing a proposed amended Bill which may never come to
anything—in which case you may be really voting for
provincialism. If so you can give a majority vote for it,
with the full understanding that the other provinces have
refused so far to even consider the measure ; that it was
not brought forward till too late for their consideration ;
that the Federal Parliament may refuse to have anything
to do with the matter ; and that in any case it must delay
your entry into the Commonwealth for some years see-
ing that it will involve the elaborate process of amending
the Constitution by passing a measure through the
Federal Parliament, and then obtaining the assent of a
majority of the people of the Commonwealth and a
majority' of the provinces at a Referendum. And even if
the Federal Parliament consents, there is no proof that
the people will do likewise. At any rate the Federal
Parliament will be so busy at first putting its house in
order that it isn’t likely to have time to deal with the
matter for a year or two in any case.
* * * *
These are the three issues which the Forrest
Government ought to put before the people, though
it doesn’t appear that it is going to put them in
that way, or in any way at all resembling it. Ap-
parently it intends to submit its three alternatives
. as if they were equally within the reach of the
people, and a very large number of the people will
probably be beguiled into regarding them in that
light. And John of Bunbury talks airily about
arranging with the Imperial Parliament to make
the necessary alterations in the Bill right off—as
if there was any reasonable probability of the
British Legislature altering the Bill which has
been accepted by five provinces to please a sixth,
and that one of the least of the group in a numeri-
cal sense. Mean while Forrest puts his own weigh t
in the parochial scale, by statements like this, ex-
tracted from the same speech in which he moved
the submission of the two bones and a shadow to
the people:
The Federation would have complete control of the
laws that the provincial Parliament might make regard-
ing the matters named in clause 51, and the provincial
laws might be over-ridden by the Federal Parliament,
Those who complained of centralisation here would have
to complain more when Federation came. The Federa-
tion would control the mines, lands, and the railways,
the latter by an Inter-State Commission. Parliament
had recently passed a dividend tax to return £91,000, but
if the same tax were passed after Federation, the Federal
Government would override it. No doubt the colony
would suffer in prestige, and chafe during the first few
years. At present it was as free as the Imperial Parlia-
ment. Under Federation they would have to trust taxa-
tion and other matters to people who knew nothing
about them. ■
Three of these statements are absolutely untrue,
and either John of Bunbury is a shamefullv-inao-
curate person or he knows less about the measure
he helped to frame than the average mail in the
street. For there is not a word in the Bill giving
the Federal Parliament control of lands or mines,
both of which remain under provincial manage-
ment ; and there is only the smallest Federal con-
trol over railways. Moreover, if all Bunbury
read the Federal Constitution _ over and
over again till it went blind it couldn t
find a single clause giving the Commonwealth
Parliament power to override the W.A.
Dividend Tax law, and the theory that the mem-
bers of the Federal Parliament will necessarily
know nothing about taxation—that the only people
who knew anything about taxation are the Gropers
of the little Parliament at Perth—is too. beautiful
for words. But the most notable point is that all
these objections, if they were true, instead of
being the meanest kind of fiction, are objections
equally against the existing Bill and the proposed
amended Bill of the Westralian Committee.
Apparently Bigjohn is against even his own new
scheme at heart—or his boss, Hackett, of the
West Australian, is, which is much the same
thing.
A Grave in Rook-wood Cemetery.
They buried Thomas SufSeld the Englishman in
Rookwood cemetery last week, under a blazing
Australian sun. A score of mourners stood
around, and a little girl cried over his coffin.
Suffield had been in bed for two months —broken-
down with nervous worry; he grew a little better,
got up, took a cold, which turned to pneumonia,
which killed him. “Too much on his mind,”
said the doctor. “Died of a broken heart,” said
his friend James Warren.
* * * *
The facts of Suffield’s case are generally known;
it is only necessary to recite the leading points.
Suffield was an Englishman resident at Lambton,
near Newcastle, N.S.W. Everybody spoke well
of him. He was tried at Maitland in April,_ 1891,
on a charge of assaulting a woman; convicted ;
sentenced to ten years’ penal servitude. Judge
Windeyer, who presided, prosecuted for the
Crown, as was his habit in such cases ; and the
complainant’s story went hardly questioned.
Suffield was convicted on the woman’s evidence
alone, without corroborative medical evidence.
The woman altered her evidence at various times;
she was flatly contradicted by the witnesses on
her own side; an alibi was sworn for Suffield by
two witnesses ; —yet Suffield was found guilty by
the jury, dominated by the Judge.
• » • *
The residents of Lambton believed Suffield
innocent; it was obvious that he had only the
mockery of a trial; there was a popular outcry.
Meetings were held; petitions were signed;
appeals were made to Govt. Sydney Evening
News said the other day that Suffield’s case was
fully considered by three Ministers of Justice.
So far as the papers show, Minister Slattery
merely “ declined to recommend remission ”
—and Suffield never asked for remission;
Minister O’Connor had only a garbled account of
the trial before him, backed by a confidential
report from the Judge, still acting as prosecutor—
yet even so his decision did his judgment no
credit; Minister Gould was so doubtful of
Suffield’s guilt that thrice an official appeal was
made to Suffield to shorten his sentence by
petitioning for mercy, and thrice Suffield refused
to petition. After serving nearly eight years, he
was last year released with good-conduct remis-
sions under the gaol regulations.
* * * *
Upon his release, Suffield endeavoured, as he
had endeavoured previously, to secure an enquiry
into his case under the section of N.S.W. Criminal
Law Amendment Act which specially provides
for an enquiry into doubtful cases. He was re-
fused, on the ground that there was no fresh evi-
dence—the stupid official argument being that no
matter how obvious the miscarriage of justice,
unless fresh evidence is brought forward, the
miscarriage must stand. Suffield provided fresh
evidence—and fresh light on the old evidence ;
all fruitlessly. He beat vainly at the doors of
the Reid Ministry. His case was debated in
Parliament on a motion for the appointment of a
Commission of Enquiry ; and the Reid party voted
the motion down. Suffield grew despondent;
but never altogether lost hope. To the last he
protested his innocence and babbled of his “ en-
quiry.” He did not expect to die soon; he had
always reckoned with himself as a strong man,
good for a long life. So he was, before he went
to gaol.
* * * *
Suffield was a man of good character, but not of
strong character. He came out of gaol weaker in
every way than he went in. His good-nature
made him an easy prey to glib-tongued acquaint-
ances. Much of the money subscribed for him
through The Bulletin— much that he earned
through lecturing—was frittered away on unprofit-
able business schemes which a wiser man would
have avoided. At his death there was left barely
enough to bury him. The mound at Rookwood
cemetery shows that the legacy of Botany Bay is
still held firmly in New South Wales. A poor
man’s plea is useless against the leagued interests
of officials and politicians. Suffield the English-
man asked for Australian justice. He got six feet
of Australian earth.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Isaacs’ Tinkering.
Attorney-General Isaacs, of Victoria, is
making another effort to pass an Anti-Usury
Bill. It appears now in a slightly - altered
form, and its main provisions are that the
document drawn up between borrower and
lender shall state clearly how much per annum
the interest comes to ; if the interest is more
than 10 per cent, the borrower shall be sup-
plied with a copy of the agreement; and in all
such cases the court, on being applied to, shall
have power to reduce the interest at its dis-
cretion provided it doesn’t reduce it below 10
per cent. It isn’t a perfect measure by a long,
long way ; but it tinkers benevolently with a
great evil. Hardly any Australian legislation
tries to smash a great evil right out; it only
tinkers benevolently. The notably weak
point in Isaacs’ Bill is that there is no penalty
for the worst kind of usury except loss of in-
terest. Diamondstein, the money-lender, is
permitted to charge his 70 to 860 per cent,
as usual. His swindled client can get no
redress except by expensive law proceedings,
and the person who borrows from Diamondstein
has seldom any money for law. Most of the
worst-sweated clients (who are principally
women) will never know that there is a means
of redress. And as there is no fine, and conse-
quently no share of the plunder for the inform-
ant. it will be nobody’s interest to inform on


Diamondstein, or to watcli his doings. To
sum things up, the ridiculous weakness of
Attorney-General Isaacs’ tinkering Anti-Usury
Bill is that it doesn’t make usury a crime—and
usury ought to be a crime ranking with canni-
balism. They are both blood sucking. Perhaps
it is the best measure of its kind that the
House of 48 Rich Landlords is likely to pass,
but the whittling down of every great and good
idea until it is small enough to get through the
mental needle’s eye of the 48 Rich Landlords
grows very wearisome. What Victoria wants
is the uprising of a strong Government with a
programme of this one item :
That the Victorian Legislative Council shall be radically
reformed, by peaceful means if possible, by insurrection
and any and every kind of violence if necessary.
Braddon’s Handicap.
The other week, Tasmania’s terrible House of
Landlords indignantly threw out the Braddon
Ministry’s proposals, liberalising the Constitu-
tion and Electoral Acts of the Flyspeck. Owing
to circumstances and surroundings, previously
commented upon herein, the rejection of the
proposals offered Braddon the grandest oppor-
tunity he or any other Australian Premier has
had for 33 years past, to make a name for him-
self as a statesman and to rid Australia of the
most Tory Legislative body in any of the
Seven Provinces. But Braddon didn’t
seize the opportunity. He seemed to be
smitten by unaccountable funk, and no-
thing happened to disturb the usual serenity
of the arrogant old perishers “ upstairs.” The
reason why Premier Braddon didn’t force a
fight with the House of Refuse and sweep the
polls with the paunchy persons of property
soon transpired. The new Minister for Lauds
and Works, Capt. Miles, was under a cloud
which was expected to burst at any moment
and swamp him and all his associates. The
cloud has since burst with an exceedingly loud
report, a special committee of the Assembly
having found the Minister guilty of conduct
that must be considered, even in a country of
easy political morals like Tasmania, highly
improper. It appears that Minister Miles,
prior to his joining the Braddon Ministry,
sought the chairmanship of Strahan Marine
Board by bribery, and, having got the billet,
proceeded to manipulate the business of the
Board for his own profit in the matter of big
contracts. Premier Braddon was implicated in
that he sought (without even suspecting that “it
was loaded ”) to influence two Government
nominee members of the Board to vote
for Miles for the said chairmanship, and
thus unwittingly assisted in placing his
prospective colleague in a position to
tamper with contract specifications and
so work the oracle that only those con-
tractors with whom he was personally asso-
ciated had any chance of securing the £40,000
jobs then available. Telegrams were “faked,”
fictitious tenders were “ rung-in ” by a 23-
year-old son and a 19-year-old daughter of
the Minister, and a daring though somewhat
clumsy conspiracy seems to have been in full
blast for months before it was even suspected.
It was just possible that the Miles family
would have got away with a clear profit of
<£lo,ooo on the transaction, but Pa Miles was
ambitious enough to angle for a portfolio in the
Braddon Ministry. The elevation of Miles
into the fierce light that beats upon the
Treasury benches was a mistake. His past had
not been particularly devoid of cloudiness, and
Braddon was held to be very foolish in taking
such a colleague into the Cabinet. But the Weary
Autocrat insisted upon taking in Miles ; and
the cloud burst as aforementioned. It swept
away Miles and Braddon and the Braddon
Ministry all together, and Braddon’s great
opportunity went with it. If Braddon had
grasped his chance with both hands he would
have elevated himself into a possible candidate
for the Federal Premiership. Now, federally
speaking, the old man as a fiont-rank politician
is impossible. A man who deliberately handi-
caps himself with a colleague who hasn’t lived
long enough to live down his Past would bring
ill-luck to any legislative body. And the Com-
monwealth doesn’t want to start with any
more ill-luck than it can help. Tasmania will
have to breed a few young politicians with more
head, heart, and honesty than the present
crowd appears to be possessed of.
Bob Best’s Brother-in-law.
The Bulletin feels half inclined to drop a tear
on account of poor “ Bob” Best, the Vic. Min-
ister of Lands and Customs and things. And
again, this journal doesn’t feel inclined to pity
Robert aforesaid, for he lw,s brought his afflic-
tion in a great measure on his own head. The
greatest of all crimes, when it gets found out —
as author H. A. Jones suggested in “The
Bauble Shop”—is the stupid commonplace
action which every public man does, and no
. public man has the courage to make light of.
Minister Best when caught in the act, pro-
ceeded to emphasise his innocence by hurling
scorn and loathing at the Bob who could be
guilty of the mere damfool'ishness charged
against him. Suddenly confronted with the
thing he had done, he lost his nerve and
called it an awful thing, so awful, he said, that
he would consider himself unfit to live, in a
political way of speaking, if the accusation were
anyway justified. Minister Best made the rod
for his own back. He might have belittled his
indiscretion, but he chose to magnify it in a reck-
less, bluffing spirit, and his bluff has placed
Premier Turner’s Ministry in an awkward
fix. The select committee of Vic. legisla-
tors just now slowly enquiring into the charge
of nepotism, brought by foxy Graves, M.L.A.,
against Minister Best, might as well have de-
livered its judgment a week ago. One Jackson,
a civil-servant who happens to be Best’s brother-
in-law, has evidently received some undue ad-
vancement in t he service through the influence of
his relative. The matter was first brought before
Parliament nearly a year since by Methven,
M.L.A., and now Methven tells the select
committee that his action last year brought
him into private converse with Minister Best,
who reproachfully said, “Do you want to
ruin me, old man ?” There can be no question
as to the Minister’s cognisance of the favoritism
shown to his brother-in-law, and the fact
that he didn’t put an end to the scandal
is equally undeniable. And because the
“ scandal ” went on the public may fairly
assume that it was only a very little
scandal from brother-in-law Best’s point
of view. The favored Jackson was
pushed forward in the Lands Office, but his
salary didn’t improve with his position seem-
ingly. There was no outrageous promotion of
Jackson, but there has been an official ten
dency to make too much of Best’s brother in
law, which tendency was evidence of a desire
to please the Minister, who for his part couldn’t
help knowing all about the matter. Had Best
boldly admitted the truth of everything that
could be fairly said against him in the House,
had he defended the precious Jackson case like
a man and a brother-in-law, lie would have
been judged by the law of human nature and
let off with a caution. He took the wrong
course. May the Lord have mercy on his
soul !
Blue-anil-White versus Tricolor.
The Bulletin hears of a M.L. man who re-
fuses to sow French beans in his garden because
he is so disgusted with the result of the
Drevfus case. That- Maorilander finds an
astonishing parallel in Gov. Blue-and-White
Beauchamp, who told a Cobar (N.S.W.) ban-
queting audience that, after the Dreyfus case,
he would be ashamed to be a Frenchman, or
words to that effect. When you consider that
Gov. Beauchamp directly represents Queen
Victoria, the blazing indiscretion of the remark
is manifest. The Bulletin charitably assumes
that, as Gov. Beauchamp is a very-young man
of temperate habits, a very little Cobar whisky
was the cause of the mischief. After about
two inches of Cobar whisky any ordinary
very-young man would be prepared to wipe
France off the map altogether. After four
inches he would wipe out the whole blanky
human race (we have been to Cobar). But
the solemn league and covenant of Sydney’s
protesting French residents was very like an
anti climax to Gov. Beauchamp’s hysterical
climax. They assembled with all their jolly
faces in mourning—very temporarily, of course
—and majestically ad Iressed their Consul.
They had been, they said, “ severely tried and
deeply affected” by Australian newspaper
comments on the affair Dreyfus ; yet had kept
silent. But when they heard Queen Vic.’s
representative “denouncing OUR PRIMOR-
DIAL INS II I’UITONS ” (“primordial” is
splendid), then—ah, then! “ wounded in
our innermost feelings, humbled in our national
pride, we rise up m a body and rally round our
flag.” Isn’t this just a little extravagant?
Was the matter worth the fuss ? The foolish
young man, indeed, has been foolish again, and
has been tormented by dust storms into ex-
tolling monarchies versus republics; but his
superiors will attend to that in due time. The
water is heating in Down ng-street. Would it
not have been better to shrug shoulders as the
Consul did, take another cigar, and remain
leniently contemptuous of the indiscretions of
this Very Yo ung Man ?
4.
The Church as a Hospital Reformer.
“In view of the large sums that the churches
contribute towards the funds of the various
hospitals,” a number of Presbyterian parsons
in Melbourne propose to appoint themselves
reconstructors of the present hospital election
system. Starting on the assumption that the
system is a scandal these reverend critics feel
that it is the duty of the church to demand
“ the reforms so badly needed,” and the voice
of any church is, as everybody ought to know
by this time, the voice of Eternal Wisdom.
Three alternative schemes have been already
drafted by a mixed committee of Presbyterian
parsons and Scawtish medical men who for
various reasons —including privately-interested
reasons, per haps—would like to see some of the
present occupants of hospital billets replaced
by “ fitter ” candidates. No. 1 scheme would
leave the appointment of all medical officers at
all hospitals in the hands of a “ high-toned ”
managing committee, including Government
members, University professors, influential
subscribers, “ representative ” physicians,
M.B.’s and surgeons, and parsons. No. 2
scheme appears to be a mere suggestion of
details for working No. 1, whilst No. 3
scheme favors the election of hospital staffs
as at present, “ but for a more extended
period—say, seven years. Plumping to be
prohibited and all subscribing electors to have
paid their subscriptions for three consecutive
years immediately preceding the election.”
The main object of the Presbyterian Church is
to give Influence and Cash a more powerful say
in the appointment of hospital practitioners.
Cash and Influence (identical terms in a great
degree) go a very long way in the election of
medical officers at present, but the Church
would like them to go further. That’s the
meaning of the alternate schemes aforesaid.
The more thoughtfully the question of hospital
management is considered the less cause there
seems for any Church interference with the
“scandals” that be. All the aspirants for
hospital service, honorary or otherwise, are
worthy aspirants, with equal pretensions, on
paper, to do the work required of them. No
“ high-toned ” managing committee could truly
place them in order of merit. An unknown
doctor may be a better man than any who, by
luck, influence, or impudence, rather than
ability, have attained to “ the head of the pro-
fession.” And if under the present system a
duly-qualified, incapable person may do mis-
chief in a hospital, how are the public to be
protected by an extension of his period of ser
vice ?
Voices from Maoriland.
By some strange anomaly, Maoriland, in many
ways the most democratic province in the
British Empire, has on outside matters the
most miserable and misinformed press in all
Australasia. Concerning Federation of the
explosive isles with Australia, Auckland Obser-
ver gravely remarks :
That Australian Federation is not quite so sure a thing
as the people over there would like us Maorilanders to
believe. North and South Queensland are on the eve of
splitting up over the question, and Western Australia
has by no means decided to come in yet.
This office is some hundreds of miles nearer S.
Queensland than the Auckland Observer, and
no loud, tearing noise or violent cracking or
earth tremors that would indicate the big pro-
vince was splitting up have been heard or felt
here. Grey mouth Evening Star clears the
fog out of its throat and rises to say that—
The province would obtain far better terms from
Federated Australia by a policy of inaction at the pre-
sent stage of the movement than by showing over-eager-
ness to negotiate.
That benighted paper has evidently been led
astray by the coyness of the pretty girl that
dusts down the office, and thinks if M.L.
follows the same policy of masterly modesty
the big, amorous Federation won’t be happy
till it gets her. But a Federation has no soul
or feelings that way. And Nelson Colonist
reflects that—
Under a Federal Government having sway over Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, this province would necessarily have
to sacrifice its individuality and strive for the good of the
federated provinces in the first place. Of course the
other provinces of the group would be under the same
obligation, but with six provinces in comparatively close
contact, the seventh, separated from the remainder by
the Tasman Sea, would be at a great disadvantage.
If it comes to a matter of distance, Auckland
and Wellington are 1260 and 1200 miles from
Sydney, and Adelaide is 1070. Westralia’s
nearest port, Albany, is 2111 miles from Syd-
ney. And Albany is 2503 from Brisbane,
whereas Auckland and Wellington are only
about 1750 miles from that city. Also, Wel-
lington Times puts on its thinking cap and
reasons that :
If Maori land could hope to supply a Premier or a
Colonial Treasurer to the Commonwealth, there miyht
be a laudable ambition to set before our public men ; but
overshadowed and dominated as the Federal Parliament
would be by the more important provinces, with their well-
known public men commanding large support, there
could be little or no prospect of Maorilanders attaining
to positions of influence.
Considering that M.L. leads the group from
a legislative point of view, there is every
reason why she should supply Premiers and
Treasurers and other Ministers. If M.L. sends
men like Hori Grey, Parlance and Seddon to
the Federal Parliament (which will be elected
on the most liberal franchise) they will lead. If
she sends men like the “gallant capting ”
Russell or Dismal Bill Rolleston, they
won’t.
Chief-Justice Madden adopted Windeyerian
tactics with a jury, at Melb. Criminal Court,
the other day. One John Darby was charged
with a serious offence against his own daughter
—he had previously been tried on the same
charge before the Chief Justice, when the jury
disagreed. The evidence was of a shady
character, several of the witnesses, including
the man’s daughter, being prostitutes. Madden,
C.J., put the case strongly against accused On
both occasions. After a lengthy summing-up,
in which he pointed out, in violation of an Act
of Parliament, that prisoner, although at
liberty to make a statement in refutation of the
charge on oath, had not done so, the jurymen re-
tired. In three hours they returned to court,
when the following colloquy took place :—The
Foreman : “ We are unable to arrive at a ver-
dict, and I am afraid, your Honor, there is no
chance of us being unanimous.” The Chief
Justice, sternly : “ I must ask you to consider
the matter a good deal more. It seems to me
an extremely simple case for you to decide one
way or the other.” The Foreman: “Well,
your Honor, perhaps it would not be right for
me to say .” The Chief Justice: “No,
don’t tell me your differences, unless I can
assist you to arrive at a conclusion. If I
cannot help you, I must ask you to stay here
to-night, and provision will be made for you. In
a case of this kind, nothing should be left undone
to have an agreement arrived at. The issue in the
case is very narrow, and easily comprehended.”
The threatened jury again retired, and in less
than a quarter of an hour came back with a
verdict of guilty, accompanied by a strong re-
commendation to mercy on the ground of the
girl’s admitted immoral character. This re-
commendation was ignored by the Judge, who
wound up a long harangue by sentencing the
Erisoner to seven years’ penal servitude.
>arby may or may not be guilty—up to the
last he protested his innocence—but, anyway,
the masterful injustice shown by Judge Madden
in first forcing a jury to return a verdict of
guilty, and then refusing to pay any respect to
the point on which their verdict turned, calls
for indignant protest. Jurors should nob
allow themselves to be tempted into violating
their beliefs by the concession on the part of
their colleagues to add a recommendation for
mercy, which is rarely, if ever, regarded by the
Judge.
♦
In its issue of 2nd Oct. Brisbane Telegraph
published the complete Queensland referendum
returns divided according to the four great dis-
tricts, and announced that Brisbane gave an
anti-Federal majority of 4028, the Southern
district a Federal majority of 371 ; the Centre
a Federal majority of 2156 ; and the North a
Federal majority of 8993. Then in the same
issue it started its leading article thus :
It is a toss-up whether it is more humiliating- to advo-
cates of the Convention Bill that the majority vote in
southern and central Queensland is against them, or to
the other party that the large majority vote in the nor-
thern district should be accepted as a good enough
authority to determine the fate of all Queensland.
Then it waded once more into its old, weary
arithmetic about how the vote of the South,
Centre, and metropolis, all added together,
was against Federation. Which, of course, is
all a matter of which end of the map you begin
at. If you start from the South and w’ork up,
the capital, South, and Centre, added together,
gave a majority against Federation. And if you
start at the North and work down, then "the
North, Centre, South, and capital added toge-
ther all gave a majority for Federat ion. But
the Cow ligraph always starts at the South
and works up. Yet no argument can shift
these three facts : Federation had a majority
all over Queensland as a whole. It had a
majority in three out of the four great divi-
sions. And it had a majority in 36 electorates
out of 60—-the 61st being a dead heat. Even if
the Cowligraph was bossed by 1629 parsons
instead of three, and every one of the 1629 lied
all he knew, these three facts are unshiftable.
+
In sentencing the prisoner Darby for alleged
incest with his 19-year-old daughter, Chief-
Justice Madden preached a most eloquent ser-
mon in support of the American system of
dividing crime into degrees. His Honor sent
Darby to gaol for seven years, remarking that
he would have inflicted a far more severe
punishment had he not feared that future juries
would remember it and decline to convict simi- '
lar offenders. Here the Judge unthinkingly
struck a great truth. Barbarous sentences only
lead to the law becoming a dead letter, as wit-
ness the result of the average “ age-of-consent”
and criminal-assault case. Unless the circum-
stances are particularly brutal, juries seldom
find a prisoner guilty of either of these offences,
fearing that the sins of the judge’s cook will be
visited on the head of the accused with tenfold
force. If serious crimes were divided into first,
second, and third degrees many of the inex-
plicable verdicts of the present time would dis-
appear, and few guilty men would escape. By
the way, why should not Darby’s daughter
have been severely punished as well ? She was
no child, and on her own evidence was a fully
consenting party. This delectable damsel has
been fitted by ironic Nature with a beautiful
face expressive of purity and innocence, but her
utter shamelessness shocked even hardened
habitues of the criminal court.
The Lost Leichhardt.
An English scientific society is fitting out a pioneering
party to search for traces of the lost explorer Leichhardt.
Another search for Leichhardt’s tomb,
Though fifty years have fled
Since Leichhardt vanished in the gloom,
Our one Illustrious Dead !
But daring men from Britain’s shores
The fearless bull-dog breed,
Renew the fearful task once more,
Determined to succeed.
Rash men, that know not what they seek,
Will find their courage tried.
For things have changed on Cooper’s Creek
Since Ludwig Leichhardt died.
Along where Leichhardt journeyed slow
And toiled and starved in vain;
These rash excursionists must go
Per Queensland Railway Train.
Out on those deserts lone and drear
The fierce Australian black
Will say—“ You show it pint o’ beer,
It show you Leichhardt track ! ”
And loud from every squatter’s door
Each pioneering swell
Will hear the wild pianos roar
The strains of “ Daisy Bell.”
The watchers in those forests vast
Will see, at fall of night,
Commercial Travellers bounding past
And darting out of sight.
About their path a fearful fate
Will hover always near.
A dreadful scourge that lies in wait—
The Longreach Hore-hound Beer !
And then, to crown this tale of guilt,
They’ll find some scurvy knave,
Regardless of their quest, has built
A pub., on Leichhardt’s grave !
Ah, yes ! Those British pioneers
Had best at home abide,
For things have changed in fifty years
Since Ludwig Leichhardt died.
THE BANJO.
The Gory Tory Editor’s Creed
I do believe in making war
Upon a small Republic,—
It’s always safe to know you can
So easily the cub lick.
I do believe in slashing round
For fame, or death, or glory,—
So long as some one else is found
To stand the racket gory!
Here in my big soft easy chair
I pen the leaders fiery,
That drive away the people’s care
And keep ’em fierce and ire-y.
There’s nothing like a little blood,
A vict’ry or disaster,
To keep the people sweet and good—
And sell the paper faster.
I do believe in leaded type,
In letters big and staring,
For all the while the int’rest’s ripe,
The pennies I am sharing.
I fan the patriotic flame,
And keep it brightly burning ;
I fight—with ink—and easy fame,
For ever am I earning.
I hurl defiance at the foe —
Who’s far away, not heeding—
And for my fellow patriot’s woe
My heart’s with anguish bleeding.
My indignation’s fiery hot —
Don’t think that I am fooling—
That other lands consult us not
About their style of ruling.
I hate the craven Democrat
Who prates of right and justice ;
The scurvy fool who’d miss the fat
Not worth his paltry crust is.
For, as I judge, the cause is right
That brings to me the “ siller ” ;
While fools for my enrichment fight,
The grist comes to the miller !
In short, I firmly do believe
In War—that’s Hell’s grim daughter—
So long as several oceans heave
Between me and the slaughter !
The foe I’ll cut in particles
(While that’s the proper caper)
With cutting leading articles,
And chew ’em up —on paper !
ULOOLA.


Baker#Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
THE CELEBRATED . . .
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
George-street, Sydney.
STAMPER
BATTERIES.
American or Australian Type.
10 to 100 Head. From 600 to 1230 lb. Stamps.
framing hither timber or iron.
PACKED IN PARTS
To facilitate Economical Transport.
CAMS, TAPPETS, SHOES, DIES, etc.,
of Unexampled Durability !
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Clyde Works, Granville.
A 3
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.|
Her Majesty's “ The Christian.”
Lyceum “ When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Criterion “ Lights o' London."
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
PRINCKBB “ La Poupee.”
Tubatrk Royal “The Merciless World."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Exhibition Building The Aquarium.
A multitude such as Sydney Lyceum hasn’t
contained for a long time gathered on Saturday
night to greet John F. Sheridan and Gracie
Whiteford. John looks the same inconsequent
little wisp of a man as heretofore ; in fact, he looks
a shade more wispy than of old, and the storm of
Eublic approbation almost blew him off his two
rief legs and into the back-cloth. Miss Gracie
■Whiteford, on the other hand, is a sturdy little
woman, who looks as if she could carry John away
under one arm, and two more Johns under the
other, and shove a John or two ahead of her at
the same time. “ When the Lamps are Lighted ”
is some kind of a play —what kind it is difficult to
say. The plot is the ordinary sort of melodrama
with all the old stock properties—the hero
who did seven years in gaol on a false charge,
the rich uncle who is murdered, and the
low-down spendthrift nephew who is respon-
sible, also the good girl with money who
is engaged to marrv the noble young man without
any, and the miscreant in the amazingly glossy
’topper who wants to marry her instead, the ab-
duction, the den by the water-side, the burglar,
and the bruised girl who is unmarried to the bur-
glar, and who reflects with tears now and then,
on the bad girl she is and the good girl she used
to be —every one of them is in it. And John is a
cheerful excrescence on top of them all, and riots
round in an amazing fashion. When the heroine
is seized and hidden in a loathsome den down by
the river Mr. Sheridan goes to her assistance dis-
guised as a small Dutchman with curly legs, and
Miss Whiteford as a plump and pleasing boy m a
red coat. Mr. Sheridan also aids the cause of the
oppressed at one place in the garb of a nursemaid
with a perambulator, and on another occasion he
rushes to the rescue as an old woman selling
matches and bootlaces.
* * * *
The hilarious doings of John bring the
serious part of the melodrama into derision, but
they serve to brighten the show very greatly.
Inman, moaning about the false charge which
consigned him to a large stone building, where he
was deprived of his proper beer, and about his
lost character, and his vanished wife and child, is
difficult to take seriously when John F. charges
across the stage and rushes the perambulator into
the middle of the tale of woe. When the million-
aire who planted the stolen notes in Inman s
house, and got him gaoled, and who has lived in
sin ever since with his victim s wife, is butchered
in the old, commonplace way, and the crime is
fixed on the rather heavy-going hero, and the base
nephew calls in with his uncles biains in his
pocket to state that the heiress and her million
pounds must be his as the price of his silence, it is
usually rather a leaden episode. But just then
Sheridan’s scratch company is rehearsing his new
play, and the wicked nephew’s attempts to state
his case are swept aside and trodden underfoot
in the rush of business, for the Jook is busy
abducting the servant - girl, and taking her
away by the hair to behind the clothes-horse,
which place docs duty as his castle. W lien the
Lamps are Lighted ’’ strikes Ihk Bulletin as a
pleasing gibe at melodramas in general and a joy-
ous attempt to take a rise out of the heavy fattier.
Sheridan and Miss Whiteford both arouse a storm
of applause, and there are sundry pleasing fea-
tures about servant-girl Semolina. Lawrence Dun-
bar, as the depraved nephew, is highly satisfac-
tory, and so is the burglar. On the other
hand, when the persecuted finnan recovers his lost
wife and child, this paper feels almost sorry that
they didn’t remain lost. The wife in particular
deserves to be one of the most permanently lost
persons in literature. The death of the rich uncle,
too, awakes no public sympathy, lhe writer
grows so weary of that uncle that lus death is a
relief, and the uncle looks like a man who was
rather glad to be dead himself and out of his own
road.
** * *
Good old “Lights of London ” has| arisen
from wherever Rignold keeps the manuscript con-
cealed, to fill in a week or two at Sydney Criterion.
After due consideration of the uprising, this
paper’s verdict is that the results fully justify it.
Rignold is rather old for the youthful part of
Harold Annytage, yet he looks a year or two
younger than when he last played that oppressed
heir. A man of rather less physical tonnage,
and one who was less gradual in his movements,
and didn’t arrive at his points by delayed freight
train, might fill the part better, but despite his
weighty deliberation Rignold plays it like an
artist,. Owing to the smallness of the Cn. stage,
the halls of Harold’s hard parent are somewhat
compressed, and the lodge where faithful old
Marks resides is so close to the hall that an active
dog could jump from one building to another.
But the tank gets there just the same, and so long as
the tank holds out, “ Lights of London can never
be a total failure. The company, as a whole, calls
for a good deal of respect. W. J. Montgomerys
Clifford Annytage is distinctly impressive.
Sweeney and Miss Watts-Phillips are two artists
who always give a good account of themselves,
and Miss Wheeler is more womanly and less in-
clined to flap her arms to no purpose than she has
been in some recent productions. Also, Hetty
Preene calls for liberal praise. Miss Roxy Barton
fills the character of that ill-regulated young per-
son, and the new Hetty compares very favorably
with some previous ladies who disappeared from
old Seth’s public-house and left his place of re-
freshment desolate.
## * *
During the week that has elapsed since
this paper last published a perfunctory patch of
literature about “The Christian,” the long-ex-
pected religious controversy has stirred uneasily
in its sleep now and then, but it hasn’t wakened
to any definite purpose as yet. The scene which
the pious element principally objects to is that
wherein the partially-demented Storm calls on
Glory with a divine mission to cut her swan-like
throat. Poor Glory has taken to singing in worldly
halls, instead of exposing her lovely voice to the
inclemency of the weather, and wrecking it in
struggles with the hymn at cold street corners,
and Parson Storm hears supernatural cries in his
ear, telling him to kill his best girl while her soul
is not yet lost. And Glory objects to being killed.
She hasn’t a gun handy to defend herself with, so
she tries to move the demented iron preacher with
her beauty, and re-awake his love for her. It is a
very innocent scene—she lets down her hair, and
throws her white arms round Storm’s neck, and
pleads for a kiss; but a certain very pious section
is shocked at the worldly allurement of Glory’s
hair, and is grieved that she should show it to her
old sweetheart. Yet the church itself, or most of
it, would let down its own hair any day to bring a
little more money into the plate, always provided
it had any hair in particular to let down ; and
after all it is an open question whether it is more
fleshly to appeal to the artistic sense with hair or
to the stomach with buns and tea. So far it has
been a very disappointing controversy, and the
holy section of the community seems to be flabby
and out of training.
* ¥6 * *
At Sydney Palace there is a renaissance
of old sweet songs. Neva Glynn is “Listening,”
Howard Chambers is nightly “Rocked in the
Cradle of the Deep, ” and rocks very tunefully too,
while Fred Duncan wanders back to warble
“Good-bye, Mavourneen.” Cinquevalli sud-
denly appears in the middle of the stage from
nowhere—like the Stranger in the gap at the
Thirteen-Circle—and proceeds to juggle with an
egg, a plate, and an orange. He makes a
conical - bottomed lemonade bottle climb all
over a black silk - hat, and stand upright
on either end on the rim of that hat.
After that a stick and an umbrella proceed to
go through seven books of Euclid. When the stick
and its mate can describe no more geometrical
figures he whirls two chairs and a table into the
air and keeps them whirling as though they were
marbles. Then he demonstrates the ball-bearing
system with two billiard balls between two cues.
He does other remarkable things with the
assistant and a chair and a table all held in his
teeth, and some plates, which he fools with at the
same time. After going around Australia for six
months Cinquevalli appears to have as many new
tricks on hand as he had at the beginning of his
Australian career.
** * *
War-correspondent Yilliers was dined by
Sydney Supper Club last Saturday, when the fol-
lowing lines, written between two cigars by Y. J.
Daley, were recited by Lawrence Campbell:—
“ Constance Clyde ” on the awful “ £lOOO
Reward, ” which lately did a week’s misery at Syd-
ney Lyceum :
The Lyceum is (retting famous for having much fallen
woman ; and for forgiving her only after long and patient
knee-drill on doorsteps and outside music-halls, or at the
corner of the long, empty stage street, or in other con-
venient places, but the “ LTUOO Reward ” about beats
the record for hard-earned forgiveness. The fallen
woman's fallermess in this case consists of having gone
away a little trip with the villain ; she has been sorry
about, it ever since, and devotes the rest of her life to
looking after her daughter and keeping her from being
kissed by the bad man. The wronged husband is sup-
posed to be a nice, gentlemanly fellow, but he threatens
his wife round the stage with a knife because she won’t
tell the name of the other fellow, and when she faints
under this regimen, he leaves her on the pavement
to be run over and arrested, and scrutinised by the
casual larrikin. Later he recovers his son and da ugh-
THE LATE “ CHARLEY" BURFORD.
ter, and they all eo into a fine big house and have a real
pood time, while the mother lives a hungry life in the
usual garret with its customary concomitant of rals.
The daughter is also supposed to be a very nice girl, but
she does not seem to worry at all about the mother who
kept her from being kissed by the bad man, till her worn
and heart-broken parent casually crawls into the gorgeous
sitting-room in all her rags. Whereupon the family
come in and forgive her very kindly, and she is graciously
allowed to die on the best sofa.
The same lady holds forth on the “ Christian ” at
Her Majesty’s, and on matters indirectly con-
nected therewith: —
“The Christian ” as played is not only superior to the
book, which is not saying much, but it likewise stands
head and shoulders above the turgid Nero-Csesar romance
to which it has been compared. Likewise it is a valuable
object - lesson to those dreadful characters who are
going about asking what would a certain sacred
personage do whenever they change a necktie or
desire a long beer. I notice that one of Sheldon’s
characters once proposed to a girl, and it is clear
that he could not have put to himself the usual
question on that occasion. Which thing is an allegory.
No man can live the New Testament life, because there is
always the eternal woman demanding to he kissed.
Amongst all His other temptations, the Founder of Chris-
tianity never seems to have know n the Woman tempta-
tion ; woman, as such, never entered His life. The entire
absence of sex-passion in the New Testament probably,
by its very uniqueness, explains that book’s hold on the
human mind. Nobody falls in love with anybody in the
New' Testament. The most we hear about the dis-
ciples in that direction is that one of them had a mother-
in-law —and there is not much romance about that. The
lesson of “The Christian " is that the man who starts to
renovate the world and make a bloodless saint of himself
has got to remember one fact, important if there is any
truth in heredity —his father was only of the common or
garden species.
m* * *
Were it ever safe to predict the fate of a
melo-drama in Melbourne, the present writer
would say that “The Merciless World,” at the
Royal, is doomed to die of rapid scorn and de-
rision. But one never knows how the multitude
will feel as regards a four-act insult to their ordi-
nary intelligence. When “ The Merciless World ”
was first let loose at Sydney Lyceum, this journal
described it as the maddest, most incomprehen-
sible outbreak on record, hut the huge hunk of
lunacy went gibbering along for a month or so,
just as if it had been no madder than other melo-
dramas. Which suggests that Melbourne like-
wise may derive amusement from Holloway’s
latest. I'he awful developments of the plot set
a good many people chuckling last Saturday night,
anyway. Yet the chucklers stayed to see the
curtain fall. They were interested. They hung on
to the show in the hope that the murdered father
of the hero’s faithful wife (a hard old lawyer who
had been dead since the end of the first act) would
come back from the grave to denounce a certain
resurrected woman in black as the long-lost sister
of a detective who spent the evening in hunting
down the wrong person for the betrayal of the
gloomy female who had married him (the detec-
tive) previous to committing bigamy with the
innocent victim of the villain she loved. Also,
the audience nursed expectations that the Paris
executioner would turn out to he Miss de
Winton’s dynamited uncle in disguise, but
although nothing seemed too extraordinary
to transpire in the course of “ The Merci-
less World ” the executioner was not utilised
for purposes of blood relationship, neither did
the defunct parent re-appear. The principal
joke in the last act was the guillotining of
the villain in mistake for a low comedian.
This was a fitting punishment for the villain, con-
sidering the number of people he had killed and
otherwise ill-treated, but it was not poetic justice.
All the troubles of the drama had been brought
about by the villain’s artfulness in drugging a
bundle of bank-notes', which robbed several peopl®
of their consciousness every time they tried _ ro
count the notes with a wet forefinger. Under tne
circumstances the vile schemer should have been
sentenced to die of influenza through blowing his
nose on a poisoned pocket-handkerchief.
• * * •
The Holloway Co., individually and alto-
gether, deserve credit for the performance of this
insane show. Scenery and supers give valuable
assistance, but it is the desperate earnestness
the principals that saves “The Merciless vv oriel
from merciless “guying.” Hero Saunders, who
reminds one of Scot Inglis, is a strong, natural
actor all the time, and Miss Dora de VV inton
sticks to her work as though she believed in it.
The lady’s weep is persuasive, and her indig-
nation goes fifteen ounces to the ton. More
over, Miss de W. has a tall, picturesque manner of
remaining in the background when there s
nothing for her to do. Her one ineffective trick
is the little sliding toddle—something between a
sprint and a skate —which she frequently substi
tutes for a plain, straightforward walk. Harry
Douglas gives a good sketch of an old, salt, sea
person; Miss Ida Gresham is an acceptable penitent
bigamist; and the thin, matter-of-fact villain con-
cludes his tedious wickedness with a capital shriek
for mercy. Other useful features are I rank
Hawthorne, George Chalmers, Harcourt, George
Melville, Miss Deorwyn, J. P. O’Neill, and a
dummy corpse that drops its head into the
guillotine basket.
m* * *
“lolanthe,” at the Princess’s lost weight
Hist week by a sudden disappearance of Miss
[Dorothy Vane, who was advertised to resume her
former position among the tadpoles and little
fishes on Monday night. “ lolanthe 55 is a delight-
fully airy opera—a work to be enjoyed many times
over, whereas “The Geisha” grows wearisome at
the second time of hearing ; but the fact that the
firm’s present co. can’t bring out all the charm of
Gilbert and Sullivan’s masterpiece has been pretty
generally remarked. Little Miss Florence
Perry’s voice is weak, and not always in tune
when she forces it. The Fairy Queen is a
weird, unaccountable warbler. Private Willis
doesn’t enunciate his song words distinctly, and
the very brightest duet in the opera —“If we
tarry ere we marry —falls somewhat flat for the
reason that Phyllis and Streplion are not capable
dancers. Instead of putting their arms around
one another’s waists and tripping along together,
the engaged couple hop along “on their own ” m
opposite directions. A better “ lolanthe ” per-
formance would command a longer run, no doubt.
As it is, the classic show will make way for “La
Poupee ” on Saturday.
** * *
Things are as before, or nearly so, at Mel-
bourne Bijou. The fragile masculine Valdare
appeared as the Tramp last Saturday, and is just
falling off his bike with vast success, and Tom
Costello also promises to improve on acquaintance.
In fact, the gallery has already begun to whistle a
vehement encore for the new man, who responds
with a brief oration to the effect that he will sing
something special by general desire on some future
occasion.
* *
Closely following the death of “Daddy" Hallewell,
another old—much older—theatrical identity has joined
the majority. Chas. Burford died on Monday morning.
He was associated with Australian show-business for
about half-a-century. When he arrived in Australia
he had already had some years London experience. One
of the first, if not the very first, engagements he had
this side of the world was to support the American actor
James Stark, at the Queen’s Theatre, Melbourne, he
playing Baradas to the latter's Richelieu. That was in
’53,' and Burford was then 33, making him, at the date of
his death, 79. There are only two actors now alive in
Australia older than he—“ Jimmy” Hasker, 82, and
“ Joe ” Raynor, 81. Burford was one of the now obsolete
heavy melodramatic school. On one occasion I.e played
Hamlet in fie acts, in Dunedin, M.L., but the strain—on
the public—was too intense, anti it was not a success.
For some time hack Burford had charge of the stage door
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. “The profession” is not a
good means of providing for one’s oM age. As a rule the
Hamlet who reaches the age of 79 is fortunate if he finds
a stage door to take charge of.
Two fat sheep were sold by auction at
Hamilton (Vic.) last month for .£6 2s.—both for
killing. A record ?
A writer in Sydney E. News remarks that
it is “ comical ” to see recruits ducking to avoid
bullets when under fire. It must also be wildly
hilarious to witness a hanging, and there is a
deep fund of humor surrounding the grave of
one’s grandfather.
Dear Bulletin. —Rhodes as a jokist is a
mournful failure. His presentation of a lion to
the Transvaal Government reads funnily enough
until one’s memory reverts to the time when
Barney Barnato presented Oom Paul with a pair
of lions carved out of Scotch granite. It was not
so long after the “Raid,” and at the time that
poor old Barney was offering a few millions, how
many doesn’t matter, for the London Mansion
House, with a view to a big advt. One of the
sights of Pretoria now is old man Kruger sitting
on his verandah facing the two lions, with an
ancient pipe in his mouth, smoking Boer tobacco
and spitting freely upon the granite emblems.
When he isn’t expectorating on the lions he aims
at a rose-tree in his front garden. Some one has
evidently told him that the rose is the national
flower of Old England. Query: Did Kruger
expectorate on Rhodes’s lion before sending it
back ?—X. Q.
TO MR. FREDERIC VILLIERS.
We hope, dear sir, you will excuse
The Supper Club’s disordered muse—
We mostly keep our Bard roped tight.
But somehow he escaped to-night-
Glad are we all to meet you here
In our own proper atmosphere
Of smoke, and talk, and lies, and beer 1
A most impertinent member said,
“ Sir, did you never feei in dread
When round your head the bullets spat,
All in the Commissariat —
And you were fighting, fierce and keen,
To save the Empire—and Canteen ? ”
And this, good Lord, and this to him
Whose pencil drew the pictures grim
That terrified each Afghan clan,
And paralysed the fierce Pat lian 1
What sent them home in fear and dread?
“’Twas Villiers’ pictures,” someone said.
“ Our Tommy Atkins, Kipling's pet,
Slays thousands with his baj'onet,
But Villiers, with his pencil free,
And pen, as generous as he,
Slays tens of thousands easily.”
Another said, between two beers,
“ Are you a man that nothing fears?
Or can you, without catch of breath,
Face sudden, sure, disastrous death?”
You stood up straight, you stood up square,
You never turned a single hair.
Yourself to your full height you drew—
“ I’ve faced the Supper Club," said you.
And what made you so desperate?
What made you trifle thus with Fate ?
You smiled and stroked your spiked moustache ;
Your voice was like the sound of cash
In hungry times when Trust is dead ;
Yet these were all the words you said—
“ Villiersism of the Villierses : So
Lord Palmerston said long ago.”
The Supper Club says, with a sigh,
Good health, good friend ! Good luck 1 Good bye !


A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(O/O S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining. Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sinicins, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap
Kor Prices
and particulars apply
S. Z6LLNER,
30-36 DruiU-st., Sydney.
fes
=s*
r'/
•i
WM
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & GO.,—Sydney.
Ben digo’s record for the first three quarters of
the year :—Gold, 168,4660 z. ; dies., £179,873 ; calls,
£lOO,BOB ; excess of divs. over calls, £78,565. Corres-
ponding figures for first three quarters of ’98 —167,0000 z.,
£187,251, £116,848, and £70,402.
♦ » * *
The Tasmania Co., BeaconsfieJd, has had
another good crushing ; 2170 tons yielded 27120 z. gold
valued at £10,499. This co.’s reduction plant is most
complete. The Luhrig system of concentration (vanners,
etc.) was introduced nearly five years ago, and as an
adjunct to the 65 head of stmps continues to save large
quantities of valuable pyrites. Full particulars of Luhrig
machinery may be obtained from the General Agents, W.
and J. Lempriere, Melbourne and Broken Hill. An ex-
perimental plant is erected near Melbourne for treating
small parcels from two to five tons.*
* • • •
Westralia’s wonderful Governor, .Terry Smith,
is again in great trouble. He was a shareholder in the
Australia Hotel, Coolgardie, and his aide-de-camp and
secretary were also shareholders. After being enter-
tained at lunch in his own partial property it appears
that the erratic Excellency Smith wrote a letter to the
manager in which he said : “ 1 ain very pleased with the
balance-sheet showing a profit of 60 per cent, per annum.
The place itself is bigger and more commodious” (both
of them apparently) “ than I anticipated, and has big
and increasing business.” It is alleged that this letter
was used to persuade guileless people to take up shares in
the (partly) Smith hotel, and as the co. is now very dead
indeed, and is said to have been more or less in trouble
from the beginning, and appears never to have made a
genuine 50 per cent.., or anything like it, people are say-
ing hard things about Excellency Smith.
* * * *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Se.C.E., is visiting the Cool-
gardie goldfield, and is prepared to report on mining
properties, and to attend to the flotation of approved
propositions on the local and London markets. All com-
munications to be addressed to Fremantle.*
* * * *
VVestralia made another gold-record in Sept.—
167,0000z5., over half of which came from Kalgoorlte.
Stocks slumped all round in spite of it. All on account of
Kruger. Confidence in the mines has not been lost, but
it probably will be long before purchasing power is re-
stored. Some market falls : Associateds from £l4 to
£ll ; Tvanhoes from £l9 to £l6 ; Perseverance, £l7 to
£l4 ; L.V. Consols from £27 to £23 ; Kalgurlis, £l3 to
£10; South Ditto, £7 to £5. Most others in proportion.
Probably a drop altogether of £10,000,000, but very little
printed about it. Had there been an appreciation of 10
millions we would have heard a loud song.
* * * *
Money, Ist July, 1899:—“In eleven years the
accumulations of the Colonial Mutual have been sufficient
to bring the total up to something over 2\ millions. No
more striking testimony to the high-class management
could be desired.”*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall's patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western*Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
• • * •
Lake View Consols has at last taken the lead of
Westralian gold producers; it caught Gt. Boulder last
month, and is now some distance in front, the
respective figures to date being 310,021oz. and 3fi3,375oz.
Kalgoorlie mines during Sept., 1898, produced 36,041oz.,
this Sept. 8(i,203oz. Great are the mines of Hannan’s,
but where, alas, are the great mines of the Murchison
field, White Feather, Black Flag, Broad Arrow, Coolgar-
die, Menzies, and other places that, unlike most other
Australian mining camps, had the benefit of so much
English money in their early stages ?
* * * *
A number of the best dredge-masters are desert-
ing the Mol.vneux, with its freezing cold, biting winds,
and bleak pay, for the summer sunshine of N.S.W., plus
superior salaries. The latest arrival is Mr. H. Downie,
late master of the Earnscleugh No. 2, the biggest dredge
in the world.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pittst., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lamb ton tynay, Wellington, N.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W.’s finances for the quarter ended 30th
Sept.' (the first quarter of the financial year) in 1898
a " d " ~ 1898 1899
Expenditure to 30th Sept. £2,248,695 .. £2,037,113
Revenue do. 2,226,146 .. 2,243,988
Deficit .. £22,549 .. £393,125
Last year panned out with a very small margin of revenue
over expenditure. And in the first quarter this year is
1370,000 worse than last. Premier I.yne starts with an
appalling dead horse to work off—the decomposed animal
which Reid left on his premises. And the finances are not
looking good. The first quarter of 1899 shows '17,812
more revenue than the corresponding quarter of 1898, hut
it is all accounted for by new taxation. The new tea duty
brought in £19,557, and but for this there would have
been a revenue decrease of nearly £2OOO against an in-
oreased expenditure of nearly £400,000.
* » * *
Treasurer Philp reckons that the Queensland
revenue for the year up to 30th June, 1900, will he
£4,388,445, and expenditure £4,364,420 ; surplus * 24,025.
This is assuming that the revenue will be 1 214,359 more
than last year, and the expenditure £340,250 more.
Queensland has, in proportion to population, the largest
revenue in Australasia, that of Westralia only excepted.
And in view of the fact that its revenue is very large and
is getting larger, Queensland has decided not to do with
less borrowing, but to borrow more than ever. The pro-
posed expenditure of loan money is £1,696,889, or over
£3 Bs. per inhabitant. And the list of “ permanent and
reproductive works” on which it is intended to spend the
money is very beautiful. Said “works” include arms,
ammunition, and other military necessaries, £26,650 ;
assisted immigration, including the salary of the immigra-
tion lecturer and office expenses, £50,000; offices, gaols, asy-
lums and other unproductive buildings, £205.900 ; and en-
dowments to harbor boards, &c., £176,255. The province
which pays for the salary of its immigration lecturer, and
the endowments of local bodies, and the ammunition that
is fired away at Lytton encampment, out of loans, and
charges them to posterity, and professes that they are
permanent and reproductive works, has got about as low
down in the way of plain fraud and swindle as any
defaulting South American republic ever got. In fact,
the only visible goal of the Philp and Reid variety of
finance is default. It is no doubt very far off yet, for that
gorgeous asset, the public estate, will last a long time,
but a province which keeps on borrowing at the festive
rate of £3 per inhabitant per annum must burst in the
end.
* 9 * *
Something rather novel in the way of prospec-
tuses is that of the Western Oity Brewery Co., of Hamil-
ton, Victoria. Its object is to acquire the lease and
business of the Western Oity Brewery, now conducting a
large and prosperous business under private management.
Capital £lOO9, in 2000 fully paid-up shaves of 10s. each.
Of these, 150 shares (equal to £75) are to be allotted to
the present owners of the brewery, in full payment for
plant and goodwill, so there is evidently going to be one
Victorian brewery at least that isn’t over-capitalised.
This baby-brewery is now capable of turning out 18 hhds.
per week, but the co. sees its way, by an expenditure of
£5O, to increase the plant to a capacity of 48 hhds. What
a drunk there will be then in peaceful little Hamilton ?
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Hobart, Tasmania) is a very regular institution
whose strict attention to business is highly commendable.
Some recent profits have been as follows :
June, 1892 . .. £3i9
December, 1892 .. 847
June, 1893 .. 351
December, 1893 .. 473
June, 1894 .. .. 479
December, 1894 ~ 974
June, 1595 .. ... 526
December, 1895 .. 435
June, 1896' .. .. £523
December, 1896 .. 462
June, 1897 .. .. 349
December, 1897 .. 465
June, 1898 .. .. 420
December, 1898 .. 421
June, 1899 .. ~ 365
Now and then (perhaps when it backs the horse) the
Perpetual Trustees, Executors anrl Agency of Hobart
makes an unexpected rise, as in December i 892 and De-
cember 1894, but as a rule it is a very steady-going little
affair. The regular 6 per cent, dividend (£300) and divi-
dend-tax thereon (£l5) absorb £3ls—the co. is 12 years
old now and its 6 per cent, has never varied all that time.
At June 1892, its reserves were £1496, and as they are now
£4212 it has plodded along to much better purpose than
many affairs of more pretentious exterior. A carefully-
managed concern whose profits are always a little larger
than its dividends is bound to get there sooner or later.
But if the capital and reserves are invested at 4 per cent.,
they account for £285 of the profits, and the net earnings
of the business are £Bo—equal to £l6O a year. It doesn't
look much of a business.
Ballarat Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(of Ballarat, Victoria) reports a profit of £lO7l for the half-
year ended 30/6’99. The shareholders receive a dividend
at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum (£525) ; another 1 sno
is written off goodwill account; and the remaining £46,
added to previous balance, leaves J 368 at credit of'protit
and loss. The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. has no reserve fund and its visible and saleable assets
show a deficit of £132 as compared with its labilities to
shareholders and the public. The apparent surplus of
‘368 is made up by the insertion of the paper asset,
‘Goodwill, £500.” At the same time the co. is making
good progress. It started its career by paying a large
sum as the purchase-money of a ready-made business, and
the goodwill asset was therefore an unavoidable o'rcun-
stance in the balance-sheet. Six years ago it stood at
£4OOO, but since then it has been steadily written
down out of profits till it now represents only £5OO.
Another half-year should see it completely extinguished,
and then the co. whose business yields about 14 per cent,
per annum on its paid-up capital, should be able to start
a reserve and yet do something handsome for its share-
holders.
* * * *
A chapter on Broken Hill, according to WiMiam
Knox : —Total ore raised to date 4,132,181 tons, producing
397,989 tons lead and 100,159,7680 z. silver. Total vain ■of
product, 20 millions sterling. Expenses, £11,6 12,962 ;
dividends, £6,968,000.
• * * *
Wilcannia begins to tell the rest of N.S. W.
what good things will happen if the Cobar-Wilcannia
railway is carried through. Not a bad scheme, for the
line will open up a lot of copper, silver and grid country
in many respects equal to, and in some better than, that
in N. Queensland. Up there it is proposed to budd
railways into copper-mines, which even then could n t be
worked nearly as che iply as those which have for so many
years been lying dormant in far western N.S.W
The Bulletin receives this from an Abercrom-
bie (N.8.W.) River miner:—“ He ‘Abercrombie’ (B.
23/9 ’99). There was someone along here from Trank ey, a
few weeks ago, with a dish, prospecting the mullock-
heaps around old abandoned duffers. He may be identi-
cal with the correspondent whose pen ‘lingers lovingly
on the name.’ Any practical man, who has ihe slightest
knowledge of this river, knows perfectly well that, so far
as dredging is concerned, it must prove a wild cat in the
main. We have signed two petitions, one of which was
handed to the warden for this district and the other for-
warded to the Under-Secretary for Mines. But, now that
we hear the results of the Turon dredging-business to
date, we do not fear so much that they will be able to
dredge the whole of this river, as at present pegged out,
but rather that they will bring the machine along and set
in, with a big blare, on one or two rich patches already
known, but which miners are at present unable to work,
owing to the Hooded state of the river. After the river
stops running, which will probably be about Xmas, we do
not fear their opposition so much, because we can then
pump the waterholes dry, and even without that the river
will present such a forlorn succession of high bars that
they will have great difficulty in finding a gravel bed suf-
ficiently large to afford them a single week’s run. Then
again, the gravel in this river does not carry gold all
through it—-only for about Ift. or 2ft. on the bottom, and
in some places only in the crevices of the rock itself.
Again, where there is a waterhole of any size, it is simply
a congregation of snags—not saplings, either, but logs 2ft.
and 3ft. in dia. Also, the flats along the river bank,
which a dredging co. reckons on working at a profit, on
this river are just a forest of river-oaks. It is not the
extent of this river they will be able to work that we need
fear, but that small portion we have already prospected,
and are now kept out of by the winter-floods. After that,
I am of opinion, all that will be left for them to do will lie
to swamp the shareholders' capital and go bung.
Dear Bulletin. —No desire to disturb the peace
of mind of “Maori Tyke” ; just a few hard facts. On
March 20 last a Sydney evening paper reporting ’Change
stated: “Turon G. Dredging cont., 16s. 3d.; paids,
225. 9d. ; holders quoting wide ” Very good. On 19th
July, ’99, same medium reports : “ Turons sought at 535. ;
s. , 605." Same date : “Turon G.D. Co. at a meeting of
directors to-day decided to make a further issue of 6000
shares, 2s. 6d. on application, 2s. 6d. on allotment.”
“ M.T.” has every reason to shake hands with himself if
he and his friends got the original shares at 16s. 3d. and
a portion of the 6000 at ss. and then sold them at 60s. I
was not referring to the gamble in Turons, but to those
who put in their money with the hope of getting a fair
return in interest. On 19th July, then, at least 42,000
shares were on the market at 535. to 605., but take a lower
figure—say, 50s. ; this would be £105,000. In mining
ventures people expect 10 per cent, at least, which
would mean £'10,500. Now, on June 30 last the
S.M. Herald says: “The Turon Gold Dredging Co. re-
ports that the dredge has opened out with every satisfac-
tion, and is now working continuously on a face of wash
2‘2ft. deep with soft slate bottom.” I take this to be the
monthly report, therefore they must have worked con-
tinuously during June, July, and August, and then
announced a yield of 2500 z., valued at, say, £lOOO. Four
times this would be the year’s yield— .4000. Deduct 140
a week, including office, fuel, frequent repairs, directors’
fees, &c. and expenses; equal to £2OOO a year; then there
is £2OOO left to meet interest, which would require £lO.OOO
for those who invested at the rate of 50s. to 655. per
share. In fact, the investor would get less than 2 per
cent. The assurance of 340 z. weekly quickly lapsed !
Only one such report ! Why? A little more tuning of
the fiddle-strings? Or was the mountain so long in labor
bringing forth that gigantic golden mouse that it
required rest ? I wish every success to this
dredging co., and hope they’ll all have reason to shake
hands with themselves in the sweet by-and-bye, but
people decline to accept statements which mock their
intelligence. I tried to dissuade my friends from buying
when shares were at 695., but they were pig-headed and
knew all about it, and now they are “ Floating down the
Turon River.”— John Turon.
* * * *
From Dunedin : - The dredging fever has us
fairly by the wool here—pretty well the whole of the
Shotover, Cardrona, Kawarau, Molyneux (latter is the
river which Vogel used to declare was “paved with gold”)
and all other central and western streams are now pegged
out as dredging claims arid floated into cb.’s on local
markets. The boom has spread to Dunedin, and the shrewd
“ Oatmealarian ” of Otakou has chipped into the gamble,
a Sure sign that it is something “ mair than ordinary.”
Nearly all shares are at a more or less heavy premium—
dredges not yet on—and the daily rise and fall on stock-
exchange sheets is eagerly scanned by excited crowds.
Most present holders are of limited means, either in at
par or a small premium, so the shareholders’ broker
entrusted with flotation of new co.’s (and they are being
floated daily) is a much-sought-after personage, for his
friends and clients get into the good thing first and are
safe for a quick and profitable turnover. The Molyneux
has not been so low' for 30 years, which may account for
the abnormal yields already obtained by the few dredges
on that river and its tributary the Kawarau (on the latter
the “ Electric ” and “ Magna ic” have ranged from one to
700 oz. per week). All the other dredges are getting good
returns—from 20 to lOOoz. per week. lOoz. pays all wages
and a div., so you can see what above results mean. Fol-
lowing are “Hartley and Riley’s” returns (they are located
below Coromandel on the Molyneux, half-a-mile below its
junction with the Kawarau). Week ended 29th July,
6430 z. 17dwt. ; Aug. 18th, 7860 z. ; smee then, weekly,
4220 z. 12dw't, 5450 z., 4700 z., 5320 z., and this week
6890 z. Altogether she has won in gold during the short
time she has been at work 64250 z., representing
£24,736. The co. consists of 7000 shares at £1 —500 of
which are unallotted, as the public would not take them
up—how thev are biting their fingers now ! The dredge
paid for itself in a fortnight, and now shareholders are
sitting tight and drawing big divs., and shares are quoted
at £9. English capital is now pouring in and buying out
the poor devil who is “in ” cheap, but w'ho can t hold on
and pay calls until the completion of the dredges, orders
for various portions of w’hich are placed all over Austra-
lia. Foundries here are w'orking night and day, but can-
not possibly overtake orders.- The rivers should shortly
“ spring flood ” when the snow on the ranges melts, anil
then the slump; but the man who gets into anything on
the Molyneux and can pay his calls until February next is
certain to get a big rise on his shares.
* * * •
Twenty-five Maoriland dredges have returned
during 37 weeks 30,1780 z., value 4-116,000. Average per
dredge, 32Joz. per week, value £125 But as the big re-
turns of the Hartley and Riley and one or two others
are included in the figures upon which the average is
based, it is apparent that some of the dredges must be
doing very moderately indeed.
Written from Thursday Island that
shares in the Horn Island co. are held there, that £9OOO
of the purchase-money is still due to the vendois, that
the gold only brings £2 14s. 6d. an oz., and that the
future of the mine depends entirely on the bottom forma-
tion, the value of which is doubtful.
* * * *
The directors of the Knox-Sehlapp combination
very considerately admit ( vide Melb. daily press) that “ the
lower levels of the Hampden copper mine, Cloncurr.v,
Q., are not opening up satisfactorily.” The simple
reason, writes a man on the. spot, is that this large ore-
body is a surface-deposit only. There are at least a dozen
shafts sunk on the lease (160 a.), and each shaft, so far as
the occurrence of ore is concerned, is an exact replica of
the other—an ore body from Bft. to 12ft. thick. Notably,
a shaft (No. 4) has been sunk 90ft. ; the ore body was
struck at 30ft., and was 10ft. thick; levels were driven
E. and W. (the course of the several deposits being N.
andS.) for 60ft. in each direction, cutting through the
deposit, and showing the formatiou to be a width
of 30ft. of veins of ore alternating with veins of
country rock (diorite and decomposed diorite); the whole
formation then tapering off at each side (E. and W.)
like a wedge into the country rock; below the ore-body
to the bottom of the shaft no ore showing at all—this is
the deepest shaft sunk. There are several surfacecross-
cuts put in and all show a distressing similarity to
each other—alternating veins of ore and mullock —the
latter preponderating. Certainly ore can he picked in
these veins going from copper-stains up to 50 per cent,
copper; the ore is of the usual varieties—the red oxide
being the best. Some places between the various out-
crops contain no ore at all (been proved), showing that
the ore deposit is not continuous and only local n its
occurrence—waiting patiently for the coming “lamb.”
A strike is on at the Hampden at present owing to the
management insisting on a full shift on Saturday
and a reduction of Bs. per week off miners. The
two demands coming together look as if the co. were
not averse to combat with the men. A lengthy exemp-
tion may he the result—seeing that the present Govt, is
determined to attract, southern capital at all costs. A
case is now on (not concluded at time of writing) before
the Warden for alleged non-fulfilment of labor-conditions
(penalty, fine up to £lOO, or forfeiture of lease). The
country is overrun with “sharps,” syndicate-agents, &c.,
all anxious to take over shows from prospectors. Not a
shilling parted for show—miner getting in return for his
lease anything from one-twentieth to one-eighth of
“ paid-ups,” said sharps taking no risks at all. A skin-
game—nothing to lose and all to win should flotation
eventuate. Some of the locals’ experiences of syndicate-
agents are unspeakably bitter.
* '* * *
Towers’ output for ’OB gave 457,8500 z. (value
£1,157,005), from 728,569 tons of ore and sand. Increase
in number of tons of stone treated, 11,000 tons ; decrease
in gold of 6000 oz. 521,588 tons of sands were cvanided,
giving 213,7430 z. of bullion worth 30s. an oz. Chlorina-
tion showed a decrease of 1200 tons treated and of nearly
2000 oz. as compared with previous returns. Calls for
year decreased by £12,464 ; divs. by £34,730. (This does
not take account of cyanide results). The 96 cyanide
works paid out £90,000 : calls, £BO,OOO.
* » * *
Queensland gold output for September ’99 was
83,0340 z. as against 81,4660 z. for Sep. ’9B. The Towers:
quartz, 19,375 tons for 19,3880 z. ; tailings, 62,245 tons for
23,6990 z. Croydon : quartz, 3191 tons for 54470 z. ; tail-
ing's, 2370 tons for 12990 z. Gympie crushed 11,871 tons
for 90850 z. Mt. Morgan gave 14,6540 z. from 13,746 tons of
quartz. Clermont alluvial shows a woeful falling off —
only 7490 z. as against 25390 z. for Sept. ’9B. Total yield
for nine months ending Sep. ’9B was 666,0170 z. ; total
yield for nine months ending Sep. ’99 was 685,5240 z., an
increase of 19,8070 z.
* m * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * m *
General Manager Stewart, of Chillagoe Mines
and Railway Co. (who is consulting-engineer for Broken
Hill, and altogether in receipt of about £7OOO a year
salary) went through Sydney last week to Melbourne and
thence to the Hill. He said in Melb. that Chillagoe rail-
way would be finished in about 12 months, and that ex-
tensive wharves were being built at Cairns ; the site for
the smelters had not been definitely’ fixed, but there were
several available. The co.’s leases covered 3000 acres, but
it was premature to say where the chief operations would
be located. The Mt. Garnet Freehold, he added,
was more advanced in its mining developments,
consequently they were arranging for smelters. It
looks ominous that Mr. Stewart says nothing about the
richness of the Chillagoe Co.’s mines, but inferentially
admits that their prospects do not .vet warrant following
Mt. Garnet in arranging for smelters. The Bulletin does
not hesitate to say that if the poor reports re these groups
of mines which have appeared during the last few months
were published in connection with other mines controlled
by other men there would to-day be practically no market
for shares. Nor can it he overlooked that certain experi-
enced and disinterested men who had the advantage—
which Mr. Stewart had not—of seeing these mines
eight years ago, before they caved, and who have seen
them since they have been partially’ re-opened, declare
that the mining developments of the last six months do
not warrant their market value —do not justify the build-
ing of a long railway before they are proved ; while the
remarkable changes that have taken place during the
last few months rather confirm than remove the sus-
picion of patchiness, irregularity, absence of lode forma-
tion, and general will-o’-the-wisp character.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * ¥
Queensland Mines report for ’9B gives some in-
teresting figures—mostly of the down-grade variety.
Silver output for that year was 104,0210 z. (£10,585)
smallest amount since 1880. Only’ 62 tons of copper,
valued at £2166, were produced, though the total value
of all copper raised since 1860 reaches the handsome total
of £2,022,927. Since ’72 Queensland has exported about
4| million pounds’ worth of tin, but the output for ’9B
shows a decrease of £lOOO on the output of previous year.
Opal shows a decline of between ‘ 3000 and £4OOO in
value. Goal shows a substantial increase—rising from
£139,889 in ’97 to £150,493 in ’9B. (Yield in tons—
-407,934.) Price of coal, 7s. 4Jd. a ton—about lowest on
record. Peak Downs copper mines promise renewed out-
put shortly.
*
Some of the S. A. people are apparently tinder
the impression that certain new’ local shows are rich
enough to bring down the price of copper. The present
scribe, who has dabbled in copper himself, implores them
to be merciful. Apropos of a paragraph lately here
printed, the following, “ showing the real facts of
the case,” comes to hand from Adelaide :—“ Just a
line or two to tell you what the Lorna Doone
is. For no less than three-quarters of a mile
they have traced the lode, which averages from
59 to 70 feet wide the Whole distance. There are five
shafts down on the property at long distances from each
other ; one to 140 ft., another to 80ft., another to 58ft.,
and two others at less depths, say 30 to 40ft. Each one
of these shafts has proved the enormous body of ore that
exists on the mine. At a depth of 27ft. in one shaft a
crosscut was put in to test the lode, and they have gone
50ft. through the ore body, which will average at least
12A per cent, to 15 per cent, for the whole 50ft. The best
men available have been up to see this property, and our
latest reports say that if we never open up another ton of
ore there is enough to put out 1000 tons a week for the
next five years in sight. Again: Now for the Mt. Burr. This
property is certainly a prospecting one, but there is
without doubt a copper deposit 500 ft. long by 400 ft. wide
proved. How deep it goes, of course, is another thing,
but there is one shaft down already to 70ft., and the ore
is still in the bottom of that.”
• « * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * •
Mure good Vic. work, told for the encourage-
ment of the others —though there is such a thing as
cutting costs too fine. Catherine United has had a busy
six months of prospecting; 1010 ft. of sinking, driving,
&c., has been done, mostly through very tough country.
Yet from 8191 tons of stone, averaging tinder 6dwt. 14gr.
(which, by the way, is Iklwt. better than the previous
half-year’s), £1690 has been paid in divs., while an equal
amount has been spent on plant, &c.
New Chum Railway, which pioneered Bend’goa
present sustained revival, looks forward to more divs.,
this time from the 3200 ft. level. For 70ft. a deep country
winze has followed down a make of stone from Ift. to
30in. wide, showing- gold everywhere, with some rich
patches. The shaft is down more than the necessary
depth ; but a good deal of crosscutting has yet to he done
to get at the stone. Last half-year 6013 tons gave 524!)0z.,
and £13,833 was paid in divs. Westralian and some other
cos. are invited to observe that this was accomplished on
an expenditure of .£lO4 for management, though the co.
had the benefit of the experience of such men as J. E.
Dyason, J. E. Gard, and Dr. Boyd as directors.
* • * *
Hannan’s Oroya suddenly jumps into the rank
of KalgoorMe mines which have turned out 15,000oz. and
upwards—there are 10 of them now : L.V. Consols and
Boulder, each over 300,o00oz. ; Ivanhoe and Associated,
150,000oz. ; Golden HorseShoe, 106,000oz. ; Perseverance,
75,OOOoz. ; Main Reef and North Boulder, 36,000oz. ; and
the Oroya. Central and West Boulder and the Kalgtirli
are close up. Of these there are five which have in the
first eight months of this year produced more than they
did all last year : —
’98 8 months, ’99
Ivanhoe .. 50,661oz. .. 6fi,151oz.
Perseverance.. 18,613oz. .. 21,83ooz.
Horse Shoe .. 29,037oz. .. 7l,329oz.
North Boulder 9,926oz. .. 12,04f>oz.
Oroya . .. 6,454oz. .. 7,Oo7oz.
* * * *
There is ticklish work ahead for both surveyors
and miners at the Boulder. A drill has been testing the
lode which the Ivanhoe has been working at a shallow
depth on the Great Boulder boundary—stone which in
places gives up to 60oz. At 900ft. the lode is, apparently,
right on the boundary, 2ft. in Boulder ground and 3ft. in
the Ivanhoe ; and, as it is underlying east slowly, there
are easier things than to go a few inches wrong. Yet a
few inches in that sort of formation means more than a
trifle. There is hardly a mining field, in fact, but has
some strange stories to tell in that connection.
* * * *
The large triple plunger pumps for the Vic-
torian Gold Fields, Ltd., new shafts on the Charlotte
Plains, Junction Deep Leads and New Ilavillah leases,
are rapidly approaching completion at the works of the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne. These pumps
will be driven by electric motors from current generated
at a central station to supply the three shafts. The Otis
Co. have just supplied and started to work a very large
Compound Duplex Direct Actingsinking Pump on above
leases to be employed in sinking the shafts, the water
being very heavy. This pump is working suspended
from the surface.*
* * • •
Lady Shenton (W. A.). —Clean-up, 16th Sept.
Battery ran 437 hours and crushed 969 tons for 1658oz.
lOdwt., inclusive of 442oz. from plates. Assay of tail-
ings, 5dwt. lOgr. Total output (exclusive of taiiings and
concentrates) to date, 62,695oz. 4dwt. 3gr. from 24,32?
tons, average 2oz. lldwt. 13gr.
» * * •
Ed. Bulletin.— Apropos your remarks of Aug.
26 as to the working costs of the Lady Shenton mine, it is,
of course, needless for me to mention that water is a
very expensive item in Menzies. For the financial year
ended 31st March last, during which we raised and milled
9226 tons of ore, water cost over £4000. But it is hoped
to reduce this expense in future, as more water is making
in the mine, and the co. has acquired an option on some
water-rights which may eventually yield a good supply.—
H. Sedergren, secretary.
* * * •


d
p *
A NEW DEPARTURE
Jn Orient Suit to Measure at 635,
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
£3T We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
Opposttej
SYDNEY
JPJRBMO V.
J-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &c., 255.
Brisbane Branch —
34 Queen Street.
Melbourne Agents—
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.
THE NAME
Narriogtoi)
Is inseparable from everything good and novel in
Photographic Appliances
$ MATERIALS.
We are Experts in our business, and the benefit
of our EXPERIENCE and JUDGMENT will
be yours by purchasing from us.
HarriQgtoi? & Co. Ltd.
Merchants in Photographic Supplies,
66 King-street, Sydney.
yw Agents in all the Colonies.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
The grovelsome adulation of the peerage
so characteristic of the washerwoman type of mind
comes out quaintly in an article in the Argus on
State Governors under Federation. The Argus
favors the’continuance of the practice of import-
ing Governors, but does not expect that peers will
be sent. But—comfort! —
The presence of Sir Alfred Milner at the Cape shows
that a superior type of man can be obtained outside the
peerage.
So that it really needed to be demonstrated “ that
a superior type of man ” can be obtained outside
the peerage ! The question rather is whether “ a
superior type of man ” can be found inside the
peerage. Has Australia, up-to-date, ever had “a
superior type of man ” for a Governor from the
peerage? Probably Brassey is the man who was
most distinguished before he became such. Would
anyone be such a fool as to say that Uncle Tom
is “ a superior type of man ? ” Had he not been
born to a huge fortune, he would probably have
HE WANTED AN OCEAN.
"I suppose you drink a lot of beer? ”
"Gott , no! Nod much! Dere isn’t much beer in London!”
risen to be a very respectable grocer-and-suburban
alderman, or acting Bumble of a Benevolent
Asylum.
• • v •
A Sydney bootmaker proudly exhibits in
his the following (crested, comnmni-
Ca n ' _ , _ v i ,„ ,
satisfied with that way they have soled and heeled
her boots.
Thank Goodness it isn’t half- soled !
The Jenkinsonian daily-paper account of
a certain recent Sydney funeral makes The
Bulletin wonder when the press will recognise
the piteous and offensive snobbery of mawkishly
spreading itself about the “massive cedar” cor-
ruption “casket” and the “heavy silver mount-
ing ” (for the delectation of the worms) and the
“ conduction of the obsequies ” by Messrs. Ghoul,
represented by Mr. A. B. 0. D. Ghoul, and all
the rest of . the disgusting paraphernalia with
which a last struggle is made for notoriety on
behalf of an already-dissolving chemical combina-
tion.
* * * *
The proposed appointment of a fourth
Westralian Judge has caused a row. Attorney-
Gei e -al Pennefather, seeing further than the tip
of his nose, recommended Pennefather for the
post, whereupon the lawyers of Perth arose and
protested. The proposed appointment was un-
desirable —Pennefather would not be acceptable
to the profession who, of course, are the only
people to be considered. But Pennefather is
not by any means popular with the public
either —he is mistrusted by t’othersiders and (being
a newly-come Victorian) is scorned by Gropers as
an “interloper.” Horgan, his ex-law-partner, the
man who smote him on the nose upon a historic
occasion, is said to be at the bottom of the
antagonism of the devil’s brigade. Back of
Pennefather’s anxiety to get on the Bench is the
fact that the present Chief-Justice will probably
soon take a year’s leave and then retire on pen-
sion—well, one never can tell what may happen.
Besides, Pennefather is to be opposed at next
election by a colt now being prepared by his ex-
partner who with the “ clargy ” is said to have
control of the votes of Greenough electorate.
* » • *
W.A. Chamber of Manufactures intending
to hold an industrial exhibition at Perth, engaged
the Queen’s Hall, which is owned by the trustees
of Wesley Church. The local wine-growers were
invited to exhibit and took space, but the trustees
hearing this arose in their Cold-Tea wrath and
iS.yhT'°A„d S.'S Sr.OhS
should take its shekels elsewhere, they added—-
" but you can put it on the ground floor.”
~ ~ .
“ If I accepted all the offers for nurses for
the Transvaal,’ said N.S.W. military command-
AT “ THE CHRISTIAN."
ant French, “ there would be a nurse for every
man sent out.” An unintentionally scathing
comment upon the hysterical unreality of a niinis-
tering-angel enthusiasm which, like the morbid
self-sacrifice craving that takes girl-missionanes
to China, has its roots in an erratic development
of the sex-instinct. Apropos, writes Carrolli
to The Bulletin :
Suppose a few of these enthusiastic young persons
were eagerly discussing their chances of being sent to
the Transvaal, and a poor, sick, ragged old swagman
came along and appealed to them for help, would a
warm bath be instantly prepared for him i -would he be
tenderly placed in a nice, clean bed and assiduously
nursed back to health ?—or would the police be sent for
to cart the old nuisance away to the gaol-hospital. It s
the same kind of bogais sublimation that sends young
lady missionaries to China while thousands in our midst
are calmly allowed to proceed to perdition. You see,
there's no saintly self-sacrifice about taking that job on,
any more than there’d be any romance and variety and
flourish of trumpets about patching up poor old Biljim.
* * * *
“ Von Kotze ” : Says “ Old Soldier ”
(B. 9/9/’99) —“ The bulk of the missionaries
are doubtless sincere and earnest enough,
but their whole system is rotten.” Yet it
isn’t the system that is to blame, anyhow
not always or exclusively. The R.C. Church,
for instance, sends out as apostles men of
the highest education and worldly-wise
discernment, and other denominations are
doing their level best in a great variety of
ways and systems. It is not the teacher
but the lesson that is wrong. Religion is
a matter of climate and other outside in-
fluences, and the Christian brand of deism
and morality doesn’t suit the Pacific or
Eastern Asia. The Arctic dweller lives
and prospers mainly on fat and train-oil;
but if he stuck to that bill-of-fare in
Central Africa he would be a dead man in
record time. And there are intellectual
dietary rules as well as physical. Religion
is not a multiplication table that works
equally well at Honolulu and at the Pole.
And uniformity of morals and ethics can
only be achieved under uniform extraneous
and evolutionarv conditions.
**'**♦
The Infant Life Protection Bill, at
present before Vic. Legislative Council,
provides for the discouragement of the
loathsome baby-farmer, by prohibiting the
passing of lump sums, and providing that
no periodical instalment shall be paid
for more than four weeks in advance, nor
exceed ill per week (any larger sum looks
like payment for murder, instead of for
board and lodging). Nor is any payment
to be made after the death of the infant
(payment after death looks too like pay-
ment for death). Penalties, £lOO or 12
months’ imprisonment. The Bill deals with
children up to the age of five years. But if
the State cannot see its way clear to take
the whole care of children from mothers
who are too poor or in other ways- unfit to
have charge of them, legislation will pro-
bably only raise the price of baby murder—
or else compel the mother to murder her
infant personally instead of per deputy.
• * » *
Twenty years ago, the town-clerk of
a populous English town suddenly dis-
appeared, amid much evil aroma, and
leaving a shortage of .£20,000 behind him.
Five years later, he was practising law in
an Australian city, and, backed by a strong
sectarian connection, was already near the
front [jrank. One day, whilst mordantly
examining a bankrupt before the official
assignee, the exasperated witness retaliated
on his persecutor by rapping out his real
name, and the lawyer promptly bolted to
’Frisco, where he has made a fortune at
law. This man’s dramatic exit from here-
abouts was the fact on which was founded a
story, entitled “ Nat Kilgour’s Asset,” which
appeared in a Sydney paper some years ago.
• *' * •
People fancied the old unpopularity of
Sam Griffith had died down in Queensland, but
the rumpus in connection with the Brisbane Girls’
Grammar School revealed that the public has no
love for the Q. Chief-Justice. The probable out-
come of this wretched squabble, in which the sus-
pended head-mistress was the only person who
showed up decently, will be the removal of the
Grammar-schools from the control of trustees and
the placing of these institutions under the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction. At present two-
thirds of the money spent by Q. Parliament on
the Grammar-school system is practically wasted.
* * * »
Charmingly unanimous in bullying a lady
during the late educational rumpus in Brisbane
were the trustees of the local Grammar School.
A light on the unanimity maybe thrown by A. H.
Barlow’s little question put to the Sec. for Public
Instruction : “ Is it a fact that the Chief Justice,
his brother-in-law, and three practising barristers
of the Supreme Court, are members of the Board
(of Grammar School trustees) ? ”
* * * *
Mrs. Fraser, the lady who poured lead
into the stolid doctor, her hubby, at St. Kilda, is
a plump and pleasing blonde of 24, with the beauty
that a strain of German blood so often imparts to
a Britisher. She was fearlessly unconventional,
traversed Mt. Lyell district “on her own” in
man’s attire, and was not afraid to display her
shapely calves to St. Kilda johnniedom by flitting
round the Esplanade on her bike. With true
feminine logic she sent a bullet into her husband’s
brain, and then frenziedly implored everybody to
save his life.
If Dr. Eraser survive his injuries for' a year
and a day, no charge of murder can be laid against
his wife. The English common law provides that
366 days is the limit of a wounder’s responsibility,
and if the victim survive for that length of time
his subsequent death cannot be made the basis of
a capital charge. ' And the icy Eraser seems in no
hurry to die. He is steadily getting better, bears
no resentment to his wife, and naively tells the
J.P. who is taking his depositions, “Give me the
tip, and I’ll alter my evidence.” The probabilities
at present are that the doctor and his wife will
live happily ever afterwards, and that the lady’s
little squirt was really a blessing in disguise. Lots
of men live with bullets in their skulls, but in
Fraser’s case the missile is embedded in the brain
substance itself, and not between the folds of it.
An English case reported recently tells of a lad
who lived in such circumstances for nine months,
and then completely recovered by expelling the
bullet in an abscess.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu ” to The Bulletin re an
interesting surgical subject: —
The case of Paul Wilks Fraser, who has lived at time of
writing for over a week with a pistol-bullet deeply im-
bedded in his brain, seems to have astonished the
reporters. The popular notion that if “ the heart or
brain is touched ” the patient will die is not borne out by
facts. From a surgical point of view such injuries are of
the gravest import, but not inevitably fatal. For in-
stance, some 18 years ago a would-be suicide hammered
a 4in. dagger into his forehead with a heavy mallet, the
weapon entering to the hilt. After waiting a while he
grew tired, and walked to the hospital, where it was
extracted. He never lost consciousness, and recovered
bad symptom. A case nearer home occurred
a few years ago, a man walking coolly into Melb. hospital
with a pistol ramrod traversing his head from beneath
one eye to the crown. A few weeks afterwards he was
able to resume his occupation, and, save for a blind eye
from the destruction of its optic nerve, is as sound as
ever to-day. An Indian officer lived for seven years with
the breech of a fowling-piece in his head, lying against
the brain. An English surgeon had two cases who re-
covered wit h bullets in the brain. Curiously enough, both
died suddenly (as did Mr. Norton, the N.S.W. P.M., who
lived a year with a bullet in his brain) while drunk about
twelve months after their injuries. Among the rice-eating
races, brain-injuries are much less seriously considered. A
Malay sailor recovered after having his skull split almost to
the root of the nose with a kris, and lived for years in
good health. Perhaps the most striking case of recovery
after brain injury occurred in America, where a navvy
(Irish, of course) had an iron bar blown through his skull
from side to side and lived for years afterwards able to
follow his calling. Of non-fatal heart-injuries there are
scores of cases. A man carried a piece of a fericing-foil
through his heart and lungs for 15 years, and then died
of something else. In the E.C.S. museum is a shaft of a
cart which transfixed the chest of a man from side to
side 10 years before his death. A French soldier
lived six years with a bullet in his heart, where it
was found post - mortem. Heart stabs are now
stitched up like any other wounds, and show a
fair proportion of recoveries. In brain injuries the
actual wound, unless very extensive or implicating the
great life centres, is not a very dangerous affair. Sur-
geons cut and probe the brain-substance freely under
certain conditions. It is the inflammation of the mem-
branes that does the mischief, and in the difficulty
of preventing this lies the danger. An interesting
question which may some day cause discussion, arises
from the use of the Kontgen rays in these cases. Their
chemical effect is marked, and most of those who use
them take precautions against lengthy exposure of the
unprotected skin. In a ease of the kind under discus-
sion, it is possible that the irritation of these chemical
rays might turn the scale in favor of inflammation of the
membranes, and thereby aggravate the conditions very
seriously. Oases are known of severe skin-troubles, and
even obscure derangements of internal organs, following
prolonged exposure to X-rays—one came into the English
law-courts some time ago. The process is exceedingly
useful, but it is more than likely it will have to be im-
proved for head-injuries, at any rate ; a sort of chemical
“ stop ” being introduced, after the principle of an achro-
matic lens.
* * * *
Adelaide charity organisers are delighted
at the announcement of millionaire Barr-Smith’s
approaching return to Adelaide. Not only does
8.-S. distribute thousands a year in various ways,
but his wife, who is a sister of the late Thomas
Elder, and as wealthy as her husband, is equally
lavish.


Venice is the home of Regattas. New
South Wales is the home of that great Natural
Mineral Water—Zetz. Positive cure for indiges-
tion. Take it with your meals ; no ill effects from
over-indulgence if you drink Zetz Spa.*
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and arc now prepared t,o enter into
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices :
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner . II 5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete . 10 10 0
Perfection Bioycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 2 2 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Sore Threat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELS. MACKENZIE, M. 0.,
'I he Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
Condy’s Fluid.
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England’,
(tr . are the only Makers.
CONDY’S H.UII) ’ > can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations.
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ pel • Slalf-doxen, free by post throng ho ut
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS. Brisbane, Q'land.
HALF-SICK Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but siek enough to not know what to do
RAFFAN’B HEPATIC
post, is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
. 0n...
Mr. Frai}k ScQior,
Of 246 George-st. p Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
Among the interesting “ finds ” in the old
Williamstown (Melb.) cemetery, whose inhabi-
tants are now being removed : A pair of blucher
boots, as good as new ; a gold-rimmed smelling-
salts bottle, buried with a little child; three
infants’heads (only) in one grave; while beside
the body of a convict, who was buried in hia
clothes, was found his pipe half-full of tobacco.
Apparently, only mortals decay.
* * * *
Patriotism seems to be the same all the
world over. When the French flags were torn up
in Maoriland to express the local disgust at the
Dreyfus case a French firm wrote to the theatrical
co. which was doing the tearing nightly, offering to
supply flags at a reduction on a quantity. Offer
accepted.
» • * *
“Poneke Society in Wellington (M.L.)
in the seventies and early eighties was a bib
“sudden.” Some of the best posts in the civil
service were held by discreet Lotharios who owed
their advancement to the favor of frisky
dames with a political “pull.” Remem-
ber seeing the head of a beauteous
matron, wife of a departmental chief,
reclining on the stalwart shoulder of
one of her husband’s subordinates at a
theatrical performance, and she looked
soulfully at his ear-lobe all through one
act. At a Govt. House ball, during the
Normanby regime, heard the wife of a cabinet
minister chaffed by a coterie of intimates re-
garding her husband’s notorious infatuation for
a fair Anonyma. “ Ah, well ! ” remarked the im-
perturbable dame, “ I suppose it’s all Every
gentleman should have a hack as well a racer ! ”
And the mot became current in Wellington society.
Then there was the case of tarring and feathering
at the Hutt. A young civil servant who had “ got
his name up ” by frequent calls on the wife
of a politician was waylaid at midnight
on the Hutt road, stripped and turned
loose with a coating of tar and feathers.
The politician was charged with the
“assault,” butthe prosecution failed
to identify any of the assailants who,
however, in a few days, when things
had simmered down a bit, boasted
openly of their achievement. •
Litany (revised) : “From'battle
and murder and marine-boards, good Lord
deliver us ? ”
* * * *
In challenging Melb. Police-magistrate
Panton to produce his “average man” who can
earn 6s. a day on the Glenbrook (Vic.) railway, a
navvy concludes his letter with the hope that
Mr. Panton will “ kindly excuse the vicissitudes of
writing in a tent on the back of a frying-pan. ”
This humorist says that he yearns to meet the
average man” referred to —a yearn which is
shared by about 300 brother navvies who own up
to being below the standard.
AMONG THE
WOMEN SUFFRAGISTS.
OFFICIAL DAME: “I am so
glad that you believe in the
equality of the sexes.”
In a South
Coast (N.S.W.)
police-court. Lawyer
(lightly) : “Oh ! your name
is Muldoon, is it?” (Writes it
down). “Christian name?” A blood-
thirsty stare from Muldoon, and the ques-
tion is repeated. “Oi’d just loike you or iny
other li-yer to ask me outside the coort if Mul-
doon wasn’t a Christ-ian naame or no. Do yer
think it’s a woild Ind-ian naame ? Oi’d break yer
jaw for yer ! ”
THE CANNON-BALL
TRICK.
HEARTLESS STREET-BOY
(to pedestrian, who
is inadvertently imi-
tating the “king of
jugglers”): “Brayoo, Linkyvalley!”
The present writer advertised in S.M.
Herald, the other day, for board-and-lodging
and received over a hundred answers from people
living everywhere between Hornsby Junction and
Ashfield. Some of them offered to board and
lodge two people and do plain washing for 255.
per week. The return of prosperity !
* * * *
“Memo" : “The Man at the Sliprails,”
as a title for a gruesome Australian story, with
plenty of gore-and Gatton—in it-
At a Gippsland shire council
meeting the other day one councillor stole
up behind another while he was speaking, and
kicked him hard where he sits. He had been in-
sulted by various remarks. The local paper
gravely heads the account of this small worry “ A
Stern Reproof.”
“ Piripi ” . The struggle after “ sweetnes s
and light” in some of the one-horse M.L. town-
ships is grimly ludicrous. Once at Ngaruawahia
I was invited by a lady
with an air of great con-
descension to come to the
“ practice of the Choral
Society.” Much im-
pressed, I went and found
the “Choral Society” to
consist of the lady, two
youths, and a broken-winded
harmonium. The
“Choral Society,”
having wrestled for an
hour or so with “Sweet
Belle Mahone ” and
“ Eileen Alannah,” went
home with every outward
indication of an inward feeling that it had achieved
a great artistic success. The Patti of the
“Choral Society” said with the utmost dignity
as I parted with her, “You must come to the
Glee Club next Tuesday—l belong to all the
musical organisations, you know; and Mr. Jones
will be up from Mercer with his aceordeon.”
* » * «
The commission now inquiring into the
management of the Queensland police force
stumbles almost every day over some strange in-
formation. When it got on to the Gatton case,
for instance, it dug out this gem
Inspector Urquhart said he was talking to the Chief
Inspector at the Commissioner’s office on December 27.
He thought it was a little after half-past 12. Witness
went to the C.I. Branch in George-street, and when he
arrived one of the clerks said there was a lumor of a
murder at Gatton. He asked if it was an official report,
but he said, “No;it is a rumor at Koma-street.” Wit-
ness then rang up Roma-street, and asked about the
matter. Masterson said Murphy had received a telegram.
Witness said, “Is it true ?” Masterson said he did not
know, but it was not believed, owing to the character of
the man who sent it. He said further it was believed to
be a hoax. Witness then went home, and came in about
3 o clock, but found nothing had come. About quarter-
past four he arrived at his own house, when Con-
table James Murphy (who was no relation to
the deceased) rode up, and asked for leave for
the other two Murphys. Witness asked, “ Why ?
Has the rumor about the murders been confirmed?”
Murphy said “yes.” Though it was not his place to do
it, witness gave the leave, and asked if the Commissioner
had been informed. He said he believed he had. Wit-
ness found afterwards that the reason Murphy concluded
the Commissioner had been informed was that the other
two Murphys had started to go to the Commissioner’s
house. Witness then went to the Chief Inspector, and
informed him of what had taken place, and was in-
structed to go into town and make inquiries. He went
to the C.I. branch, and inquired at the other places, but
found there was no news. After doing his work about 9
o'clock, he rang the Commissioner up on the telephone,
and asked him if he had received any news of a murder
at Gatton. He said he had not heard of it. Witness in-
formed him of what he knew, and it was concluded that
he should go to Gatton next day. He did not know at
the time that there was a train later at night.
This, be it observed, was the day after the mur-
der at Gatton, only a few miles away from Bris-
bane. At noon, a loose, unattached rumor was
wandering, lost-dog-fashion, about Brisbane, but
the police didn’t know. And then four hours
drifted away, leaving them still ignorant. It was
only when Policeman Murphy wanted leave of
absence to look after his murdered relatives that
the force really learned in a casual way that
something had happened- And five hours after
that the news hadn’t reached the head of
the force. A telegram had been sent from
Gatton, but it was lying on a 'table in the
police department unopened, and how it got on
that table no one really knows. No one was suf-
ficiently interested in the curious rumors floating
around town to telegraph an enquiry. The patient
bobby at Gatton, having sent his message to
Brisbane, sat down doggedly waiting all day for
instructions, and doing nothing till they came.
And on top of all, the inspector decided to go up
next morning (.36 hours after the tragedy) because
he didn’t know there was an evening train. He
didn’t even know that. For successful avoidance
of knowledge, the Brisbane bobby seems almost
unique.
Another curious circumstance is this: There
was another stranger in the little town besides
Burgess. He had been there some little time —
in which matter he differed from Burgess, who
was merely tramping through. At least one wit-
ness thought he identified this other as the famous
man at the slip-rails. Another witness declares
that this man had some 50 or 60 fresh blood spots
on his clothes very shortly after the murder. A
policeman alleges that he strongly suspected this
stranger (who is described as a very large, power-
ful man) and started to report the matter, but was
suppressed with such a violent streak of language
that he dropped the subject there and then. The
same inspector who didn’t know about the train
called on the bloodstained person but was satisfied
with his explanations. He never thought of
having the stains analysed. Taking one thing
with another the Brisbane force’s capacity for not
thinking of things appears quite beyond the
average.
A house
in Bligh-st.,
Sydney, op-
pos i t e the
Union Club,
has attached
to it a black-
and-white cat
of refined
habits and
aristocratic
tastes. Home
arrangements
as to the mid-
day meal do
not satisfy the
cat, so at one
o’clock it
strolls out of
the house say-
ing “ I am
just going
across to the
club for
lunch.” It
swaggers up
the front
steps with the
rest of the
members and
calls for its
letters ; and
after lunch it
goes round to
the verandah,
has a chafe
with the club
cat, and dis-
cus se s the
Governor’s
latest eccen-
tricity ; then
it stretches
The late “ Daddy” Hallewell.
itself in the sun and lets its lunch settle
a bit. When the members have thinned down
somewhat it is to be seen loitering on the front
steps looking haughtily at passing cats, and when
it does proceed home its leisurely pace is in keep-
ing with its overloaded digestion.
"Daddy.”
In Memory of F. J. Hallewell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He grew weary of the strife,
Bade us swift farewell,
In his Afternoon of Life,
Ere the twilight fell.
Nevermore —in any year—
“ Daddy” we shall meet,
Like the Genius of Good Cheer
Marching down the street :
Nevermore, by happy chance,
See his eyes that g’leamed
Through their glasses, with a glance
That like sunlight seemed.
We shall hear his voice no more,
That, like gold, rang true —
But the loss that I deplore
Is the Man I knew.
I shall miss his clasp of hand
Hearty, frank, and free—
God His ways may understand ;
They are dark to me.
Earth with gladness shall be rife
While the roses blow,
But the joy goes out of life
As our old friends go.
Let them keep their comfort cold
Who of dear friends say—
“ We shall them again behold
On a future day,
“Meet them on a brighter shore,
In some brighter star ”
Ah, they’ve gone too long belore,
And have flown too far.
Sure, the vanity transcends
Faith, which thinks that we
Have a lien on our friends,
Arid their destiny !
But the heart of man is fond,
And his eyes are dim,
And he thinks, in worlds beyond,
They remember him.
Eastward, when the day grows old,
Shades of things once bright
Dusky arms of welcome hold
Forth to coming Night.
One by one the faces kind
Pale, and fade, and pass ;
And the World they leave behind
Is not what it was.
Shall the Banqueter sit on
When the merry din
Hushed is, dead the lights, and Dawn
Like a ghost creeps in?
Song no more thy joy shall be
In thy silent cell—
May the rain fall soft on thee,
“ Daddy ” Hallewell!
VIGOR J. DALEY.


Spriog BtidS IjaVc BGrSt
at
MARK FOy’S!
A Riot of LovliijeSS.
All Drapers Everywhere.
“The light that (never) failed/’ is without
doubt given by the “ Albatross Lamp Wick.” Keep the
reservoir filled and all your work is over. “It requires
no trimming,” emits no offensive odour, gives a more
brilliant light, saves your oil, and unless your lamp has
some material defect, it is impossible for it to explode.
Rcn^n)bcr!——-
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & Georere Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have N 0 EqnaL
Ateherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 10, 1899.
My Dear Myee,—
Isn’t it sad to think of all the beautiful young
men who are nobly offering themselves as victims
to the Boers ? Among them is Capt. Pelham, the
Queensland aide, lately rejuvenated by the loss of
his moustache. He was left over by the Laniing-
tons, who are off to England, and will join a
Queensland contingent as soon as there is one.
Naturally, a wild rush is being made on the
nursing business. Major-General French spends his
time opening letters from unknown young women
who want to go and be angels of mercy away from
home. He told a reporter last week that already
the offers totted up to one woman to every
man. On all sides you hear, “ I am just dying to
go to the war but isn’t it a case of visions ?
The woman who wants to go nursing has the most
beautiful and impossible pictures presenting them-
selves to her of herself in spotless liiac print
amidst all the scrimmage, with exquisitely-
laundered cuffs and collars, and a white muslin
cap on her smooth hair, carrying long glasses of
iced lemonade to wounded soldiers, who look at
her as if she were an angel from Heaven, and all
rear their heads from their pillows to watch her as
she goes by with noiseless step ; and sometimes,
when God is good, one with a beautiful, drooping,
blonde moustache dies in her arms murmuring of
all she has done for him, and finally the biggest
and loveliest of them all, with the V.C. on his
chest, marries her and —well that’s quite enough
for one ordinary-sized vision.
Speaking of drinks just now, little Maude
MaoCarthy left Sydney wondering lately. She
told how Her Gracious said, “Won’t you have
something to drink, dear?” And how she re-
plied, “Not yet, Ma’am, but presently.” This is
the sort of thing that Potts Point gets curious
over. Was the drink to be nectar, gingerbeer,
milk, or—loo to 1 on the latter—nice, clean water?
Anyway, Her Gracious laughed heartily at
Maude’s reply and Maude was quite surprised. She
can’t make out what the Queen was laughing at.
Madame Kellermann departs this month with
Newbury, Spada, and the boy-wonder Rodda
Perry, whose voice is remarkable as a curio, but
communicates no aesthetic thrill of its own. New-
bury picked up Perry in a mine, brought him to
Sydney, and has kept him before the public pretty
regularly for the last six months or so. Newbury’s
idea is to let Rodda loose on the London music-
hall market, luck permitting.
At Madame Kellermann’s concert the hall was
not as well filled as it would certainly have been
had everybody not been selling tickets to every-
body for the concert of somebody else. Never
was there such a time—but that is another story.
Anyway, Madame’s audience couldn’t have broken
out into such a flowering wilderness if the house
had been crowded ; I never saw such a rain of floral
decorations, particularly from infants in socks,
who toddled up to the platform with their bou-
quets, and couldn’t be kept quiet all the rest of
tne concert. Madame was frooked in white bro-
cade, with elbow-sleeves that started off the
shoulders, and hair hanging down her back, along-
side streams of pink roses. She looked impossibly
youthful, and made her farewell speech gaily, re-
marking that she was going abroad to seek success
which she would attribute to Australia if she
found it. That local humorist, Lewis Scott,
threw doubt on his own patter by labelling it
“ Humorous Verses.” Also, he gave the audience
several unnecessary shocks by roaming about the
house before his “ turn ” with a large tome under
his arm. All Madame’s pupils took the stage for
the talking interval. They look a younger lot
than those that used to appear at the Kellermann
concerts. Evidently the piano is making its way
down to the year one, when the baby will be taken
in to play a scale instead of showing how mar-
vellously it can pull its father’s nose. The pro-
gramme included everybody you can think of, gay
sopranos, sad contraltos, three reciters, baritones,
tenors, organ solos, cornet accompaniments, quar-
tettes, Madame’s brilliant touch at a little Liszt
of her own, and Toby Barton’s eulogium on this
“good, kind, charitable, womanly woman.”
Madame Wiedermann, the well-known Marchesi
songstress, and her husband, Herr Pinschoff, Aus-
trian Consul for Victoria, were among the
audience. The Pinschoffs happened to time their
week’s visit to Sydney so that two concerts a night
were on hand if wanted. To escape them all was
impossible ; but, luckily, you can’t improve on the
gracious smiles of a really fine singer listening to a
raw girl shrilling. So different from the faint,
fastidious, dissatisfied condemning lip-curve of the
raw girl listening to an artist.
Another well-known Melbourne woman—Mrs.
Donald McDonald—was in Sydney last week
seeing her husband off to the war. He went as
war correspondent for the Arous. The energetic
press-woman returned to Melbourne on her bike
with only a woman chum for company on the
seven days’ ride.
Nowadays, when all the girls front nine to forty
are going to make their fortunes by their voices,
the girl who is lucky enough to sing and be born a
Catholic is just a shade luckier than the maiden
who warbles and can call herself Israel or Isaacs.
A Catholic songstress can count on immeasurable
ecclesiastical attendance among her own audience,
whereas the Hebrews can’t possibly get more than
the only four Rabbis in the city.
The boom of Catholic singers is having a
remarkably large day out. Amy Castles heads
the lucky ones. Then come the tuneful Marie
Narelle, Kate Rooney, Eva Mylott, Fanny
Bauer, all good Catholic girls. Miss Castles,
Mias Narelle, and Miss Mylott are noted for the
“ following ” that has crowded dutifully to all
their highly-successful concerts. Miss Kooney
hasn’t given a warble ‘‘on her own” yet, but is
sure of a house when she does, and Miss Bauer s
concert is being religiously worked up by leading
Catholic ladies on the North Shore.
Just imagine, if you have imagination enough
for such an idea, the terror of having a voice these
days and being born a Methodist, with a song
ready made for you : “A Methodist I was born, a
Methodist I shall die, I was reared in the Metho-
dist church, and I ate all the Methodist pie.’ _ A
Methodist songstress gave a concert some time
ago, and the minute audience was entirely com-
posed of Jews, who are unspeakably generous in
their concert-going, and a few people who hung on
to no religion with a name. There is only one worse
fate—to have a glorious voice, and to be a Bap-
tist. Apart from the fear of catching sore-throat
in the bath, there is always the uncertainty
whether Baptists wiH go out on a fine, dry night.
As for Presbyterians, their love of free tickets
puts them out of the question. But the budding
artist who is lucky enough to be a Jewess or a
Catholic has a certain paying , faithful following,
and mothers and fathers of children who scream
out “ C. altissimos ” at the age of three months,
are hereby most earnestly advised to get into a
paying faith the same day if possible.
By the way, Maude MacCarthy is also lucky
enough to be a little Catholic. Not that it seems
necessary in her case, as her genius bears the Lon-
don hall-mark. The booking for her first concert
in the Town Hall, Wednesday, the 18th, is going
with leaps and bounds.
I believe I went astray last week through the
tangle of concerts, and didn’t put Miss Alice
Braund’s on the 12th October, at the Y.M.C.A.,
and Miss Nellie Cooke’s on the 13th, at the Town
Hall.
The new telephone restrictions are not a bit
too previous. Two Darling Point women talked
to each other for twenty minutes right-off the
other morning. At last an official listened and
blushed ; listened and blushed again; and listened
a good deal more before he switched them off.
But he had the strength of mind to report their
conversation afterwards as “ Quite unfit for pub-
lication ! ”
Govt. House may consider itself a saved ruin,
under the new ’phone rules. Since the invi-
tations went out for the first ball the ting-ting
in the A.D.C.’s room went unceasingly, till H.E.,
in his infinite mercy, carried off the private sec. to
a place where telephones are not. “It’s Jones,
from Woolloomooloo, ” a loud voice would an-
nounce, “ and I want to know ow it is I’ve ad
no card, nor me ’usband, for the balls.” Then
the P.S. would meekly inquire, to give himself
time, “What name did you say?” “Mrs. Jones
from Woolloomooloo,” would ring back. If he
paused then to tremble at his end, she would take
up the story at hers, and pour out a long record of
all “ the balls all the hother Governors had asked
her and her fambly to always, and ’ow dear Lady
Carrington was her dearest friend, and Lord
’Ampden’s name was named after by her youngest
son, and the Duffs always so glad to see her and
what she wanted to know was why should she be
left out by the noo Governor.” This, taken in con-
junction with delays caused by scrambles after
missing h’s and catching them and putting them
in the wrong place, passed half-an-hour away as
lightning passes to Mrs. Jones from Woolloo-
mooloo.
Whispered that a very learned and serious-
minded and classical engagement will shortly be
announced in ’Varsity circles between a Don, and
—well, let us say a Doness. Propinquity, propin-
quity—it is ever the genesis of marriage.
Two of last week’s weddings that came off on the
same day are specially interesting to University
people. Miss Ruby Le Gay Brereton, daughter
of the late Dr. Brereton, of the wondrous sap-
phire eyes, was married at Giadesville to Mr.
Willie Windeyer, second son of the late Judge;
and Miss Mollie Hungerford was married to Mr.
Gregan Macmahon at St. Mary’s Cathedral. Two
bridegrooms and one bride were University grads;
the other bride, pretty Miss Hungerford, has
often acted with the Univ. Dramatic Society,
where Mr. Macmahon first became famous as an
amateur actor above the ordinary.
A certain Australian Judge, rather old in the
tooth, has had his affections sadly blighted. He
stepped in where young men feared to tread, and
most ineffectually proposed to the sister of a very
distinguished personage. Some time ago rumor
credited the man of horsehair with matrimonial
designs upon a very pretty girl who might have
been his grand-daughter. But His Honor should
persevere —the third time of asking may bring him
better luck.
The death of poor old “ Daddy ” Hallewell last
week carried off one who had become quite a land-
mark in the Sydney musical world. His massive
figure, with long hair falling about his neck, and
his pigeon-toed manner of walking had grown as
familiar to Sydney people as the Harbor or the
Gardens, and the loss of his fine “ vox,” as he him-
self delighted to call it, is second only to the loss
of a kind-hearted personality, ever ready to sing—
like dear, generous, old Kretschmann —or teach, or
manage for somebody else’s benefit. Last year,
friends worked up a benefit for Hallewell himself,
and it was quite understood he would take a trip
to London afterwards, but he never got away from
Sydney. For twenty years he had been an active
member of the musical world. Lately he had not
been singing much in public, but kept up a teach-
ing connection to the last. All the singers and
players, young and old, attended Daddy’s funeral—
and music ana flowers went down to the grave with
him as befitting one whose profession called for
flowers and inusio so often.
Flower-sellers are still being fined and ohased
round by the law for loitering in the streets, but
so strange is the world that it scarcely seems
curious that a large, fashionable, central haber-
dashery shop should write thusly to a Sydney
newspaper lately : “ You might menw_n in your
notice that our establishment is nearly opposite
the famous Hot-Toast Tea Rooms, and is a most
convenient place for people who want to make
appointments.”
When she began journalism, for a long time she
could not make herself believe that these were the
things that would have to be reported, these
people, these incidents, etc. Not until she saw
them in somebody else’s print did they become
actual. When she went to races, entertainments,
she looked round continually, unconscious at the
time, that she did so—for a something— a ready-
made thing that she could describe. When she
read someone else’s report of the affair she would
be amazed. She, too, had seen those things, looked
hard at them, and never recognised them as
“copy’’till she saw them made into such. But
even now, I do not make myself clear to you.
There is something else—something I cannot quite
touch, just out of reach of my pen’s description.
Let me try again.
She would go, let us say, to the races, and would
look round searchingly, sending the brain with the
eve. And would see a crowd of people intent on
various things. None jutting out from others
unless it were a woman in a brighter, more con-
spicuous frock. That frock would say to her, I
am a feature,” and she would recognise it as a
feature. And perhaps there would be a few other,
or a good many other frocks. But those would be
all the features, the outstanding crests, the themes
that were distinctly to be written about.
All the rest —the people talking to each other,
looking at the horses, the Governor, the Vice-
regal people, the society people ; all classes repre-
sented —would seem to her to be too intent on
their own life and thoughts to be offering them-
selves to be written about. And now perhaps I
come to the root of the matter. She expected to
find a placard on the thing that she was to see and
describe. Site expected them to jump towards
her, and bear unmistakably the significance of
their value as journalists’ material. The sadness
creeps in here. Everyone is not so bound and
barred. Look at it from a novelist’s point of view.
He goes to the races. If his characters go, he
goes inside them. He hears all they say, sees all
they see. He doesn’t follow the deeds of the whole
great crowd of people. One perhaps, or perhaps
two, are all he is looking after. In a few words,
he sketcbes-in a background for them, the race-
course, the tout ensemble, the sunniness or the
greyness of the sky. And then he has no more to
do with anything we, looking on, can see. He is
inside his characters as she, the journalist is not.
He comes and tells us all about them.
It is like two people talking a long way off-
gesticulating, weeping, laughing, uttering cries of
amazement. You cannot hear what they say.
You are curious, but cannot satisfy your curiosity.
Then one of them comes to you, and tells you all
they said. And the tears and laughter and
gestures and cries of amazement are all explained
to you. You understand the meaning of them
now. Do you know the feeling of satisfaction
that follows the explanation ?
That is what the novelist can do for you. But
she, the journalist, can only tell you they cried,
bitterly—they laughed, loudly—they gestured
with the right hand beating the air, and the left
pressed the heart, and leave you outside, and
unenlightened.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Gov. Brassey has resumed bicycle riding, and
may be expected to fall off again at any moment.
He is to be seen occasionally in early morning
pedalling along St. Kilda road, dressed in a bow-
ler hat and an overcoat, the tails of which hang
over the hind wheel, and with trousers fastened
at the feet. He rides with a low seat, so that
his knees almost touch the handle-bars; and he
puffs along red in the face, bending his body to
and fro like the top flaps of a pair of bellows. He
goes in and out by the back way to Gov. House,
so as to attract as little notice as possible.
“The Earl and Countess of Huntingdon—the
lady is a daughter of the defunct Sir Salmon Wil-
son—have abandoned their projected Australian
tour. The Earl took ill at Colombo, and has re-
turned to England with his wife, but Lady Hunt-
ingdon’s sister, Miss Wilson, is now visiting Vic-
toria, and has been staying at her old home,
‘‘ Ercildoun, ” near Ballarat. ‘‘ Ercildoun ”is still
kept up as one of the finest country houses in Vic-
toria. It is solidly built of hewn granite, and is
set in the midst of charming grounds.
“Gov. Beauchamp’s blue and white ticket
arrangement has a precedent in the ball given by
Mayor Cain of Melb. some years back. On that
occasion all parties mingled in the ballroom, but
the sheep and the goats were divided at supper-
time. The ordinary guests of a Melb. Govt.
House ball have never been treated similarly
but there has always been a ‘ house-party ’ of
about a score which sits down with H.E. I his
custom may have given rise to the idea that there
are separate suppers for the ‘ pure merinoes ’ and
ordinary persons, but the house-parties have been
invariably so small and so official that no such
comparisons can be made.
“ Mrs. George Moir deserved to win that hand-
some £lOO bracelet at the Findon Harriers race-
meeting, the other Saturday. Hubby is the un-
luckiest of mortals in the game of ‘ picking
winners ; ’ so on the morning of the Bracelet wily
Mrs. Moir made him vow not to have a bet on her
nomination, Saucy Girl. The dutiful spouse kept
his oath. In addition to not backing Saucy Girl
he put 58. on each of the other horses, just to stop
them from spoiling his wife’s chance.
“Some Vic. country Mayors have adopted the
practice of printing the shire, city, or borough
‘arms’ on their visiting-cards. Some of them
are staggeringly gorgeous. The Mayor of Warr-
nambool, Giffen-Russell, has the town arms in
gilt, taking up nearly one-half the card. Gov.
Brassey’s aide, Lord Hindlip, has a neat little
baron’s coronet printed above the name on his
visiting-card. He should take a hint from the
Mayor of Warrnambool, and sport a miniature
copy of the Allsopp’s pale-ale label; it would
promote business.!
“Golf and skating keep athletic women in con-
dition at present. During the recent Golf-tourna-
ment at Caulfield, she-champions scouring the
country side in red coats and mannish fixings
looked like advance scouts of an Amazon army.
Most golf women are undecorative. Age appar-
ently cannot wither the enthusiasm of a golfer.
For all I can see, the flatter and scanter of beauty,
the more ardent the player. Anyway, lots of
them are unveiled weather-beaten ‘ girls of 49 ’ and
upwards in big boots and waistless skirts appar-
ently held up by braces.
“So far, the correct costume for evening-skating
is not prescribed. Blouses and sailor hats look
frumpish by artificial light, but trains are both
murderous and suicidal, bare arms suffer in col-
lisions, and in floor-scrimmages fluffy hair has
been known to tangle itself on neighbours’ skates.
“Re present “ lolanthe ” revival. In view of the
fact that Pauli prances rather than dances, it’s
fortunate that Gilbert made Strephon’s legs mor-
tal instead of his top half. The Arcadian shep-
herd’s stiff-jointed performance, excusable perhaps
in a sprite weighed down by feet of common clay,
would look like blasphemy if credited to nether
limbs of immortal pretensions.
‘ 1 Said mummer’s hobbled movements would have
infuriated that by-gone Melbourne dancing-mas-
ter, who in the sixties, seventies, and early
eighties, enjoyed a monopoly of local pupils. This
identity was no respecter of persons. Heiresses
and daughters of “leading citizens” heard the
truth at dancing-class, if nowhere else. Dashing
society-leaders of to-day still remember how hor-
rified they felt when Mr. Z. jabbed his fiddle-bow
between their ankles, yelling, ‘ What’s the matter
with you, Miss ? What’s wrong ? . What ails you ?
You’re not deformed nor imbecile! Has your
mother tied your legs together with a string to fib
you into a fashionable skirt ? ’
“ Kenningham and Bathurst are the bright
buttons of the lolanthe collection, especially the
former. Amongst local damsels, a promising
Kenningham furore was squelched at its very out-
set by tell-tale paragraphs dealing with the charms
of far-away Mrs. K. and olive-branches. These
revelations, by the way, were in denial of alleged
rumors with regard to Dorothy Vane s engagement
to her tuneful colleague. Such disclaimer was the
first of the Vane advt. series—satisfactory, no
doubt, from the lady’s point of view, but ah, the
difference to the paraded Benedict! Mummers,
male and female, should only marry under the
seal of solemn secresy. It’s quite depressing, for
instance, to anticipate the return of the Brough
company as a co-operative household of tame
domesticated family-folk.
“Cecil Ward’s sister-in-law, Miss Queenie
Gillett, was married at St. Kilda (Oct.. 4) to Mr.
Lyster Jackson, Smart frocks, arum lilies, spring
blossoms and Ward junior in page’s suit and cap
of cream satin, enlivened the church. At Menzies
Hotel, where the reception took place, the. decora-
tions were roof-garlands of roses tied with gold
cords, and pink and white roses and brambles
growing over gold screens and gateways.
Pianiste Elsie Hall has gone on a Queensland
tour, having failed to get enough bread and butter
in Melbourne. Elsie Hall is not a Victorian, as
she comes from Bananaland, but she is an Austra-
lian—and there’s the rub. Hambourg may have
made more noise on the piano, but no pianist ever
heard in Melbourne has given more scholarly,
refined, and really artistic renderings of classical
works than quiet iittle Elsie Hall.
“ To this day, a sultry Northern city thrills to
its core at the memory of Rev. Mullineaux and
his Rugby lady - killers. Impetuous tropical
Juliets worshipped en masse at the shrine of
British athleticism. Time was too short for all
the social attentions tendered to the victors, so
hostesses failing to secure them for afternoon or
evening arranged ‘morning teas.’ These crushes
lasted from 10 a.m. till luncheon-hour with all the
delicacies of the season at half-time. _
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£203,000,000.
CHIEF OFFIChU
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted. General Manager.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. I.—The Baker.
Air. T. Stu eater writes : “I have received so
much benefit from Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Coeoa I feel
that I must thank you for it. I am a baker by
trade, which, as you know, is very hard work,
but I am pleased to say that when I am done of a
night I go home and have a cup of your Cocoa,
and feel quite fresh again, and then I go and
enjoy myself. But before I took to Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa I used to mess abour indoors as tired as
could be.”
Vi-Cocoa will become a household word amongst
us. Prepared from substances of admitted dietetio
value, Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is at once digestive
and refreshing, nutritious and invigorating. This
is the secret of its phenomenal success. It seems,
so far as we can gather, to agree with everybody,
and everybody is agreed in giving it a good name.
Apparently it is the accepted beverage of a people
who have recognised and appreciated its remark-
able health-giving properties. And certainly in
this age of rush and worry, wear and tear, when
the energies of mind and body are so severely
taxed, it is an ideal food.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
As an unparalleled test of merit, a dainty
sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be sent
free on application, to any address, if, when writ-
ing (a postcard will do), the reader will name The
Bulletin.*
Arthur Adams’s book, “ Maoriland and
Other Verses,’’ now published by The Bul-
letin, will definitely place him among the
first flight of local poets. The book contains, in
addition to those published in The Bulletin,
many charming pieces not previously printed ;
and is issued in dainty style. Price 55., post-free
from Bulletin office.
Dreyfus, Kruger, Chamberlain—insignifi-
cant names as compared to Zetz—household word.
The finest Natural Mineral Water ever analysed.
Once you try Zets Spa Water you will have no
other.*
“ The Patentees—Macmven and Cameron, Ltd.,
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen The Pickwick Pen
The Owl Pen The Hindoo Pen
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOTTNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SEND
YOUR
ORDERS
to
Punctuality
AND
Exckllkncb.
Tel. 2288.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
82 King Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The S.A. Governor has an excellent chance
to make old bones. Horatio Tennyson, younger
brother of His Ex.’s late laureated father, has just
died at the age of four score.
Yic. Postmaster-General Duffy is not alone
son of rebel Duffy, but is also husband of rebel
Oallan’s daughter. Callan did not go as far as
Duffy in fighty business, but his opinions were
there or thereabout.
Apropos G. H. Reid’s success in returning
to the Bar. As Attorney-General he filed a bill
for murder against Giblett. Having left office, he
defends accused and persuades the jury to find
him guilty of manslaughter only.
Last week, four of the six members of the
Kingston Ministry were in bed with influenza
at the same time. Treas. Holder, a gaunt spectre
when well, arose from a sick bed to conduct Govt,
business in the Assembly. The matter in hand
was a proposed extension of Adelaide cemetery
system 1
Arthur Septimus King, son of Admiral
Parker King, and grandson of N.S.W.’s third
Governor, P. G. King, died at Kew (Vic.) recently
aged 72 years. Admiral King was the first Euro-
pean born on Norfolk Island, where his father
was first Governor.
“ I have faith in Heaven. There is our
refuge.” —President Kruger.
’Tis well, Paul Kruger, when you’re done
With Africa, and pain and woe there,
Then Heaven’s left to you, old son.
To dodge the British you must go there.
A wedding at Dubbo (N.S.W.), in which
the groom was Mr. Ernest Alfred Wallings, re-
calls that his father, Senior-sergeant Wallings,
went out one day single-handed to capture a
horse-thief, and did not return alive. But the
police say he was avenged ; anyhow, a posse under
the late Sub-Inspector Duffy shot a man out by
the Darling, and satisfied themselves that he was
the sergeant’s murderer. The public remains un-
satisfied.
A venerable link with the long past is
living at Snail’s Bay, Balmain, Sydney, and last
week celebrated her 83rd birthday. This is Mr*.
Hallen, widow of the late Edward Hallen, and
one of the daughters of Lieut. Wm. Lawson,
R.N. Lawson, Wentworth and Blaxland, were
the first to cross the Blue Mountains.
The idea of “Bob” Best being singled
out for an attack on his ministerial honor is
amusing to all cynical observers who know any-
thing about the relative “values” of Victorian
Cabineteers. A vote of public confidence in their
personal honesty would give Best at least the
third or fourth place on the list, anyway.
James Williams, erstwhile of the Age
staff, and more recently editor of Ballarat Star,
who died lately, had long cherished a bitter
grudge against the former journal, which, it would
appear, is not to die with him. He has left behind
a MS. book on the Melbourne Press, much toe
warm to publish during his own lifetime. Its
sulphurous pages are said to throw a lurid light on
the inner working of the Age office during the
Berry regime.
He the late Prof. M’Coy's deathbed suffer-
ings from religion, the manager of Melbourne
Advocate writes to say that grandson M’Coy’s
detailed statement of the case was published in
the Advocate, on Sept. 16. At the time that The
Bulletin’s informant lodged his complaint the
jetter in question had not been published.
Dr. Crane, R.C. Bishop of Bendigo,
finished his 25th year in that office t’other day;
and the faithful flocked in with their congratula-
tions. For 16 years of the 25 he has been blind ;
he had scarcely entered on his work when lie was
pronounced to be suffering from cataract. A sub-
sequent London operation failed; and then a
coadjutor bishop became necessary. Dr. Crane
was 81 on Oct. 11, and but for his blindness is
still fairly active.
A new—and true—A. G. Taylor story.
The Sydney temperance forces are, or wore,
divided into two hostile camps. When
one of these was “running” Tommy
Walker as a big brand saved from the
burning, A.G. “ swore off.” The other
side wanted to take the latter up, star
him through Australia as a lecturer,
and then send him on a mission to
Africa. A big house was guaranteed if
he would open at the Y.M.C.A. rooms,
but Taylor did not iike the job. Yet he
did not wish to offend, so got out of the
difficulty thus : “It would look bad if in the
middle of my lectures a Surry Hills publican
got up and asked me to wipe off the small
debt on his slate. Now here’s a list of 30 to 40
pubs, where I owe small sums from 3d. to half-
a-sovereign. Clear these off and I may speak.”
The saints declined the contract.
Talking of similes, the late Tom Field’s
address to a certain Tas. public body was quaint:
“You fellows,” said Field, “ remind me of a little
dog I had once. He lost his tail and I got him a
tin one; he thought it was silver, and wagg
himself to death.”
A journalist of the old time and type
“ went over ” the other day in the person of Mr.
James Rutledge, who died at his residence,
Marrickville, aged 82. Mr. Rutledge came to
Sydney 60 years ago and started school-teaching
at Castlereagh. From 1850 until 1871 he served
in the public schools, when he resigned and gave
himself entirely to journalism—the Empire was
his field—as a contributor in the time of Henry
Parkes and Hanson-and-Bennett. Subsequently
he edited Newcastle Chronicle and other provin-
cial papers. He leaves four sons, two being
clergymen, and another, Arthur Rutledge, Q.C.,
Attorney-General of Queensland.
SIX MONTHS HARD.
BENEVOLENT OLD PARTY (to barefooted
urchin): “ Where are your boots,
my little man?”
BAREFOOTED UROHIN: “ Mother took
them ter yo to gaol in.”
B.O.P. : “And how long will she be away with
them?”
B.U.: “Gam! nun o’ yer larks! Yer wanter
find out wot she’s in for.”
Ex-Premier Reid should have a grateful
ppreciation of the magnanimity of his political
vponents. On the day he fell from power Mayor
Uoleman, of Wagga, wired him a 200-guinea brief;
K. H. Levien, M.L.A., followed up with a brief
to defend Giblett: and then came W. P. Crick,
M.L.A., with another criminal brief. All three
attorneys are representative protectionists. So
far the ex-Premier has saved Giblett from the
gallows and secured his Wagga client a verdict for
.£5OO.
A brother (John) of the late James Crotty
came to Melbourne from America a while ago to
see whether there was anything the matter with
his relative’s last will and testament, concerning
which he had heard rumors of a scandal. Brother
John is now said to be quite satisfied that James
was not “ unduly influenced ” by R.C. priests.
All the same, Holy Church has practically
admitted the injustice of Crotty’s posthumous
“charity” by granting his widow <£soo a year
for life.
Inspector Sharp, the new chief of Yic.
detectives, wears his hair cropped short as the
grass of a cricket-pitch. The first day he assumed
office he walked out of his own room with a sub-
ordinate and found a wizened youth seated in a
chair waiting identification. Ignorant of Sharp’s
identity, prisoner waited until the back of the
detective was turned, then whispered hoarsely to
the Inspector as he glanced at his shaven pate :
“ Well, they ain’t give you a long run for it.
Whatcher pinched fur this shot ? ”
A late N.S.W. Minister of the Crown put
aside his low hat and assumed a tall one, as soon
as his appointment was gazetted. As he fre-
quently became Minister friends could tell before-
hand when the small hat should disappear.
Another fad in political circles in N.S.W. is that
it is infra diy. for a Minister of the Crown to
drink in a public-house bar. Many Ministers are
rigid on this point. But the rule is broken, every
now and then. The only non-teetotal politician
absolutely consistent on this point was Parkes.
Canon Field, of Adelaide, who died of in-
fluenza, the other day (most of Adelaide has been
sneezing violently for a month), was prevailed on,
a few years ago, to take the local gaol-chaplaincy;
but, after “ preparing ” one man for the gallows,
he concluded that there was not enough of the
gaol-warder in his composition for the job, and so
he resigned. His friends like to remember that
he was very much more at home as chaplain to
the Destitute Asylum. It was as an organiser of
Church schools, however, that the Canon will be
longest remembered.
Governor Ranfurly once received an invi-
tation to open the Wellington (M.L.) dog-show.
He accepted and arrived in state on the
afternoon named. The show was advertised as
postponed for one day, for some reason or other,
but Govt.-house not having been directly notified,
and not being in the habit of reading the adver-
tisements, didn’t know. The aide tapped at the
door. “His Excellency the Governor waits to
open the dog-show.” “Who the h is at the
door ? ” cried a voice from the interior amidst the
yapping of many tykes. Then the aide ham-
mered ; “I say, fellow, open the door!” “Oh,
go to blazes ; don’t you know the show is put off
till to-morrow?” “But it’s his Excellency
the Governor waiting to open the dog-show.”
“Oh, cripes ! wait a bit, will yer?” Then two
officials came round and explained.
Some locally-grown epigrams on two Tas.
public men: —
DOBSON.
He now blows cold, anon blows hot, .
A politician in a knot!
He neither follows well nor leads ;
His noblest Acts are mortgage deeds.
This, from the same paper (Clipper), is better :—
BRADDON.
A brave moustache, with Bismarck mated,
The rest—Bismarck attenuated.
Donald Macdonald, the massive and un-
assuming Argus man sent as special correspon-
dent to the Transvaal, is a native of Keilor (Vic.),
and was originally intended to be a State-school
teacher. Luckily for Australian journalism,
Macdonald changed his mind, served a while on
Corowa Free Press, and joined the halfpenny
evening paper run by the Argus proprietary in
’82. On the death of that journal, Mac. went to
the staff of the morning paper, and the work he
has done during his long connection with it proves
him to be probably the best all-round daily-paper
man in Australia. As a naturalist be is pre-
eminent, as a cricket and football expert he has
the Melb. public at his feet, and in military and
agricultural matters he is the authority of the
Melb. press.
One of the most stern and level-headed
traffic managers on Maoriland railways has
always been regarded by his familiars as being
a shingle short. The only token of dottiness
is that he insists on his confidential clerk
wearing a suit of small shepherd-tartan check
tweed. Once he had a secretary whose
haughty demeanour froze him so that his
tongue clove to the roof of his mouth every
time he tried to open it on the subject. He
stood the underling’s black suit for three
whole days, but on the morning of the
fourth he suddenly
wheeled round and
asked in halting
tones if he would do
him the favour to
accept the present of
a less sombre outfit.
His assistant looked at
him with a pained ex-
pression, and asked
what was wrong
with his 15s.
clobber. The
manager said there
was nothing the
matter with it, but he
could only stand one kind of
clothes in his office, and any
other kind would presently wreck his
intellect. He was willing to pay for his
secretary’s clothes provided the secretary would
wear the particular kind he could endure but
otherwise they must part. The secretary knocked
under.
John Counsel and Robert Brief are well-
known members of N.S.W. Bar and close per-
sonal friends. Sometimes Counsel occupies the
bench as acting-Judge. He was there t’other
day, and Brief argued a point before him. His
Honor listened carefully, but without being per-
suaded. The Advocate emphasised an argument,
when the acting-Judge interrupted, “You’re
wrong there, Bob ; I tell you, Bob, you’re wrong.”
The Bar, attorneys and public laughed. They
roared again when Brief inquired (unconsciously,
of course), “ Well then, Jack, will you tell me
where I’m wrong ; as you’re so clev««r ? ”
This from Melb. Age re the Borchgrevink
expedition :
Whatever else may be doubtful, it is certain that the
hardy fibre of our race is in no sense relaxing. The spirit
of daring which animated the explorers on board the
Southern Cross as she left Hobart a week before last
Christmas was not one whit inferior to that which
actuated the fabled Argonauts in search of the Golden
Fleece.
And the only four members of the party men-
tioned by name in the paper this comes from
answer respectively to the designations of Borch-
grevink, Calbeck, Bernacchi, and Fougner. “ Our
race ” indeed !
If Premier Braddon had stayed in office
and had funked a fight with the Council
over the Constitution amendments he would
probably have blooded his blade in some smaller
enemy. And the victim was there right enough ;he
came bleating through the wood in the person of
Govt, whip “Badger” Brown. Brown has a
natural gift for blundering—he once blundered
across the island to Port Davey, got lost en route,
and would have perished but for a badger he
caught and killed, and a solitary oyster he picked
up on a lonely beach. He is alleged to have
talked the badger to death, and to have so para-
lysed the oyster with his oratory that it couldn’t
run away. Anyway, he told the story of these
wild animals so often that he was nicknamed
“Badger,” and the cognomen sticks. Writer
doesn’t know for certain whether the badger
associations or Brown’s infinite capacity for blun-
dering was most to blame, but an expected port-
folio in the Braddon Ministry didn’t recently
happen to Brown. The other night in the Assem-
bly a member (discussing the item “ kerosene ” in
the tariff debate) declared — d la “ Hee Hem”
Smith, Taranaki (M.L.) M.P. —“ We may strike
hoil in this colony one of these daj's.” And
Brown (Govt, whip!) interjected: “The only
‘ hoil ’ we are likely to strike in Tasmania is palm-
hoil! ” The remark was received in ominous
silence by a shocked Assembly, and Braddon
looked at poor Brown with a crushing expression
in his eye.
SAVED
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
the danecr upon the floor,
In somebody’s arms, as in mine of yore,
With black, streaming hair,
And white bosom bare
Great her beauty, little her
mind —
The radiant living as false as
the wind —
Her treacherous smile
Is sweetened to wile.
And Murder grim came hither
with me
To work revenge, and the
weapon that he
Placed here in my grasp
Hath the sting of an asp.
Blood-ed roses in her hair,
Perfuming the night as she
passes near —
So near, so far apart
From my tortured heart.
She smiles on me—I meet her
gaze,
And Pitg excuses her Eve-like
ways.
The stars glimmer bright
As I pass in the night.
Barkis.
BKADDON.
Old Doctor Promise—skilled in mixing mulse—
Whose flame burns in its socket,
Has one hand on Tasmania’s pulse,
The other in her pocket.


WOLFE’S
SCHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
A
Superlative
Diuretic
Antidyspeptic
and
INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
NEW YORK?
Don’t
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSUBSTITUTE
“ror
Wolfes
Schnapps
Tlie Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOR, and See that You GET,
Franz J osef Pilsener Lager
Has by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia.
Morgan and Smith, sole agents - - - 211 Clarence ■ street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 psr Day,
« £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel for Ladies and
Families is “ The Australia.”
It gives every facility for a
most enjoyable stay in Sydney
at a very reasonable cost. This
hotel is absolutely fire-proof.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
(Jastlere&gh St, Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
A Maoriland oddity is Pelorus Jack, of the
French Pass. Jack is an albino porpoise and has
been known to mariners and the sea-travelling
public for the last 20 years or so". He meets every
steamer coming through the Pass and gyrates and
somersaults about the bows for a couple of miles,
then disappears—evidently to go back and look
out for another steamer. He has never missed a
boat. He is quite tame, knows his name when
called and jumps out of the water, looking up at
the crowd on the foo’sle. A captain wotdd feel
that something serious was going to happen if the
sacred Jack didn’t appear. No one dare attempt
to shy anything at this splendid fish, said to
measure about Bft., with a glistening skin varying
in color from light grey to white. The oldest
fisherman in the Pass says that Jack is never seen
in company with a shoal —the other fish are scared
of him.
* • • »
Bishop Salvado and his monks at New
Noroia (W.A.) aboriginal mission-station wear
their beards as long as possible. When they
started the mission over 50 years ago (Salvado is a
survivor of the original band)> the monks clean-
shaved, as is the fashion with Spanish priests, but
they found wealth of beard favorably impressed
the aborigines, while total absence of beard
created aversion. Hence the monks “ let ’em all
come.”
* • • •
Jack Smith, a long-back Singletonian joka
and sausage creator, on one occasion, when he saw
a train of familiar teams toiling up street,
promptly strung-up a recently-slaughtered canine
amidst "alluring coils of newly-manufactured
sausages. Teamster’s howls brought out Smith’s
partner, a dull, unjokeful person who, after pitch-
ing out the accursed thing, pranced round like a
madman, while Jack rolled about the floor in
paroxysms. But the laugh was on the other side
of his mouth when he found that quite a number
of his customers went elsewhere because they
couldn’t appreciate his brand of humor.
• * • *
“ Speewa ” : Can any Bulletin reader
tell what the rabbit does with the earth it exca-
vates in burrowing ? Have found burrows 60ft.
long, with only {about a quart of earth, thrown
out.
• • • •
“ Yarrum ” : Be risky boilers. I used to
THAT TIRED FEELING.
CUSTOMER : “ I want a tin of jam.”
STOREKEEPER: “ Alright; you’ll find it on the
shelf. Goin’ to pay for it?”
CUSTOMER: “No.”
STOREKEEPER: “ Well, you might enter it on the
slate — it’s hangin’ behind the door.”
teach a hundred kids or so within 70yds. of a
“Steam Works,” in which the wheezy boiler was
worth about 30s.—its value as old iron. Thirty
years before, a syndicate at “ The Gulf ” (Nerri-
gundah) had tried to burst her, for insurance, but.
she wouldn’t go, so she must have been tough.
When I knew her she had a gap out of her side
that a man could put his head through. _ It was
covered with a plate secured with rough riveting,
white-lead, oakum, and wire clothes-line. About
three times a week the “engineer” would poke
his head into my school-room and calmly observe,
“ Might as well shift ’em for a bit, as I’m getting
high-pressure on. Not that there’s any real
danger, but it’s just as well to be on the safe
side.” Then I’d take my flock away to play
rounders until pressure went down. When I used
to remind the proprietor of his heavy responsi-
bility in case of accident, he’d laugh and say, “ If
she goes, t goes—and my troubles about the rest! ”
Men who don’t value their own lives are a menace
to society, and should be hanged out of the way.
The law won't allow you to point a gun—loaded
or otherwise—at another person; yet it allows
anybody to point any sort of rotten boiler at a
whole neighborhood.
Scene, Q. baokblock shanty. Two
gins having a set-to “ like’t whitefulla. ’
Suddenly, when the air is turning brin-
dle from lurid lingo in pigeon-English,
Kitty receives a tremendous round-ann
woodener on the brisket from Biddy.
Then Biddy, turning to her picker-up,
a white man (outside), rolls her old shirt-
sleeveup to her shoulder, exposing a
muscle no thicker than a yam-stick, and
triumphantly remarks: “That’s the
plurry calf, Charlie ! ” “ Baal that
fightin’like’t whitefull,” protests Kitty ;
“ baal whitefulla hit below the belt ! ”
• * •
Dear Bulletin. —In ’93, self and
mate were “humping bluey ” through
the country, in search of odd jobs. Had
been stone-broke for about a week when
we struck a cookie’s humpy by the road-
side. Knocked at open door, but got no
answer, so we walked in, and saw a man
and woman sitting silent. We asked if
they could give us any tucker or work,
and still got no answer. “ D—d funny
couple,” says Bill, lifting the lid of a
pot on the fire and fishing out a “ duff,”
which we devoured—the couple still say-
ing not a word, though they eyed us hard
enough. But when we began to rummage
in the next room, the old man arose and
asked what we were up to ! It seemed
that whoever spoke first had to shut the
door, and the boss had thus lost.—El-
lerdale.
“ C.H.R.” : Be recent inquiries in B. as
to the survival of the Mountain Devil. If the Tas.
marsupial of that name is meant, he still exists in
considerable numbers in the back-scrubs and
table-lands of the island. Anyone who has cap-
tured a devil, and noted his ferocious ways when
living, examined his teeth after death, and gene-
rally investigated his remains, will admit that his
god-father was an observant person. He is black,
with a white band across the shoulders and a
white patch on the chest; tail, stiff and straight,
with thinly-scattered hairs, and unlike any other
tail in creation. The young are exactly like little
pigs, and worry the teats in the same manner.
The food of the devil is anything in the flesh linp,
either alive or very much dead. Skin, flesh, fur,
and bone are devoured to the last fragment, and
he has even been known, when trapped, to gnaw
off his own leg and swallow it.
“ Yarrum ” : I was
almost a stranger in the
place. Binks, who ran the
Snorter, was a bit of a
Lothario, and his wife used
to watch him of nights. I
was getting home late when
a woman grabbed hold of
me, but after a short
struggle I got away with a
cloud that had been thrown
over my head. Took it
next morning to the SNOR-
TER office to adiertLe and
leave it for owner. Ex-
plained to Binks how I
became possessed of it. He
turned it over, sniffed, and
said, “ Excuse me,” and
went to the back, where
he had loud talk with
somebody. Returned with
his “flair off,” and asked,
“Do you know Mrs.
Binks ? ” Told him I
hadn’t the pleasure.
“Then,” said he, “you
needn’t advertise this. It
belongs to our servant-
girl ! ”
• • •
“ Ellerdale ” : On a
N.S.W. station last shear-
ing I saw over a couple of dozen shearers
cropped with the shearing-machine at Is. a head.
* • • •
“Thought you couldn’t milk , Paddy!”
said the cookie. “ Well now,” said P., “ that puts
me in moind of the gintleman I used to travel wid.
We stopped one night at a pub. up Bathurst way,
and a few squatter fellows was havin’ a night of it.
None of them could play the pianna, an’ they
asked my boss to oblige. He couldn’t. Well,
about a week after, whin we was stoppin’ at
another pub., I hears my boss playin’ the pianna
lovely. An’ then he told me he played sometimes.
Well, I milk sometimes, but I don t let-on. If I
did, I’d be worked to death. _ No, sonny ! I’m a
fencer — only a fencer. Bad line to be able to do
too much.”
• * * *
“Alpar”: More re milk and milkers.
Everything gets into the bucket. The drippings
—in wet weather —from dirty hats, dirty cows,
and roofs of milking-sheds where fowls roost and
cats nocturnally do congregate. Occasionally a
cigarette-bumper falls in, and a dirty paw chases
it round the bucket a time or two. Milkers often
also chew tobacco with results imaginable. Once
saw ancient cutty slip in and bob around more
than twice before being captured and brought out
empty. Once saw a fellow with a nasty sore on
the back of his hand. He called it a chilblain, and
told me the best cure was milk—warm milk from
the teat, morning and night. Ugh! Now and
again, too, the cow switches her unclean tail into
the bucket and I have seen a dirty-footed hen fall
into full bucket and float about gracefully ere being
noticed and removed —but that's nothing. A
significant fact is, that those who see most of milk
use it least.
• • • •
“Snowy’ : Be “ C.F.’s ” (B. 19/8/’99.) A
fox-terrier slut of mine once produced a litter of
pups, one with stumpy tail, and one as tailless as
a native i 4 bear.” In several subsequent litters
about half the pups were born with stump-tails.
PROOF OF HIS SANITY.
MICKY: “ That there Bill seems a loony sort of a
bloke.”
PIPPO : “ Him! naw fear, 'e ain’t loony; 'e got that
meerschaum pipe for kicking goals.”
, . , .
Barker was a cockie who bemended such
“ new chums ” as would work cheaply for a
“start” and experience. He had a daughter
with good looks and romantic tastes, who was en-
gaged to a “ small ” northern squatter. The last
cheap “ chum ” hadn’t been there long when Mrs.
Barker found it desirable that the daughter
should go on a visit to distant friends “ till the
wedding.” The chum “ bulloelted ” away, until
just before date fixed for the marriage he got a
week “off.” Boon after his return he was bidden
to drive to the station for the expected sheep-
king. “I hope he doesn’t come,” said Mick,
“ What the devil does it matter to you, any way?”
“ Well, yer daughter can’t marry him.” “Why?”
“ Bekase she married me lasht week. And now
ZwsSzt'” He **“■ 11 “ soh “ , " y
, p , ,
“A.S.R.”: Be “ D.G.S.” (8.,
26/8/’99) on the marsupial-foetus question.
I once killed a female native cat which
had in her pouch nine young ones, about
the size of a small pea, securely attached
to teats, and it appears incredible that
the mother should thus have placed the
whole nine. When very young marsu-
pials are pulled off the teat, the mouth
always bleeds, and at times the tongue
pulls out.
* • •
A noted character was Murray-
River “ Tommy the Diver,” so named
from having dived off the local bridge
for a pint of beer. Tommy had a tre-
mendous beer-thoroughfare. A publican
once put two dead mice in a pint-pot, and
then, frothing up a big head of beer
over the corpses, handed the pint to
Tommy, who swallowed the lot in a
couple of gulps. “Notice anything in
the beer, Tommy ? ” asked Bung. “ Ob,
no,” said Tommy, “only a 'op or two!”
• • •
“ Cecil F.” (in Bulletin, 19/8/’99)
has seen a bull-frog smoke, but writer
has heard a bull talk. A man used to
lead a stud bull around on N.S.W. side
of the Murray, and generally gave a per-
formance at each stopping-place. This
was the programme: Owner of bull (with
a crack of his whip) : “ Where did you
come from, Billy? Come, I’ll give you
ajstart. I come from- “Corowa,”
growled Billy. “ And where are you
going to, Billy? lam going to .”
“ Burrowa,” bellowed the bovine. Then
it was “ Come and ’ave a beer.”
“ Pos.” : Tommy Tanna has his own sense
of humor. Lot of kanakas hanging about, wait-
ing for bell-oh, when a large flight of cockatoos
passed overhead. “My word,” says one darkie,
“Plenty cockatoo.” “ Huh ! ” says another,
“ that no cockatoo/ He cocka-twenty— cock-a-two
hundred.” On same plantation, while a dam was
being excavated, the boss, who was going away
for a time, came round to the “boys quarters,
during dinner-hour, to give them orders. “ Now
then, long-a-bell-oh, all-together boy go dam.”
Up jumps the wit of the crowd, with a grin,
“ Now then, you fella, come on. Boss, he tell
’em altogether go d—n.” ,
* * * *
“ Yar.” : Was once taking a timber-
carriage over a long rise on Monaro, when the
“ bulls ” swerved, and the carriage collided with
a big box-tree. Hind wheels and axle came away,
and sailed down the steep on to a flat—four miles
off. Went to look ’em up, but couldn’t find them
anywhere. At last, came upon a prostrate shep-
herd, with hip out. He “ reckoned somethin’
heavy flew out of the earth and struck him.” A
mile further on, I found the wheels held-up in a
dog-leg fence. The shepherd was taken to hos-
pital and patched-up, bub he never knew
« exaotly ” what hit him.
They were helping Cocky Drinker to sink
a well, and he, in anticipation of striking water
early, had provided a bottle of. whisky. They
were down in rock which needed “shooting,” and
“ Cocky,” having stamped a charge, lit Ids pipe,
fired the fuse, and called to his mates at the wind-
lass: “Haulaway.” But half-way up he shouted:
“Let down again; fuse out!” They lowered ;
the fuse was spitting away, and he yelled, “ Haul
up. Quick, for God’s sake! ” They hauled
frantically, and knocking him against the wind-
lass, he fell back into the well as the charge ex-
ploded. A cwt. of rock lifted the windlass, and
landed on the whisky. Man killed ? No. He
went down one side as the rock came up the other,
and both had room that way !
• * • •
“J.P.H.”: Once saw two magpies with
a mud-turtle bailed-up near a waterhole. As
long as the turtle kept still the magpies would
hop round watching it closely, but the moment
the reptile made a move the mags, would dart in
and try to get a stroke home before the turtle
could withdraw its head. Was sorry when my
dog came up and frightened the birds away.
* * * *
“The Lyre”: Jones’s bay mare foaled,
t’other day, and same afternoon Parker saw him
working her in the plough. “ Y’orter spell her a
while, Jones,” he said, “ an’ I’ll lend you my pie-
bald to plough with.” And next morning when
Parker went over to see how the piebald was
working, Jones had him and the mare at work
with a borrowed double-furrow plough.
* * • •
“Kooka”: Recent Bulletin tree-yarns
induce me to trot out the following woodman’s
lore: Always begin to cut a tree either on the
side it leans to or on the side of the heaviest
branch. Saw a tree from both sides. If a tree is
cut all from one side it is apt to split off when
nearly through, and “kick ” — i.e., jump back off
the stump. (The split always runs up the trunk.)
Most softwood trees, if sawn nearly through from
both sides and then “lifted” with wedge, will
pull a tongue of wood out of the stump. Ii
wedges are not used the tongue will pull outcf
the trunk, and spoil that end of the log. A gocd
splitting tree may be known by its straight bark,
clean trunk, and well-shaped top. A log always
splits best from the thin end. A “piped”
(hollow) tree may be known by dead and
hollow branches. The main roots of a tree
always follow the big branches. If a tree leans
or bends, most sap-wood will be found on the
inside of the bend. Ironbark saplings, when used
as rails, &c., will rot in a season if not barked,
but barked they will last for years.
« * • *
“0.P.” : Cypress-pines do get struck by
lightning, though not nearly so often as beefwood
and blood wood trees, which seem to be specially
liable to stroke.
PEOPLE WE PUT ON THE LAND.
HE : “ What's gone wrong with the bees? They’re
all dead.”
SHE: “ I was talking to Mrs. Piffle about bees, and
she said I must keep the ants out of the hives —
and so I gave all the lot a good sprinkling of
the stuff she gave me.”
HE: “ What was it?”
SHE: “ Insecticide! ”


Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations *
PEPPER
31ILLS
In OAK, with SOLID SILVER MOUNTS. They grind the Pepper Corns a*
required by each user, and thus ensure Fresh Pepper, Unadulterated Pepper,
Aromatic Pepper■ The mills last for many years, being made of specially
prepared Steel.
No one who has not used these mills can imagine how much superior this
pepper is to the ordinary ground pepper
Solid Silver
Mounts, 7/6'
/ 1 (t t (t.'Xy &J\ ()J) Vi '/.Vj The Oldest »Jewellery House in Sydney
23 Hunter Street (Only).
The Lowest Retail Price for them in London is 10/0.
This name, “Kruger,” will no doubt
cause the reader to pause. Anyhow, now you
have started to read this and gone so far, don’t be
terrified, but finish it. It will direct you to the
best and most up-to-date hardware stores in Aus-
tralasia, viz , M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne, and George-street, Syd-
ney, where you can call and see in operation daily
the Primus Chief Cooking and Steaming Appar-
atus—7os., Royal Bath Heater—7os., the Jewel
New Vapour Stove, and a host of up-to-date
household novelties. If, or about to be, married
don’t forget to visit M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd. #
Captain and Mrs. Craigan and some of
their friends paid a visit to the warehouse of
Messrs. Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-street, Sydney, on
Saturday last to witness an exhibition in ice-
making with their small hand ice machine. They
expressed themselves as delighted and promised
to take two at 50s. each before leaving Sydney,
and one of their new ice-cream freezers, which
require no turning of the handle. These appear
to be much superior to the old style.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
COLEMANE and SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
THE ONLY PURE IN'THE WORLD
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, £o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Apropos Gov. Beauchamp’s trip out West:
His Excellency William has been gaining more colonial
experience—this time of a “ Darling shower.” In emula-
tion of Carington, Beauchamp decided to reach Broken
Hill without going outside his own dominions; so he
railed to Cobar, then overlanded to Wilcannia —the place
where the ’97 drought is still in full blast—and from there
was on his way along the river to Menindie when this bit
of a storm came up. It was at Meinteriga ; and from
6 a.m. till 1 p.m. samples of every station and every
paddock between the river and the Queensland border
floated proudly along. When at its best —and this was
the second-best for six years —a Darling dust-storm fills
the air to a height of four or five hundred feet with a
cloud so dense that one can’t see 20ft. through it; and
the sharp sand is driven through the cloud so mercilessly
that horses simply will not face it. This particular storm
eased off a little to allow the party to get on the track
again ; but the travellers \Vho turned up at Menindie at
dusk that evening were the grimiest crew that ever
represented the Hempire.
In the way of dust-storms Menindie can do as well as
any place in Australia. To get from one pub. to another
—Menindie is mostly composed of pubs.—,you have to go
over a sandhill when you have not to go over two sand-
hills. One month one pub. has the biggest sandhill
alongside it; another month the biggest sandhill has got
along to the next pub. Sometimes it skips the distance
in a single night. One of the principal industries of
Menindie is goat-breeding; it is popular chiefly because
the goats carry through the entire business without
human assistance. The average Menindie sandstorm
submerges a dozen goats—which is the only thing that
can be said in its favor. The Menindie lakes (Menindie,
Speculation, Pamamaroo, Tandora, Cawndilla and others)
are colored on the maps a pretty blue ; but they have
been empty almost the whole of the last three years,
which is said to be the worst record for 35 years. It was
alongside one of these “ lakes ” that Mine-magnate John
Howell and others erected big meat-preserving works;
but the drought has left nothing to preserve, and
the works have been abandoned. Alongside one of these
lakes, flanked by a range of sand-hills, a misguided
selector who had taken up land built a fence. A month
after he had strained the last wire he drove over it—it
had been banked over. After such a storm as that which
his Ex. viewed from the windows of Meinteriga, the
stations thereabout always hare to send out teams with
earth-scoops to let the sheep get to the troughs, which
often are completely covered. Sheep-yards have to
be treated in the same way.
The one thing certain about Menindie (a correspondent
who has been there lately says) is that “The Banjo”
never saw it. “We strolled through the township," he
says. But you can’t do it—you
can’t “ stroll ” over loose
rolling sand. And that
course where Old Pardon
ran his famous race I
“ Over the rise by the
garden ’’—Jehosaphat! A
“shimmer of silk in
the cedars”—Jeho-
saphat again! “The
lawn ” Jehosaphat
111. ! They were
having a race-meet-
ing when I was there.
We drove out two or
three miles, mostly
over sand, to the
course which was
also mostly sand. A
majestic sandhill
rose at the back;
there was another
majestic “ rise ” of the
san.e uncertain sort to
the right. I looked for
the cedars—and found
some dead tnulga and more
tobacco plant. The garden
was also well-furnished with
the same shrubs, and so was
the lawn. The only thing
common to my Menindie and
“ The Banjo’s,” intact, is that
they both rhyme with “ shin-
dy.” But mine rhymes best
with “ windy.”
“Bom.” : Twenty years
ago the people of a cer-
tain (N. S. W.) town were clamoring for
the“loine,” and giving the “ mimber ” a very
lively time over it. But now that they’ve got it
they patronise it only when there are “ chape
excursions,” and the business people, who made
the biggest noise, are having their goods water-
carried and then carted 75 miles, although
the “ thrain ” passes the “dure.” This means a
saving of 7|d. a ton—a consideration to a “mer-
chant ” who gets up annually, say, 20 tons of
stuff. Also, the carriers work on the “ take it
out ” system, getting often .£3, or less, for £5
worth of loading. On the railway section in
question—about 120 miles—the “fast” trains
could easily be donkey-licked all the way, and the
passengers average about 3£ per day.
* ♦ * *
N.S. W. police stationed in the country have
been instructed to collect the aboriginal names for
places in their districts, and the meanings of the
words, with a view to compiling a standard work
in this class of nomenclature. The idea might
very well be extended to all Australia. But many
aboriginal names will need careful editing, as the
unsophisticated darkie knew not, when inventing
names, what it was to blush.
To judge by the current N.S.W. “ mili-
tary inquiry,” the Australian tin-soldier has got
beyond comic opera; he’s in howling farce now.
But the seriousness with which he takes himself
and his school-missish squabbles has an ugly side
to it when it is remembered that to such straw
swashbucklers as these we should have to entrust
the leadership of our men in case of real fight.
The be.-t troops in the world would be worse off,
with bogus officers, than the worst, with leaders
of knowledge and experience. And our local
dogs-of-war are too busy yelping at each other
over petty points of dignity to have any time for
learning how to use their teeth on a national foe.
* You are a soldier, I believe?” said the cross-
examining lawyer. “Pawdon me,” objected the
witness ; “ I am an offisah / ” “ Very well, then,”
said the lawyer, “Mr. Officer-and-no-soldier.”
And it’s too much “offisah” that’s the military
matter with N.S.W.
Detective Mercer, of Melbourne, when a
uniformed constable a few years ago, caught three
men breaking into a hotel in the small hours of
a.m., and as they scampered off one opened fire
lodging two shots in the policeman’s neck. A third
bullet fell out of his jumper when he was being un-
dressed in hospital and its presence was a mystery
until Mercer recovered. Overhauling his clothes
he found that the bullet had struok his regulation
pocket-book and been stopped right over his heart.
According to the Q. Treasurer, the sugar-
industry of the north goes ahead by leaps and
bounds. In ’97, 65,432 acres were crushed for
97,916 tons; in 1898, an area of 82,391 acres gave
163,734 tons—an increase of 65,818 tons. Average
weight of cane per acre for ’97 was 12 tons 6cwt.;
for ’9B, 18 tons 14cwt. Export of sugar for last
season was 130,943 tons as against 66,557 tons for
preceding season, so that the export was nearly
doubled in one year. The Q. output is the more
remarkable as many serious fires raged in the cane-
fields during the dry season.
Pretoria (Transvaal) Press publishes the
following sardonic explanation by a local Irishman
about Kruger’s proposed law for the enfranchise-
ment of Uitlanders:
If a man comes into the country before the law is
passed he can get the franchise nine years after he has
been seven years in the country five years after the law
passed, or within five years after he has been here two
years, provided he has been here two years, provided he
has been here seven years after he came here nine years
ago, provided he can prove to the satisfaction of the
Field cornet, the Commandant, the State Secretary, the
State Attorney, and the Under State Secretary of the
Greentape and Sealing-wax Office that he has always been
a man of good character, and has never played less than
penny nap. He must then give six months’ notice that he
intends to apply for five years after he has been here nine
years, or two years after he has been here seven years,
and the Field-cornet shall then take his name and
address, and forward the same to the Commandant, who
shall forward it to the State Secretary, who shall forward
it to the Landdrost, who shall forward it to the State
Secretary, who shall call a special meeting of the Execu-
tive Council at once. Any official who shall fail to do
these things shall be banished for life to Rhodesia to
search for gold. The thing’s as clear as mud. I can’t
see what all this fuss is about.
Capt. E. T. MILES, whose crookedness killed the
Braddon Ministry (Tasmania).
Capt. E. T. Miles, Tas. ex-Minister of
Lands, Worksand Mines, ex-contraetor and Master
Warden of Strahan Marine Board, recently de-
clared by a Special Committee of Tas. Assembly
to have been guilty of bribery and corruption in
connection with Marine Board contracts. In the
words of a local wit: —
A sea-worn salt who takes his ease
As Past Grand Master of the Seize.
S.A. Govt, takes over the lines of the
Glenelg Railway Co. —the last of the Mohicans
owning railways in the province. The price is
.£120,000, which is precisely what the Govt,
offered before the co. fell back on law and spent
.£lO,OOO besides on stock, &c. The trouble between
the Govt, and the co. was that the co. had bought
out a rival, kept the latter’s line practically un-
used, and now wanted the Govt, to pay for the
two. The purchase is conditional on Parliament
permitting one of the lines to be pulled up and the
oth°r one deviated if necessary—permission which
Parliament will tumble over itself to grant in its
eagerness to end local private ownership of rail-
ways.
After many years’looking-out, the solitary
Tas. whaler, the Helen, has struck the hiding-
E lace of the “ right’’-whale in the South Pacific.
letters to the Helen’s Hobart owners state that
the vessel dropped in amongst the black beauties
early in June in a bay on the N.W. of Campbell
Island. The Antarctic vessel, Southern Cross, also
had the luck to sight the whales and harpooned a
few before the arrival of the Helen. The weather
being boisterous the Helen had to shelter on the
other side of the island, and the crew, unable to
cut in, had to grin and bear the sight of the Cross
(under steam) securing tons of whalebone. Eventu-
ally an agreement was come to whereby the Cross
towed the bodies of all whales she caught round
to the Helen, taking all the bone and a percentage
of the oil for her trouble. Previous to this the
explorers, having no conveniences for “ trying-
out,” simply saved the bone and let the carcases
drift and smash on the rocks. But the Hobart
whalers determined to get some bone. Nary a
whale came near their side of the island unless the
Southern Cross towed it there, so they carried
two boats right across the island —four miles, over
two 900-foot hills—and with the utmost danger
and difficulty effected a launch and captured
several-whales. If, as anticipated by the captain
of the Helen, the whales would stay about Camp-
bell Island for five months, the old barque may
be expected back in the Derwent almost imme-
diately, a full ship, and whaling will get a big lift.
“Another attempt to import passion-
fruit,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “is to be made by some Australians in
this hamlet. There is plenty money here for the
fruit if it is forwarded to the right hands:
What the right hands are would be hard to tell,
but they are not the Govt, agents nor Covent
Garden salesmen. Long ago many cases came
here from ‘ Down Below ’ to the Agent-General,
who sent them to Covent Garden to be auc-
tioneered. No attempt was made to explain
whether the fruit was cow-feed or quandongs.
The buyers looked suspiciously at the crinkled
cones, the corpulent ‘ knocker-down ’ said he
didn’t know what ‘ they was.’ And the fruit went
at Is. a case. Let a grower send half-a-dozen
cases to a trusted business-like friend here—en
route they must be kept in a temperature of 45
deg.—and that friend can show samples to the big
West End fruiterers and get his own price.” The
Bulletin is told that up to date no Australian
passion-fruit, no matter by what means sent, has
reached London in decent condition. According
to recently-printed accounts, Mr. C. B. Cairnes,
to whom the N.S.W. fruit-export trade owes so
much, has satisfied himself that passion-fruit can
be successfully exported—by means of a newly-
invented preservative process, the details of which
are not yet public property. One or two jam-
makers have turned out a very attractive preserve
which retains the full flavor of passion-fruit, and
which should find a wide market.
THe' ABiT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The thin blue opal line is stretchm upward from
the bowl
An’ ’Haven’s at yer elbow oust again ;
The world is swingin’ roun’ yer, an' the smoke has
seized yer soul,
An’ the opium's fire is flittin' through yer brain.
It’s the gawd yer love an' worship ; it’s the fiend yer
loathe an’ hate ;
It's yer torturer, yer lover an' yer lord ;
It's the hope that tears and tingles; it's the pair
without abate —
With the wanton bliss of Dreamland as reward l
For the ’Abit grips yer heart-strings, an’ yer shiver
up with pain —
The oath yer made that mornin' fades an' flies ;
An' yer learn the opium-lesson that all else in life
is vain
As the water starts to trickle from yer eyest
For ye’d leave the paths of pleasure ; ye’d forsake
the ways of wealth
When yer feel the 'Abit tear an' grab an’ gripe ;
What's yer people or yer children or yer husban' or
yer health
Ter a shillin’sxvorth of opium an' a pipe ?
Yer feel disease an’ crime an' tilth an’ horror roun
yer feet —
But gone is all yer self-respect an' shame ;
The stink becomes a perfume, an' it's music ever
sweet
When the opium spits an’ splutters in the flame ;
For the dirty den’s a palace when the pipe is fully
filled —
Yer heart's beyond the atmosphere of care,
An’ yer queen of all the courts of joy that fairy
fancies build
When the opal smoke is stretchin’ in the air.
No human hope or passion an' no creature in the
earth,
No force can stop yer smokin' but the grave !
For the pipe, the lamp, the opium are the only
things of worth
When the 'Abit claims and keeps yer for its
slave 1
They can argue, they can supplicate, or threaten,
or attack,
They can lash yer with a never-ceasin' stroke,
They can take the food ye're catin', an' the clothes
from off yer back —
But, Gaivd in Heaven, leave yer stay an' smoke !
Vic.
M‘G.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken o) communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any cose re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany
F. : The vulgar Hinglish “street” accent is the
rule in Australia simply because it is more infectious
than the naicer way of speaking. The Australian tongue
seems to have a natural turn for cockney twang even
among children of Irish and Scotch parentage ... John
M. (G.ympie) : Under Federation there will be no neces-
sity for a thin-paper Queensland edition of The Bulletin.
Then, postage will be uniform all over Australia ... Ivan :
Davitt isn’t “a scurvy little dog”—he is a brave and
noble man who, for the benefit of his fellows, has
patiently borne the scourging of his body and soul. The
Irishman who cannot sympathise with the Boers is as
mean and selfish as the Englishman who can only sympa-
thise with those who are oppressed by nations other than
his own .... R.A.F. : One verse of your lines “To V.J.D.''
goes—
......P.S._: Spring poem too tough—we like’em tender
with a liver-wing flavor Acetylene : Regard it as
very promising enterprise .... Jimmie Pannikin : Pudding
story is old sea-yarn, brought ashore and dried. .. Alex-
ander B. : “ Skit ” not skittish enough. No skit should
weigh over 7cwt. Trotter B. : There is no sign of a
“huge European coalition” behind the Boers. When
the small bull-terrier goes for a mastiff, that’s no sure
evidence that he has three allied dogs hiding round the
corner F. Dumas: “Please point out its failings.”
Well, the only thing that doesn’t fail about it is the
pin Bill Adams : Something wanting. On second
thoughts, everything wanting .... San Remo : Too vast
L.E.S. : The British Tommy Atkins isn’t all beer and no
fight as you s.em to think. He may be fighting in ajbad
cause, but about his immense capacity as a war machine
there is no possible doubt The Maniac : Story
deranged. Who was sentenced to death, and who was
mad, and who shot whom, and what did he shoot him
with, and why was the acquitted man going to be hanged,
and what did the lawyer die of, and why was every-
thing Snake in the Grass : Can’t understand which
character is the snake and which is the grass ....
Martin Kwin : Thanks. Scavenger : Terribly dry poem .
The Owl: Idyll unfit for any moral paper Republics :
And the remedy is that all-round minimum-wage law
which Tub Bulletin has so long advocated Terowra
(S.A.) : Yes, certainly Huxham : One may do. Other
two hopeless... Subscriber: The rules seem none too
clear on the point. Better call at the office of the Public
Service Board .. P.W.D. :So your “ attention has been
called.” Your letter has been derisively torn up. Had
you said you had read it in the paper on your own
account we might have looked into the matter. We
detest pompousness in other people .. Karolus : True,
but so heavy .. Mup : Small, weak tragedy .. Wallaroo:
Possibilities in it, but it is done in too coarse a strain
I. Middleditch : You can be naturalised in the Transvaal,
and have a vote for the Lower House after two years'
residence by registration, taking the oath of allegiance,
and paying £2. Twelve years later, and then only by
permission of the Upper House, you can become a first-
class burgher and have a vote for both Houses Sub-
scriber : The 20th century starts Ist January, 1901
Yorkshire : As you say, “There are traitors at the head
of the Cape Parliament’’- that is to say, the Dutch
majority at the Cape (the majority which never wanted
to belong to Britain) desires to govern itself in its own
way, so it is a “ traitor.” And when the Greek majority
in Greece or the Polish majority in Poland was in the
same situation with its old masters—well “ Freedom
shrieked when Kosciusko fell.” And when the British
minority at the Cape runs the show against the old
Dutch inhabitants it is all right. And when the Boer
minority does ditto in the Transvaal against the new
British inhabitants it is h—l Shaw D. : Interesting
Mel.: The Queensland police seem to be either throttled
with red tape or soldered-up with sealing-wax Hugh
V. : As far as The Bulletin knows, the non-Mahometan
Hindu has equal objection to pig Cro. : He will tackle
the job to the best of his debility A Woman’s Love :
Too crudely melodramatic S.A.Y. (J’Yille): Thanks.
.. J.C.W. : Not pointed enough J.R.S. : “Handy”
too domesticated for these columns W.C.S. : Glad'to
read it.. Long Un : Thanks Domino: Well, they
weren't old to us-—and we have heard a story or two.
But in seeking to show how learned you are in bush-yarns
you have quite given yourself away. How is it that you
can endure the other 43 yarns on that page ? They are
all chestnuts too—there’s nothing new under the sun
C.C. : “Longfellow" unusable .... A.S. : “Bulletin
Story Book ” will be ready next year M.M.M. : Not
good enough Nil Ad. : Nothing .... Camille : No roses,
no rapture ... J.F.D. : Far, far down .. Old Stockwhip :
You have no vocation for poetry. ..Lalage: Worship-verses
want melody and other things.. J. J. 0.: “Gladys” returned.
...A.M.G. (Findlay, Ohio) : Thanks; no use tons. .. C.J.T.:
Ours still, yet foreign—quaintly strange,
Yet of our sun-kissed land—
The orchids of our coastal range,
Held in a jewelled hand.
“The Dying LarrikiD"
is a change, anyway. Some
stanzas—
Bill wasn't wicked, though he sometimes cursed,
And often “ biffed” his skirt to “ keep her strife ” ;
But when she died he went upon the “ burst,”
And got run over by a cab one night.
His hurt was fatal—hourly he grew worse ;
His face was wan, his raucous voice was thin.
He’d lie for hours and watch his gentle nurse,
And whisper faintly, “ Bless that bit o’ skin 1"
The end came soon ; while crossing the Divide
He thought he saw the nurse and parson both 1
The latter whispering, bending at his side :
“Do you love God ? ” Bill’s soul called back, “My oath 1 *'
An angel met him just beyond the door,
With dazzling pinions of that changing hue
Which dying salmon show. Bill scanned her o’er,
And said, “ She’s got ’em all on, strike me blue ! ”
They left the city with its sin and smoke;
Past myriad worlds and suns they swiftly sped.
“What think you now of death? ” the angel spoke.
Said Billy, “ Why, I’d do it on my ’ed.”


AUSTRALIAS.
J r\ mm i" ’m coming, Oom Paul Kruger,
I / To have a talk with you ;
1 l H| A word into your ear, old man—
V I am the kangaroo,
The emu, and the ’possum,
And the eucalyptus tree—
In other words, Australia ;
And this I say to thee—
Now, Mister Oom Paul
Just let my Father be ! Jy
/
O, hoary-headed Boer-man,
You’re dreadfully to blame ;
To pain so soft and kind a soul
It is a cruel shame.
My Pa don’t want your goldmines,
Nor aught that isn’t his ;
And what you call “ rapacity ”
With him is only “ biz.”
To think that, after all these years
Of life so saintly white,
Rude men should call his halo brass.
And ask him out to fight ;
Insult his grey and honored hairs
By telling him he lies—
When merely (with intentions best)
The truth he does disguise.
And when we’ve licked you bad, old
man,
You’ll wail your sorry plight ;
But ioe won’t care —my Pa and me
Twill only serve you right !
This civilising business
It costs a tidy lot ;
There’s tracts to print and graves to dig.
And guns to buy, and shot ;
And, after all, the heathen are
A most ungrateful lot !
’Tis Faith alone keeps Father up
With such a heavy load ;
And to the Bible still he looks
To help him on the road.
He’s always found this plan to work
With folk of sable hue ;
But you—confound your impudence !
You've got a Bible, too !
But, Mister Oom Paul Kruger,
You’ll find that trick won’t count :
Y r ou stand upon the Psalms, but we’v
The Sermon onthe Mount !
Which says —and let the promise stay
Your Puritanic mirth—
| That sermon says, in language plain,
8S The Meek shall have the earth ! t
And we can call on History r
And bid her rise and speak ; \j
v For black is white and day is night—
lf Father isn’t meek !
AUSTRALIA AND OOM PAUL.


ticie
v
3> 15 C*
\ Saljecf
<^IL«V6
/ >\uvP
A
"f our f ? ot ■WUHf
saaa^®£sS«
stJ^rsff;rr»^s
ri^S“£lr«
n--<ed mu,’* u fe fo " Jcrt
| (jwSrfc | >|c^e^ >
Á
<<* ,
llje l
s e e -jow, yaw''
Ises(ee|.:-'OV; lS c
<V4 VjjeT'e %.
C<?u|>oi7s.
11
Ml "
jCltfe'fryM* ' ,£
.. f , f ' TT?\ rfo W netc I ) —-— ■ , ==?/
4
,ws
,e»»^C\" ltcV '( 0 W I ?°f 3 ''o«
During the
evening songs and recitations were rendered
by* Messrs. Herbert Vivian, A. Nichols, N.
V Murdoch, and Greig, and a comic song,
describing the Voes of a person who bought a
bicycle, by Minor Canon Wheeler, way
heartily applauded.
c i.l»ye7
J
e
yK „ ; n respond^f.
■p. OT> o{ Melbourne, xn bo r abge nce -
of ' ioocei t° r °fT
*\siK dour*ty-{'ere A cr
'o* for W)>s\V y.
2*?J. 4. Ct'ibe s ! eer *
cjultfik »7A7 - s
i^ou t A'Y^~of'
MELBOURNIANA.


A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing 1 !
156» GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1530
YX7E HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
YV FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :—
I o* E P*Q P* E Q*E D * S * IM Y. |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform vou if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this ofifer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
Wesleyan Parsonage,
Port Fairy, Victoria, 29/4/’99.
Dear Sir.—I beg to acknowledge receipt of Watch and
Chain, and am pleased to state that both ate verv
satisfactory. Yours truly, M. COCK. '
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
In a recent Sydney suburban
case the accused, named Calf w i
lawyer Bull.
police c u 't
defended by
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
“ J/evei rqind baby I Jt will soon grow now:
‘Marlene’
FOR
THE
HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing,
Restores the Hair*
Promotes the Growth,
Arrests the Fall,
Strengthens the Roots,
Preserves the Hair.
Renders It Beautifully Soft,
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with ever} bottle.
f/“j 2/S s and (triple 2'6 size) 4-,/0 per
Bottle from Drug-gists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards 5 Marlene Co.
High Hclboi’ti, London, Eng.
COLLINS’ EXCHANGE
CHARTERS TOWERS.
HOTEL.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PR IVAT c SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Tower.
it'k
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of Bt.
Mary s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
JT. A. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
—London Medical Record.
THeTHIRO '.N TUB SERIES OF
fcsJittasußwi' Sioos TOR|SM«TS.
MPTW» ta
Set for Invalid* Celt raletct&M, s 0
B» ~P*. _____ - , .
Alien & Hanburys Ltd*
MEW STYLE.
Allenburus Foods.
A Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive
powers from birth upwards.
Tib® “Allenjlbuirys pp F®@4 fi
<5B
99
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Food*,
needing the
addition ef hot
water only.
Tbe“Alleoburys” A\alted Food NO. 3
hitherto known as "Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
t ood, ” is adapted to, and has proved all that rap
be desired for Inlants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
-he Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire
Presentation Silver-plate & Jewellery for jjjgddifig pF6B6lltS
* Sannders’ Stock is Bright, Effective, and Reliable
Kindly send your orders to us-we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display.
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, Pure Silver-plate.i, 17s 6d.
Others charire you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
o i , A - Sa unders.
Eure Silver Hand Mirror, velvet back, 30s. Chased
Silver back, £2 ss, £2 10s, 1.2 15s.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 30s. Similar styles, 21s.
255. Silver-plated, 18s 6d. Mirror, 20s.
„ T Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 20s. ; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Saunders’
HANDSOME and UsifiroL. PRESENTS
l are Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal', 30s
Other patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 103, £3 10s, £4 103, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A Saunders.
Ofck Butte, ani <-uife, 7» 6d ;
with oo»ei, (Id.
A Sauaders.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s 6<l; Fluted Baud*
20s ; Shield only, 12s 6d. ’
Pure Silver-mounted Cut-
Puff Boxes, 15s 6d,
very cheap.
18e. Gold, pure Double
Cut Diamond, ±'6 6s;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
ISc. Gold, 5 pure Dia'
rnonds, £4 10s and £5-
3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds,
£'3los. Send for book.
A. Saunders.
4 o’c. Teaspoons and Tonsrs, 15s, 20s, 255;
Spoons, without case. ss, 7s 6d half-dozen.
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255; with
MS
Hi
*
m
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled eases),
£2 10s, five years' guar.
antee, extra quality;
±'4 4s, 15 years’ guar-
antee; ditto, 14c, Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20
years’ guarantee, “the
same strength as a £2O
teed l wi?r namen f t f ed ’ sam e price ’ Mu,d - “ the guaran-
teed with a written certificate from the makers, and we will make them
upnold it.” Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches
A. S^^iders.
2-Bar Scroll Be;i ami Chain Gold Brooch 15s
strong and pretty. Silver, sa. ’
Procured only at
A. Saunders'
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 3 Bird Bell, only 10a.
A. Saunders.
First-class 4-botile Ciiui. 30s;
similar styles, 21s, 255, Sjs ;
6-bottle, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. Saunders.
Tare Silver-plated Sugar Scuttle,
16s 6d, 20s, 258.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 8 Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Larjre Diamonds, *:'3
lac. Gold, 20s, 255, and 30s.
PJ
18c. Gold Band, Pure Dtamondiu
£2, £2 10s, £3, iA.
Send for Size Card.
*
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding (Biscuit), JES,
£3 XOs, £4 ; handsome present.
>-agsa&i
SiiiiiiifJ
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c. Gold, £'i.
Diamonds, £2 10s and *3. Any Name or
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar.
b-'
m
A. Saunders.
BUvsr-plated Butter, Cut Glass, 8a 6d;
Larger, 10s.
rf vr^!i^^Tf O T ,^-^ erl ! lat ! iS “ IW “* liveliness. Kindly call and
P^ AUStrali *- Wil ' «" «*“* “> P k -
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.
Alexander Allison, managerof the Auckland
and Devonport (M.L.) Ferry Co. is a remarkable
instance of p rsistent loyalty to an idea. When a
boy of 12 he built a wherry and ran a ferry service
therewith from the bush Auckland of 40 years ago
to the northern shore of the harbour, and when
subsequently a steam ferry-boat came he rowed
his tiny skiff across in all weathers even when the
steamer skippers refused to cast off. He and his
brother, It wen Allison, were the founders of the
present go. , which owns the model ferry-service of
Australasia.
The Bulletin acknowledges, with thanks,
the receipt from the publishers, Messrs. Sands
and McDougall, Melb., of vols. V. and VI. of
Horwitz’s Victorian Statutes. Two more vols.
wi'l complete the set, which is one that no legal
or political student can afford to be without. Vol.
V. contains the Acts from Local Government to
Medical, including the important enactments
dealing with .Landlord and Tenant, Lodging-
houses in relation to the health of the people,
Lunacy, Marine, and Married Woman’s Property.
Vol. Vr. from Melb. Harbor Trust to Public
Moneys, including more Local Government, Melb.
Tramways, Mines and Mining Co.'s, Health and
Police Offences Acts. The array of Local Govt, en-
actments is appalling, and there seem to be on an
average about 16 clauses and enactments dealing
with every possible subject. Mr. Hcrwitz has con-
densed arid consolidated these as much as possible,
and it is evidently very necessary that the Legisla-
ture should do so too. In addition to the Acts them-
selves each vol. contains five or six hundred refer-
ences to cases decided thereunder, to point in
which wav the treacherous and uncertain legal
current known as precedent runs. The publishers
say that there is every indication that the edition
will be exhausted. As an evidence of how even
the small amount of experimental legislation the
Garden Province has indulged in has attracted
the attention of the outside world, it may be men-
tioned that orders for the work have been received
from far-away America. The books are bound in
white buckram, and as far as possible printed
with good, large, clear type.


national Cash Registers.
♦ Storekeepers’ CoOpop Register
No. 92.
USERS .
OPINIONS
•
“All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
“Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“Sydney.”
•
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
Campbell Bros,
and Co.,
“ Toowoomba, Q.”
BENEFITS
OF USE.
•
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
•
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
•
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
• The Qnly True $ Effective Coupon System •
Full particulars, prices, etc.,
on application to
££Natioi?al Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.
i
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
I strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
-1 CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
CO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
[They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
, attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabetli-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
A WONDERFUL RIFLE
The “Riiaxini” Rapid-Fire Repeating Air Rifle
21s.
Carriage
Paid.
inq
magazine Capacity
ONE THOUSAND SHOTS
AT ONE LOADING.
I- Rapid-Fire Air Rifle is tlie latest American Invention in sporting weapons, and we have seemed ihe sole
a straiasian Ageney. By a special arrangement with the manufacturers we are making a most liberal offer for a limited
t 0 n,tr °duce this splendid weapon througl.ont the colonies at once, and we are enabled to sell the first one
, <J liarve ‘ louB J y low price of 21s. Carriage Paid to any address in Australia or New Zealand, makitig it the
" E f£? ° f **2 k ' lld al . ,d certainly the best ever offeied. The “Maxim” Rapid-Fire Repeating Air Rifle is constructed to
ReneiLfW nJiSJIS u? 8 ,u magazine (if required) at one loading, it is in appearance very much like the Winchester
matovioia t/aroine, being about that size and model, all the parts are extremely simple and will not get out of order, and the
SlnSfi J? d 11 \ t ! e u ‘ au,,f ; i cture are of the best, all parts are interchangeable, and with ordinary care will last a lifetime. So
l . tB “? ot tftat a g°od marksman has split cards, edge on. at 15 yards with it. This wonderful rifle has a most
H c penetration or rutting power, being far greater than attained by any air rifle ever before invented The weapon can he
TtiA m.fr.. 8 in °? e , T® 11 " 6 ' as the lever under breech works very rapidly, loading and cocking the gun by the one action.
hJSEff i 18 “ickeUplated, stock highly polished and well seasoned, sights accurately set and tested, and the body of the rifle
hiely and durably japanned: in fact, workmanship and appearance are equal to any rifle costing £5, for each rifle is a
a *? ple of „i he gun-maker s art, assisted i»y the most modern machinery. The rifle we offer is 1898 model, the latest
a# ern 'i Ihe ammunition used is shot, 8.8. size, which can be purchased any where at 3d. per pound, hence the cost
•••ldjm? l wonderful rifle is almost nothing. In purchasing this rifle from us you secure our guarantee that it is all that
in lor ,i or that we will refund money. No sportsman should be without this magnificent weapon. There is no danger
even boys and youths may use it without risk The air compressing mechanism is a perfect invention, being the
■imprest ana most durable ever used. The air chamber is constructed on a principle which gives great strength and it will i
./n * * ica,»jr ouuuji.'i tu ensure accurate snooting, xne iuusi.rai.ion gives an luea
' PP ear *“ l c ®» but it must be seen and used to be thoroughly appreciated. For target practice no rifle made nan surpass it.
n kl , * at reasonable range fall victims to its great penetration. We will sell the first one thousand at the low
h ? Z ! B ‘ Carriage PAid iD order to introduce this splendid weapon, and we desire the thousand rifles shall be in tlif
, , ‘ thousand users who will spread its fame, lienee we will not. sell more that one rifle to an individual, to prevent
aeaien purchasing In quantities and selling at a higher pr.ee, for we will not appoint agents but sell direct to the publio. Cale
togues of goods ox our own manufacture and importation, including Illustrated gun lilt, sent with each rifle. Every descrip! i. i.
Of weapon Ih Stock. To Wmn.eutit.led to tbo “Maxim” for 21s. Carriage Paid your order must be sent to u» not later the
■lmlu 1900. and this advertisement must be cut out ana sent with your order, fleas, remember perfect satlsfacti- u
gwanteed or IgoMey returned. Send money by Cheque, P. 0.0., Postal Note, or Cash in Registered letter. Please
cheque London Bank oi Australia. Address—
THE UNTON MANtfPAGTURINO AND AGENCY COMPANY, 309-3*l OOLUNk STREET, MELBOURNE
SOTE--Our ONJjY Australian Address —9o KING STREET, SYDNEY.
T
I
E
0
L
I
P
S
LATEST LONDON NOVELTY TIE CLIPS.
T
I
E
0
L
I
P
S
SOLID GOLD, PLAIN, 8s 6<l pair.
SOLID GOLD, set with OPALS,
TURQUOISE, or PEARLS, 15s pair.
DIAMOND SET, 40s pair.
Wild Boar’s Tusk BROOCHES.
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
WITH ANY NAME OR MOTTO.
Our Gold Novelty BROOCH, 17s 6d.
with octagon Amethyst and Pearl Bird
sat
Gold Two-bar
BROOCH.
with Amethyst and
Chain Pendant.
13s 6d each.
New Rustic Bar, Ivy, and Pearl Set Bird
Gold BROOCH, 11s 6d each.
1 P
Pearl and Rubv or Sapphire,
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d; 15c., 218.
Solid Gold.
1 Bell, 10s 6d.
3 Bells, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver.
1 Bell, 3s 6d.
3 Bells, 4s 6d.
m
Solid Silver HAT PINS.
Length, 7 inches.
Extra
Strong.
Any Initial.
3s each.
Garnet PENDANT
and Gold Bird
SAFETY PIN, 5s 6d.
I
in
Souvenir of
Sydney.
STAMP CHARM.
3s 6d.
Solid Gold
TIE and HEART
BROOCH, 53.
POST FREE.
COMBINATION BROOCH, BOOMERANG
and FEDERATION PENDANT.
Solid
Gold,
Extra
Heavy,
255.'
Solid
Silver,
Extra
Heavy,
7s 6d.
Our New Wi d Boar’s Tusk
BROOCH,
with Chain and Bell
Pendant.
Silver Mounted,
53 6d.
Gold Mounted,
14s.
Gold Two-bar Pearl BROOCH.
9ct., 10s 6d ; 15et.,1756d.
Gold Lucky Wish Bone (Merry Thought),
with Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
Pearl centre, 18s 6d each.
Solid Gold and Lovely Opal Two-bar
BROOCH, 148 6d.
Gold Lucky Bell and Chain Brooch, lOt.
iiui imffiSffi
Gold Heart and Chain BROOCH, 9s <sd.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF LATEST NOVELTIES.
PLEASE
jNJ'ANON PIANOS
PIANOS
JfANON PIANOS
A NON __PIANOS
jVJ' ANON PIANOS
CA-SH or on. JBjA.SY TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PEKTH.
The London & American Supply Stores_->-
m
MEM!
aaw
3S
UFPL
t LONDON & AMERICAN
ORES
m
. . FOB
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BCURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
A. W. FERNE & CO., Directors.
PHONOGRAPHS
255.
Including
Reproducer,
Horn, . . .
Records . .
(from 2 up)
and Portable
Case.
Albert «r son,
118 Kin g-st., Sydney.
Manufacturers of the
famous BOOMERANG
Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia. Catalogues of
Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes, Accordeons, Banjos,
Autoharps, Phonographs, Records, Music, Songs, Waltzes.
Slot Graphophones and Slot Poly phone Music Boxes
Posted FREE.
A <£ood Way - - - -
- - - To Make Mopey
TS to give Publio Exhibitions in Halls, Churches, School
Houses and Opera Houses with our Panoramio
Stereopticon Exhibition Outfit, illustrating the Spanish
American and Filipino wars, with both Stationary and
Motion pictures. Many are making £6O to 1120 per
month, and some exhibitors much more. We furnish
everything ready to start in business. £l2 10s. buys the
Stereopticon Outfit, and the Motion pictures can be
added at a small cost. The work is easy, strictly high-
class and requires no previous experience.’ Write for full
particulars now, this advertisement may not ap»»*r
again.
The Enterprise Optical Mfg. Co„
66 FIFTH AVE., CHICAGO, U.S.A.


TftE Favorite
WHISKEY.
GEO.ROE&C®
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER&CS cvrmrv
|02 A -Pitt st." MUNcXI
ASK
FOR
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by tbs Ciril Berrios Co-Operatire Store*,
Pitt St., and by Loading; Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCY * CO.,
furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
jagT" Sales. Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
The EditoP Endorses the Mayor’*
Statement.
Glen Innes Guardian says : “ The Mayor and
His Cure.—Elsewhere Messrs. Warner and Go.
publish a testimonial for their “Safe Cure’’sent
them by Mayor Healey. Mr. Healey swears by
this well-known remedy, and we feel sure that his
experience will lead others to try a medicine whose
good qualities are already know to so many in
Glen Innes. Mrs. Healey is not the first, by any
means, in Glen Innes who has benefited by this
excellent preparation.”
THE MAYOR’S STATEMENT.
Glen Innes, N.S.W., Oct. 11, ’9B.
H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd. Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —I have often thought it my duty
for the sake of others to write you. It will be five
years next month since my wife was given up by
two doctors, as a patient who could not live the
night through.
She had been treated for heart complaint; but
wo afterwards found that it was kidney disease.
On Sunday when the doctors told me that she
would not live another day—the dropsical swel-
ling had then extended from her legs into the
body—a friend said to me : “ Try Warner’s Safe
Cure.” At half-past ten that night I procured a
bottle and gave her one dose, then in about an
hour another. She said soon after, “ Jim, I feel a
little easier.” I continued with Warner’s Safe
Cure, giving up the doctor’s medicine, and to-day
she is a living monument to its efficacy. The
doctors and everyone who knew her were-
astonished. I have recommended this medicine
scores of times since, and we always keep it in the
house. If my liver is sluggish I take it as a tonic
and invigorator.
After five years I consider the trial a fair one,
and that it is consistent to call my wife’s cure-
permanent. I am well-known in Glen Innes,
having lived here sixteen years, been fourteen
years Alderman, and twice elected Mayor of the
municipality, and I am not afraid to sign my
name as a guarantee that Warner’s Safe Cure is
what it is represented to be.— Yours faithfully,
JAMES HEALEY, Mayor.*
“A NIGHT CAP”
Of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.*
“My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser,” an interesting 16-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A. S. Gordon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W.A.*
What a satirical dog is the official who
changed the name of Dead Man’s Bluff to
“Turner Point” in compliment to the Vic.
Premier!
POLITICAL
POINTS
Apparently all the Australasian Ministers
have got the Transvaal contingent disease more or
less. Even Kingston, from whom better things
were expected, proposes to send 150 armed swash-
bucklers to look for glory and cannon-balls in
Boer-land.
The regrettable relapse in Speaker Abbott’s
health revives thequestion of the N.S.W. Speaker-
ship. Premier Lyne would gladly support Reid
for the position, but G.H.R. “ isn’t taking any ” ;
he says he will have great pleasure in offering it
to Lyne in due season.
Queensland Minister Dalrymple :
After all, what was there in solitary confinement? . . .
If he (Dalrymple) spent a week in the dark cell he
wouldn't be any less sane than he was at that moment.
In other words, he wouldn’t be a worse lunatic
than he is now.
A final effort was made by Opposition-
leader Leake to insert the principle of One-Man-
One-Vote in the Westralian Constitution Amend-
ment Bill, but Big John’s Govt, fought bitterly
against the innovation, and said the time was not
yet ripe, and the proposal was beaten by 20 to 15.
MELBOURNE MOOCHABOUTS—No. 2.
Out of work.—Purtell's Pome-Purveyor.
Westralia’s re-distribution of Parliamen-
tary electorates is a wonderfully clumsy affair.
'Hungs have become so tangled that the electorates
are not even all in one piece. In fact, the S.W.
Mining District electorate is in three detached
pieces—somewhat after the fashion of the Scotch
County of Cromarty.
N.S.W.’s mighty joint-stock land-grabber,
the Australian Agricultural Co., offers to sell to
the State 400,000 acres in Gloucester electorate
at 10s. an acre. This great area is in the well-
watered eastern district, which is much more in
want of vigorous opening-up than the droughty
West, and the bargain certainly looks a good one.
Salisbury assures the world in general that
Britain is prepared to guarantee the integrity and
independence of the Transvaal, provided the re-
cured concessions to the Outlanders are granted.
Put alas! Britain also guaranteed the inde-
pendence of the Orange Free State, and the
snatching of the Diamond Fields followed all the
same.
Victorian politicians have at last reluct-
antly agreed to let the Federal Parliament have
the use of their legislative palace for two sessions.
The local Legislature .will meanwhile meet under
a brolly in the back-yard, or lead a precarious
existence in a shed or other temporary structure,
the place underneath the leak being devoted to
the Opposition.
“Turncoat Bill” Copley was one of the
crowd of Tories who argued that S.A. Council
reform should be postponed till after Federation,
because the country was now in a transition state.
And then B. Copley kindly admitted that, after
Federation was accomplished, he would be just
as hostile to Council reform as he is now. Every-
body knew it was true, but Copley was the only
Tory foolish enough to admit the truth.
The total number of votes recorded in five
provinoes in favor of the Amended Bill was
370,000 ; those against it being 140,000 (in round
numbers). Over a quarter of these negative votes
were recorded in the metropolitan areas of Sydney
and Brisbane. No wonder Bigjohn Forrest isn’t
too anxious to allow the t’othersiders a chance of
voting on the Bill.
When the Soudan bubble had burst and
only the .£300,000 bill and the donkey and the
goat and the other ignominy remained, they said
1 in N.S.W., “Ah well, it was a big advertisement
for us, anyhow.” And now the Transvaal raid ia
going to be another big “advertisement” for us—
just as the crimes of Deeming and Butler were
big advertisements for us.
The demand of the Westralian Parliamen-
tary Committee for certain amendments in the
Federal Constitution wasn’t unanimous by any
means, but Loton, chairman of the body, made it
look unanimous by signing the report as that of
the whole committee, and refusing to record the
protests of the four dissentients. If the four had
made a sudden rush at the document they might
have got it and torn it up, but they let the oppor-
tunity pass.
Hogg, M.H.R. for Masterton (M.L.), de-
clares that the present Parliament has a callous
disregard for the sufferings and woes of the single
unemployed. Says Hogg: “The Cabinet is a
married one, the House is simply full of married
men, and that is why the single men have little or
no representation.” Is Maoriland about to see a
sweeping away of old party distinctions and the
establishment of three parties—the married men
and women party, the single men’s party, and the
unmarried women’s party ? Dreadful prospect 1
Best is not the only member of the Tur-
ner Govt, who is on good terms with his brother-
in-law. Taverner, Minister of Agriculture, took
to England with him his brother-in-law, Sherard,
at the country’s expense. Sherard is secretary to
the Exhibition trustees. In England these things
are done on a wholesale scale, and as a rule no one
protests. The present Lord Chamberlain has
worked about a score of his male relatives into
comfortable legal positions. Disraeli’s brother,
who was appointed to a billet in the House of
Lords by Dizzy, died just lately.
A problem S.A. politicians are now dis-
cussing is whether Gordon’s motion to postpone
household suffrage until a referendum of Council
electors is taken is tantamount to a rejection of
the measure. The motion is certain to be carried
by the Tory majority in the Council, and the in-
evitable result will be that the measure is shelved
for this session, anyhow. In that event the
Kingston Govt, is deprived of its constitutional
right to demand a dissolution. The whole thing
is a wily Tory scheme to dodge having to face the
people, but Kingston maintains that the law is on
his side.
On August 8, Turner’s Cabinet became the
record Ministry of Victoria, beating M’Culloch
by a day. This established another remarkable
record ; every one of the Seven Provinces was
ruled by the longest-lived Ministry in its history.
Now, in exactly two months, two of the record
Ministries are gone, Braddon’s making the second.
He only went down by one vote, so he didn’t fall
like Reid, with 38 majority against him, but the
weary old man is gone all the same. A week or
two ago The Bulletin prophesied that two of the
record Ministries were in their last year, so there
is still one to go.
The Federal Address to the Queen was
carried easily so far as Q. Assembly was concerned.
Ten weary anti-Federal legislators voted against
it, and deputed to prosy, dozy, harmless old Geo.
Thorne the duty of orating on their side. The
Provincial cause was never more fittingly repre-
sented. Nearly all the brainy men of the anti-
Federal party voted for the Address, and Labor
leader Dawson was able to boast proudly and
truly that Federation had been carried by a
majority of legislators, a majority of electors, and
a. majority of electorates. Brisbane opposition is
-fizzling out, and that city is bowing its head
meekly to the inevitable.
During the debate on the Westralian Re-
distribution of Seats Bill those members whose
political life was threatened of course rushed it
with amendments. Speaker Lee-Steere, whose
chief claim to consideration is that he has a
double-barrelled name and has been there a long
time, has a pocket borough whose existence was
threatened ; whereupon Opposition-leader Leake
proposed an amendment which ‘“would secure a
seat for Mr. Speaker, the sitting member for Nel-
son. He would go a long way to secure a seat for
Mr. Speaker.” Representation according to
population is all very good, but the necessity of
securing a seat for Mr. Speaker looms up above
all things.
The most confused Australian writer on
the Transvaal problem to date is “ Falcon,” of
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald. That brilliant
individual explains that the Transvaal was part
of the Dutch territory ceded to Britain at the
beginning of this century—whereas, in fact, it
was a good 200 miles outside British territory
even when the Boers settled on it; and he holds
forth about the time when it was first “ given ”
to the Boers by Britain. Presumably, therefore,
history, when it tells how the Boers trekked many
miles away beyond the last semblance of British
authority, and built their new republic out in the
wilderness, isn’t the kind of history they have in
coaly Newcastle.
“Shaker”: How the six months’ resi-
dence qualification works in Queensland. Of the
755 names on the Burke district electoral roll on
2nd Sept., 223 were marked—“left the district.”
And as the rolls were carefully bulcocked for the
general elections last March, it will take those
who have left two months, after qualification, to
get their names on the rolls of their new elector-
ates. Should an appeal be made to the country
therefore during, or immediately after the passing
of the petition to the Queen, practically the whole
223 will be excluded from voting—even though the
majority have only passed into adjoining elec-
torates.
Dr. Ross, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), is a candidate
for the Federal Parliament. Federal Parliament
will control meteorological affairs and as
Ross is the man who
asks questions about
the cause of the late
unusual rainfall he
must needs go there.
A GOOD SHOT.
PATRICK (to Dionysius): “ What do you think?
Flanagan blew his brains out.”
DION : “ Ha, by gob! He was a great shot! ”
Premier Lyne “ does not think the dis-
oussion on the proposed vote to enable N.S.W.
to invade the Transvaal will last in N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly more than one night. It is a
matter of such urgency that he will probably
keep the House sitting until he has disposed of the
subject.” Which will be Premier Lyne’s first bad
bump against the Labor-party—and ex-Premier
Reid?
Some Queensland Federal points. There
are 61 electorates in Queensland. Thirty-six of
them voted “Yes,” and only 24 voted “No.”
The odd one was a dead-heat. All the 10 metro-
politan constituencies voted “No.” Out of the
28 Southern constituencies outside Brisbane 15
voted “Yes,” 12 voted “No,” and Dalby gave
324 votes to each side. Of the 10 Central con-
stituencies eight voted “Yes” and two (the two
Rockhamptons) “No.” All the 10 Northern
constituencies voted “Yes.” The biggest anti-
Federal majority was in the Southern division
—Aubigny, 805. In the same division,
however, the other party ran this very close
with a Federal majority of 716 at Mary-
borough. The boss majority of the province
was the Federal 1718 majority at Charters
Towers. Next came the Federal majorities of
1135 at Townsville and 1030 at Maokay.
THE ENEMY APPROACHING.
“ We may expect war at any moment.” — CABLE.
The Vic. Govt, is having another innings
with its Immigration Restriction Bill, designed to
keep out Asiatics, paupers, persons of bad
character, idiots, and people with contagious or
infectious diseases; and despite the desperate
valor of Madden and Murray Smith, who fought
heroically for the admission of paupers, idiots,
niggers, and miscellaneous, it is safe so far as the
Assembly is concerned. The Council, as usual, is
an unknown quantity. Last year that body
amended the Bill with such lavish provisions for
the importation of coolies and the like, that when
it finally perished it had become a Bill for the en-
couragement on a large scale of almost every kind
of nigger under the sun.
Apropos of the mournful complaint of the
parochialist ’Gropers to the effect that Federation
would lead to Westralia losing control of its own
industries, here is a point worth noting.
Every Westralian gold-mine of any value ia
owned outside the province. Every one of the
great W.A. timber companies is owned in
London. All the great W.A. land com-
panies belong outside the province. All
the life and fire and accident insuranoe
business of W.A. is done by extraneous
companies; ditto its shipping business;
and even its breweries mostly belong to
t’othersiders. And the parochial ’Groper
pleads that the province should stick to
the system which has produced these re-
sults for fear Westralia, under Federation,
should lose control of its own industries.
Its oivn industries, please note.
Russia steps into the arena of
liquor-reform. In St. Petersburg the
authorities took away from 25,000 shops
the right to sell liquor. The private grog-
shops were then replaced by 5000 State
establishments under Govt, control. _ The
liquor is delivered in bottles bearing a
Govt, seal, and only one bottle is supplied
at a time. The knell of Bung is sounding
in the distance.
The Imperial Ministers are humor-
ists anyhow. When they had sent what
was practically an ultimatum to the effeot
that if the Boers did not yield to the British
demands, the empire would proceed to adjust
the differences in its own way. Kruger re-
plied “Go right on —now ! ” But Bull was
not ready to start fighting, and he blandly
declared that his chief desire was to secure
reasonable consideration of his proposals,
and to ease the strain, and was therefore
pleased to spontaneously extend the time
within which he expected a definite reply (the
reply that he had already got).
Tasmanian ex-Premier Braddon is 70J
years of age, so his first Premiership is likely to
be also his last. His downfall over the doings of
Gapt. Miles is remotely akin to Reid’s over Neild.
In each case Parliament passed, without com-
plaint, a vast amount of administration which, in
the interests of the country, a stronger and cleaner
Legislature with more understanding would have
objected to. But when it struck a personal scan-
dal, it found something about its own size, and
it rose up like an armed man and dealt out justice.
Yet the Parliament which could stand the ruin-
ous land-grant railway policy needn’t have grown
so excited over Miles. And by way of coinci-
dence, the biggest visible danger ahead of the
Victorian Ministry is the purely personal matter
of Minister Best’s brother-in-law.
“ Perth Federalist ” writes as follows :
Am glad you are favorable to the amendments to the
Commonwealth Bill proposed by the Joint Committee in
Perth. I don’t believe in the five years’ concession re
fiscal matters, but there is a good deal to be said in favor
ol the committee’s proposal. Our revenue here is abnor-
mal, and some little time is necessary for the Govern-
ment to prepare for the radical change which must come
about. The reduction by 20 per cent, per annum as
specified in the Bill is absurd. No trader could carry on
with a tariff changing annually. Fortunately none of
the amendments affect the other colonies, and henoe
there will be no need for further referendum. Please
help us by getting these amendments agreed to, other-
wise there is no chance of Federation for W.A.
t“ Perth Federalist ” doesn’t seem to have got the
lang of the position. The Bulletin has no real
objection to the amendments themselves, and if
John Forrest had asked for them while the Bill
was being constructed it would have strongly ad-
vocated their acceptance. But he didn’t. Ap-
parently out of pure oussedness he waited till the
old Bill (the one which he then said was satisfac-
tory) was accepted by all the eastern provinces.
And then he suddenly found out that he wanted
ohanges which will involve the whole lengthy
process of a radical amendment of the Constitu-
tion and a referendum over all the eastern pro-
vinces. The Constitution can’t be altered except
by referendum. And all this because one clumsy,
slow-going dullard didn’t know his own mind, or
hasn’t got any mind.—Ed.B.)


Whichever way you look at it
PALING’S
IS THE BEST AND
CHEAPEST HOUSE
FOR
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSIC AND
MftSical
li)Str£in>€QtS
of Every
Description
Call ok.
Wkite fok
CATALOGUES
PALING’S
IS THE BEST AND
CHEAPEST HOUSE
FOR
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSIC AND
Musical
li)Str<in}£Qts
of Etfcry
Description
Call or
Write eor
CATALOGUES
W. H. PALING *C° L TP 338
GEORGE STREET,
SyPHEY
And at
Brisbane
Newcastle
Flexifort Fabric
- .
m
mm
m
im
m
mm
-
MR
W<Kji
Few cyclists
realise what
an influence
fabric has on
the resili-
ence and life
of a tyre.
The illustra-
tion depicts
a section of
the Flexi-
fort fabric
used by us
MULTIFLEX COVERS—which accounts for the great flexibility
and life of the
as this material is as
soft as Silk,
stroogcr tt>3l> tb« StofcteSt Capyas,
thus enabling us to supply cyclists with a tyre that excels all others for
Speed, Conjfort, ai>d PCirability.
No
otber
Tyres
can be made from this fabric, as we hold the Sole Patent Rights for
same—another reason why cyclists should be particular to specify
“ DUNLOPS ” when ordering their machines.
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months, '^3l
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
fehe @unlop pneumatic syre <§o. of (Australasia §td.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
The “ engaged ” nuisance at Sydney Tele-
phone Exchange is to be dealt with by a regula-
tion limiting a city telephone conversation to
three minutes duration and a suburban to five.
The abuse of the system for hen-gossiping pur-
poses will thus be severely checked.
Chamberlain’s statement that he only asks
the Boers to grant to Britons in Boer-land the
same political freedom which the British grant to
the Dutch in Cape Colony, looks well on the sur-
face, but it is bosh underneath. Supposing an
equal suffrage is granted, there will be an Out-
lander majority in the Boer Parliament and a
Dutch majority in the Cape Parliament. But if
the Outlander majority in the Transvaal decided
to abolish the country’s independence, and become
part of the British empire, the resolution would
almost certainly hold good ; whereas, if the Dutch
majority in Cape Parliament decided to sever the
British connection and become part of the Trans-
vaal, the arrival of 20,000 British troops would
speedily cut the proceedings short. Probably
the leaders of the Parliamentary majority would
end up in gaol into the bargain.
Rev. T. Adamson, Bendigo, Vie. :
There is one phase of the war in which everyone will
agree, viz., that Great Britain has been verj patient, long
suffering, and enduring.
Is there any time-server like the man who prates
eternity? “Patient, long suffering, and en-
during”! and British progress in South Africa
has always been on the heels of the Boer, from the
Cape of Good Hope through Natal to the Trans-
vaal. The Boer went before and made the path
straight, and when he discovered a good thing
Britain stepped in and grabbed it on one pretext
or another. The “ legion that never was listed ”
in S’Africa was composed of Boer voortrekkers.
They fought th- savage, and when he was pretty
safe to handle John Bull stepped in to protect
him, and then it was time for the voortrekker to
pull stakes and light out again.
Sydney D.T.’s Transvaal special :
The Imperial Govt, absolutely repudiates the impudent
claim of the South African Republic to the status of an
international sovereign State, a piece of plain language
that ought to have been uttered long ago. Beside that
question, all the others, franchise and the like, shrink
into insignificance. If war comes, this will be the point
at issue. Great Britain is the only sovereign State in the
Transvaal, and she can only abandon that position at a
sacrifice of prestige, which she cannot afford—if the Boer
could only see it—at risk of making the Transvaal the
cockpit of European Powers. Twenty millions of gold
per annum is not going to be held by a petty Republic
whilst human nature remains human nature, and, viewed
in this light, Great Britain is President Kruger’s best
friend, even though she has to forde herself upon him.
And there you have the milk out of the cocoanut.
The ever-benevolent Bull !
In a S. Melb. assault case plaintiff had a
painful tale to tell. Defendant owed him money,
and he went to defendant’s house with his wife
and waited outside while she knocked at the door.
Defendant answered, and invited his creditor up
on to the verandah. This was just for the vain-
glorious gratification of watching him bounce
when he threw him down again. When plaintiff
arose, defendant seized his nose between his teeth
and hung on. Then defendant’s wife arrived.
She also began to damage plaintiff in her weak
way. When plaintiff’s nose was bitten through
and the cartilage bung on the cheek, defendant
was persuaded to let go (.he nose in favour of
plaintiff's thumb. And thereon he hung until
outside interference suspended hostilities.
Melbourne’s Want of Employment Board,
after floating in the clouds for some months among
various schemes for the regeneration of society
and for the betterment of everybody, has bumped
up against a fact and as a consequence has fallen
to the common earth again with a dull thud. It
had advanced about <£loo in equipping 15 rabbit-
trappers to go up country in parties, and the fact
that smote it so heavily in the eye is that, whereas
several of these men have been recently seen about
the city or suburbs more or less intoxicated, only
one has had the honesty to return the traps
loaned.
The proposal under the W.A. Redistribu-
tion of Seats Bill to make East Kimberley (90
electors) and West Kimberley (145 ditto) into one
electorate, whereby there would be only one
member for 235 voters (Kalgoorlie has only one for
5674 voters), roused bitter cries about “ the neces-
sity for due representation of the great cattle
industry.” The Kimberley representatives are
members for many cattle and it was pointed out
that if such a lot of cattle had only one member,
dreadful things might happen. The House was so
deeply impressed that it finally decided to let all
these cattle have two members. Yet the Kim-
berley politicians have done nothing for the cattle.
They have never brought in a Bill to limit the
number of times a bullock may be hit with a large
stick on a mile journey, or to provide that each
heifer shall have three square meals per day.
Moreover there are only 80,000 cattle in the two
electorates, and on the terms applied to human
beings not one of them is entitled to any repre-
sentation at all.
The usual Dreyfus indignation meeting
was held recently at Perth, W.A., and the various
speakers were working up to a grand blaze of
righteous indignation, when a mild-looking woman
climbed on the platform and spoke :
Mrs. Bateson remarked that, France being so far away,
they could express their horror at what had taken place
there without fear of offending the French authorities or
losing their situations. No doubt in the next morning’s
paper they would see that the landlords of Perth had
doubled the rents of the houses that were occupied by
women of French nationality all out of sympathy with
Dreyfus, while another effect of the meeting would be that
the French shopkeepers would be mobbed and their fish-
carts overturned. This would give them an opportunity
to let off a little of the steam of righteous indignation,
and to display their British pluck. If, however, they
found themselves in Paris instead of Perth, what a
stampede there would be, to be sure ! In the Fremantle
prison there were a number of alluvial miners—men
who have gone into prison for the sake of their opinions.
How many men were there on that platform who
would do as much, who would run the risk of prison for
their opinions? They should pity the people in Fre-
mantle as well as those on the Devil’s Island. They
should also cease to talk of the cruelty practised by a
foreign nation, while their own black population was so
shamefully neglected and ill-treated. Let them refrain,
she proceeded, from making certain remarks about
Kruger being a pig-headed old Boer, till they themselves,
dressed in shabby clothes, sought an interview with the
Postmaster-General. Before they denounced the in-
justice and bias of the French officers in the Dreyfus
case, let them first recall to their memory the Wainscot
farce, where one of the judges acted as counsel for the
accused, who was afterwards acquitted by all three. No
public meeting was called then. The Mayor would have
done his utmost to prevent the hall being used for such
a purpose, and he would certainly not have presided.
The Supreme Court was a refuge for the forger, the
bigamist, the abductor, and the Government official. It
was not, therefore, becoming in them to turn the hose on
the stables of La Belle France.
The meeting decided to take no notice of these
painful and irrelevant remarks, and decided by a
large majority that Erance was in a very shocking
condition and in great moral disrepair.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
fflont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER mzoktth:.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
- SIDE -
ENTRANCE.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin ** Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager lor Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED ... 260 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Monlhs,
„ „ 2 Years, 5%
~ „ 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoo & LaocaSbirc
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL -- - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors—John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
EIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAYING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, £500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability,-£213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company) : 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
Jiie gank of Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.)
Mr.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000
£700,000
£350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 14, 12 Noon.
-Barrabool, Tues., October 17, 6 p.m.
Leura, Sat., October 21, 12 Noon.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., October 31, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., October 31, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 14,2 p.i
■ Konoowarra, Tues., Oct.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 21,
in.
17, 6 p.m.
2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 14, 2 p.m.
■Buninyong, Tues., Oct. 17, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oot. 21, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA TOINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddarfc,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M‘ll wraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydnej’.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb* Trustees, €xec<itorS,
AND
AgeiKV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital .. .. £3,123,555 15 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.'C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Rishopstjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aeency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total
. . 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James .Thomas Walker. Esq.., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the. United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures ; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the CQntinents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East. ;
J. RUSSELL FRE"'!II, General Manager.
CITY MUTU&L FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
HOBEIiT KEUB, Man agion. __
Qear Sir. Ple ase inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., hv a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will he pleased to send the means of cure
to nil sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
JDalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, 3 Bent Street, SYDNEY.
England via amerioa
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
ffl‘|luiraith,M‘|;acharn&(;o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn 8s Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—l 67 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
T\7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
’ ’ Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neaie Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
THOMAS McINERNEY,
Metallurgist, Engineer, etc., etc.,
39 REGENT STREET, PADDINGTON.
Written Credentials may be had at a moment’s notice.
Personal reference kindly permitted by Thos. Buckland,
Esq., Equitable Buildings; Dr. R. Read ; W. Longworth,
Esq., Rushcu tier’s Bay; Thos. Longworth, Esq., Cobar.
ALSTONS
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
dES lOs.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
m
m!F
A FRIEND IN NEED
is a FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE
71AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES,
j Second Edition. 220pp.—4s. Cd.
SUpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LTMITET).
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Pilbarra, Friday, Oct. 13.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday, Oct. 21.
ALBANY, 'i
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to L
VASSE, DONGARRA, |
bunbury, geraldton
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Pilbarra, Friday,
Oct. 13.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
October 21.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
October 13.
Best <V Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL and CO., 1/rD., Agents
6 Bridge Street,' SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Ana thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TR^AWNY^Agent^J^^BENTST^ET^^ney^^
fluddart, parker $ go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydnes*.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN
AIRLIE
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of Amerioa.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Eun in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
•Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weher Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-vveekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, And FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA -Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, l’hilp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
t he famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness m the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumption has
never been known to exist where Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. ° ° J
B€WAR€ OF COU6NS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London,
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, andj-ou can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was. - Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other 1 remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
, “ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quinndi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
, M y w jf e ,s S 2 years old, and lam 79, and lam glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.” ’ ’
•
i . ,^, ave used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—O. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
*
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—O. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” Q
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN o’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.” ’
cured
“Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
:d a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
‘ Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during’ the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, OIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. W 6 are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARAE, Chemist, Geelong*, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
(LIMITED)
DAPTO (Lake near
SYD3XTEY.
SMELTERS,
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
ss«*s
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbekg, Manager, The
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food f ° r
Infants
9
wm
*, -
gig|
ft*
i".
IS
<Benger’s Food is sold in various sized*"
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aged.
Books! Books! Books!
History of Australian Bushranging-, by C. White. Frank
Gardiner, the King of the Road, and his Gang, Is 3d ;
Ben Hall and his Gang, Is 3d ; The Caloola Robbers and
other startling incidents, Is 3d.
The New South Wales Banditti, or Donohoe, Under-
wood, Webber, Clarke, and their Gangs, Is 3d. I have
three very choice books Is 6d each. Popular Educator,
in 6 vols., £5 for 255. Write for Catalogues; all books
sent post free. it. IF. SKINNEII, Second-hand Book-
seller, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney. Telephone 3043.
Vakiabl? Books-
Man, Know Thyself.
Woman, Know Thyself.
POSTED FOR 6d. IN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
W. H. JcokiQS,
41 Stephen Street,
. Melbourne.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R.
GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES
PARIS. FRANCE.
£ENP FOR A ,
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acmg Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
THE TRIPLE FORK crown affords all necessary
strength at a vital point, and is a distinctive feature
of the MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE, which imparts
added value and security to the machine.
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Heartquartors—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney. Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
A pennies rln’os' ovety whore. .if Crtialosif >••• ted free on application.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depot, 2-57 George-street, Sydney.*
A four-coloured war map of South Africa
has just been published by the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., which may be of interest to those whose mili-
tary enthusiasm has been awakened by recent
events in the Transvaal.*
Washington H. Soul and Co. have made
quite a sensation in Sydney commercial circles by
the splendid manner in which they have drawn
public attention to the Erasmie soap and per-
fumes. The big firm’s windows have been most
artistically draped by Mr. Sydney Priddy, who
comes to Australia with a big London and New
York reputation. Mr. Priddy represents the
Erasmie Soap and Perfume Co., and as the Eras-
mie craze is the latest thing in fashionable Lon-
don, it is only reasonable to expect that Sydney
society will follow suit in marked degree. W. H.
Soul and Co.’s first order bo Mr. Priddy was for
,£OOO worth of the famous soap and perfume.*
Earl Beauchamp has bestowed his patron-
age on Messrs. Fairfax and Roberts, of Hunter-
str., whom he has appointed vice-regal jewellers.*
>
St'
V. AM- .
l}<
Red Bird Crank Bracket.
Found only on
1900 Model
Red Birds.
As illustrated, the complete hearing is in a steel barrel, which holds the cups
in perfect alignment. Thus the bottom bracket bolts cannot distort the bearing
cups and cause them to run tight. The cups are designed so the axis of the balls
and axle are parallel, and the balls run in a continuous oil bath.
The cranky are secured to a .le by means of a hexagon taper, which is further
secured by means of a cap s rew.
The cranks cannot possibly work loose as with other forms of attachment.
This is another part where the Red Bird is years in advance.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed by
Cbe 6oold Bicycle Co,, £td. f
Factories:—
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
Australasian Blanches :
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australia.
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victor'a-st., Wellington N.Z.
Salesroom
64 King-street, Sydney .
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Melbourne raoing “ Carnival ” made a sort
of false start on Saturday at V.R.O. October meet, and
next Saturday it will be fairly (joins' at Caulfield. Mean-
while the “ form " of Cranberry and other animals that
took high honors at Randwick a month ago doesn’t admit
of much prophetic comparison with the “form” of the
Southern gee-gees. Anything may happen in the Caulfield
Stakes, Guineas, and Toorak Handicap next Saturday ;
all the same Tim Bullbtin expects N.S.W. to
play a strong hand. Cranberry should win the
Guineas if he is slipped, and Cocos, who seems to improve
rapidly, will be worth backing for anything he may
attempt at Caulfield. As regards the Cup, run on
Saturday week, Tim Bulletin will make a few sugges-
tions in next issue. For the moment it is impossible to
find cause for doubting that Mora has the best chance to
win —bar accidents.
* * * •
Wait-a-Bjt’s running in the October Stakes, last
Saturday, leaves his Cup chances unaltered. The Ballarat
horse is expected to go for the Melb. Cup, and the
trainers regard him with dread. If they don’t know
something about the matter, who should?
• * • *
Flodden, well-backed for Melb. Cup, was served
as a choice thing at Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) on Satur-
day. Track performances made it look a guinea to a
gooseberry on him for Warwick Handicap, which was re-
ferred to all the week by punters as the “ Flodden
Stakes.” Flodden started at 10 to 9on (“ English odds ”),
but was never in the hunt at any stage, and half-a-mile
from the finish seemed hard at it. He pulled up fourth.
The Forest King—Missing Link aged gelding, Surprise (at
15 and 20 to 1), sprung a big surprise on backers, winning
by a head from Ace of Diamonds, who beat Nevermore
similarly after a desperate battle right to the post.
Melb. Cup-winner, Gaulus, was among the starters and,
though not himself yet, shaped well enough to indicate
that he’ll do better ere many weeks pass. Gaulus
finished alongside the “ hot-pot ” of the race.
• • • *
“ Bill ” Forrester has a smart filly in Saraswati,
by Niagara —Eloquence. She ran in two races at Canter-
bury (Sydney) two weeks ago. On first day she got away
badly, but finished full of running, suffering defeat by a
head. Second day saw her leading soon after the barrier
rose, only to he cut down by Good-bye a few strides from
the post. Writer thought this little racing would do her
good, and had his dollars upon her on Saturday at War-
wick Farm, where she got home cleverly by a length—
-sto 4 against. Saraswati is a full sister to Earl Rosebery,
now racing in Melb.
• • * «
Several heavily-backed nags for Caulfield and
Melb. Cups sported silk in October Stakes at Flemington
(Melb.), Saturday—Mora, Scorn, Cocos, Le Var, Wait-a-
Bit, and Dewey being among the starters. Scorn (6 to 4
on) made most of the running, but was caught and
headed at the half-distance by Mora (7 to l against).
Scorn, however, came again, and ultimately finished
second by a neck. A heap of money went on Scorn last
Friday for Caulfield Cup, but Mora’s prospects look
brighter, as she meets Scorn on 61 h. better terms than
Saturday. Reputed owner (E. H. Knight), 'tis said, com-
plains about being anticipated in the betting, and unless
be can get a fair price, threatens that Mora will he an
absentee. Writer takes little notice of this. The mare
has been wellsupported, and some of the money must have
gone to the stable ; besides, she is not likely to get such
a good chance again.
• • * *
Three-year-old Dewey, who ran poorly against
Mora, Scorn, Cocos, and Le Var, in V.R.C. October Stakes,
will have 201 b. less to carry in Caulfield Cup, and is
not to be despised for the big handicap. Nevertheless,
Dewey’s unsatisfactory show seems to discount the Derby
prospects of the N.S.W. youngsters. Scorn beat him so
easily at level weights that even Cranberry begins to look
less of a champion than we reckoned him last month.
The plot thickens, arid the Cups this year will be great
post-betting races, unless some very indecent reversals
in form are produced on Guineas Day.
* * * *
“ G.A.P. Hard to see why Mora’s a favorite
for Melbourne Cup, considering her failure to score a win
since accounting for Adelaide Cup, in ’97. Curious that
two of Malua’s progeny, viz., Mora and Wait-a-Bit, should
be first and second favorites. Of the two, writer’s dust
would go on latter. Coincidence backers will, no doubt,
support Wait-a-Bit, after getting same place in last year’s
Cup as the winner thereof got in preceding one.
* * * *
The revival of Baltoro is interesting. In Aug.,
’95, the impetuous old gentleman was backed heavily to
win the G.N. Steeplechase at Caulfield (which Daiinio
captured), but soon after that he dropped out of notice,
being more or less broken down. At this year's V.R.C.
National Meeting the ancient popped up again like a
ghost of the past, and started to run himself into condi-
tion. Baltoro won a steeplechase at Flemington on
Saturday, and will be worth considering for any big-tim-
ber events in the near future.
If The Bulletin were compelled to tip a
youngster for the Debutant Stakes scramble at Caulfield
it would take the fancied one from W. R. Wilson’s stable,
together with Hautboy.
Fleet Admiral has all his work cut out if he is
to be fully “prepared ” for Melbourne Cup.
* * « •
Coincidence tip for the two Cups : “ There’(S)
coen in Egypt."
* • * *
Died recently at Wollongong (N.S.W.) “ Dolf ”
Waldron, one of the best and pluckiest buckjump riders
in Australia, son of Capt. Waldron, of the 39th Foot, and
cousin of the late George Waldron, Sydney City solicitor.
* » * *
Australian horses in England continue to get
kindly treated by the handicapper. Battalion and
Grafter, our two “ crack ” w.f.a. horses of last year (they
ran first and second for the Melb. Stakes) are let into the
Cambridgeshire at 8.2, or 261bs. less than top weight.
Maluma and Survivor come 51bs. lower on the list.
* • • *
Merman is reckoned to be nearly the best long
distance horse they have in the land of sprinters. The
handsome chestnut got 8.13 for the Caesarewitch (run this
week) and only two others received heavier burdens. But
one of those others, Cyllene, was given lOst.
* * * *
Recent brilliant successes of the Duke of West-
minster’s colt Flying Fox (Orme— Vampire) call to mind
the faci that not long ago many English writers refused
to believe him a first-flighter. Cabled that he has
won the Jockey Club Stakes (10,000 sovs.) at Newmar-
ket (Eng.), and prior to this Flying Fox had gathered in,
during present season, the Two Thousand Guineas
(£4250), Derby (£5450), P. of W. Stakes (£7190), Eclipse
Stakes (£9235), and the St. Leger.
• * * •
S.A. ’s proposal re cricket “gates” is that the
visiting province shall pocket one-third of gross takings.
Victoria has agreed already, and S.A.C.A. reckons that
the concession means £175 more to its annual receipts.
In 1897-98 S.A. lost £44 over interprovincial cricket
matches, and last season made a profit of £ll, whereas
N.S.W. has made over £6OO in some years out of the
S.A.-N.S.W. match in Sydney, which is a very popular
annual fixture. And there is the S.A. argument in a nut-
shell. The difference in populations explains why the
gates are so disproportionate, whereas expenses are about
the same.
* * * *
Darling, writing out to Adelaide, says that
Bradley, the Kent bowler, is the only really good trundler
the Australians have met in England. Rhodes, the York-
shire champion, can howl when wickets help him, but on
Australian billiard tables he will have bis heart broken.
England is stronger than ever in batting. Men sure to
be out with the next team are Ranji, Fry, Hayward,
Lilley (wieket-keeper)and Rhodes. The great puzzle will
be to find bowlers even equal to Stoddart’s ill-starred
combination.
• * • •
Darling on the barrackers at Lords: “The
more they howled the more I stonewalled.’' And that is
just what might be expected of J. Darling. Stoddart, by
the way, was an interested spectator.
* * * *
Amusing to look back to the prediction of
“ Mid On ” (in Melb. Age) re Laver as a batsman on Eng-
lish wickets. Said the learned authority: “I know of
few batsmen in the front rank amongst Australian
players whose characteristic methods would be more
likely to prove disastrous on English wickets than, are
Laver’s. In my opinion he will he, to use an old saying,
‘as good as old cheese ’ to a bowler like Jack Hearne,”
&c., &c. And, after all, the lengthy Laver came out of
the tour with an average of 30.67 for 38 innings.
* » * »
“ T.”: Why make a fuss over the “disgraceful
scene” at Lords, when the crowd hooted Darling and
Trumper, principally the former, for stonewalling ? The
English cricket-spectator has to pay from 2s. 6d. to
half-a-sov. for his day’s cricket, and he has a right to
hoot if he doesn't get a reasonable amount of blood-ar.d-
thunder for his money. Darling was scoring at the rate
of about 30 runs an hour, and a whole day of that is
enough to make any spectator sing “ Poor Old Joe.’*
And the alleged “disgraceful scene ” at Lords seems to
have been more good humor than otherwise.
* * * *
Sydney first-grade cricket-matches were con-
tinued on Saturday without any sensational play, which
will no doubt be held over untii the return of the mem-
hers of the Australian XI. So far. Donnan has been the
only man to make a century, scoring 164 not out for Bur-
wood against Paddington. Leichhardt beat Glebe by 2
runs, after an exciting finish. The surprise of the round
was the win of Central Cumberland against Waverley ;
for the former wicket-keeper I.overdge broke last
season’s spell of hard luck by starting this season with a
well-plaved 41 when most wanted. Redfern heat E.
Sydney by 87, and the two drawn games were South v.
N. Sydney and Burwood v. Paddington. Minus Kelly,
Noble and Trumper, Paddington did well to make adraw,
but Alex. Bannerman went a long way towards it by
keeping up his old-time reputation as a stonewaller. He
was at the wickets 21 hours for 54 runs.
*•» • j r
Sydney football closed on Saturday last, when
Pirates beat Wallaroo in the final for the Agricultural
Society’s trophies by a decisive 10 points to nil. The
Pirates had the unusual experience of the wind in their
favor for both halves, as it favored them in the first,
and then changed to a hard southerly in the second The
undoubtedly best side on the day won, and it was re-
marked bv many that the Wallaroo played very much like
a stale team.
» * * *
Footballer “Barney ’’Armit, the cyclonic three-
quarter over in Australia with the M.L. team, and of late
considered the best man in his position in Maoriland, met
his Waterloo in the Otago-Taranaki match at Dunedin.
Making a characteristic dodgy run up the line he was met
by A. Bavly (oapt. of last M.L. team) who collared him
with one hand pretty low, and turned him a complete
somersault; result, dislocated spine and complete
paralysis of body below neck. Doctors gave him four
hours to live, but at time of writing he had dragged on
three weeks after a desperate operation, and although
yet quite destitute of feeling, seems likely to struggle for
some time. The doctors regard him as a marvel and can
now understand why he was such a hard man to “ stop.’
He has scored-more tries in his time in first-class football
than any other two M.L. players. Bayly is brokenhearted
at Armit’s terrible misfortune (all agree it was pure
accident) and being fairlv well-to-do has headed the
subseripti' n-list with £250. The Auckland-Otago inter-
provincial match played at Dunedin was given as a
benefit to Armit and his mother; good old “Sandy”
rolled out to a man ; result, £5OO gate.
• * * •
The interprovincial boxing-match between
“Tot” Higgins and “ Ned ” Burden (of Vie. and N.S.W.
respectively) at Sydney Golden Gate Club last Saturday
night was a disappointment. Burden seemed to funk in
round 2 after getting a heavy upper-cut on the chin
which sent him down for 7sec. Higgins had good style
and looked the pug., but he left himself very open. His
punching lacked weight. Burden shaped like a very
novice, at times hitting out of distance and chopping
with the left; also swinging vainly with “Tot” 3ft.
beyond reach and laughing. In the fourth round Burden
went down from some scrambling work—a short right-
arm on the rihs being the cause, and there he sat resting
on the right arm —head drooping—till referee M‘Doraid
counted “ 10.” “ Ned” wasn’t knocked out, but he’d had
enough. Burden’s best battle was when, fresh from
“Soldier” Davis’s hands, he fought Jim M'Ginley a
gruelling scrap at the old York-street (Sydney) club nine
years back, for the amateur lightweight supremacy of
the province and won in 17 rounds. A collision during
the fourth 3min. smashed one of M’Ginley’s eyes badly,
but he stuck to his guns with marvellous grit. Both left
the ring covered with blood. Old man Jim Barron chal-
lenged the winner of Saturday night’s fight, and a match
will probably be made. Jim should give the game up
he’s beyond it: besides, the public will adopt a “ ware
hawk ” attitude after those three affairs with that slip-
pery-customer, Herb. M‘Kell, now (it is to be hoped) in
Yankeeland for good.
* ® * » *
Modus operandi of some Sydney boxing-pro-
moters in working up novice tourneys is amusing. They
hunt round the slums, induce all sorts and conditions of
hardups (who must not be too old) to enter by offering a
half-crown to the losers and a crown to the winners of
heats in the first batch. Result, individuals wanting
beer-money or hard-pressed for a feed jump at the
chance ; many of them can fight about as well as they can
fly; thev simply “ shape up ” to get that “ half-caser,”
or, if the other man isn’t too good, they’ll have a try for
the “ caser,” but he who sends the first stiff punch home
wins. Of course there are one or two fighters among
them who aim at first money and see the affair through ;
but the bulk, even if given £5 each, couldn’t fight two
rounds. Forty entered for one of these affairs last week
and, of 12 heats fought, most finished inside two minutes,
and longest didn’t see five rounds out. Prize-money,
including half-crowns and crowns mentioned, doesn’t
exceed £2s—very often £2O is the total. Yet tourneys
extend over 10 or 12 nights and draw big houses each
time ! Writer doesn’t know of a more profitable game.
Somebody will get killed yet and settle the business
altogether. » * *
Tim Hegarty, the Vic. light-weight crack, had
a soft job with Nickey Peach at Melb. Democratic Club
last week. Hegarty i’s generally a disappointing fighter
for the spectators. He clinches continually, and his
cleverness in getting away is marred by his apparent in-
ability to hit a hard blow. With Peach, however, he
altered his tactics, and sweeping in sent his opponent
down for the full lOsecs. four times before the end of the
second round. Then he eased, hut had things all his own
way until the 11th round he got home a chopping blow
on Peach’s jaw and sent him out.
» * * *
“Sport”: For years—ever since “Gentleman
George” Dawson, Dan Creedon and “ Griffo ” left—we
haven’t b id a properly-defined champion of Australia in
light, middle, or feather classes. “Tot” Higgins and
Burden were billed to fight for lightweight title last
Saturday night, but they didn’t weigh at ringside nor
were their weights announced. Neither had nr.y claim,
nnvh >w. Tot was be*.ten >* v i t, .v
McGowan. Bill Jennings and Tim Murphy fight for
middleweight championship of N.S.W. at Golden Gate
Club (Sydney) to-night. What ritrht has either to the
title ? Where do Dunn and Conlon come in ?
• • • •
The Yankee mail brought news of two
recent deaths in the prize-ring at ’Frisco. Latest
Sydney “ Rocks” phenomenon, “Cocker” Tweedie, was
seconding one of the unfortunates, and writes to a
Sydney man that all concerned were arrested a> d thrown
into the “ tanks ”at the city gaol, but they lived like
fighting-cocks. Sports sent them “chicken-pies and
wine.” The erstwhile Sydney newsboy further tells that
they were let out on 3000doi. hail and would surely he
free again soon through having a good “ pull ” at work.
* * * »
Opening day (Saturday last) of N.S.W. League
of Wheelmen at the Agricultural Society’s Ground (Syd-
ney) didn’t draw the huge crowd anticipated, despite the
fact of the best riders in the province being engaged.
Chief event was the mile championship. A high-class
field competed. “ Plngger" Martin, Forbes (M.L), Meg-
son (N.S.W.), Walker, Gordon, and Lewis (Vic.) qualified
for the final, which caused immense excitement and was
hot from the jump. Martin, riding in splendid form and
with great judgment, won by about 2ft. from the dusky-
hued Gordon, who just beat the Sydney crack, Megson,
by about half-a-foot -no more. Megson was badly served
at one stage, and finished at such a clip as to indicate
that, but for his ill-luok, he might have secured first
money. Time, 2 min. 21 3-sth sec.
• * * *
Australian amateur champion cyclist Ben
Goodson lately won two (third-of-a-mile and half-a-mile)
out of six Yankee championships at the big meeting of
the American League held in Boston. Representatives
from Scotland, France, Canada, and, of course, America
competed. “ Ben ” was also third in the 5 miles and
fourth in the 1 mile championships.
* * * •
Announced that Australian swimming-cham-
pion Lane leaves London for home Nov. 4. Most people
thought Lane proposed staying in the old country, par-
ticularly as he had been offered (like Hellings and Percy
Cavill) inducement in the shape of a good billet. Aus-
tralasian biennial swimming - championship meeting
begins Jan. 6, and ends a week latpr. Lane will ariive in
time to scoop the hoard—he very nearly did so two years
ago, when the gathering was heid in M.L.
» * * *
“Trudgeon”: Be Englishman Jarvis' recent
record mile swim (25min. 13 2-ssec.), the vast improve-
ment made by this man in one season is worth noticing.
Last year he won British mile championship atSouthport,
covering the distance in 26min. lt was thought
then that Jarvis could not possibly do better, hut this
season’s effort shows him to have improved Imin. 24sec. ;
equivalent to about 98vds. Jarvis’ preparation chiefly
consists of walking ; he covers 20 and 30 miles a day
when training.
»*" • * *
“Natator”: Printed all over the world that
late in Aug. English cyclist Holbein swam 47 miles in
12hrs. in the Solent. Writer hasn’t seen this contra-
dicted, nor even questioned, hut, rises to say, on his own
account, that it is rot, pure and simplp— i.e. , 47 miles in
the time mentioned. Holbein is a poor swimmer, as far
as speed goes, but, he possesses marvellous endurance,
though his methods of propulsion are crude. Presuming
that the current ran like a mill-race, he couldn’t get
within coo-ee of 47 miles in that time, especially with, as
reports sav, “the wind against him and a big swell on.”
The fastest mile ever done was 25min. 13 2-ssec., and
that in perfectly smooth water with conditions ideally
favorable. Men who know would bet their hoots that the
same swimmer could not throw two miles behind him in
an hour. Yet we are asked to believe, and Britishers
apparently swallow it, that Holbein did a very small
fraction less than four miles an hour for 12 hours with a
big swell and head wind to contend against, as well as
the fact that he hasn’t pace enough to beat, an ordinary
N.S.W. schoolboy. What’s the matter with the ’Ome
swimming scribes, anyhow?
• • • *
Erom the number of entries in the various
events, and the interest taken by the public in the second
day of N S.W. Rowing Association Regatta, it looks as if
the moribund sport of amateur boat-racing is taking a
new' lease of life. No less than six crews started for the
Maiden Eights, Glebe winning from Balmain R.O. The
rowing was good all through, and out of the 48 competi-
tors it will he hard lines if the province does not raise a
few really good ones to represent her in the future. Syd-
ney R.C. showed its'return to old-time form by winning
the Champion Fours and Champion Pairs. In England
pair-oars is considered the highest form of rowing, and if
it is to he taken up io Port Jackson, some uniform style
of boat should he used, as on Saturday the various clubs
pressed all sorts of wonderful craft into the service.
* • * *
Champion of England, Hunter River sculler
Geo, Towns, still “down under,” writes that, he is well
again, hut must, not, medical advice says, get into harness
for some months; meanwhile, he mav have to let the
’Ome rowing premiership go by default. N.S.W. South
Coast, oarsman Wray, who has been in “ the States” for
some time, is said to be after the English blue-ribbon.
Maybe he and another comer, Canadian Rogers, will
tussle for it. Australian Sullivan, also on the spot, looks
like trying, too, provided Wray holds aloof.
* * * *
At time of writing, the yachts Columbia and
Shamrock have had more futile tries for the America
Cup, hut in each case a drifting match has ended in a
dead calm, and the yachts could not finish. The surprise
to the Yankees, so far, has been the Shamrock’s sailing in
light winds, under which conditions they considered the
Columbia would walk straight away from her.
* * * *
N.S.W. ex-Attorney-General Want whilst in
Europe recently put in a few days fishing with the Prince
of Monte Carlo, and was present at the trial of a novel
fish-trap. An incandescent electric-light backed by a
powerful reflector concentrates a strong ray on to a
mirror within the trap, and the fish, which come in shoals
to look at their own reflection, are captured in numbers
beyond the imagination of the most hardened fish-liar
who ever stood at the shore-end of a silk-twist. Mr.
Want says that fish immune from every other method of
capture are taken hv this device in the Mediterranean,
some of the specimens secured in his presence being new
to science. A Sydney electrician has just completed an
electric fish-trap to Mr. Want’s order, and it is to be tried
outside Sydney Heads in a day or two.
» * * *
City bowling club (Sydney) did wonders last
season—closed Sept. 30. It won club and individual
chainpio; ships of the province ; seemed first, second and
third prizes (only entering four quartettes) in rink
supremacy competition ; got away with first-prize Asso-
ciation vice-president’s trophies—won by Messrs. Hale
(late of M.L.) and Whittle, last Saturday—and, putting
events of every description together, totalled 3759 points
to 2923 totted up against it. A record.
* » * *
The Five Miles Amateur Championship of
Australasia was run in Sydney the other Saturday after-
noon on Sydney Cricket Ground, and resulted in a
win for C. A. Cameron (N.S.W.), on Dunlop tyres.
* * * *
Should the present Transvaal trouble end in
war, many opportunities will be available to prove the
practicability of the motor-mounted Maxim gun, which
has been largely experimented with h.v the British war
authorities lately, and the successful trials obtained give
promise that the “ motor seoat ” will play an importanb
part should hostilities break out in South Africa. One of
the most successful Maxim carriages is that known as the
Simm’s motor (the invention of an Englishman of that
name). The Maxim fitted is of the ordinary pattern, and
can be sighted and fired whilst the quadricycle is travel-
ling at a fair speed. Sufficient petrol can tie carried on
board to travel 120 miles, also 1000 rounds of ammuni-
tion, which would he ample for scouting purposes. The
quad is fitted with heavy Dunlop carriage tyres.
* * * *
Odd bit of disjointed chat recently overheard in
a Sydney bar from a little knot of jockeys: “India’s
shine—an’Cahul—niy oath.’’ . . . “ So Lord Marcus, he
says to me, ‘ You take them ’oases up to the Ameer, with
my compliments.’ ‘ Yes, me lord,’ says I—you always
says ‘ my lord ’ to them blokes, or they get at you quick-
an’ lively. ... So I up’s an’ says to the Ameer—a big,
dark-colored bloke —‘You take it from me, the Maha-
radger of Patiala has got a hoss in his stable that could
give this bobb.v-dazzler two stun an’ a licking.’ An' then
the Ameer told me straight that I was only crackin’
hardy. ... I says, ‘ Yer Tghness, money talks. I’ll bet
yer 50 rupees’—there’s 10 of them in a caser —‘that
there’s ponies running at Canterbury Park an’ Kensin’ton
t hat ’u’d heat the best ’oss in Cabul from h — to breakfast
time.’ Hadn't bin there a week before a Parsee crook
came at me with the match-box trick. ’Strewth ! ‘ Brown
Joe,' says I, thinkin’ he was kiddin’. But he was dead-
shook on the idea that I was a tug, so I ’ad to stoush
’im.”
* * * *
The mining boom, which has recommenced since
the Boer scare comparatively died down, has distinctly
benefited the Sydney Safe Deposit. Brokers and buyers
alike see the folly of keeping valuable sorip either in office
safes or private residences, and there have been large
numbers of visitors to view the massive strength of the
Deposit vaults, with a proportionate increase in the
number of clients. We are requested to state that the
management freely invite a visit. The Deposit is situated
in Ash-street (back of Palingand Co's), off George-street.*
Before the jingoes reckon too confidently
on the effects of artillery-practice upon the Boers,
it might be well for them to recollect that no
British soldier has had to face cannon since the
Indian Mutiny, 42 years ago.
In a Sydney suburban municipality it was
recently elicted that one Bung at least kept the
water turned off from the horse-trough in front of
his pub. unless the driver of a thirsty moke came
inside and irrigated himself—whether he wanted
it or not. Beer is thicker than water !
The Bulletin regrets to have inad-
vertently classed Mr. Critchett Walker, that
paragon of Under-secretaries, among the men
with two billets. Mr. Walker gets no salary as
returning officer. On one occasion, and having
more than earned it, he received a bonus for his
extra-secretarial work ; but that occasion is
unique.
Says an Englishman in Melbourne, who
recently spent a year in the Transvaal : “ The
talk of the Boers ill-treating the Kaffirs is gener-
ally fairy tale. So far as I could see the niggers
were very fairly treated by all, barring a few
Cornish and Geordie miners. The latter had
never been in a position to skulldrag any living
thing but a dog in their lives before, and when
they had the handling of a nigger they made him
sit up. A few years’experience of these tender
souls makes it very easy for the Boers to convince
the Kaffirs that success for the Britishers means
that the ‘ boys ’ will inherit hell.”
“ Whatever Mr. Reid promised in that
direction I shall of course fulfil,” said Premier
Lyne to theN.S.W. Unemployed Advisory Board.
The topic was payment to the members of the
Board. Premier Lyne seemed ignorant of the
fact that ex-Treasurer and Premier Reid had
entered up £l2OO on the Estimates as remunera-
tion for these advisers, borne of them are M’sL. A.,
some clergymen, and some—like Sydney Smith —
rejected M sL.A., and in appointing them nomi-
nally as voluntary workers and afterwards setting
them down for payment out of the public funds,
Reid was simply playing the familiar old George
trick. Lyne will have to think twice about
paying £l2OO to that Board.
“ Quiz ” writes from Melbourne :
It is becoming more apparent every day that the
Turner Govt, has outlived its period ol usefulness, and is
“ marking time ” waiting for Federation. It may get a
surprise dismissal ere that time conies. Commissions
multiply and local Parliaments dawdle on in the old hum-
drum way, oblivious of the fact that the public eye has
been recently enlarged ; that the man who can now show
ability to rise above the common parliamentary level
will have the eyes of all the federating States upon him ;
and that present notoriety means future place and power.
The legislation of recent years has shown nothing more
than a little skill in ledger-keeping and draftsmanship—
work that should be within the capacity of an ordinary
departmental head-mediocrity .everywhere. Once the
most progressive of countries, we are now almost station-
ary, whilst the wail of the unemployed echoes through a
practically unpeopled land. Above the babel of partyists
and time-servers, Australia, evolving from provincial
chaos, cries aloud for a statesman who can create, and is
not afraid to lead. Will the occasion produce the man ?


“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-IjTGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
fS MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
RIDERS
FAITH
WHO PUT THEIR MONEY AND THEIR
in a “PERFECT” Bicycle
WILL NEVER BE BETRAYED.
Buyers of the “ DOMSNTOM
MAY SAFELY REST IN
5J
HOPE
OP ENTIRE SATISFACTION, and devote
CHARITY
the £6 saved to that
which begins at home, and stays there.
The “PERFECT” and “DOMINION” Bicycles may be obtained through
any Dealer or Agent who is free to handle the best.
FRANK GRIMLEY
{
263 A. 265 CLARENCE STREET,
• SYDNEY • •
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
OP
Bicycle Goods, Carriageware, Saddlery and Harness.
ASK FOR
COMBINES PERFECTION Of QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE POT.
Whisky,
IN
BLACK „, E
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
The Latest Wonder!
THE
“ PENNY-IN-THE-SLOT ”
GrRAM-O-PHONE.
The Horn, Sound Box, Travelling Arm, and Discs are JUST AS ACCES-
SIBLE as in the ordinary well-known type of Motor, and anyone desirous of adjust-
ing the machine or CHANGING THE DISC before starting it, may do so with
perfect ease. Before the winding mechanism can be released, itAs necessary to put
a penny in the slot provided for the purpose, when the machine may be wound and
started, after which it will run for ONE TUNE ONLY, and then automatically
lock itself. The person using the machine may then change the needle and replace
the record at will, and on placing a SECOND penny in the slot the machine may
be rewound. This operation may be repeated any number of times.
I need hardly point out the great advantages of an automatic machine in which
the RECORDS or TUNES can be FREELY CHANGED with absolutely NO
TROUBLE or SUPERVISION.
PRICE :
£l2 12s
A. P. Sykes,
MUSIC
WAREHOUSE,
227 Little Collins-street,
MELBOURNE.
The earning capacity of a good penny-in-the-slot device is so well-known that
I need hardly say anything on this head. That the Automatic Gramophone will
prove a remunerative source of income I have not the slightest doubt, and from the
startling variety of the records which can be supplied, and their absolute novelty, it
opens up a field which no other Automatic Musical Device can in any way rival.
Orders will be executed stric'lu in rotation as received.
J!
CRDnrxti^rvin
. PHiiii
iriFifirrnira
F
OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Missing Friends.
Albert atjbery thomas majory,
formerly of New York, or London. Left
in schooner named Verd, bound to Tasmania or
New Zealand, about 1870 or 1871. Anyone know-
ing his whereabouts kindly communicate with his
mother, Mrs. Majory, Fawn-street, Brisbane; or
Miss Ross, P. 0., Woollahra, N.S.W
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
pATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to tire head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal boi.es of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
*
MEDICATOR.
Rctmey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?* Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
FOR SALE.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY -Bargains in
Snapshot Cameras, taking picture 3J4x3J4, w >th Develop-
ing' Outfit, Plates, etc., 14s. each. Why pay more? Worth
30s. Proofs of work for stamps. A. J. LAWRENCE
26 Jamieson-street, Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
Once upon a time, when a now prominent young Aus-
tralian actor was a member of a small travelling- co., he
found himself rather obtrusively adored by a stage-struck
lady who had bought a minor position in the co. at their
last show-town. Like most sweet young amateurs
engaged in “ paying for experience,” this hopeful female
hankered after the love of a real actor, and her choice
fell upon X. He didn’t want a new mash at the time,
but the lady was so persistently sentimental, and such
an obviously easy victim, that he made a casual conquest
one morning after rehearsal, and straightway left her.
In point of fact he went off to join the oth' r fellows in a
beer and a smoke, whilst the lady was slowly recovering
from her blushful confusion. They met again, at the
theatre in the evening, and the icy coldness of X.’s glance
appeared to set his amorous friend thinking, but she
didn’t venture to approach her god except on the stage,
where she had to bring him a letter. However, next
morning, at rehearsal again, she sidled sadly up to her
hactor, and, addressing him by his Christian name,
asked—“ls there no hope?” “Hope!” said X., who
was studying his part and didn’t want to be disturbed,
“what hope?’’ “Hope that you will love me,” sighed
the ardent novice. “ Love you be d d! ” roared the
gallant X. This true story is printed for the possible
benefit of any stage-struck females who may be dying for
a chance to worship a popular actor at close quarters.
“ S.S.” : To me the most remarkable and bile-provok-
ing feature of the first night’s performance of the revived
“ lolanthe,” at Melb. Princess, was the attitude of the
stupid audience towards Lord Mountararat’s solo in the
second act, “In Good King George’s Glorious Days.”
This is really a lovely bit of satire on the House of Lords
—broad enough satire, one would think, to appeal to a
fairly-alert cabbage ; but the audience took it all in per-
fect good faith as a jingoistic whoop for the Lion and a
smack in the eye for Oom Paul, and they howled with
martial spirit and patriotic frenzy when it was asserted
that Britain “ set the world ablaze in good King George’s
glorious days.” According to Gilbert, this was due to
the House of Peers doing nothing in particular and
doing it very well, but the Melbourne crowd evidently
thought it was listening to a Kiplingesque highfalute,
and applauded like a thousand fatmen at a Queens-
buthdee banquet.
“ ‘ Wheels Within Wheels,’ at the Court Theatre,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ looks
very much like spinning Dot Boucicault on to the hem of
Fortune’s skirt. The 100th night this week—the end of
a savagelv-hot summer—sees the show humming and as
overwhelmingly ‘ blue ’as ever. And it it ‘ blue ! ’ None
of your delicate fleecy shades, but a robust, no-false-
pride cerulean, whose candor drives off blushes with
hearty, roaring laughter. It is funny enough to make a
cat giggle, and smart enough to sharpen your wits on.
The cast is like a mosaic—an attractive whole made out
of (apparently') insignificant parts. Am afraid it’s not for
Australia—unless subdued—for, as W. T. Stead once told
the writer, ‘Melbourne is run by Presbyterians,’ and we
all know Sydney is run by—gingerbeerians.”
Launceston (Tas.) City Council certainly set a good
example in prohibiting the wearing of big women’s-hats
at the local Albert Hall, but as no estimate of size has
been fixed it is presumably left to the intelligence of
Constable X. to decide whether a hat is beyond bounds
or not. As the Launceston policeman is mostly young
and tender-hearted, it isn’t likely that the new regula-
tion will be much more than a dead letter.
Apropos Launceston (Tas.) Council’s decree against any
woman wearing a hat in a theatre or other place of the
kind during the progress of any performance. It was in
the Launceston theatre that a small squabble occurred
during a theatrical performance, and a man on the floor
of the house arose and, addressing the actors, said:
“ Will you kindly discontinue the play while we persuade
this lady to remove her hat?” The management inter-
vened and eventually removed the man, finding that
much the easier.
Miss Daisy Holly, the Australian dancer, was married
at Scarborough (Eng.) on 14th Aug. to Mr. Arthur Bur-
nett. Mason, a gilded personage “ of Hull and Ceylon.”
At present there is hardly a London music-hall that
hasn’t an actor or an actress well-known in Australia doing
“aturn.” Miss Ada Reeve, Miss Ada Willoughby (the two
Julie Bonbons in Australia), and Bert Gilbert are all
favorites at the “ halls,” and the latest recruit in that
direction is Miss Mamie Elliot Page, the handsome
American of the Knight-Ferrar combination. Miss Page
appears in a dramatic sketch at the Palace Theatre of
Varieties.
Sydney Catholic Press describes Maud MacCarthy as
“ the most famous girl in all the world.”
Robert Courtneidge, the all-round comedian of the last
Gaiety Burlesque that visited Australia, is now managing
director of two Manchester theatres.
Recently a man was shut in Melb. Waxworks when they
locked up for the night. He for hours groped about
among the atrocities in the chamber of horrors, finally
falling down stairs and breaking a leg.
The old Victorian convict-hulk Success has financially
justified her name, her exhibition in British ports having
raked in £4OOO profit in 2 years. The ancient craft is said
to be still perfectly sound and seaworthy. She was built
before the “coffin-ship” era.
Wybert Reeve upsets the predictions of the people who
knew all about it by retaking the Adelaide Theatre
Royal. Westralian gold and a good copper-market and
improved harvest prospects have toget.h r made the
Holy City brighter than it has ber since the Barrier
boom.
“E.”: At the recent monthly shivoo of Sydney Pro-
fessional Musicians’ Association there was much talk of
poor “ Daddy ” Ilallewell. Riccardi, in proposing a reso-
lution of condolence with deceased’s daughter, stated
that Hallewell had not, as stated in the press, first
appeared as the Innkeeper in “ Tambour Major,” but had
been chorus-master and mainstay generally of the com-
pany. Present writer always understood Una Brooke
was the mainstay. Scott, of the “quivering-aspen”
hair, declared that Hallewell’s grand voice and fine style
were the inevitable concomitants of his birth at Knares-
borough, Yorkshire, where Scott himself was hatched.
If so, how about Scott? It seems that Scott and Hnlle-
weii were two of the “ four-and-twenty happy boys ” ~
accused of benefit-attending reporters-who “ came
bounding out of school” in Eugene-Aramtown, Scott
being 14 and Hallewell 11 at the time. Another story
told was of how some friends, calling upon “ Daddy” to
inquire into the veracity of his testimonial that “Cape
Weed ale had made a new man of him, and that hence-
forth he would drink no other,” found him wildly
hilarious from the effects of a more popular beverage he
had taken as an antidote.
A celebrated advance-agent, of more vigor than educa-
tion, is supplied with a book of MS. “faked press-notices
and pars. He plumped the book down before aM. L. sub-
editor once, and said, “ There, just copy a few of them
out; they tell vou all about the doiivs of our co.” The
paper-man read a few, and then replied, “ Well, it may
be a record of your co.’s performances, but I hardly think
they’d like to see it in print.” It happened to be a book
of blue “ yarns” and “ nursery ” rhymes which his room-
mate, a famous bar-parlor raconteur, kept to refresh his
unclean memory when going out for “a social evening,”
and the hustler had taken it by mistake.
“ J.E.P.”: Re “ Old Pro's ” assertion (B. 23/9 ’99) that the
ponderous jaw and stubborn,pointed chin denote musical,
muscular or comic ability, the writer knows numerous
instances to the contrary. He is himself much after that
style of phiz, nevertheless his voice is like unto that of a
thirsty frog in a dry pond. He is also about as musical
as a steam-tram and as muscular as a stewed oyster.
[But “Old Pro” didn’t say that certain physiognomical
peculiarities involved certain qualities. His point was
that these peculiarities are found in most of those who
have the qualities. Saying that every horse is a quad-
ruped isn’t saying that every quadruped is a horse. 1
Why does the beauteous Carne never attend social
functions? Well, his name is Joseph.
Dear Bulletin. —I have a theory that the drama is
goim> to the woman. Speaking from Melbourne experi-
ence”only, I should say that, in a few years’ time, man
will have left, the theatre almost entirely to the
soft' sex as he has left the church. Audiences now
average about three women to one man. When the play
is u usually thiok-and-slab with the slobbering senti-
mentality of a 10 ass power melodrama, the proportion of
men is smaller. Under these circumstances, what hope
is there for brainv comedy ? What hope for anything but
the coarse and inhuman play of the wicked haron and the
virtuous maid, with its insolent and irritating pretensions
to art and brilliancy? What hope for any but the pon-
derous Wilson Barretts submitting their mighty platter
of cold duff, and the perky tenors of sloppy burlesque,
worshivmed by the sheep-like sex because they are para-
graphed as looking nice, as usual ? Well, well, the Bar
will remain. There is, at least, no evidence of the
decadence of the back bar.—E.D.
** Holdar M." : It was a damp, dismal morning outside
a city millinery establishment. Inside, the pallid serv-
ing-girls fiddled with the stock in a perfunctory way,
whilst the trousered myrmidon shuffled around trying to
look occupied. The shop walker hovered about the en-
trance, but it was too early and wet for Potts Point
patrons, and depression breathed heavily over the soft-
goods emporium. Suddenly a popular, piquante musical
actress, accompanied by a stage sister and a long,
loquacious male mummer, bounced into the yawning
shop. How the depression lifted ! The weary counter-
maid and lounging draper-youth became seized with an
alien activity, while the master-of ceremonies beamed
upon the clients with his very best beam. As the trio
tripped along, diffusing a “perfeshnal” perfume of
sparkling sin about the premises, their loud and giddy
chatter rang like comic-opera melody in the souls of the
seedy shop-slaves. A packet of pins and a necktie were
about all the visitors bought, but it was pathetic to
watoh the faded features of the under-paid millinery-
menials light up at the sight and sound of these “ per-
feshnals,” with their atmosphere of bloated salaries and
gaudy conquest. But the ache soon passed, and the
usual wooden resignation settled again on the colorless
faces.
“Talking of unrehearsed stage scenes,” says an old
Australian theatre-goer, “I recall seeing ‘handsome
Jack ’ (J. B.) Steele and Miss Adelaide Bowring, at the old
Haymarket, in (I think) Boucicault’s ‘ Foul Play.’ The
lady was just finishing her lines when a man climbed on
to the stage and walked up to her. Miss Bowring retired
and that ‘ exit ’ was Steele’s * cue ’to come on. Judge of
his surprise upon seeing a stranger occupying the middle
of the stage. The prompt arrival of a tall ‘stage-hand’
soon settled the interloper, who was marched off and the
play went on as usual.”
“Castro”: What is it that compels the man in the
gallery to rise up during- the most thrilling part of a
drama and gabble insanely about nothing in particular?
Have often questioned him afterwards and found him
sober, quiet arid half-inclined to deny having interrupted
the play. In Britain this mental weakling is dealt with
severely. The gods are ruled by a benevolent-looking
cop. with a cane as long as Coincidence, and when the
weakling is moved to idiocy the cop hits him violently,
but without prejudice, over the ear. Have seen a cop.
hit his own father for interrupting. Australia badly
wants a broad-minded peele. who can pick out the right
ear in a crowd.
Dear Bulletin.—lsn't it about time that, Australian
theatre-goers demanded common courtesy from the
management as regards unadvertised alterations in the
cast of performers? We are tempted by a certain bill-of-
fare, and after we have paid our money at the door we
find that one of the principal items is “ off,” which is
annoying. It is still more annoying to find that we are
either supposed to not know the difference between the
person whose name appears on the programme and the
substitute who appears on the stage, or are considered
not worth apologising to for the breach of faith. Nobody
even comes forward to state that So-and-So is “indis-
posed.” I will instance, in support of my grumble, foui-
visits to the Princess’s within the past 12 months. The
first, time I wanted to see Kenningham play Lancelot in
“La Poupee,” as per advt., but he wasn't there. Sydney
Bracv appeared In his part, though the programme gave
no hint of the change. A few months later I was
astonished to see Albert Whelan (at least I believe it was
Whelan) doing duty for leading-man Gerard in “ Belle of
New York.” Recently I missed Kenningham from his
advertised place in “The Geisha,” but I’ve no idea of the
name of the dreadful young man who figured as Kenning-
ham on the bill. And one night last week we actually
got two different lolanthes without a word of explana-
tion from the management. Miss Yane was the lolanthe
who came out of the pond. Ten minutes later Miss Nina
Osborne appeared as Strephon’s mother, and another girl
took the part that Miss Osborne had been filling until
Miss Vane vanished.—Melbourne.
An American criticism, on one De Wolf Hopper, in
Musical Comedy :—“Look at that chorus; it is vernal.
One does like a crisp-salad chorus at this time of year.
An autumnal bevy, with muscles in its necks carefully
painted out, and its flanks run all to adipose and repose,
is like having corned-beef served with mayonnaise sauce
at the seashore. D u Wolf Hopper’s chorus is always like
the first dish of strawberries. Did you ever notice the
inspiration, the zest, with which he hugs his own chorus?
I cannot imagine any more recuperative nepenthe for a
blasi man than to go and see De Wolf Hopper love him-
self in his own chorus. It is the saving masculine clause
in the feminine fantasy, always a suggestion of virility in
the centre of the stage. By-and-by, when the delirium
begins, one gets a confused picture of flying limbs, en-
meshed, shooting black stockings beating themselves to
death against convolutions of skirts, inextricable white
arms involved like cosmic, macaroni, plying mists of tissue
like sheets of rain with something pink and symmetrical
sticking out all over—a veritable sand-storm of volup-
tuous star-dust.”
Nigger minstrels may come and go, but it will be long
before Sydney looks upon the equal of Johnny Cowan,
who was at his best more than 20 years ago. Johnny
used to write his own topical songs, and when Premier
Martin started the N.S.W. Permanent Force, Cowan
wrote and sang a skit to the tune of “ Billy Barlow,”
commencing—
Last Saturday week, having nothing to do, I went out to
Moore Park just to see the review.
But, oh my ! I’ve the mark here to show
Where they landed a bomb shell on Billy Barlow 1
Johnny at the time was singing at the old Caf6 Chantant
in York-street (Sydney), and one night, as soon as he had
got off this first verse, he was treated to a shower of
mature eggs by a party of the Force, who had attended in
mufti. Next Night, when “ Johnny’s” turn came, a large
umbrella came cautiously round the wings with Cowan
peering cautiously over the edge. The gag brought down
the house.
At the Cobar banquet to Gov. Beauchamp
Shearers’-Union Spence heaped coals of tire on
the heads of sotne members of the Pastoralists’
Union by introducing them to the Minister for
Lands, and pleading for reduction of their rents
in consideration of bad seasons.
The South German Gold Mine Co. (Vic.)
is being sued by the wife of an employe who
lately recovered damages for injury sustained
whilst working in the mine. The wife claims
compensation for the loss of her husband’s com-
panionship. An interesting point.
When the disabled steamer Waikato was
in tow of the Asloun, the latter was c-oaled from
the former in boats and with a heavy sea running ;
an unprecedented and very dangerous nautical
feat. The general experiences of the Waikato’s
157 days London to Fremantle, indeed, read more
like saltvvater-roinance than hard, wet fact.
Melh. Argus is amazed that a certain
exemplary young man of the Commercial Bank of
Australia should be wanted for embezzlement.
He bas left for parts unknown, and it is con-
sidered a significant coincidence that .£1137 of the
bank’s money should go missing at the same time.
Comments the Argus :
His private life in Melbourne appears to have been
most exemplary. Five nights out of the seven he spent
at his lodging’s in St. Hilda reading. Occasionally he
went out to attend a concert, but never to a theatrical
performance.
Will the Argus never learn that virtue of this
kind always rewards itself ?


as®
xi
✓
THE
GREAT
HERBAL
REMEDY!
IS OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE, 5/6 and 3/6.
Head Institute: 47 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Inflammation, Peritonitis, and Lung Complaint.
TREATED BY SEVEN DOCTORS WITHOUT ANY IMPROVEMENT.
84 Bridge Road, Richmond, Victoria, 18th July, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, 47 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Sir.- —I certify that for about two and a half years I was suffering from INFLAMMATION,
PERITONITIS, and LUNG COMPLAINT. I was about five months confined to bed, and
ATTENDED SEVEN DOCTORS AT VARIOUS TIMES, but I was not improving under
their care, and I was told that the only means of saving my life was by AN OPERATION, as they
had at that time done all they could for me, but I was then too weak to risk the danger of an opera-
tion. I COULD NOT EAT NOR SLEEP, and was really in a very weak condition.
I need scarcely say that doctors’ and nurses’ expenses amounted to a considerable sum of money.
As a last resource I was induced to try VITADATIO, and after persevering with EIGHT
BOTTLES I am thankful to say that my troubles have been overcome, and I HAVE BEEN
CURED. lam now able to attend to my business here, and am willing to give particulars of my case
and cure to any lady who may be suffering.
I consider it my duty to let others know that there is a cure, because the restoration to health
after a term of illness is a blessing I cannot be too thankful for. You can use this letter for the good
of others. Yours sincerely, (Mrs.) ANNIE COHEN. Tobacconist, 84 Bridge Road, Richmond.
Another Very Marvellous Cure .
THOSE GETTING UP IN YEARS TAKE HEART.
To Mr. PALMER, Newmarket, 9th July, 1899.
Sole Australasian Agent for VITADATIO for the Colony of Victoria.
Dear Sir. —It is with great pleasure I testify to the inestimable value of WEBBER’S GREAT
HERBAL REMEDY. VITADATIO. For the last four years I have been treated by doctors,
the number of which I really could not tell, for A DISEASED LEG, which the medical profession
termed a RUNNING ULCER, and none of them could cure me. What with medicine and profes-
sional attendance during all those years, I spent a good sum of money, for it was my practice to try all
remedies I thought likely to do me good. Having heard of VITADATIO, I thought I would give it
a trial, and, to my astonishment, I soon discovered that VITADATIO had found the weak spot, and
after taking six large bottles I found out it was going to work a miracle on me. I continued taking
it, and now, AT 69 YEARS OF AGE, I feel myselt to be quite a new man. My cure is well-known
to all who live in the neighborhood, and many of my friends called to see me. I give this testimonial
of my own free will, to show the great power of VITADATIO, and also for the benefit of others who
may suffer as I have.
Yours faithfully, R. B. CULLEN.
Ladies, Study Xliis. Internal Complaint.
Mr. PALMER, Castlemaine Street, Yarraville, 7th July, 1899.
Dear Sir. —Words cannot express my gratitude to you for what your wonderful herbal remedy VITADATIO has done for me. For years I have not known what health was, and at times life was just a
misery. Doctors and herbalists were in vain, and I was told there was “no cure ” for my complaint, which was internal. Hoping some other poor sufferer may benefit by this, I give you leave to use it as
you like. Anyone wishing to know further can do so by writing to me. My case is of interest to many, and I will be glad to help where I can. I remain (Miss) EMMA SPEAR. 7th July, 1899.
S. A. PALMER, Agent General for Australasia, India, Ceylon and Japan.
* *
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer: W. WEBBER, Elizabeth.-st., Launceston, Tasmania.
Sydney Institute: 184 Pitt Street
/Next Her Majesty’sX
\ Theatre. /•
Also Adelaide, Perth, and Wellington, N.Z.
THE
CUT RA.TE
Consulting- and
eg
K
O
DRUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Dit. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGrORATOR.
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve.
blood and brain tonic that medical science can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to parftlyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
.mark every feature of your manhood?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
B.V its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public , .
Complete Exhaustion —Thousands in our midst
-to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
.of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
■ every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
~dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering- people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Relnvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
Vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, *&e., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright's Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Rein vigor a tor. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigora or.
Charlatans and Humbugs —You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Relnvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Trice —
One Guinea.
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST TREE
Stimulates the Depressed,
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
cont inuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductor's.— By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Pr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charms of the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets np a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter. —Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts, Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the test ifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know’ my health and strength are assured.”
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without, the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt . Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life !
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. Hughes’s Fitsepilep.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND PITS has proved to be one of the wonders of theatre.
"So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pyramid Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING- HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate character of
INWARD or OTJTW AHD PICKS readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. (id. per box, or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OTJR PATRONS
TREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
dress
A
i
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Country Trial Order respectfully Solicited.


Nir: RaSSrpGSSco’S Alfalifye Herbal RenjedieS-
Bilore marvellously Successful aaid HHfectuaJ. than ever.
ISa/ve been before the Public for over 14 Years-
tw-*. '■ mjtri'mimMMrgMMMfMßMtmMMMßMM'iniwß ni umm umoKmaaommamaamm?’
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
■PBi
K 839
■BH
...
»a
111
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALE’ALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair'
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
_ „ Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit- as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. - Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM 'ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating lhat
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness—Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’-Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr KASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches. i
&
J. S O d
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
AtF aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALP ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and ai;e especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or I
Herbs anywhere.
■gag
m
m
m
Herr Bassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
- • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
ADVICE FREE.
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmilSSeil.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
!
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory gggggg Declaration.
I, TIIOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLUN'S, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. ’
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turnin'' grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes-Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes Is •
posted. Is 6d. ’ ’
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l’owder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes’ 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults verv
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. ’
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
Pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts-Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Read Office - 547 6EOR6E ST., SHORES
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: * T M* MM Wm wJ J
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154: Bundle-street (near York Hotel)
KAI.GOORI.IE Hamian-st. (next LiudelTs, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... S hen ton-street (opposite P O.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


The Australian estimate of what war is
like is exemplified by the daily press’s solemn
enumeration of the names of every man-Jack of
the Lancer-contingent which it is proposed to
send to South Africa. And to think that present
writer has more than once seen thrice the number
buried nameless in a common trench I
The Transvaal informer lately tarred-and-
feathered at Ladysmith, S. Africa, is identical with
a man well-known at Coolgardie as a police pimp.
He induced the women sly-grog-sellers of the
once-golden capital of Westralia to sell him
spirits, and promptly handed over the liquor to
the plain-clothes police waiting for him outside.
On one occasion he begged a woman to serve
him on the ground that he was very ill. In one
day he had 20 cases before Finnerty, R.M., who
hates informers. Said Finnerty, “ I dislike in-
formers, but the evidence is too clear. I must
fine each of the defendants .£2O, and imprison-
ment till the rising of the court. Adjourn the
court, sergeant, and see that that man is not
much longer on the fields.” The warning was
scarcely necessary. The pimp was attacked a few
minutes after the court adjourned and nearly
kicked to death. He was rescued by the police,
and kept in their camp till the gold-escort went
to Perth, and taken there in company with the
constables. In Perth he again took to informing,
and obtained something like 50 convictions in a
week. Then he went to the Murchison, once
more “ informed ” for a living, only escaping with
his life through police aid. At last Chief Inspec-
tor Large gave him the choice of quitting Wes-
tralia or going to gaol as a vagrant. He agreed
to quit, and was put on board a sailing vessel for
Natal. He must have harvested .£4OO or <£soo by
informing in Westralia. What he got from the
Boers is a matter for conjecture.
Legal Notice.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
Mr. Justice Chubb.
1899—N0. 96.
Between THOMAS HERBERT BELPITT
Plaintiff SARAH ANN BELPITT De-
fendant and EDWARD JOSEPH
CAHILL Co-defendant.
TO the abovenamed defendant ar.d co-defendant
who when last heard of were residing at Morri-
son’s Bore Camp near Wilcannia in the Colony of
New South Wales but whose present whereabouts
is unknown to the plaintiff
TAKE NOTICE that Thomas Herbert Belpitt
of Elmina in the Colony of Queensland the above-
named plaintiff has commenced an action against
you Sarah Ann Belpitt and Edward Joseph Cahill
in the Supreme Court of Queensland by filing a
petition on the fifth day of May 1899 and issuing
a writ on the same day by which he claims a dis-
solution of his marriage with you Sarah Ann
Belpitt and that you Edward Joseph Cahill may j
be condemned in the costs of and incidental to |
the action. And further take notice that the
Court has ordered this notice to "be published three
times in the Bourkk Banner the Western
Grazier and the Sydney Bulletin and that upon
proof to the Court that reasonable efforts have
been made to effect personal service of the said
petition and writ the publication of this notice
shall be deemed to be. substituted service thereof
on the last day on which the advertisement ap-
pears and you and each of you are required to
enter an appearance to the said writ within one
month from that date. And further take notice
that within twenty one days after the time limited
for your appearance you and each of you must file
your statement of defence herein otherwise the
said action will proceed against you as for default
of appearance as appears by the endorsement on
the said writ.
Morris and Fletcher,
George Street, Brisbane,
Town Agents for Samuel S. Pegg,
Solicitor for plaintiff
Cunnamulla.
Business Announcements.
HOW TO PRESS WELL
AT A SMALL COST.
j\TANY Books have been written showing how ladies
M may dress well on £5O a year, £lOO a year, £l5O a
year, and so on.
But to be dressed well does not depend so much on the
amount of money spent, as the place where it is spent,
and the taste of the spender.
Some ladies will dress as well on £5O as others on £lOO
or more.
You may see a lady with a three guinea hat or bonnet
which, instead of improving, simply disfigures her appear-
ance.
A lady who wants to dress well, has first to determine
what amount of money she can afford, and then the best
place to spend it, that is, where she may be sure of
getting the greatest value.
The first question is easily answered ; the second often
perplexing and troublesome.
Thousands of ladies—and the number is constantly
increasing—have, however, already made the discovery ;
and, when the new seasons come, they go at once to 0.
G. Hatt.e’s, at Newtown.
At Haite’s they find all that is brightest and best, and
at prices only half what City houses charge.
The superiority of Hatte’s MILLINERY is now a house-
hold word. This department is under the supervision of
Mrs. Hatte, who has made a special study of millinery in
Paris, so that every article bears the stamp of elegance
and true art.
Hat te’s shipments of SPRING AND SUMMER DRESS
MATERIALS are one of the largest in the colony; the
goods of the latest fashion and design and the selection
so large as to suit every taste.
Hatte’s READY-MADE CLOTHING department is
stocked to repletion, every article well finished and made
of seasonable and durable materials; and the same re-
mark applies to the H AT, MERCERY and HABER-
DASHERY departments.
Hatte s SUITS TO MEASURE at two guineas (with
extra pair of trousers given in) mark a revolution in
tailoring. There is a big selection of materials ; and the
workmanship is all that can be desired. Patterns and
self-measurement forms supplied free.
Haite’s BOOTS AND SHOES are noted for their wear-
ing qualities, fit, style, and superior finish. He keeps
none of the rubbish, known as “ tripe ” sold at many
shops.
Hatte’s BUILDERS AND HOUSEHOLD IRONMON-
GERY Department contains every article needed by the
trade and for domestic use.
Hatte’s PRICE AND FASHION BOOK for the Spring
and Summer Seasons is just issued, and will be posted
free on application.
Remember that HATTE'S is one of the biggest estab-
lishments in the Colonies—the People’s House, where you
can ’’’ot everything you want at half the usual prices.
You can save time, trouble, and your purse, by going
for everything you want to
C. <S. NATT€,
NCWTOWN.
WAR • WAR • WAR
Just Published
A War Map of South Africa printed in four
Colors —showing all the principal divisions
and strategical points, railway routes,
rivers, etc-., and also ground plans of
Pretoria, Durban, Johannesburg, etc.
Indispensable for following the various moves
of the Armies.
SIZE 30in. x 24in.
Price 1/-; posted to any address, 1/1.
Published by the N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
(all Branches), and 861 George-street, Sydney.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
o'" Sup rio. Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M‘CLELIiAND
(nee BOLGER).
o
tP
OLD
HNS
iUNBU.
FINg
</?
HA
<2>
'V
&.C
J'
y
zJ*£
%
H
Y
?7
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 ; WED. AFTERNOON, at 2.
Will be Repeated
“TN€ CHRISTIAN.”
Adapted from Hall Caine’s famous novel by Mr. Wilson
Barrett, and re-arranged for Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove by Mr. Bernard Espinasse.
Plan, Nicholson’s. 13&"" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
AN ABSOLUTE TRIUMPH!
“ LIGHTS O’ LONDON.”
G. R. SIMS’S MASTERPIECE.
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as “Harold Armytage.”
Miss LILIAN WHEELER as “ Bess Marks.”
Prices: 35., 25., Is. Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.55.
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 10.45.
SjIHE WORLD - RENOWNED SOPRANO
Mdllc. TREBELLI.
JVOTY TOURING THE COLONIES.
ADELAIDE—EarIy in October.
BROKEN HlLL—Early in October.
SYDNEY - End of October and November.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING!
JOHN F. Sheridan “When the Lamps
JOHN F. SHERIDAN are Lighted.”
GRACIE WHITEFORD By George R. Sims and
GRACIE WHITEFORD Leonard Merrick.
\pw~ Success Compute and Assured.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
tyaGd MacCartljy,
The World-famous Australian Violinist.
“The Greatest Musical Genius Australia
has Produced.”
USTRALIAN Commencing SYDNEY, Wed.
TOUR ■ ■ ■ 18th October.
JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
PALACE Tll EaT R E, SYI)N E Y.
* Mr. Harry Kickards’ Tivoli Coy.
LAST WEEK BUT ONE IN AUSTRALIA OF
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. GK "W. Hunter.
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alma Gray, Paul Pelham, George C. Dean,
Florrie Ranger, Howard Chambers, Neva Carr Glynn,
Jas. Mooney, Alf. Lawton,
POPE and SAYLES, aiid all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A GIGANTIC SUCCESS! A GREAT HIT
made by one of England’s Greatest Character Comedians,
Mr. TOM COSTELLO.
Splendid Success of the Marvellous' VALDARES.
HOWARD and ST. CLAIR, VIRTO and IRENE,
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Arthur Hahn, Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, Frank
Rowen, Keenan Bros., Chas. W. Cogill, and all our
Brilliant Co. Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
HEATRE ROYAL, M ELROIJRNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING !
Another Great Triumph of Genuine Dramatic Art,
The Merciless World.
A Play of Thrilling Incident and New and Startling
Mechanical Effects.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS TH EAT RE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mcsgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“ lOLANTHE.”
SATURDAY, Oct. 14, Six Nights Only, “ LA POUPEE.”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
INHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYOLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10—5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children—SIXPENCE.
Business Announcements.
Ob* M<in>n?al
Say, &€€ Here !
Have you your pocket-book ? Well, just take it out right
away, and write in large letters the name of
WASHINGTON H. SOUL AND CO.,
the big Chemists and Druggists’ Store, of
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
who have just received the LARGEST SHIPMENT OF
PERFUMERY that has ever been placed in one line to a
retail Chemist’s order, and they have now for your in-
spection a HUGE AND COLOSSAL DISPLAY of the
world’s latest and best production. London’s latest
craze,
ERASMIC PERFUME,
ERASMIC PERFUME,
the display of which is a perfect labrynth of artistic de-
sign and Oriental finish. A sniff is invigoration, and to
inhale is one vast flow of dreamy intoxication.
We never stop ; seems as though each month surpasses
the preceding one. We never stop in our determination
to OUTDO ALL FORMER EFFORTS of OURSELVES and
OTHERS. Ours is a
DECIDED AND PALPABLE
DESTRUCTION
of all high prices. We buy largely, we sell largely—
mutual advantage to the buyer and seller. Our motto is
EXCLUSIVENESS in QUALITY, but not EXCLUSIVE
PRICES. It will make you cool on a hot day to glide
through our Store—a world of fancy display and colossal
productions of the perfumers' art. Here’s the
PERFUME SENSATION OF THE YEAR.
We have just completed a deal by which we acquire
±6OO worth of Erasmic Perfume at vastly reduced prices
charged in the usual way of trade. We have made special
concessions, and acquired special discounts, and this
huge purchase MUST GO to make room for LARGE
SHIPMENTS of NOVELTIES now on the water for our
Christmas trade. See our
WINDOW DISPLAYS.
See our INTERNAL DECORATIONS. See the huge
admixture of scenic art and artistic display designed by a
London Expert, specially engaged for the particular dis-
play of this perfume. We offer an innovation of
WINDOW DISPLAY
hitherto UNATTEMPTED by any Chemist and Druggist
this side of the line, and we purpose distributing gratui-
tously Bijou Bottles for all those of our large and glorious
phalanx of customers who favor us with a call. We offer
not second-rate Perfume. We offer only the best; and so
satisfied are we with this, our latest purchase, that we
have decided to let all who desire
“TASTE AND TRY BEFORE THEY
BUY.”
That’s fair dealing. There’s no vain boast about this,
but fair business.
This Perfume is resplendent with all the beauties of
exquisite and delicate inhalation, which, sylphlike, steals
o’er the senses, and imparts the nearest approaoh to
ecstacy sublime.
OUR SHOW IS NOW READY.
We invite all to come. It is our delight to please and see
the continuous stream of pleased and smiling countenances
of our loyal supporters, who visit us with full pocket
books, but leave us with armfuls of satisfaction and de-
lighted expressions of our Augean effort to supply only
the best, and at so small a cost.
A GLIMPSE OF THE DISPLAY
is better than words. Because we want to GROW
GREATER and BETTER we seek our PUBLIC’S
CONFIDENCE. Some old stores get set in their ways
like old people. We respect them, but we must have the
new and up-to-date to LEAD US ONWARD. It is not so
much of an art in knowing what the people want as it is
to fill their wants at
PLEASING AND ACCEPTABLE
PRICES.
This we have studied for years, and we think our
Mammoth Emporium furnishes striking evidence that we
have MASTERED THE ART.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL AND CO.,
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
CHURCH STREET, PARRAMATTA;
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE.
COX ON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Acoordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY'.
Noa to be Beautiful!
LADIES are
deli ghted
when they
receive the BOONA BEAUTY BOX. Price 10/-.
Which contains a 5/6 Bottle of Beauty Cream, a Box of
Beauty Powder, a Bottle of Rose Bloom, a Tube of Lip
Salve, an Eyebrow Pencil, and a Silk Pocket Powder-
puff, with a'Book of Directions and a Treatise on AIDS
TO BEAUTY. Packed free from Observation. No
advertisement on outside wrapper. Send P. 0.0., stamps
or Postal Note for 10 -. Address: EUROPEAN
IMPORT CO., Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
lAMON9 SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s lOd from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Ch imbers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra Aid exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
w
WCVAA»
FOREIGN STAMPS.
v RRANGED in Continents—grand value :
•** 50 Afrioa (all different), Is 3d ; 100
Africa, 5s ; 50 Asia, Is 6d ; 100 Asia, 5s ;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, ss; 100 South America, ss; 100
Europe, 3s. Many varieties in the larger
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d; 250,
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. Remit P. 0.0.,
P.N. or stamps. Price Lists Free.
(rr All _i 162 Elizabeth Street.
Wm. Ackland, MELBOURNE.
The ways of many waters
By E. J. Brady. Price 5/-.
FOHEIGKT STAMPS
O ETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala (Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg', Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
(id ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s Cd ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B.
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
ft!W
THE BEST
WEDDING GIFT
* v -':
I
m
The
ARTIST
MODEL
(Allan's Patent)
Price, £3 lOs.
A Tripod Stool of beautiful model (our
registered design), and obtainable
only at our warehouse.
MUSIC STOOLS
In Brass, with plush seats, from 40 \-
Bentwood, with cane seats, from 25 -
Walnut or Black & Gold, with leather
seats, 35/-, 73/6
Organ Benches, in Walnut, at 25/
Illustrated Lists post free.
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary
Limited,
276 & 278 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
.—SAUCE.
the
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice.. •
&
/
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy : —“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the waste it in
the great Cabins.”
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Ire you Run Qouin f
The present summer promises to be a
severe one. Weak people, therefore,
should fortify themselves by taking a
course of
Minerva T on * c
For promoting an appetite, strengthen-
ing the constitution, feeding the brain,
and steadying the nerves, this prepara-
tion is without an equal.
Hon.' E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister for
Works, speaks of MINERVA as “an
admirable tonic,” and recommends it
to the public.
All Chemists throughout Australis,


ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
FULL SETS, £2 10s.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £5.
Thorough Masticating Powerand beautiful Natural Appear-
ance guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, -otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
D.S.MAIR
S p
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
English Mainsprings, first, quality, 2/6
D. S. Mair for Rotherham English Lever Watches,
capped and jewelled, nearly new, correctly regulated.
Guaranteed 5 years, 35 -
D. S. Mail* for Heavy 3 Opal Stone Dress Rings. Best
quality Opal. Solid Gold, 19/6.
D> S. Mair for Heavy Solid Silver Pocket to Pocket
Alberts, English Hall Marked, 10 6, 12'6.
Note address —6B4 George Street, Sydney.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s, each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakei s
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
"’hen they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdtessing
Chair, as used in our own salooh ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers' Supply House:
o
—ll
&
mHE Acme of Mechd
JL nical Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “ Home, Sweet
Home,” “There’ll Come a
r. 11 » . w Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/- ; Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1/2 extra,
at ;y other Colony, 2/2. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, monev refunded.
H. POTIER AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Medical*
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box ICO, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tbe B. aod N.Trcatn>eot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors fake |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Proven• dive ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
. Established 1871.
THIb SOCIETY, m addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
tt ®? n ’’ s . s ' on °f proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Writefor Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Important to Parties Furnishing*!
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers , . .
Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD'ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL S Guarantee a Saving of 26 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated. Furnishing Guide, Rost Free.
HALL'S give Value for Value — 2os. for the £.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Pi ices and Goods.
HALL'S Tender Estimates, Desighs, and Pattertis Free,
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney*
Telephone, 1156, Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates,
REGISTERED
ROSES
WEFFECTIVECimi
"Blicht Inflames EyejMbs
Weak Eyes Dwnejs ET?
mxm
551 GEORGE ST
LABEL
Thfe Greatest Discovery of Moderri Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever*
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &e.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used tf-ith equal sue*
cess dh the Eyds of
Cattle, .Sheep, Poul-
try, <&c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO 3DKJPY CO MF.fiJTITIOKr.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
Slc., &c., for
HOMOCEA
m.
TOUCHES
THE
mi
AND SOOTHES THE ACHING PART.
For all Deep-seated and Persistent Pains use HOMOCEA
EMBROCATION, Sold in Collapsible Tubes.
a// S oiek epers, Genera! Dea'e-s. and Chemists.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELT™
GENTLEMEN,sSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS'
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in nil
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. It it
does not we will prompt I v
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address:—
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Not Heavy to Him.
The man on the elephant’s back is nothing to
the elephant. The big beast doesn’t mind him
any more than one of those immense dray horses
you see in London minds the brass ornaments on
his harness, Yet on my back or yours the man
would be a load ; and, if fastened to a lark’s wings
the little brasses would hold him to the earth.
Thus, we are reminded, my thoughtful friends,
that there are no absolute facts, The burden de-
pends on the back. Albeit Samson walked off
with the gates of Gaza, an ordinary garden gate
would, lam sure, prove all that we should want
to lug. It follows that weight or heaviness can,
as the advertisements say, “be supplied in a
variety of styles. ”
When, for example, Mr. Sidney Challanger
mentions in a letter that at a certain period he
was “heavy,” he does not mean that he tipped
the scales at a stone or two more than usual. His
horse would have felt that, in case he rode one $
but the truth is that at the time referred to he
was actually under his proper weight by several
pounds.
What he wants us to understand is that he was
heavy to himself; it was not an increase of weiyht
but an increase of weakness, having practically the
same result. His explanation is that in the early
part of 1890 he began to feel ill and out of sorts,
He went about in a mazy way, feeling badly with-
out knowing what the trouble was or how to
account for it.
“ I had, ” Mr. Challanger goes on to tell us,
“a nasty taste in the mouth and no relish for
my meals. ” But eat we all must, or starve; and
eat he did. Not much, though. At best it was
a forced business. Nothing tasted natural or
good, and he took just enough to keep him going
until the next meal time should come round.
“ And even for that 1 had to suffer, ” he says.
“ After getting it down I had, almost immediately
a sense of fulness or distension at the stomach
and pain at the chest as if a bit of food had
lodged there—which couldn’t be. ”
No, nothing lodged anywhere. What there was
of it went straight down into Mr. Challanger’s
stomach, where it at once began to ferment and
produce a gas which caused the feeling of fulness,
while the irritated nerves set up the pain. It
was not too much food, but food not digested—
food turned sour in the stomach—with the whole
body behind it failing of the needed stimulus and
nourishment of food, and wondering what the
matter was. It was this state of matters that
made him, to use his own words, “ heavy, drowsv.
and languid. ”
Any river in England, after a long drought in
summer, looks just as Mr. Challanger felt —heavy,
drowsy, and languid. And for an identical reason
—the lack of necessary supplies. Wait an instant
though ! Don’t miss the point.
The rain, when it comes, fills the river by a
thousand little channels falling directly into it.
Not so as to food and body. Between them is a
process ; a mechanical, chemical, and vital opera-
tion-digestion. Mark you that, and act accord-
ingly. Whether in the sky or on the ground water
is water —the same thing.
But food and body are not the same thing. The
first must be transmuted into the second by the
miracle called digestion ; for of all God’s ways in
nature none is more awful, more amazing, more
glorious. And, when impeded or overborne, none
which punishes the interference more certainly and
swift.
“I got little or no sleep, ” continues our friend
“and awoke in the morning tired out, as after a
hard day’s work. Presently I could hardly walk,
for very weakness, and from time to time had to
give up work altogether. No medicine helped me
—and I tried plenty.
“ After three wretched years of this, Mrs. Bird,
of Tallistorn, told my wife about Mother Seigel’s
Syrup and through her, advised me to try it.
She said my ailment was indigestion and the
Syrup would cure it. And it did. One bottle
greatly relieved me. I could eat freely and food
agreed with me. I persevered with the I remedy
and got strong as ever. All the pain and heavi-
ness left me, and I felt light and energetic, al-
though I have gained in weight. ’’—(Signed)
Sydney Challanger, Gladstone Villa, Cwm near
Waunllwyd, Mon, August 30th, 1898.
fiIVEN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REA]
GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA, to further introduc,
DR. YON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, whicl
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One tria
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is 6d, for which wi
will forward you post free one box (three tablets) of DR
VON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask fo
the brooch is that you introduce the soap'to at least si:
friends. You can have any name desired engraved 01
the brooch. Numerous testimonials
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb-
in<r interest to every MAN
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY


D.Braham&Co
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SPRING "SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OP —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS 1
TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Sraham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprisin'? One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X 716*4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
44
M
THE.
FRIEND
RAHERVEY.
171 CLARENCEST
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 86 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co.* Manchester.
XJSB
Spooler's
ooonet?^,
ROYAL NAVY DRESSIIiC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
: OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
:::: DIRECIIONS FOR USE
BtlUHiUiliHiUiiHimiuHiimitffll
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
“Common Sense
« « Ear Drums”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and '
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO A pent,
CHALMERS, 229 CollinsSt Melbourne
Mention “The Bulletin” when writing.
7 THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(INVISIBLE) I
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD
MINISTERING
EUGRASY
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE,,SURF AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
Tt pan be sriven in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou, uetec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address
HEADQUARTERS: THE EUORASY CO. f 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY GO.,
971 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND^-**
The Thermal Springs District.
WONDERLAND
THE
Grand Hotel, ROTORUJI.
' The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
Zealand., ;
* ■
11. V. Gardner Cate of the P. <& O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
3. A position in the-immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than, will be found in any
hotel of the same Class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed "Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
are celebrated for their quality.
OTTO HERZ & CO/S SHOES
are well known for their elegance.
OTTO HERZ & CO. S SHOES
never lose their shape.
OTTO HERZ & CO ’S SHOES
fit the foot to perfection.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
have a 40 years’ reputation.
OTTO HERZ & CO’S SHOES
■ * 1 ; .. «U,
form this most comfortable footgear?
OTTO HERZ & CO. S SHOES
are sold by all of
JOHN HUNTERS SON’S (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
"i'll Try lt.‘
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
'■ ducer. ■
Capillarme l
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. Oil. -
Soli® Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” Gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from ' r ~
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREk
OF COST to the Consumer.
fW" Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE V ’
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
warners
:• The
I' only
Specific -
for all forms of ■ •
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHTS DISEASE
pamphlet H.H. WARNER & C 9 LIP
t FROM MELBOURNE, AUST.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test' whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send tor a fr e E bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT I 2B,ENDSLEIBHODNS.,LONOON,ENQ.
RECORDS IN QUEENSLAND.
More Queensland Cures.
A Brisbane Fireman
Tells an
g
] flj •*?;. -'*l
$•: V
The Case of
MR. ELLIS BAXTER CRAMPTON.
(by our special reporter.)
There is no calling, not even that of a
sailor or of a mountaineer, that requires a
surer eye and a steadier nerve than tiiat of a
fireman. Frequently poised, as it were,
between heaven and the fiery gulf beneath,
one false step or the slightest hesitation or
nervousness may mean a fatal plunge into
the raging flames below. Whilst traversing
a burning building, which often falls to his
lot to do, in the effort to save life or pro-
perty, he needs an amount of self-confidence
and presence of mind which are only
consistent with a proper complement of
physical health. Unless his eye shows the
sparkle of health, and his skin betokens to
the experienced medical inspector that the
blood coursing beneath is in a fine state, and
unless, in addition, his nerves are as firm as a
rock, he is not allowed to take any risks for'
himself or others in extinguishing conflagra-
tions, but is placed on routine duty or invalided
altogether till he is cured of his indisposi-
tion, and fit once more to pass the inspection
of the doctor. A case in point, illustrating
what we have said, and which may prove
interestingy#"to our readers, occurred
other day, ■ and a special reporter 'was
despatched to make all proper inquiries and
to interview the subject himself, who is one
of Brisbane’s firemen, and is stationed at the
fire station at Kangaroo Point in that city.
His name is Ellis Baxter CramptOn, and, of
course, he was found at his post, like a good
soldier, and was nothing loth to tell the
newspaper man everything.
“Yes,” he said, in answer to questions,
“mine was no light malady, and it lasted
me for between three and four months. It
was a strange sort of nervous disease,
Coupled with a general physical weakness.
No, I can’t tell you how it came on. I
noticed, in the first place, that instead of
sleeping properly I should doze off and
wake with a sudden and startling shock.
Gradually I would doze off again, only to
repeat the performance a few minutes later.
This was very unusual with me, who,
though a light sic-per (having to be ever
ready to attend the tap of the telephone),
am accustomed to ever refreshing and
unbroken slumber.. Then my wife-told me
that I often twitched in my sleep. All
this I didn’t like at all. Proper sleep is
absolutely necessary for one in my career,
for I may be called at any moment and am
expected to be fresh and bright and clear
headed aftd able to undertake dangerous
and difficult work when necessary.”
“ Wefe you right in other respects?”
asked the pressman. V*
“ No, I was not. I got so that I couldn t
eat. I am usually a good eater, but now
I could hardly look at my food, and I began
to fall away in flesh. Then a feeling of
weariness was wont to creep over me in the
day time, and I had no inclination to move
at all.” '
“ Did your nerves get worse or better at
about this time?” '
“They continually got slowly worse.
I became very shaky all over, and some-
times I would feel a tremble like a faint
electric shock run through my whole
system. In fact, I was reduced to such a
state that, at this timers any. sudden shock
would have knocked me down. To add to
my sufferings a neuralgic pain of great
intensity now made itself felt in my cheek
and temple.”
“Please tell me about the measures you
adopted to relieve yourself.”
“ Well, I tried a great many things,
pretty nearly all the medicines going, but I
could get no ease, but rather I became
worse. I got very depressed in spirits, and
seemed to take no interest in what was
going on around me. The fact that no
medicines did me any good worried me a
good deal too. I could hardly get any
sleep at nights now at all. With all this
trouble on my shoulders you may guess I
had no hopeful or bright look out for the
future.”
“And you were cured how, for I can see
you are now in excellent health ? ”
“My recovery was a very simple matter,
after all. The only thing I wanted was the
right remedy. One day a man made some
joke about my nerves which set me thinking,
and when I got home I read an account of
a case that pretty nearly tallied with mine
in most of the symptoms, and in which case
a cure had been effected solely by the aid of
Clements Tonic. That decided mer " I sent
for a bottle to begin with, and commenced
taking it.”
“ With what result?” ’ _
“I soon began to find a slight, but quite
noticeable, improvement in the general tone
in my health. I slept more easily at night,
and I could eat far better. And in a few
days I certainly wasn’t so nervous and
shaky. Things seemed brighter under the
influence of Clements Tonic, and the
despondency I have spoken of cleared off
altogether. I now began to mend very
rapidly. Once more I came to my meals
readily and with a respectable appetite; and
quickly put on the flesh that I had lost
during my illness. The neuralgic pains
were just as quickly cured by that remedy,
and soon I was able to sleep just as soundly
as I wanted to. I still kept taking
Clements Tonic so as to get my blood and
nerves into perfect order, but it wasn’t very
long before I was able to drop it altogether,
for I was completely built up again, in
splendid health and ready for anything ”
“ Any objection to us printing this?”
“ Oh, no : not in the least. I am only too
glad to make such a valuable restorative as
Clements Tonic better known.*
' STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Et.t.is Baxter Crampton, of Fire Station,
Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, in the Colony of Queens-
land, do hevebv sO’emnly and sincerely dec'are that, 1
have carefully read the annexed document, consisting
of four folios and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and faith-
ful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tome,
and also contains my full permission to publish the
same in any wav; and that I do not receive any pay-
ment for the same ; and I make this solemn declara-
tion volu n tar-iiv, conscientiously-be ieving th»same to
be true, and by virtue Qf the provisions of Lite
Oatht Act, 1867.”
Declared at Brisbane, this ttiirty-first day of July,
ohe thousand eight hundred and "'nety-mne, before
nie JNO. MALE. J.r.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers' Produce.
SYDJSTE Y MA RKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
m- MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES h DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
I NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHOOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. O. YOUNG & CO.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
. a .. «ii
looms and Accommodation-all prices— ss. to 12s.
ter day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separate!}'. i
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE —-


THE
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
A.% F, PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
f' . r ~
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the j
' jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889. !
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
• to . * :
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
; _ ; • i•.s: ■ ,i
His Royal Highness
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
CAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
m
V
&
A
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
Arid entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d.,‘ 11- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
' ' r > '17 1 .f r„. n
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
rriee,# 7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE I ;
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert jn your own Home.
Nothing- to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
graphes, . X-Ray Apparatus, ' Electrio
Decorations, Fans,’ etc., and all aece*
sories. -•
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EDlSON ELECTRIC COMPANY
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
«/» Oldershaiv, Manager.
Barons’ Foot *ii Stean)
mm
AND
:■}:
Eogii)««rs’ Tools.
Drilling: Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO
N . ENGINEERS’ anti GENERAL
! - Sydney and
MACHINERY
IVIellb ourne. CJ.it a \jS fr.JtvOiU
MERCHANTS,
At Yarrawonga—On the Murray.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What more pleasant than this river-solitude
among the whispering red-gums, to swim or
loiter or dream in, this serene, Sunday morning.
,’Tis the only church I love, and where X am a
devout listener. My bright-ieyed li,ttle friend,
the woodpecker, shall preach me a sermon, and a
magpie shall sing mUrbiipidoxology, and the in-
finite deep of blue sky shall be my Amen.
Here let me lie, then, with the roots of this big
tree for my pillow, and marvel awhile at the deli-
cate filigrane of bronze and chrysolite leaves
above nie, laid upon the azure air like rare tracery
upon some antique vase. The air is wine-like and
warm, and the endless beauty of life, and the
mystery of its myriad forms, fill me with their
wonder. 0 leaves, and wings, and antennae, and
stones, bring me closer to your great, open secret
of Joy and Life.
Multitudes of ants visit me; the big, black,
warlike reeonnoitrers, and their red-nosed breth-
ren out of yon tree, climb over me; little emmets
go a-foraging in the folds of my garments, and
lady-birds come and walk over my hands and my
book and fly away again into the great unknown
of poetry and blue air and forest whence they
came. Moreover, a small carnation-colored spider
of large ideas has undertaken to weave my head
fast to a neighboring sapling, and evidently con-
siders me his by right of treasure-trove. A
thousand innocent insects take an interest in me,
till I begin to think I am fallen, like Gulliver,
upon a new Land of Lilliput. And, truth to tell,
this borderland of the Australian bush is fairy-
land enough, with its weird beauty and peace, its
forest music and silences, and wonderful colors,
and multitudes of busy little creatures in earth
and air and waters.
• Here, are we not far enough from cities to
forget their din and smoke ? A little town, how-
ever, stands not far away in the wheatfields of the
plain, to remind us of the presence of man, but
not near enough to destroy our day-dreams; you
can see the pale blue roofs of galvanised iron
nestling into yonder fringe of red-gums in the soft
haze, a mile or so southward. How homely and
beautiful in the illusion of distance ! Who could
dream of how many vulgar taverns and ribald
gossips and police-court cases that peaceful-look-
ing tittle hamlet can bring forth ? Nor shall I
reveal it. To-day, one would fain look at that
life from its rosier side. Perchance, 'this after-
noon, or in the twilight, a few figures will be seen
in pairs emerging from the haze-veiled borders ;
black-dressed swains, and their sweethearts in
light summery muslins decked with pink Sunday
bows, and they will go loitering and cosseting and
kissing in the shadows by the river, these rustic
overs, and think they are the first who have ever
o-en so wicked and happy in the world. And
long may the simpletons abide in their belief I
And the great river flows by, winding among
the gum-swamps and the high marigold and ochre
banks of clay, on its way to the sea. All things
around it, for c and plains and sky, are rapt
away in that great idyllic dream of Nature that
they knew along with the emu and the
ages ago, before the white man had come -to them
across the Big Water.
Through these dreamy woods great flocks of
cherubim-like cockatoos fly in radiant circles
among the luminous finery of the gum-tree tops,
shining snow-white and-yellow against the sky.
Their sentinels have caught sight of me, and haye
shrilled the warning that a stranger is within
Bight, and now the others fill the air with shrieks
of protestation,: anger, arid alarm. Hitherto they
had been silently tearing the bark off the dead
timber, searching for the soft pink grubs, as
silently as .they had stripped farmer Jackson’s
corn for him last harvest. Now the trees are
echoing like mountain caves with their raucous
voices, and the forest becomes resonant as a bell.
The magpies, too, take up the alarm, and a bevy
of parsonic-looking crows, who have been pecking
the body of a dead sheep, join in the chorus.
In the distant lagoons a troop of snow-white
cranes look up in affright from their microscopic
toil among the white water-lilies, and gather and
stand, like a row of surpliced choristers, on an
old log, and finally go flurrying away in alarm over
the russet-flowered sedge to hunt for frogs and
fish in more secluded haunts. Gradually the
cockatoos cease their screaming, and the gum-
swamp resumes its eternal quiet—broken only by
the antique sounds which make the forest silence
so strange and wonderful. Tap !—tap ! You
hear the bill of the spotted woodpecker, and little
chips and flecks of bark fall rustling down the
tree ; in the depths of echoing trees far away some
bird is calling, calling ; and from yonder branches
comes the sweet, roguish fluting of a magpie; and
anon the twitterings of parrakeets and the wailing
notes of the summer-birds are heard.
Afar off in the swamp you hear the tinkling of
a bell, which betrays the presence of Bill Raf-
ferty’s bullock “ Strawberry ’’—as a rule affection-
ately addressed by his owner as “Sanguinary
Strawberry.” (Bill, alas 1 indulges in forms of
rhetoric unknown to Quintilian). Strawberry is at
present out with the rest of the team for a fort-
night’s holiday in the gum-swamp, and as he
pokes his nose among the flags and rushes each
movement is accompanied by the wonderful fairy
music of his bell. Unseen in the midst of the
thickets, one might imagine that this tired and
stolid old waggon-bullock, which has been sworn
at and flogged these last ten years over all the
roads of Riverina, and plagued by labor, dust,
flies, and heat till his spirit is broken and fled for
ever—one might imagine, I say, that this broken-
down old beast were some wood-faun pursued
with forest music; some forest Ariel, with his
invisible minstrelsy ; or might it riot be that cele-
brated lady of nursery enchantment who has
Rings on her fingers and bells on her toes,
And sw eetest of music wherever she goes.
Did you not see that sapphire-and-erimson
sprite that flitted by on the river like a flash ?
It was the little kingfisher, first cousin to the
Momus of the woods, the laughing-jackass. Here
in the. clay-bank is the kingfisher’s little nest, and
there is the branch over the stream where he sits
in the shadow and sees the bright waters pass
beneath him in the mid-day. J
And if you go round that next curve of the
river some evening in the twilight, very Bilently,
the brown crane that sits in the red-gum over the
water may invite you to share his choice supper
, of ri ver mussels, served,up upon yon mud bank;
and you may eat them out of their own dainty
shells of mother of pearl, enamelled and polished
in Nature’s own most marvellous workshop,
where the colors were learnt from the clouds and
waters at day dawn. Wjth royal prodigality, my
lord the Brown Crane leaves these jewelled and
opaline dishes uncared-for after once using theini
and they glitter and shine in every morning sun
. till next winter shall come with his floods to bury
them in the muddy river-deeps again. But the
Brown Crane cares not, and haunts the river shal-
lows still with majestic ease and dignity.
And, as if by contrast to his sedaceness, Nature
has created a certain little blue-black fantail, a
sweet-voiced, dainty little fairy which sings in the
woods and around the settlers’ huts till long after
sundown. Its movements are all bows and flirt-
ings arid pirouettes. Its whole life is one courtly
■minuet; it cannot be sedate or thoughtful a
moment, but poses and flirts, and is for ever
sprightly, timid and gay like some roguish maid,
or some elf out of the Midsummer Night’s Dream.
I have a hundred times desired to ask it for news of
Cobweb and Mustard Seed or of the Queen
Jitania, but have been called back from such fan-
tasy by a rude, hilarious shout overhead among
the gum-trees.
It is the laughing-jackass—the goburra. A
rare realist, is Jack, and plays havoo with the
moods, poetical and sentimental. A worse Philis-
tme than Aretino ! Hard to believe that he and
his mates are not laughing at me. The deuce!
can they know of that old love-letter I kissed the
other night as I ivas putting on my nightcap. ,Qr
of those belated sapphics I tried to cobble to the
moon—or of my despair at finding no rhyme for
Boominoominah ? Or do they know of more
serious things ? Egad, I distrust these birds !
Early of a morning, before the faint white of
dawn appears in the sky over the eastern swamps,
the river-banks resound with their mad laughter.
“Some people calls ’im the ‘larfin’-jackass,’but I
calls him the ‘ mornin’-watch/” says my friend,
Pete the fisherman, who has been a soldier in his
time. “A reg’lar regimental bugler he is, and
it s my belief as that there cuss of a bird takes a
mortal delight in rousin’the whole lot,of other
birds hout of their sleep, just like my old woman,
for the matter of that, out of sheer devilry*”
So the magpie is called to his glees and matins,
and the kingfisher pokes his head forth from his
mud-hole in the bank of the stream and considers
whether it is yet time to go bee-hunting in the
peppermints or fish-spearing in the lagoons. The
water-rats are startled like criminals, in their
prowling round the fisherman’s lobster traps.
And by-and-by the sleepy wood-dove is awakened
and flies into the great new world of the new day.
And now the goburras are silent again.
. 0> the wide, sacred, silence—the ethereal morn-
ing of this Australian fairyland of bush !- This
Riverina air is as the‘clear, joyous atmosphere of
Attica, when marbles and poetry were its religion.
And the long, luxurious tresses of the red-gums
sway gently and cast their play of violet shadows
upon the rosy grey boles, and the infinite heaven
of blue embraces the earth in its soft arms, and all
is well 1 -
F.S.D.
Manchuria (writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent) is simply overrun with Cossacks. Passed in
two weeks six camps of them between 340 and 500
miles N.E. of Peking.. They usually roam about
, in squads of 900 strong, and are magnificent
riders. Mounted on their shaggy ponies they
race oyer country which would scare a Queensland
stockrider. - : - T
Yell from Wellington (M.L.) Guardian : —
The Evening Ghost which is going baldheaded for the
chaining up of Maoriland to the bankrupt Australi&s.
Every province has got the same bee buzzing
in its provincial hat. Maoriland owes .£21 per
inhabitant more than Victoria, .£14 per in-
habitant more than N.S.W., and £13 more than
Tasmania; it is the most heavily-taxed province
of the group ; and it showed a smaller increase of
revenue last year than Victoria, N.S.W., or
Queensland. These painful results arise mostly
from the sins of its early legislators, and of late
the province has shown an amazing recovery—still
the results are there. And Maoriland, like every
other province, is quite sure that it is the only
solvent province of the group, and is very sorry
for its neighbours—very sorry indeed.
Old “Joe” Brown, boss of Vic. detec-
tives, who has just retired, dates back to the bush-
ranging days, and was a ’tec before the Kelly
gang started. In fact had it not been 'for J.
Brown, the Kellys might now be respectable
farmers with an eye on the Upper House. In ’77
the whole of the N.E. district was overrun by a
gang of horse-thieves captained by one “ Billy ”
Cook, a big shrewd six-footer, who found all the
brains. With him was a lanky youth, fit for any-
thing, and known as “Thompson alias Stuckey.”
Brown got on the track of the thieves (after
they had “shaken ” some 300 head of horses dur-
ing nine months) and finally stumbled across
Billy Cook at a wayside pub. No other policeman
being near, a desperate resistance was expected,
but somehow the ’tec bluffed the robber and
carried him off from the midst of a dozen sympa-
thisers. Billy got 14 years, and “Stuckey alias
Thompson,” who escaped, was afterwards found
to be none other than Ned Kelly. Had Cook
remained in command ofth'egang, it is uiilikely
that, he would have permitted:! the policy .Of-Stalk-
ing the police, which made the Kellys into out-
laws and ended their career at the gory battle of
Glenrowan. ...
.Concerning'lollies :— .
The reoent fining of two Sydney confectioners for sell-
ing poisonous drugs in contraveritidn of the Poisons
Act lets a little light in on the pleasing ways.df the lolly-
man. The sweets in question, “ chlorodyne lozenges,”
contained, according, to the evidence ' of the 1 Govt,
analyst, about three minims of chloroform each, and, as
five minims is the maximum officinal dose of this drug for
internal use, it. is remarkable that no case of poisoning
appears to have resulted from their use. And, apropos—
from the chewinsr-gum. made of .paraffin-wax, to ice-
cream matured in January under the bed of the un-
washed descendant of Leonidas, there is a wide range of
gruesome sweetstuff possibilities: Crystallised' fruits
tinted with 'verdigris ; “ conversation ” lollies containing
plaster of Paris and the possibilities of iipmortality ;
‘‘essence jujubes” filled with a spirit that would take
the coats oif the stomach of young Australia. Another
dangerous article is the cayenne-jujube, some varieties
of which contain sufficient irritant material to seriously
damage a child’s stomach. It is bad enough to absorb
lead from our early beer, and arsenic from our artistic
wall-paper, without running the risk of poisoning our
best girl with lethal confectionery that even her tea-and-
lolly-hardened digestive organs won’t stand.


An English “boys’ paper” has polled its
readers as to what part of the British Empire each
would prefer to go. Australia is only fourth
favorite ; India, Maoriland and Canada preceding
in that order.
It’s just the weather for soft, cool shirts,
and you will find we stock “just the thing.’ 500
dozen is a big quantity to carry, but we find it
necessary to do so, our prices sell them for us so
quickly. Tennis, boating, cricketing, cycling,
and knockabout shirts for 3s. (three shillings), and
we pay carriage to any post-office in N.b. W. \® en ~
us postal-notes for three shillings). Queensland
residents will find it will pay them to send to us
for one or more of these shirts, they are most
suitable for Queensland summer wear, and the
value leaves a big margin for duty. Any reader
of The Bulletin who is not in possession of one
of our Summer Fashion Books (ladies’ and gentle-
mens’) should write and secure these latest FREE
publications. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
What are Symptoms?
Symptoms are the little aches and discomforts which tell us when we are
quite well. They are not disease in themselves, but only the s/g^
Ordinary medicine cures symptoms : the Disease itseu is cured oy
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
That is the difference. Below are described some of the diseases they cure.
Lung Inflammation.
Mrs. Jane Wigney, of the White
Cliffs, Fields, via Wilcannia,
N.S.W., and who was born at
Mount Mistake, Ararat, Vic.,
writes to us and says that ever
■I
Si
m
vd
WRITING ABOUT 111-B CURE.
since she was seventeen she had
been ailing. She was accustomed
to go out sewing, and thus got
damp feet, which led to a severe
cold. She was frequently pros-
Symptoms of
Lung Inflam-
mation.
Shivering
fits, high fever,
dry, burning
skin, hacking
cough, quick
breathing,
shortness of
breath. Delir-
ium is com-
mon, and Con-
sumption of-
ten results.
trated with
headaches, and
had terrible
pa ns at the pit
of her stomach,
under the
shoulder
blades, and
across the
small of her
back. Her di-
gestion became
disordeied, and
inflammation
of the lungs set
in. She would
have shivering
tits, a hacking cough, dry, burning
kin, and more or less shortness
~f breath. After doctors had
failed her husband induced
her to purchase Dr, Williams’
Pink Pills. During the first week
she took them not much benefit
was noticed, but after that she im-
proved rapidly. She is now in the
enjoyment of perfect health, and
every vestage of inflammation of
the lungs has gone.
Paralysis.
(From the Mudgee Guardian.)
Mrs M. H Cosier resides with
her husband at the pretty village
of Ilford, near Mudgee, N.S.W.,
and is one of the most popular
rcsid nts there. “ Last March,’
ea d Mrs. Cosier, speaking to a
Mudgee Guardian reporter, “I
was seized with violent pains
Symptoms of
Paralysis.
Any of the
following
Trembling of
the hands,
which cannot
be controlled;
sudden Loss of
Power in arms
or limb fre-
quently down
the whole of
one side; Stag-
gering : par-
tial or entire
inability to use
the fingers;
distortion of
the features;
severe Pains,
like rheuma-
tism ; difficul-
ty in Speech.
across theback,
wh : ch soon ex-
tended to my
headandlimbs,
I was unable to
wa'k without a
stick. Irapidly
became worse,
and paralysis
soon set in. My
armsand hands
wereuseltss. I
could not even
turn the knob
of the door.
My appetite
faded away,
and I suffered
from severe
exhaustion and
mel ancho I y
feel'ng. I be-
came so greatly
paralysed that
I had to be
carried from
room to room, and whenever I
tried to move the pain was
unbearable. I could not move
my head, and the nerves of my
face were so drawn up that speak-
ing caused me great agony. I had
read of a somewhat similar case
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
and I decided to try them. I fol-
lowed the directions closely, and
after taking two boxes I felt a
slight improvement. My appetite
returned, and the pains were not
so severe. Then my limbs once
more became slowly capable of
movement, until every trace of
paralysis left me.”
Chronic Indigestion.
A SEVERE BRISBANE CASE.
Mr. Joseph Woodland, of Ade-
laide-street, Brisbane, has been a
luartyr for many years to indiges-
tion. As soon as he ate anything,
a heavy feeling came in his
“ I HAVE A GOOD APPETITE NOW.”
stomach, which completely upset
him. His nerves were utterly out
of order, bis sleep broken and
troubled; in fact, nightmares
Symptoms of
Dyspepsia or
Indigestion.
Pain in the
stomach, ful-
nesL or disten-
tion after
meals, Wind on
the stomach,
Hiccough and
e r ue t ati on,
sickness, Bile,
distaste for
food, a Yellow
tongue, bad
complexion,
bad taste in
the mouth.
frequently
afflicted him.
'they were
caused, no
doubt, by dis-
turbances due
to indigestion.
He could never
enjoy a meal.
He heard of
Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, but
thought them
of no use. Bui
at last his
friends pre-
vailed upon
him to try
them. The first
box did not
benefit him greatly apparently ;
but the second box made a marked
improvement, and when he ha<.
taken several more he found that
every vestage of his ailment had
disappeared. He is now a strong,
healthy man, with a good appetite
and a light heart. Be sleeps well,
eats well, and is, in fact, com-
pletely changed from what he
used to he.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure Anaemia, aud Fe vers, St Vitus
Headache, Bronchitis, Consumption, Asthma, After Effects of Life, and other ailments
Dance, Paralysis, Neurasthenia, Nervousness, I rregularities Ch g wmiams - pink Pills for Pale
peculiar to ladies. Be sure you get the genuine, with lull nam , ,- t a nd storekeepers and
People” printed in BED ink on WHITE onts.de nrapper. Sold by *“m s tsa 16/3 (post free ).
by the Dr. Williams' Medicine Co., Qnecn's Place, Sydney, 2/9 per box , n n
The Voice of Spring.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All day the Spring stood knocking at his heart,
Civing, “Come out, thon laggard! and behold
The lovely things that I have done upon the
earth ;
Come out ! come out! secluded and apart
Thou eanst not see my lights of green and gold ;
Nor bless thine eyes with flowers, nor mix thy
woe with mirth.
All day the Spring stood knocking, and he heard
The shouts of children questing after flowers,
The joy they raised when some new loveliness was
met,
Some richest splash of light on bush or bird;
But he was silent —unto him the hours
Brought grave and pensive gifts, dead leaves and
old regret.
“ What ails thee ? ” said the Spring, “ long have I
stood
A plea on these red lips —woosome as wine ;
A plea of mingled smiles and tears —thy feet to
urge
To my desire; what ails thy ice-bound blood ?
That my breath brings no sweet and genial sign
Of thaw, no frank upleaping, and full, crimson
surge.
If it be Death—go thou among the tombs !
There shalt thou meet peace, deep and rare ;
The Dead are not forgot: the Dead are with the
flowers ;
The Under-Earth, with many secret looms,
In silence weaves green band and golden square
From hearts long gone to dust, sun-rays and
shining showers.
“ If it be Love, 10, listen ! ” said the Spring—
“ Arm linked in arm they pace the old-time way ;
His mouth is hot-athirst; her lips are young and
sweet;
(Howe’er the blossom bend the bee will cling)
And there is green seclusions, as they sway,
Conceded sweetness steals the motion from his
feet.
“It is the time of colour—art thou blind ’
Of honeydew—hast thou no lips to taste ?
Of singing mouth and throat —of coral and of
pearls:
It is the time of quickening heart and mind :
Then up, thou laggard ! and come forth in haste,
And round and round the roses chase the laugh-
ing girls.”
In vain ! in vain ! the Spring hath gone away :
She knocked so long that she grew tired at last.
What lay within she did not know (how could
she know ?)
With life and loveliness her commerce lay :
Her eyes turned forward could not see the Past
The bright love brought to death one Springtime
long ago.
At that heart-door all Springs shall knock in
vain :
No man’s heart is it, but a tomb of love,
Wherein Love sank when only half his course was
run ;
His beauty brought to nought, untimely slain,
As when with rolling smoke, slow borne above,
Goes out in middle sky a suffocated sun.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Driving Mates.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Or two mates, one has ever the upper hand.
When this hand lies lightly, there is true mate-
ship ; when heavy, then Sheol. And Jim
Henekeson, carrier, of Plum ton, found the ascend-
ancy of his mate, Jack Oman, hard to be borne.
Day after day, month after month, for years,
Jack’s boisterous and candid criticisms had galled
his spirit, and drop after drop of envy and hate
had filled his heart. .
Why he had not broken with his mate, Jim might
have found it difficult to explain. Certainly for
years he had hated and stuck to his partner.
Perhaps this hate, growing with his growth, had
become a vital or essential part of him. His face
and bearing expressed it. Jack Oman was young,
and no physiognomist, and so noticed not this
dark shadow dogging his footsteps through bright
But little more was needed, and Judy Smith,
the new girl at the Ironbark Hotel, supplied the
deficiency. Both young men were her victims;
and each showed his love according to his nature.
Jack wooed her openly, and raved about her to
his friends— Jim secretively, and spoke slightingly
of her. But Judy understood.
It was winter; the nights cold and frosty.
Jack had been away all day looking for bullocks,
and towards evening Jim set out to see what had
become of him. As he rode along, the rays of the
declining sun glinted on something white on a
whitewood ridge hard by. Approaching, he saw
the bodv of Jack Oman, crumpled up on the
cround, alive, but almost insensible. His horse
must have fallen while galloping and come on top
° f Jim stood stupidly watching him ; the conflict
of emotions seemed to dull his feJ.ings. It was
an unfrequented part of the reserve, five miles
from town, and a night’s exposure meant death.
And Jack’s death to Jim meant—well, say, Judy.
He thought of these things disinterestedly, as
if thev were no concern of his, till the vision of
Judv fully arose. Then, like a man in a dream,
he got on his horse and rode slowly away. Occa-
sionally he unconsciously stopped and turned to
come back ; but, waking up he again faced for
town. And so the sun sank lower and lower, and
the end came— yes, the end to the day, to the
sufferings of Oman, to the manhood of Jim
H Jim’s fate was also sad. h,im
A. D. ELLERMAN.
n - Bulletin will be gl ;l( l * ts
about tlle exportation of T«..»ni.» beet in ftoten
blocks to India.
She Was Worth It.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
« The blossoms of the orange
Around a heart so pure
** Orange ! orange ! —what the deuce oan X get
to rhyme with orange ? ”
“Try ‘pumpkins,’ Ted, it’s as good as any-
thing you’re likely to find. Who’s the —er poem
intended for anyhow ? ” <
“ Oh, a young lady you rather admire, too, if I
am not mistaken ! ”
“ You’re not mistaken, Ted 1 Moreover, the
interest is mutual! Do you know what Vi. will
do with your ‘ pome she will probably feed her
goat with it.”
“You needn’t be so infernally familiar with the
lady’s name, Hawthorne. Miss Anstey would
resent it. Quite plain that you are spiteful,
because you noticed how pleased she was with the
last verse I sent her, and which you saw in her
album.”
“ Rot! I suppose she is amused; takes a sort
of pity on you, and keeps your last screed in her
album as a future record of a mad ‘ pote ’ she once
had on a string. What’s the good of giving a
girl poems, Ted ; if you want to make them
believe in you, give ’em something of value. You
know the diamond locket she always wears
Poems ! ”
“Pooh! I don’t draw the line at poems—the
bracelet she wears is a birthday present from me.”
“ You gave her that bracelet ? Ted, I’m sorry
to see you waste your money like that. God
knows (and she knows) you can’t afford it. What’s
the use of a poor man like you running after a
fashionable girl of her sort ? Better sling it, Ted ;
you have just about as much chance of marrying
that girl as that holy monkey-shaved young man
inside —your father’s pal—the curate.”
“My confidence in Miss Anstey allows me to
pass over youi sneer at my poverty. Your money-
bags may enable you to outdo me in presents, but
with a pure-minded disinterested girl like her, a
present is not valued for what it costs. All the
same, until I heard your taunts I never craved to-
be rich. Although I have not much to offer her, 1
would give my life. No man could do more.
You say I have no chance. Well—we’ll see.”
“Ted, I do wish you were not such a good,
pure, innocent fool. To go out into the world and
come kersmash would be the making of you. But
you'll have to hurry up, for Miss Anstey and 1
are going for a stroll on the beach at 8.
“ Oh, this is too
much ! Hawthorne, let
me inform you that
you’re a liar! Miss
Anstey is far too ”
“ A liar, eh ? Steady
now, young man I
Why should she not
go out with me ? You
poor, silly rhymester! ”
“ Simply because
you are not fit com*
pany for her. You are
not fit to speak to
her.”
“Look here, Ted; —
we’d better finish this.
We’ve called each
other liars and various
other things, so come
now and I'll fight you
for her —to a finish.
The one that gives in
gives her up l ”
“ Right you are,
Hawthorne! Take
you at your word.
Take that! ”
« Right! You try
this ! ”
Biff! Bang !
“That’s a steadier,
Ted. That ought to
knock some of the
superfluous love out of
you. Ah 1 no you
don’t snap me like
that! You’ll look
pretty to-night down
on your knees before
her with both peepers ”
“Oh, hold on a bit.
You won’t be in much
of a humor —for—biff !
—the stroll on the —
smack ! —beach after I
pop a few more like —
THAT !—on to you.
Now we’re about
even.” . , ~ „
“ Are we, indeed !
—biff ! smack ! bang !
squash ! smack !
squonk! smash ! bash!
• “Now then —now-
then—my po—et— in
—love —I’ve got —you
down —I’ll deal —with
you properly. This is
the coat you were
going to —to propose in
—isn’t it ? There—
you needn’t struggle.
I’ve got you. Do you
give in?”
“Never! ’
“ Well, rip goes that
sleeve —rip goes this
sleeve, and rip goes the
back. Now, rip goes
your vest—it’s cooked ?
Now do you give in ? ”
“ Die first! ”
“Then off comes
your shirt.”
“Oh, hang it, Haw-
thorne, are you mad?
How can I go into the
township without a
shirt? This isn’t a
fight. Let me up, and
fight fair! ”
“Do you give in?
“No! No!!”
“Then off come your
trousers ! ”
“Oh Lord ! But—
take that —and that
and that. Aha, my
dear friend, you see
the bottom dog gets on
top again sometimes !
It’s my turn now !
Your togs rip off easier
than mine did. They’re
finer-rip-stuff. There-I don’t think-rip-
vou’ll go for a stroll in any of them to-night.
That’s settled, and so is that ! Now then, off
come vour trousers ! ” . .
“ Hold on, Ted, for Heaven s sake ! 1 give in .
You can have her and welcome. 1 don’t believe
there is a woman in the world worth half what we
have gone through for this one.”
“ She is worth it; I would go through it once a
week to win her ! ” „ . , . „
“ Oh, well, if you get her I wish you joy. borne
on—let us tie some of these rags on one another
and sneak round the back. What’re my eyes
like?” T , (
“ Dunno !—mine are closing up—I m, atraia
you’ll have to give me your hand ; I can t see a
yard in front of me.” ,
“ Well, take my left hand ; I have sprained my
right wrist. We’ll cut across here by the lovers
hauntit is nearer.”
“ By cinnamon! the cub on my face does
smart.” , A „
“ I’m sore all over t If ever I m such a d
“Hist!—there’s someone there! Drop down,
for goodness sake ; don’t let anyone . Dow n
lower behind the bush, or she’ll see you. Lood.
Lord! it’s Miss Anstey and the parson; dont
even whisper.”
* * * *
“Fact is, Yi, I’m a bit jealous about you
receiving so many presents from Hawthorne .
“Well, you needn’t be jealous, you dear old
preacher. Here’s a kiss, to hunt away your
jealousy ! ” ■
“And what about the poet? He pays you
great attention, too ! ”
“ Well, I can’t help it ! Does my dear parson
love me so much that he thinks I shouldn’t even
speak to any other man ?—to the young fellows
who make me presents on my birthday, and wnte
me poetry, telling me my eyes are stars, and so
on ? But there, why should you be jealous ! He
is such a good young man, and he perfectly adores
me ; but girls do not like being reverenced and
adored ; we would much rather be just plain
loved. As for Hawthorne, I like him better ; but
then, you see, I like you best of all! ”
“Why, dear?” . . ,
“ Oh, go on '—that’s my business. Perhaps it s
because —because you are the naughtiest! Now
I’ll give you one more kiss before we go in to tea.
“ Thank God, we had that fight, Hawthorne ! ”
“ Oh, be hanged ! I don’t see anything to be
thankful for. I presume you will propose to-
night, and send her a new poem every week !
“ Cuts both ways, my boy. You’ll hardly be
on the beach at the appointed time. ’
“ Well, old man, the curate has done us both,
bad ; they always do—confound them! Come,
let us slip into the house and try to patch each
other up.”
ALONE.
The Last Straw.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had been badly smashed, but never a murmur
escaped her white, compressed lips ; only her poor
little pinched face gave silent evidence of her
suffering. Everyone was distressed, and did all
possible to express sympathy. Alice lent her
some of her best clothes, which were miles too
big, and Bert shook the contents of his marble-
bag on to the floor, with the air of one about to
perform a remarkable feat of self-abnegation, and
solemnly handed her two dilapidated “ com-
monies.” Sallie didn’t even forget to smile or
say “Thank you.”
It was a long way to the doctor, and the dray
bumped clumsily over the stones. But Sallie
made no complaint, though her teeth were closed
tightly over her lower lip and her face was very
white.
The father explained to the doctor how the
child had been run against a tree and then thrown
from her horse. “How old is she?” the doctor
asked. “Ten.” “ Urn !” and the doctor care-
lessly took up his scissors and took hold ot the
temporarily-bandaged arm. Sallie winced and
grew a trifle whiter, and her father turned Ins
head away and waited. Snip—snip then a slnill
cry—half anger, half dismay.
The father ground his teeth.
“Oh, dad,” the feeble voice wailed brokenly,
“ he's cut Alice's new shimmy! ”


The Best Family Medicine
It one that will Purify the Blood, Strengthen the Nerves,
Aid Oigestion, and Make the Blood Rich and Red.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
J
m.
m
m
m
%
//
/A
m
m
w
y
" I wish to say to every one that I have used a great deal of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in my family. I believe it is the best family medicine there is
in the world.
“ Once, while I was on a vessel trading to the East Indies and also while I
was living in Calcutta, I used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for impurities in my blood,
and with the best results. I always took a stock of it with me when I went on
my voyages. I could not feel safe without it. For eruptions of the skin, boils,
and such affections it is a quick and sure cure. I recommend it to everybody
suffering from impurities in the blood, showing itself in any way whatsoever.”
This is what Mr. W. A. Lindsay (whose portrait, with that of his wife and
child, is here given), of Stanthorpe, Queensland, Australia, thinks of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. Because of the multitude of such cases, the people call Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Because some other preparation may be called a sarsaparilla is not the
slightest reason that it is anything like “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. If you wish
these quick results, these safe results, these sure results, you must insist upon
getting “Ayer’s.” Make a particular point of this.
The
arsaparilla
That "Cures.
It Removes Disease by Purifying the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills Aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON
Br Dr. E. B, FOOTE.
SENSE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the'imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK
posted for only 7s. 6d. ’
Sim«F.s atoTgasts ready-made for all occasions and
ever} body , public speaking made easy, is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d. P
Dr. Carter’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
18 , pOSti IS oCI.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
Bow to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted
Modern Etiquette -Parties, Love, Dress, etc Is 6d post
E OnJ’i S , CJ ', OOL ” ASTER > or How to Educate
One s Self, is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted'
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sonirs
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
laV. Hundreds of SPFrTAT fclw W «; nfc f of !W® Prevents mentioning any in particu-
advertised m his ILLUSTRATED BlGBOOK^CAT^oaui.'^t' FostVg^"^*"
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY
WILL
I [LAND R AD E
& IMPORTER.
US 120
CHEAP BOOKS
WILL »MOBAD.e fiT?
PLAIN NO/V|E TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
eS \^^%’jrW° red F ateS : ? nd - Engravings, 1000 pages, post
UNMARRTFn’ 7 <spnH'fn Th i? conta,ns information for MARRIED and
ujnmakkied Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices. “ pHOD OI 1,1118
Conjuring Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., bv Robert Heller the
; post - 18 3d ‘ Speeches and Toasts, isMpost
Kku,y CAN^ A dim« S i OWN 1 SC 1 H S OLM A ASTRR ’ or ’ How t 0 Educa t e Oneself, post 1/6. P The
° AN . a OH us.) post 1/6. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus ) 2/6 •
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator is • post is 9d* ’
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d - post 2s 9d ' ’ P ° St 18 d '
Comic Reciter, contains 160 gems ; post la 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Maktvo
f C°V, NTAIN Pbns - 30,000 words without dfpping l! Howto
Dance Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs etc Is 3d
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, "is.
t " ? List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
.. will
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET. MELBOURNE.
rhe Ways of Many Waters.
. 3E3- J. 33nA.X>Y.
A collection of Ballads and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PW’S
a S d , NerVoll ® Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
h! ’ Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
furhprf 08 f A PP efcite Shortness of Breath, Cos r iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dig-
WITT riVT? Snrw TremWinp Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
earnestTvlmriiwi t V MINUTES. This is no'Action. Every sufferer is
GOINEaTbOX” 0116 B ° X ° f th6Se PiUS ’ and they WiU be acknowlocl & ed t 0 be “ WORTH A
£ l °“,im“° l l„?" a,es to °°” ,pleto liealu ‘- They
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
«“*&*-* few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
■ f, f } ln > restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
ousing with the RovSsbud of Health the Wholk Physical Enibroy nf t.h« human f»nw> fh«««
a -1 ~ , , ■*- Htotv/hb xuiMhivDr I ul biicj 11 uin till name, xiiese
Nervmi« n t iTV.' rl .thousands, in aIJ , classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
-Nervous and Debihiated is that heecham s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full dinct.oi.s with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
1 NOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is I'd, and 2s 9d each.
TEARS DTEING
FOK THE T.ADIE^,
w_ c. lEiiiDimiiDGKE & co.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOM STllEEl’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post f rom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
tar- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. tSF” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA &
PERRINS
SAUCE.
jDbserve
Signature
S A
w Jk
* A/
the
rSuftSn'°C S,
aes
IP-
Ink
Blue
Outside
OSS
the
r *Ap
Bottle
of
every
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
AGENTS : Messrs, VIRGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN,
AND DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
SEN
IASI
mmm
a
SEN-Smfe
RINGDOHAVEM'JE
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
SINGEBS & SPEAKERS
fit
JTyC/Vii'Jr
STOP THAT COUGH!
BOW CAN YOU STOP IT?
WHERE IS THE REMEDY?
Boppipgtop’slrkl) oss
Another Voice from Hill grove.
Messrs. BONNINGTON & CO. 26th July ’95
Dear Sirs.—l have been recently afflicted with a severe cold in my head, throat and
lungs. Four bottles of your Bonningtoil’s Irish Moss have completely cured me.
Yours truly, MARY T. GIBSON.
Boi)i)ii)gtoi)’&
Pills.
GREAT CURE FOR BILE, INDIGES-
TION, AND ALL
DISORDERS.
LIVER


SOME POINTS
Ijaterproef Coats.
EVERY GARMENT GUARANTEED ABSO-
LUT ELY WATERPROOF.
TAILOR-CUT and SILK-STITCHED IN
EVERY SEAM.
WILL STAND EXTREME CLIMATES.
FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN.
NEWEST SHAPES.
Prices: 17s. 6d. to 70s.
PERBRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ABOUT OUK
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
electrJca l engineers,
AIANUIOVOTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Broo’.iman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
o
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
SPOOKS & FORKS
AT THtf
SHOW-ROOMS,
MARK-
-401*
%
v A\V'.
HE JJbBOT
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TTT'Fi BX.OCK,*’
Collins Street, MELBOUEUE.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers —
X&i <§& J.
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW. .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON ... Queen Victoria St.
M ANCH ESTKR 10 Corporation St.
BIRM INtIIIAM 33 Albert, St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
' :
-• .7--:
NO BETTER PROOF of the- STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
DIM'S PITF.DT BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Win. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
Jam Hardie, Melbourne;
. John Reid & Sons, Adelaide ;
Robertson, Tait & Co. » Brisbane
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURI iSD The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
BUTTER °•
cream, consequently the butter has a tine aroma that only -Pastenrisation can give, there are a few, ve are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily" The difference in price between Pasteurised, fee anti fully *flav Or ed butter and the
ordinary make is only |d per lb It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send JOlir Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appi eciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY HOUSE IN THE WORLD.
I ICY
7
GATES’ ROCKBREAKER
'Company Limited,- .
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in -
A.LL OF MODERN MACHINERY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
FREMONT STREET,
San Francisco, TJ.S.A.
CLARENCE STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
27 CLEMENTS LANE,
London, E.C.
((
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch. Whisky. ■
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Attwood Sole Proprietors.
[arrison
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne, Gun'makers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BA LANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 I).B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring t riggers, best steel
locks' with cartridge machines and cleaners complete, Usual price
, rr i.t., . ir T\ n»AonhJAhrlintt* (
, .™ P „„ ;h , , T?: !r ,x.
marie oavable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
1
A
n .ur LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
1 MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, BARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Ferry’s ; .3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2,9 Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/* doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6,6, Blenmel Cork Handle-tips
(6/n dozen pairs) Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated ail over, Penj «
Bs gross.' 0T SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED BBIOE LIST 25
percent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMAIIC-TYRE m to
date, i?iSdE^SUPPUED—GUARANTEED » PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
fcn
wo.
Ai
TRADE MARK.
.
“wSssii
BOILER FEED PUMP
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues.
