

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
USE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
&XJA.RA.]XrXEBri PITRE COCOA AKTE EXTRACT OF MALT.
E&. G, SZ, CO,,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
' —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ ancl Bawmill Machinery, Minin? Requisites,
•KM'LOSJVES, BIILDEKS’ and GEN KItAL IKON i\J O N GERY. NEW and SKCOND-H ANI> PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
SOL
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
--
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM i’< > 1,1/s GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & G° 85 pm street SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Huston, Proctor & C Q .
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEA'VI ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
ESOoaEsivmLio *x*3Em.A.si3Ciiwc3t- machines, sa.-w jszEsnsr.cJiEaciEss, &c., &c.
THOBNFS
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Eotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs*. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (-20) Years'.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
THE LAST OF SIX
Toronto Hotel,
:
hake
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect 11:mate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
the Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if -addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto'Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART.
'
Hadley s Orient fiote!.
CO
PIONEER
—
LEATHER
BELTING^
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by tbeN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. G. LUDOWICMSc SON, LTD.,
3JL r 7 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania : Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Higliea fc .A.warcLs wherever Exhibited..
Vandtck
CIGARS
3
A VTRT
MnrXAGKMfr
SMOX£
©W 8
ir®E Is.
lllkl^!ri»:M.Rlinr < KC?sywitY
The Bulletin
VoJ 20.—N0. 989-1
[Saturday, January 28, 1899.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transiffiss : on by Post as a Newsnaoer.


The Bookfelloui.
A Monthly Magazinelet
For Book-buyers and Book-readers.
Price, ONE PENNY; send 6d. stamps for six
issues, post-free.
Write for a specimen copy.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER 00. LTD.
214 George-street, Sydney.
THEE A.RGOKTA.TJT.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondent!
“The Bulletin” says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older world of Asia come occ»-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
the “ Argon .ut” is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors:
“ Whatever you are, never be commonplace.” The re-
the most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to presents
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper.
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with note*
upon aut hors and journa isis, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sole at Tub Buuuktin Office after the arrival of the
. American mail; /trice, Bd. ; posted, 9d. ; mailed regularh
to any A astralasian address.
Ask
for
Cameos!
CAMEO CIGARETTE 5
The FJa% under which reigns supreme
PEACE! CONTENTMENT! HAPPINESS!
THE RED PAGE.
Even a humane philosopher will not deny him-
self the pleasure of thrusting his stick into an
ants’-nest, and contemplating curiously the irri-
tated swarm around the ferule. What buzzing
ancTbitingl what Satanic going to and fro in the
earth ! . • •
• • * »
So, here is an eminent pismire whose nip (not
for publication) is followed by a “Take that, ye
divvle ! ” which gives interesting evidence of out-
raged feeling. It seems to be one of the things
that no pismire can understand, this assertion that
the causes which impel Brunton Stephens to place
Tennyson high among the great poets are almost
of necessity beyond Brunton Stephens’s control.
Why “almost”? And why are not the causes of
everybody’s judgment of Tennyson beyond every-
body’s control ?
* • * *
Simply because what is sauce for the goose is not
sauce for the gander—as any cook knows. The
humblest Vatel practises the precept that tender
young pullets may crackle in mere gravy, while
tough old roosters must be masked in mayonnaise.
As Fluellen told Grower, “ There is occasions and
causes why and wherefore in all things.”
, * • *
In a sense, to be sure, Necessity takes tithe of
mint and anise as well as of weightier matters.
The universal chain of cause and effect leaves free-
will, free-judgment, no mathematical point to
stand on. Given ancesfry and environment, our
tastes and decisions must be the nibblings of that
ancestry in the tether of this environment. So
W. K. Clifford could affirm the dazzling truth
that omniscience is but the perfect knowledge of
an atom at a moment, seeing that the atom en-
folds infinity, the moment eternity.
• * ;*Y * *
But in another sense we are free to sport within
our tether. There is nothing accidental in evolu-
tion, yet the natural agencies of growth and de-
struction may often appear accidental. The good
season which enriches a squatter, the bad one
which ruins him, have their physical causes; his
determination to place himself beyond the reach of
precarious seasons, to bore for water and store it in
dams, has its physical cause also. In the ultimate
argument, he controls the bores and the dams no
more than he controls the seasons. I n the ulti-
mate argument, Australian Parliaments are no
more responsible for Australian money muddled
and time wasted than Nero was for the Halley
comet. But, practically speaking, we argue not
to tinal but to proximate causes, and are justified
in considering Parliaments and the squatter the
proximate causes of our dammed bores.
•■* ♦ *
The need to praise Tennyson extravagantly
was held “ almost of necessity beyond Brunton
Stephens’s control,” because there was a doubt
how far the need was automatic, un besoin machi-
nal. And, though actions and reactions in every
brain are essentially beyond the control of the
brain, speaking positively; there is still a great
difference between one brain-control and another,
speaking relatively. The average city pedestrian
does not think it necessary to touch the lamp-
posts as he walks ; but there is a man in Sydney
who, brooding over Dr. Johnson’s habit, himself
developed a lamp-post-touching tic which has
passed beyond his control. It was suggested that
Brunton Stephens had, for reasons given, developed
a Tennyson-praising tic. In that case his judg-
ment of Tennyson might be as erratic as the
Sydney man’s track on the footpath. But it
.should not have been necessary to point out that
another man’s judgment may be relatively as even
as another man’s gait. . . .
• * • •
And here is an intellectual emmet moved to
rhythmical remonstrance. (This emmet is the-
beginning-of-a-man-of-letters, a creature locally
rare enough to be prized. But it is noticeable
how very seldom the-beginning-of - a-man-of-
letters is the-rudimerits-of-a-man-of-logic : his
passage from mis-stated premisses to discon-
nected conclusion is as sad as the days that
are no more, but nothing like as sweet. (Query:
if Tennyson had written, “So sad, so fresh, the
nights that are no more, ” would that have connoted
or keynoted him a greater poet ?)
This isn’t a Purple Page, and red cor'pusoles
hate to be called corpus'cles, and nobody ever
dreamt of dubbing local poets greater than Homer
and Dante—and thus on : these, are cobwebs to a
soaring soul: let them snap. For the rest: it was
J. le Gr. B. who, as the anonymous author of
“Perdita, a Sonnet Record,” was here counselled
to take his amende Muse up the mountains and
fatten her up on chops and claret. One is sorry
to have galled the lady so ;'and to make her wince
again by vengefully reprinting (oh, Heavens!)
some of the sonnets to Perdita would be unkind,
and might be fatal. . . .
* • • *
And here is surely one of the red-soldiers who
have won fame on the “ Aboriginalities ” page
by their head-and-tail plunge into internecine
strife when divided in the region of the fifth
waistcoat - button —very Witheringtons of the
formicary. He proceeds, it seems, on the grand
negative system of that lost specimen of an Aus-
tralian orator, David Buchanan. “ / never-r,
Mr. Speaker-r, having by ar-r-ts gained
the confidence of a varra wor-r-thy citizen—/
never-r embezzled the moneys which he had entr-
r-usted to me and left him to star-r-ve ! I never-r
seduced the lovely and or-r-phan child of desair-r-
-ving par-r-ents, and dr-r-ove her faither-r into the
mad-hoose and her mither-r into the gutter-r ! I
never-r ” And so on, with more or less
relevancy to the crimes with which an oppo-
nent could be charged by a stretch of
the imagination, if not by a stretch of Parlia-
mentary forms. And if the opponent writhed and
rose, David would say, “ I call the Hoose to
witness that I never-r in any way r-refer-r-red to
the honor-r-rable member-r. But I pair-r-ceive,
Mr. Speaker-r, that the cap fits ” —etc. In five
minutes, by detailing the things he never did, and
would not not under any circumstances do, the
“orator ” could start more innuendo-hares than his
adversary could catch in an hour. It was the
neatest of rhetorical tricks. So —•
I have once before descended into this arena in fighting
trim, on behalf of Mallarmd : for I am one of those who
prefer to write about him rather than write about Homer
and Dante. But, as I invoked them on his acoount, one
blow calls for a second.
Questions I shall not touch are these : What is the value
of simply showing that your opponent’s views lie beyond
his control—“ Hypocrite, take the beam out of thineywn
eye,” is sufficient answer. I too, in my green and donkey
days, tried my tooth on Tennyson (being thus in quite
different plight from Mr. Brunton Stephens) : and I can
advise our Australian poets to give over deploring his
“ over-elaboration,” and to take more pains with their
own rhymes, grammar, &c., and strive after some idea of
style. Nor shall I ask what standards the fashion of to-
day can set concerning the essential poetical power o^
Milton : nor what that fashion is : nor who its leaders :
nor what their essential poetic value (this out of kind-
ness). Nor yet how Homer's value can be injured by the
factthat the Australian doesn’t read him; or that the critics
are not eternally re-valuating and praising him (is the
mathematician then supposed to remain for ever gloating
in ecstasy over the fact that 2+2=4?). Nor what politic
lies behind the quotation of Griffith’s distortion of
0 lasso,
Quanti dolci pensier, quanto d-isio
Mend costoro al doloroso passo !
nor (a question I cannot for the life of me answer) what
meaning lies behind the argument founded thereon. Nor
where is that verse intrinsically far more poetical than
these (nor in what vale the writer lives). In passing I
shall remark on the superficiality of stating that “ the
philosophy of the 13th century is exploded ’’—nothing
dies that ever deeply interested the human spirit, it is
merely transformed (“ We all stand on the shoulders of
the Past ”)—but I shall most certainly not ask why “ it is
time that the poetry based on that philosophy exploded
too,” for if you give me sugar I shan’t ask you whether it’s
made from beet or cane. Nor yet whether a generation that
takes its limitations for granted (does it? it wouldn’t abuse
Tennyson if it did !) has apy right to ask me to accept
them. Nor whether Tennyson’s “ creation of beauty ’
and “decoration of permanent truths” (even In
Memoriam) doesn’t outweigh his bad inculcation of
philosophical dogmas. Nor whether criticism of Tenny-
son’s “ conventional ideas” comes with good grace from
a critic who declares that emotion is the essence of
poetry -and who shall establish the hierarchy of emo-
tions? Nor whether the fact that Tennyson was born
before the glorious local precedent of writing your poem
in half-an-hour has anything to do with denunciation of
his coldness and artificiality.
I shall simply say this :
The Dreyfus case may be revised, but there are clioses
gugies of poetic fame, around whose “ large historic
feet ” the revisionist is merely dust -sand-grain against a
pyramid.
This argument is merely the bludgeon Yea ; for V
hold that merely the bludgeon is required. We argue
with the enemy of humanity—after we have laid him.
And the man who questions the Supremacy of Homer-
Dante, Milton—and I will add Tennyson -puts himself
outside the pale of poetry and humanity ; cannot display
any good taste in trousers, since he belongs to those who
don’t wear ’em-the barbarians; being just a second.
Attila, or—if a more abusive name is wanted (it is !)
Nordau. —C.B.
» • • •
The bludgeon is tangible: the rest is shadow-
fighting. But (with a long breath) here goes :
The value of showing that your opponent’s views
lie beyond his control conies in the proof that his
judgment is unsound —just as you prove that his
colour-sense is unsound if you show that, w. h the
best will in the world, 1 lis eyes see green for red and
red for green. “ Hypocrite and beam ” would be a
sufficient answer if it were first proven (1) that there
is hypocrisy (2) that there is a beam. As that
isn’t proven, it isn’t any answer. “ The essential
poetical power of Milton ” is no power unless it is
applied, has a practical result. Homer’s value
isn’t injured by the fact the Australian doesn’t
read him, but it is practically destroyed for the
Australian. The fact detracts nothing from
Honier, but it shows that Homer adds little to the
Australian. (Beatly.it should not be necessary to
dilute argument like this.) The literary worth of
Homer, and the mathematical truth that 2 + 2
= 4, are unrelated ideas, and the comparison
is worthless. (2 + 2 —4) does not depend
upon the life of a human language, or the
permanency of a human opinion. Homer’s
value is not injured by the fact that he is
not continually being re-valuated, but if this
feneration or country reads him less it shows that
is value for this generation or country is less.
(Really, it should not be necessary to defend argu-
ment against such fahaoies and’inisconstructions.)
Griffith’s version of Dante was quoted to measure
the distance between G’s admiration and bis trans-
lation : with the inference that his admiration
must be partly fictitious, automatic —just as when
a mesmerist’s subje’et smacks his lips over kerosene
we judge his delight is fictitious, automatic. (If
the relation of this to the main thesis is still un-
intelligible to the First Class in Logic, the First
Class must pray for the Damascus-light that shone
on the Mallarme-disciple.) Dante’s 13th-century
philosophical epic is in the same fix as Dante’s
13th-century Ptolemaic cosmogony. The 10th
century left practically nothing of the cosmogony;
the 19th practically nothing of the philosophy.
With the false philosophy went much of the poetry
based on it and mixed with it. The highest poetry
must accord with the highest truth, and if it is de-
monstrably based on falsehood it is cankered at the
root. Question is not whether the sugar is made front
beet or cane, but whether the poetry is sand or
sugar. The generation asks nothing but the main-
tenance of everybody’s right to an original opinion
—if se has the power to analyse and value the
drivel of sis fathers and get an original opinion.
The local opinion is that Tennyson is high among
the poets and high among the great poetic artists.
Nobody praised the precedent of writing your
poem in half-an-hour. There are no chose* jufldes
outside of mathematics, and the man who accepts
another’s judgment in lieu of judging for himself
puts his intellect in fetters. The revisionist may
be sand against a pyramid—or he may be a neat
nine-pounder gun against a fetish-house; matter
of opinion. (Thank goodness that’s done.)
* * * *
One has been accustomed to view “ C. 8.”
(as the - beginning - and - a - bit - of - the - middle -of-a-
man-of-letters) with some reverence ; but when
he appears in the capacity of a man-of-logic it
becomes necessary to parody that American
Secretary for the Navy who signalised his appoint-
ment by going to inspect a real ship, and re-
marked, with profound astonishment, “Whv
the derned thing’s hollow! ” On the occa-
sion of his former descent into “ this arena,”
the controversialist’s simple pride in. his equip-
ment was so pathetically obvious that it would
have been cruel to do more than correct his mis-
quotations ; his fallacies and mis-statements were
left to the touchstone of readers’ good sense. On
that occasion he was concerned with the inade-
quacy of causes to produce effects; and flung seven
vials of scholastic ridicule on physiological
argument a priori. Yet now, once more in
fighting trim,” he would settle dispute not
by reasoning, but with “the bludgeon,” just
as his a priori ancestor would have set-
tled it “ wid a bit av a shtick ”! And it
is this infinitesimal result of the uncounted
aeons of the Past—with his rudimentary eye still
in the middle of his forehead, and his rudimentary
tail still watching the withering of his vermiform
appendix—it is this molecule, with all the weight
of the universe pressing upon him, who, like a
new Mrs. Partington, takes his academic broom
to sweep back the tide of existence, and as he is
borne back and smothered in the waves, murmurs
resentfully, “Good old highpriori! ”
THE PURPLE PAGE.
0 this is the song of the Critic Man and the Poet who
craved his aid,
For the singer came of a Scottish clan, and none of his
verses paid,
So he sought the Critic who aots as Fate with an aspect
keen and sage,
And raises cash at a lordly rate by running “ The Purple
Page.”
The Poet sank at the Critic's boots, and caught him about
the knees
And sobbed : “ I’m siok of derisive hoots; so give me
your counsel, please.
I fain would write such a gallant song that the trump oi
‘ The Purple Pago ’
Would tootle its praise with a blast so strong it would
echo from age to age.”
“ 'Tis a great ambition,” the Oritio said. “ First listen —
and then despair.
You've sat at the feet of the mighty dead 1 but the dead
are defunct—so there 1
And Homer and Dante were smaller men than Paterson,
Boake, or Quinn,
But there wasn’t a Purple Oritio’s pen to show what they
should have been,
And so they scribbled and scrawled away, and the Public
(being untaught)
Like a tame ass nibbled their wisp of bay, and by primi-
tive wiles were caught;
And now the halter is round their nose, and the selfsame
track they tread—
Or did, till ‘The Purple Page’ arose and clamoured:
THE DEAD ARE DEAD 1
So down with ‘ the Monarchs of Royal Song,’ and shovel
them out of sight!
The millions echoing praise are wrong, but * The Purple
Page ’ is right.” .
“Then how shall we know when a work is great?” the
Poet enquired, and sighed.
“ I’m coming to that, if you’ll only wait,” the Man of the
Page replied;
“ The poet sings of the things he knows, and what do we
know out here ?
The hills where the stunted gum-tree grows, and the
froth of the thrip’ny beer,
And sheep and cattle on burning plains, and dust, and
the plague of flies,
And sunbaked saddles and brittle reins, and bush where
the curlew cries,
And men who tramp it and men on mokes in the motley
play of fate,
And bummers, and shearers, and coves, and blokes, and
critics, and love and hate.”
“ Hm ! these are the subjects that lie to hand ?—but
what must the poet bring—
A love of beauty, a cunning hand, and the inborn power
to sing ? ” \
“ Why, first of all, he must calmly trace his manifold hopes
and fears
To their primal source in the savage race far over the
labelled j ears.
He must not think of the noble plan, but must grovel and
search the dust,
And must sift the body and soul of man for his elements
—greed and lust;
For lust is the glory of Purpleness, and the fashion of
bards to-day
Is to mash themselves to a Purple mess for the Future to
clear away.
Short-necked, full-blooded, licorous, strong, must the
Page-boomed Poet be;
(Two liquids mix in the ink of Song, knd one of ’em's
blood, you see.) ”
“ My neck is long.”
“ Then your cake is dough.”
“ Ah, spare me the purple rest!"
“ Well, red corpuscles are all the go, and a short, thick
neck is best.”
The poet staggered away in grief, and moaned on the
office stair,
And sought in the nearest pub. relief from the grip of his
fierce despair;
But they cleared him out and they moved him on to the
last resource of woe,
And the papers noted at last he’d gone where the Purple
Poets go.
J. LR G. B.
THE DUET.
I was smoking- a cigarette ;
Maud, my wife, and the tenor, M‘Key,
Were singing together a blithe duet,
And days if were better I should forget
Came suddenly back to me, —
Days when life seemed a gay masque ball,
And to love and be loved was the sum of it all.
As they sang together, the whole scene fled,
The room’s rich hangings, the sweet home air,
Stately Maude, with her proud blonde head—
And 1 seemed to see in her place instead
A wealth of blue-black hair,
And a face -ah, your face—yours, Lisptte ;
A face it were wiser I should forget. .
We were back—well, no matter when or where ;
But you remember, t know, Lisettp.
I saw you, dainty and debonair,
With the very same look that you used to wear
In the days I should forget.
And your lips, as red as the vintage we quaffed,
Were pearl-edged bumpers of wine when you laughed.
Two small slippers with hig rosettes ■
Peeped out under your kilt-skirt there,
While vye sat smoking our cigarettes
(Oh, I shall be dust when my heart forgets 1)
And singing that self-same air;
And between the verses, for interlude,
I kissed your throat and shoulders nude.
You were so full of a subtle fire,
You were so warm and so sweet, Lisette j
You were everything men admire ;
And there were no fetters to make us tire,
For you were—a pretty grisette.
But you loved as onlj such natures can,
With (i love that makes heaven or hell for a man.
They have ceased singing that old duet,
Stately Maude and the tenor, M‘Key.
“ You are burning your coat with your cigarette,
And qu’ avez vous, dearest, your lids are wet,”
Maude says, as she leans o’er me.
And I smile, and lie to her, husband-wise,
“ Oh, it is nothing but smoke in my eyes."
Ella Wheeler Wilcox.


>
RS
FREEMAN
&
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNa MEN.
Symptoms
, of Dreaded Diseases which
’destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronio ailments of a more or less
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it .points its bony finger and says,
“ Stop—be sad ! ” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. <lt destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unmanned man,
“Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronio sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSoi).
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment’s delay. Don’t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has
speedily and permanently. A
ing when in the last stages.
NENTLY, every case of blood t ,
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
only reached the first or second stages your system can oe cieansea
longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
I Doisonincr undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
60 Engravings.
16 Colored Plates.
. j
Price, 10s.
NtrVoOs Debility, LoSS of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a c ance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is.not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupidness, bashfulness
and loss of energy. You soon become arnbitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide. Ihe cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and it you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes bring back the lustre to your eyes, an
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life—ambitious—successful. Don t delay. Immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
lake time by the forelock —nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money 7 . We. treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men for
.society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting. , ,
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
equipment and low charges. . , ... , . . „ t. „
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don’t be afraid to state your case fully. Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANRN ILX
CURED, we are ready to help you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
confidential.
<r
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO —
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
CORRESPONDENCE P.O. BOX 1359,
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician I
and Surgeon, received his education in the Enadish and Scottish universities, and ■
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long I
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the- human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or exoesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, datumv hands, an
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the hack, chest, legs, or face, failing
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, <Vc., itib., should consult him, for he is now
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
aversion
dreadful
memory,
enabled
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and motley.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
neoessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
H3E
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in winch yon will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
am r earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Young and
Old Men ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain sa.ne easily
and permanently Prof.
Read’s LIFE SYRUP cure> the most obsfnate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, &c. A Written
Guarantee given iri all cases The Life Syrup stun
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles «nd ducts
prevents the constant dram of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “ From Bondage to Freedom, showing how at.
nervous disorders are cured, and m many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
nai
M \RK.
This successful ami highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Kieord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hil herto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remat ka dy simrl lime, oiten a lew days only,
removes an discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of me blood, scuivy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers'
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewhole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p iscnous n atter from the body.
THERAPION N 0.3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of viiaut} ,iiui a&?mg'
dreams, and aIL the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION the principal
Chemists mid .tier, hams thnmgnout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
above Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Theravion ” as it appears on the Government
Btamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
•very package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrapion— FELTON, GRIM'WADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSfTT fc Co.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hollauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
NO CURE-NO PAY]
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Addrkss—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
NOTE-
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, NS W.
or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. H. Clayton’s
MARVELLOUS
VITALITY PILLS
Are tne best medibine on earth for the Permanent Cure
of Nervous Exhaustion, Debility, Despondency, Rheuma-
tism, Paralysis, Impoteney, etc., and all diseases arising
from Overwork, Wgrry, Excess, Female Weakness, etc.
No matter how caused, or how long standing. These Pills
are purely'a- vegetable compound, made from rare and
fine drugs. Success guaranteed. Literature free on
application. Full directions around each box. In boxes
'at ss. and Ids., post free from the Dr. H. CLAYTON
MEDICINE COMPANY, Box 617 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Atrophy
„ , IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the very first hour of its use. Strength,
O:
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
i book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address :-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency., etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life." 1
Tms valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address -S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
•<. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL on Newmarket Handicap.
4th March.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Drawn on Morning of the Race.
Address
£ s :
HOBART C. February 1.
50,000 Su.bacrilj era at 5.
Address
LAI NOES'! ON C. February 8.
50,000 SuTascribera at 5.
Address
COOTAMUNDRA C. February 8.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
NEWMARKET H. March 4.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name .
Address
; ;
AUSTRALIAN C. March 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
BALLARAT C. March 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL&£'
Please allot shares in the above.
N ame ■'
Address
DONCASTER H
Apri I 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
. Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
£
Address
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


be <ala&S
of FaSbioi)
Anthony • Horderns
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW PPanv
Also we have published for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers' Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing: for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
Modern Sawmill Machinery
For Cutting Hardwood Logs.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Portable and Stationary
. . . Engines and Boilers.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
ARTESIAN DRILLING PLANTS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils.
HIGH-CLASS VEHICLES ALWAYS KEPT
IN STOCK,
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
CEIDUEDR
IHEiIEU
COOL ANI)
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
. . FOR SUMMER . .
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc*.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Aokxts :
David graham £ go.,
73 & 75
King'-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
rrHr>
DEAF
tW" “Common Sense Ear
Drum 3 ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
.1. A. Chalmers, Airent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
DOW RIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizaheth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
j ■EEEEEMi
- miiKHig
■mm
Q~\r\r\r
GO TO HELL-
-IUOI,ANI> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagerj,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price
lists gratis.
Australia!} HGtOal
Established 1849.
ProMideot Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY Y T EAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Mi lions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head Office i 87 Hitt-atreet Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s. ,
Buggies, Buck boards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIEFt, 135 & 137 Sussox-street.
Works: MELBODRNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENOS‘FRUIT SALT’
A Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
0
*9
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Feverß of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, ami almost every mentionable Disease, “lliavobeen a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pysomia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.”—A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It Is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. -See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd.,
at the * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
STUDY THIS WELL
Do vour Eyes feel weak from Overwork, Study, etc. ’
Are they affected from EHglit, Sun Glare, Granulations, Stings of Insects?
Do they feel painful after exposure to strong winds, dust’
Are the Eyelids Inflamed or Scaly?
IF SO, THERE IS ONLY ONE REMEDY—
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion
Sdd by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE OIE& ;
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
Open all Night; also Sundays and Holidays.
GRAPHOPHONE.
50/-
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPLIES, from
60s. up.
THE “ALBERT
GRAPIJOPHONE”
Sings, Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talking Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&c., £6 10s.
ALBERT &. SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Representatives for Australia. Agents wanted where
we are not already represented. Send for Catalogues
of Oraphophones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Musical Instruments and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
the world—“ The BOOMERANG,” 2s. 6d. Trade sup-
plied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey
3 for 58. ; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free, securely packed ’
When ordering-, send Postal Notes for 65., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them
write now. Miss' Dare, Waverley, writes: “ I was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips.”
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is 3d
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
THE
* Plum ’
THB
‘ Flum’
(1 ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory sfiould give onr celebrated Plum Razor a
X trial. 1 his razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Bern.' practical tradesmen ourselves, «e know the
exnct kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Ihe “ Plum’ Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather ease, 10a. ftd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case 21a.
I Single Razor, m ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Pei/istered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
M-S.W. Carriage & Saddlery MTanf. Comr»anv
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
Our special
No. 2.
Including Splash
hoards, Silver Dash Sail
and Lamps.
£B.lB. 6.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cattle-Drover.
When softly the night-dews are falling,
They rob me of rest,
Those voices of cattle-men calling
Away in the West ;
And rising, in fancy, I follow
By tracks that are worn to a hollow,
The ways I love best.
The sheep which are bleating around me
Are cattle that low,
The fences and lanes that surround me
Are creeks that we know ;
And free is the country, and splendid,
With plains that can never be ended,
Where cattle-men go.
The horns of the cattle are gleaming
Around in the sun,
The horses are all daily dreaming
Of stages we’ve done.
The herbage is knee-deep beside me,
No cockies to bother and chide me.
’Tis nobody’s run.
The locusts are chirping a chorus
From bowers of green,
The country is open bofore us,
Unbroken and clean,
Behind us the herbage is bonding
In far-fading vistas unending
—The track we have been.
And ever when night-dews are falling,
They rob us of rest,
Those voices of memory calling
Away in the west;
And rising in fancy we follow,
By ways that are worn to a hollow,
The ways we love best.
W. M. FLEMING.
A Mining Analogy.
What’s prayin’ ? Prayin’s wantin’ things,
And wishin’ we had less or much,
And after people’s prayed for ’em,
They’ve got to go and work for such.
We often pray when we don’t think,
And don’t know who we’re prayin’ to,
Like when we wish a man “good luck,”
That’s prayin’ that he’ll make a “do.”
Some kind of work is all a prayor,
Like diggin’, so it seems to me ;
The Seriptur’s strong on havin’ faith
For bein’ answered ’andily.
So I start out and peg a claim,
I’d never have no heart to sink
And look for gold, excep’ I thought
When I got down to hear it chink.
Jest like a prayer, thissinkin’ holes
And daily lookin’ for the gold ;
For “give us day by day our bread,”
Is what we have to ask, we’re told.
We chance the gettin’ what we ask,
And sinkin’holes is like enough ;
We wish for luck—and duffer out,
Or bottom on to payin’ stuff.
Then “ keep us from all evil,” that’s
The same as drivin’ on the wash.
Some say if they can strike the run,
The rest is right; but that’s all bosh.
Suppose we strike a mullock-bank,
Or find the gutters poor, or should
The lead go twisting from our claim,
That’s bad—we always want the good.
So sinkin’ holes, I think, is just
Like prayin’ for your daily bread ;
And drivin’ on the wash the same
As hopin’ things is good ahead.
And when we've sunk, and driv’ our claim,
And cleanin’-ups is goin’ fair,
Then things is goin’ on all right—
We’re gettin’ answers to our prayer !
PROSPECT GOOD.
On Western Roads.
Mile upon mile to the west o’ West—
Timber, and mirage, and quivering plain ;
Life, without living, that’s void of zest.
Wonder if ever they’ve heard of rain—
Brolga, apostle, and long-legged crane ?
Never, out here, would a steel bit rust,
Or stirrup, or buckle, or bright curb-chain—
“ Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.”
Flattest of flat is the dry, dead West—
-Band and saltbush, and cracked-up plain.
Whispering hot breeze never at rest ?
Sighing in pines, like a soul in pain
Moaning of thirst and a sun-struck brain.
Empty tanks with a glistening crust.
Ghosts of the night-time that howl again—
“ Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.”
Red are the suns in the evening west —
Red is the dawn on the great red plain.
Red are the roads at their dusty best —
The red stock route is Starvation Lane—
Nothing but wilga for Greed to gain ;
Owners are hard - and owners are just,
Limbs of a Bank 'neath a breaking strain—
“ Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.”
Envoy:
Prince—on the Roads, ’tis a quest that’s vain—
Vainer than Vanity, Life, or Lust—
To fly from the dirge that is moaned in pain—
“ Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.”
N.S.W.
J.H.M.A.


m
BAKING
I
POWDER.
REST 4 BEST IN TH
MANUFACTURED BY
WASHINGTON H.SOUU C°, PITTSI. SYDNEY,
AND SOLD BY All GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpillS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHEItS, Minister for Lands ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESSEE AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding-. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to’ifll'kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Ull equalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greates' confidence in the article, and canrecom-
meud it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent 111 the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
ii
A DAM ON THE YANKO,
»
P«B
Ruberoid.
[COPT.]
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD.,
24-26 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Deniliquin, 2nd December, 1898.
Dear Sirs,—We lately used your “ Ruberoid ”in a Dam on the Yanko, and it has proved a
perfect success. I have now specified it for another dam across the Billabong, for which you will
soon receive the order, and probably others to follow.
I am favorably impressed with the advantages of Ruberoid materials, which I consider
superior in many respects to other appliances of this kind.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) FRED. HARRISON, F.R.V.I.A.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Ross & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twiqg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Piibrson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL
• MELBOURKTE •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY AND COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
6s. to 12s. per Day ... Inclusive Terms -| . . 255. to £3 10s. per Week.
ROOMS ONLY—at from 2s. to 10s. per Day; 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per Week.
Two IDining Rooms (2s. 6D. A Is.) and Cafe.
i [jxoh s/i r i vsmckij.vl
m
m
lUS»iißilllHlllllHUHHhli-,BiiliLiHlriimi^illlllkliUlliillluiii>
ESI
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
K& Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF:
10s. per Day.
w. J. ADAMS, Manager.
PainleßS Dentistry.
THE .. ..
[ondon flental
Institute.
On. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mu. S. It ASHER, Dentists.
JHodevw Dentistry in nil its livnnches
Jjefi it ini ntely Vrn et iserl.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2C15.
CA L VERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFi: TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOIH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 8S Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
MPA
©LB 3
Trade
Mam
D-<D-k
%oi
(kDistiuers Company U;
EDINBURGH.
JV«. PN WASv4£l§
S:
Drink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sak e”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
West Australian and Industrial Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS 80 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
mice sinmoNS.
♦ ;
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
♦
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest CGt Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATS. —Special Line Youths’ All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,6/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s
„ F. H. Ayres* ditto (International) 16s
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President) 13s
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) 14s
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s
~ Clapshavv’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s
STUMPS WITH HAILS— Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 6s
~ Brass Tops, Steel-shod . 7s, 7s
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod 9s 6d, 12s
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s
~ Full Size 4s
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ss, 6s
„ Men’s 68, 7s 9d, 9s
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape 10s
BA LT.S. —Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match... 6s
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 6s 6d ; ditto Best 6s
~ Wisden’s Match 4s
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
lull size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney) .. 80s
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s
WI4U P... a r\,. ca_ nr\~
„ With pegs, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 60s, 60s
sSs SSSSSSSaSSS 22222222'
B ' TS.—Oobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s od, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto 6s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s Od
~ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s 6d
~ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s 6d
~ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6,9/6,10/0, 12s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 0d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons’Patent Cork-cased Handle... 16s Od
~ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
„ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 6s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS od, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS.—Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ ~ Match, Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 6d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 8/3, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Slumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
Tobacco Manufacture in N.S. W.
Excise Returns show that during 1898,
Over 60 Tons More
of DIXSON & SONS’ Tobacco were sold than
that of any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf. —DIXSON & SONS used in
manufacture
Over 1*29 Tons More
than all the other Tobacco Factories.
• ✓♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦< '
DIXSON & SONS 9 Brands are:
YANKEE DOODLE, Dark and Bright Aromatic
CHAMPION, Bright.
CONQUEROR, Dark.
BONANZA ClGARS,—Machine-made ; contain the choicest
Tobacco, and are placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi. 20.—N0. 989.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 1899.
Prich 6d.
“THE SLIPPERY JOKER.”
TURNER (anxiously): “But about the Federal Capital question?"
REID : “ My dear boy , that reminds me of a capital funny story ”-


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 01$ 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 b o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One. Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea •>. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, UtiOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, 'Letters, or Netvspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jtlack and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but, unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Goteh, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. —It. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tub Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —lK. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in I'ictorin, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
I ostage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. Gd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
7^^^xzlleZz/ri.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 1899.
The Anglo-Saxon Idyll.
The great league of the alleged Anglo-Saxon
race, of which Britain and the United States
were to be the chief component parts, has
made no definite progress within the last
few months. In fact, there are already
signs that the enthusiasm has faded a good
deal, and that the Bull and Jonathan com-
bination is sobering up. The enthusiasm
never rested on any well-ascertained basis ;
the component elements of the potential
Anglo-Saxon league met each other in a state
of affable public drunk, and swore eternal
friendship, and offered to lend each other
their last cent, as affable drunks will, but
beyond that the wild temporary joy of the
two nations had no definite grounds to stand
on. The Anglo-Saxon league never had any
real elements of cohesion. Perhaps the
very beginning of the trouble lies in the
difficulty of finding the Anglo-Saxon. There
certainly is, in Britain, a race that heaped
itself on top of the old Celtic popu-
lation, and which is commonly called Saxon
—partly because it was largely Danish
and partly because there are suspicions
even yet that the bulk of it was really
Scandinavian. And there is in the United
States a race whose basis is mainly derived
from Ireland and Germany and Central
Europe generally, with a wide streak of nigger
in the Southern States thrown in. The Irish
element mostly removed to the States in the
days when the Anglo-Irish hatreds were far
more robust than they are now, and it took
with it a fine old anti-British loathing, which
it planted and carefully watered in its new
location. The Germans may be the blood
relations of John Bull by reason of that
dubious Saxon ancestry already mentioned,
but, if so, the connection is too remote to
count for much. The Briton doesn’t stay
up at night thinking how much he loves
Germany because some of his ancestors are
said to have coine from somewhere there-
abouts 1000 years ago, any more than the
German grows maudlin over the Tartar
highlands whence his still more remote pro-
genitors are said to have emerged. And the
nigger and the miscellaneous foreigners have
no British relationships at all.
* • • •
Still, the blood relationship or the absence
of it matters very little. When the tem-
porary Anglo-Saxon idyll was on in real
earnest it was alleged with an awful weari-
ness of reiteration that blood was thicker
than water—which is not always the case,
anyhow, for water is alarmingly thick at
times. And, even if it was the case, mere
thickness is not necessarily an advantage.
All the foreign wars of the United States,
barring its poor little campaign against
Mexico, and its recent little hustle with
Spain, have been fought against its blood
relation, J. Bull. Its biggest war was
fought on its own soil and against its own
people, who are far nearer relations than
Bull ever was. The bitter conflicts between
the German-speaking brethren of Prussia
and Austria ; the hatreds of the Tartar in
Turkey and his brother, the semi-Tartar, in
Russia; the standing feud of Norway and
Sweden; the irreconcileableness of Spain
and its small faded neighbor and relative,
Portugal, are a few instances which go to
show that the extra thickness of blood as
compared with w’ater has not necessarily any
bearing on the case. The best hope of a con-
stant alliance between Britain and the United
States lies in the fact that English is the
official language of both countries. Com-
munity of language amounts to an immense
amount more than community of race—
which latter amounts practically to nothing
at all, for if one man reckons that he has
been wronged by another, the fact that the
injury was done by a relative or alleged rela-
tive, provided he remembers the relation-
ship, only makes him angrier.
* * * •
And community of language amounts to
very little. Ninety-nine per cent, of the
people of each country —the part of the com-
munity which hasn’t the time or the
money for extensive travelling —is too
busy earning its vittles to remember that
some people that it never saw, situated
several thousand miles away, speak the same
tongue as itself. And if it did remember
the fact there is no enduring interest in it.
The two general rules which govern inter-
national friendships and enmities appear to
be these : As a rule, a nation quarrels with
the nation nearest to it, whether the latter
is its brother in language and descent or not.
It is easier to make a quarrel with the
country next door (because the two nations
naturally slang each other over the back
fence) than with one beyond earshot. It is also
cheaper to fight with the country next door
than with one far away ; the army hasn’t to
be moved so far. If the country next door
speaks the same language, then its terms of
opprobrium are easier comprehended. And
there is more joy in annexing a bit of an
adjacent country than of one at a distance
because the stolen bit rounds off our own
territory so admirably. And, as a general
rule, every nation is more or less friendly
with the nation next-door-but-one, because
when its ever-recurrent difficulty with the
nation next door breaks out again, it wants
to have its enemy between two fires.
* * * •
There are various reasons why a long-con-
tinued alliance between Bull and Jonathan
is less probable now than it has been any
time in the previous thirty years. The
United States has always been the country
next door, so far as Canada is concerned,
and it has secured a very respectable piece
of that province already. The republic is
filling up now, and is getting near due to
annex something else. If it keeps Cuba,
Puerto Rico and the Philippines, then
it will become the country next door in a
far wider sense than it has ever been yet.
The United States, is now entering for the
first time, and rather late ip the day, on a
colonisation policy. That it will be a suc-
cessful coloniser there is hardly a doubt, and
that it will ultimately knock up against
Britain, the other great and successful colo-
nising power, there is hardly a doubt either.
The new colonial policy of the United States
will make it necessary to maintain a much
larger army and navy than hitherto ; in other
words, it will necessitate keeping the means
to fight always handy. All the old sores be-
tween the two countries are still open. It
is the fixed policy of the States to prevent
any further European encroachments on the
American continent —for Jonathan, in his
inmost soul, regards himself as the ultimate
heir to everything between Alaska and
Magellan—and to look with an unfavorable
eye on the encroachments which Europe has
already made. Britain is the boss encroacher
now, in Canada, Honduras, Guiana, and the
West Indies. And Britain keeps spreading
in a small way even yet; its frontier in
Guiana keeps shifting southward into Brazil
and westward into Columbia without any
formal concession or explanation —it is
merely a moveable frontier which rises and
walks in the night.
* • * *
According to all the rules of the game,
there are two nations with which the United
States must quarrel—Britain and Mexico.
The latter isn’t a serious case. No doubt
Diaz’s republic will make a gallant fight
when its time comes, but it has no earthly
show. Its fate, some day or other, is to be
eaten up by the great and comprehensive
Uncle Sam, and the same applies to the
squalid little states of Central America, and
many other places besides. The fixed law
that every nation must periodically batter
its next-door neighbor applies equally in
the case of Canada. The fact that there was
a temporary hysteria of friendship counts for
nothing. Britain had the same frenzy of
brotherhood with France for a while after
the Crimean alliance. Also, it loathed the
unspeakable Turk in the twenties, and
loved and fought for him in the fifties, and
has hated him ever since. Italy wept some-
thing awful on the shirt-bosom of France
after France saved it from Austria in the
gory battles of Magenta and Solferino, and
then it made an alliance with its old oppressor
against its deliverer. The United States had
a friendship for Russia a few years ago, and
wanted to put the hot end of its cigar on the
tail of the British lion, and a few years hence
it will probably be in the same mood again.
Every nation has short-lived drunks and
hysterics of that kind. The present one is
likely to be very short-lived indeed —for one
reason, because it started with no adequate
groundwork. Britain didn’t help the United
States in the late war, and it isn’t even
known for certain that it used its influence
to prevent any other nation helping Spain.
Of course, if Britain had interfered where it
had no business to interfere, it would have
made things very lamentable for the Repub-
lic’s little new fleet, but the fact that it stood
out, just like everybody else, is no cause for
excessive enthusiasm. That is the negative
cause why the Anglo-Saxon idyll will shortly
blow over. The positive cause is that Britain
is the one country which stands seriously in
the road of Uncle Sam’s expansion. It even
intrudes between the continental sections of
the republic, and divides it in two pieces.
And no nation feels permanently good to-
wards a neighbor so awkwardly situated as
that.
The Voice of Parkes the Less.
Small Parkes, the son of Big Parkks, deceased,
is an individual whom New Soulli Wales, for
its sins, allowed somebody to make Minister of
something or other. What he is Minister of
most of the province doesn’t clearly recollect,
but, being Minister of something, his utterances
have a certain weight, and, the other day, Small
Parkes served as a casual straw to show in
what direction the N.S.W. Cabinet blows on
Federal matters. The next Federal Conference
meets in a few days, and on it depends probably
the last chance of union that Australia will
have within the memory of most people now
living, for, if it fails, this country will want a
long rest from the whole affair, and will most
likely change the subject to horse. So a certain
amount of interest attaches to the present
Federal attitude of the people who boss N.S.
Wales, and the speech which Small Parkes
delivered last week down at a place near
Jamberoo throws some light on the position.
It is thus reported by Sydney Telegraph :
Responding to the toast of the Ministry at the luncheon
of the Albion Park Agricultural Society to-day, Mr.
Varney Parkes said that he hoped that the efforts made
towards the development of the cause of Federation
would culminate within two years or so in success. The
N.S.W. Govt, programme of Federal resolutions had met
with the approval of the people, and, in addition to these
resolutions, the Govt, had succeeded in passing a good
deal of domestic legislation that tended to the happiness
and advancement of the people. This colony had most
at stake in federating, but if the N.S.W. Govt. Federal
resolutions were adopted by the other colonies it was
possible that in a short time a proper form of Constitu-
tional government would be brought about, and that was
the only form of government that N.S.W. could afford to
adopt. N.S.W. was equal in commerce and natural
resources to all the other colonies put together, and its
taxable assets were equal to all the other colonies in the
group, and this fact made it imperative on her politicians
to see that her interests were considered in any form of-
Federal government.
* * • *
Of course, The Bulletin doesn’t do Parkes’s
son the injustice of supposing that he believes
any such lamentable rot as that which the
Telegraph credits him with. To do so would
be to set him down as such a shamefully
unlettered lout that it is impossible to under-
stand how he could rise to be Minister of any-
thing, even in New South Wales. It merely
credits him with saying them without believing
them, and with being a stupid and eminently
offensive boaster. New South Wales owns
about one-third the total trade of Australasia—
in other words, its trade is about half that of
the other provinces. In proportion to popula-
tion its trade is about half that of Westralia,
and not very much less than that of
S.A. Its taxable assets, according to its
own statistician’s estimate, are a little over
one-third of those of all Australasia—rather
more than those of Victoria, and not nearly so
much as those of Victoria and S.A. put
together. It has a large shipping trade,
Sydney, in point of tonnage, being the second
port in Australasia —though what such matters,
or the absence of them, have to do with
Federation Heaven only knows. Even re-
garded as a partially-educated elderly gentle-
man of no particular account, Parkes the
second doubtless knows all these things well
enough. But for some inexplicable reason,
ever since the Reid Government requested the
other provinces to come in and federate, its
principal members and followers have been
busy doing their utmost to aggravate these
other provinces by clumsy lies and unmannerly
bounce of the kind which his own party-organ
credits to Parkes. And this policy of pin-
pricks is certainly not helping along the cause
of union.
» * » •
There is no money, or credit, or sense, or
visible advantage about the methods which the
principal Goths of the N.S.W. Foreign-trade
party have so unaccountably adopted. They
couldn’t follow them to any great extent at any
of the Federal Conferences, for there the re-
presentatives of the other provinces would have
promptly refuted the dull and eminently stupid
Ananias. But elsewhere their perpetual lie
has been that N.S.W. is richer and greater and
more prosperous, and has more industries and
more everything, than all the other provinces
put together, and, by implication, that the
other provinces are a few small places of no
account which ought to be glad to federate
with N.S.W., on any terms that N.S.W. likes
to offer, to save themselves from bankruptcy.
Their general attitude has been that of Hanni-
bal Ciiollop and Elijah Pogram, and other
caricatures whom one of Dickens’ creations
found spitting much tobacco-juice on the bosom
of the Mississippi, and talking about the
greatness of the young republic and about
Queen Victoria’s terror in the Tower of
London when she heard of what it was
thinking of doing next. Presumably Reid
and Want and Heydon and Parkes
the less have some object in telling their
monotonous perversion throughout N.S.W.
They couldn’t actually believe it all; no crowd
of politicians could be quite so ignorant of all
history and geography and statistics and yet
know how to dodge the passing tram-car till
they reached their present years of indiscretion.
And the oidy visible object can be to aggravate
the parochial pride and prejudice of the people
to a point which will make union impossible,
or nearly so.
• • * ♦
Almost from the first day of the Federal
campaign, the burden of all the loudest liars
of the N.S.W. Ministerial party has been the
smallness and poverty and general wretched-
ness of the other Australias as compared with
the glorious state of N.S.W. And N.S.W.
can certainly make a decent showing among its
compeers, even without all this lying. It has
a larger population, revenue, trade and debt
than any other single province, and the
highest illegitimacy rate, and the most
suicides and divorces and sheep, and the largest
mineral production and revenue deficiency.
It owns the second largest city and the second
largest stock of cash, and the second largest
railway system, also the one which conics
second in point of profit. It comes second in
manufacturing industries and a bad third in
agriculture and cattle-raising. There is no-
reason why any cornstalk citizen should not be
proud of his country on various grounds if he
feels so inclined. And, in addition to its oilier
advantages, it has produced, during the long-
drawn-out Federal campaign, a crowd of man-
nerless political Goths of the Parkes order
which no other province has remotely ap-
proached. And their constant plaint that they
are intensely anxious to federate with the other
provinces on fair terms, and that the other
provinces are so poor and mean and abject that
they are really hardly worth federating with on
any terms, is a very painful thing to listen to.
* * * *
Further, Parkes’s son, a responsible member
of the N.S.W. Government, explains that
Federation is possible, provided the other pro-
vinces accept all the N.>S. W. Government’s
amendments, and give N.S.W. everything it
asks, and don’t ask anything off N.S.W. —in
fact, if everything is fixed to exactly suit
N.S.W. and nobody else. Of the six im-
portant amendments submitted by the
N.S.W. Government, five are shamefully
Tory in their character, and the majority
are grossly and disgracefully selfish. It asks
that a bare majority shall suffice at the
joint sitting of the Federal Houses—which is
right according to all democratic principles. It
demands that the Federal Upper House—pro-
bably the more democratic Chamber of the two
—shall have practically no control over money
hills. And it demands that N.S.W. shall own
the Federal capital, that it shall be the private
property of N.S.W.—not of the Commonwealth
in general ; that N.S.W. shall be allowed to
annex S.A.’s share of the eastern river system ;
and that none of the provinces shall ever
be subdivided, however much subdivision
may be required—in other words, it wants
to see North and Central Queensland sold
in perpetual bondage to the South, merely that
it may make sure at the same time that the
Riverina and the Barrier shall never be al-
lowed to separate from N.S.W., however much
their inhabitants may demand such separation.
And Parkes, as a member of the N.S.W.
Government, states that if the other provinces
concede all these things and N.S. W. concedes
nothing in return, then Federation is possible.
He doesn’t even go so far as to say it is likely,
but it is possible. And that is about all it is, so
long as the lukewarm Tory Government of Reid
and Want runs the show.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The S.A. Crisis.
South Australia’s constitoosh’nal crisis came to
a very peaceful end last week ; it arrived like a
lion in December and it went out in January
like a stunned lamb. The Leg. Council “ re-
affirmed its opinion that no referendum to the
electors upon a constitutional question should
be made without the consent of both Houses of
Parliament, and that any other course is an in-
fringement of the Constitution.” But the
Kingston Government didn’t promise to consult
both Houses, and the Council passed the sus-
pended Appropriation Bill all the same, and
things simmered down. The legal aspect of
Premier Kingston’s contention, that the
Assembly has a right to take a referendum of
its own constituents, on its own authority, any
time it pleases, and about anything it pleases,
remains just as unsettled as before. But the
more the matter is considered the better King-
ston’s position looks. There is nothing illegal
about taking a referendum. It doesn’t come
under the head of vagrancy, breach of the
peace, language, wilful damage to property,
dog-stealing, or any other defined offence.
It doesn’t commit the State to anything;
it is not a legislative act, but a mere
effort to obtain a statement of public opinion.
Any private individual could do it quite legally,
if he wanted to and was prepared to stand the
expense. There is absolutely no law to prevent
him hiring buildings all over the province as
polling-places, and printing ballot-papers, and
getting men to act as returning officers and
scrutineers, and inviting the electors to come
along on a certain day and express their views
on an urgent public question, or any other
question, for the information of Parliament
and the public. It would need no Act to
authorise, any private person to do this, pro-
vided he did it quietly and decently ; though it
would require a specific Act to stop him. And


this is exactly what the Kingston Government
and the S.A. Assembly proposed doing. If
the}' had proposed lo compel people to vote,
or if they had intended that the people’s
views as recorded at the referendum should
ihave the force of law, then undoubtedly a
special Act passed by both Houses would
have been required—hut they didn’t. They
merely resolved that, as the Assembly
and Council disagreed on an important
matter, the Assembly should ask its con-
stituents to record their views as an instruction
to it whether it should argue the point further
with the Council or not. And there isn’t a
word or letter in the Constitoosh’n against any-
body quietly, without blasphemy, violence, or
intoxication, asking one person, or 360,000
persons, for an expression of opinion on any sub-
ject that isn’t of a kind to come under the head
of obscene language. The Council might, quite
legally, have stated that the Assembly could
take as many referendums as it liked, but that
it (the Council) wasn’t bound to take any notice
of them ; also, that it wouldn’t pass the next
Estimates if the cost of the referendum was
included therein—that the Assembly must pass
the hat round and pay the expenses itself. That
would have been foolish, but strictly Consti-
toosh’nal, for the Council has a voice in the ex-
penditure of public money. But the attitude
the Council assumed looks, upon further in-
spection, quite illegal. If the present writer
had the money to spend, he would take an occa-
sional referendum himself without asking the
permission of anybody.
" Penny ” Henniker.
“ Facon ” to The Bulletin
Your par. of 14/l/’9B draws attention to a remarkable
fact, and ventures a prophecy. It has been a wonder to
many who don’t know Hknnikkr Heaton that he has not
yet secured anything in the titular line—not oven a paltry
O.M.G. Perhaps he wouldn’t take anything so low-down
as that ? But anyone who knows the man knows that his
soul is not above small things, lie would jump at any-
thing and then jump for more. Fact is, Hknnikkr suffers
from too much Hknnikkr. He has never been able to
get away from himself long enough to enable the givers
of good things to forget his aggressive and un-
blushing personality. The very things that helped
1 him during his “career" in N.S. Wales are the
* things that hamper him now. He has not been able
ito forget the methods of the newspaper-canvasser.
>Ue is an advertiser “ right-dovvn-to-the-ground," but his
. error lies in believing that the methods that fetched the
1 busbies of Bulgandratnine and Croagingolong can he ap-
plied with absolute success to London. Be not deceived.
London knows its Hknnikkr quite as well as the folks did
;to whom he sold bacon in Bega ; quite as well as did old
’ “ Rutn-and-onions”; quite as well as did old Sam Ben-
nett—a sound business man who perceived clearly how
to make the best of his pushing son-in-law’s peculiar
t talents. London recognises in Hknnikkr a portentous
l bore who has had horse-sense enough to plant his little
ladder on the national desire not to give 2Jd. if
tt.be State can be talked intotakinga penny. London recog-
nises also that his success has been that of a man happily
(for himself) endowed with no vastamount of delicacy, with
plenty of vitality, and with the kind of brains that
accord with such qualities. Now, of course, advertising
“goes” in London, and judicious use of it will ensure
success in politics or society, as in any other business.
But London officialdom does not want any of the
Hknnikkr brand. It is, in faot, repellent—offends
the tone of English society, and thus keeps Hkn-
nikf.r, despite his undoubted good public work, out-
side the decorated pale. London knows its Hknnikkr.
All the Australians in the Big Smoke are not
abject fools. They know their man, and know that he
isn't their man, nor Australia’s. And they have not been
at all backward in proclaiming that Hknnikkr does not
in any way represent Australian ideas. That is the
reason of the failure of Hknnikkr’s efforts in respect to
Australia; also, that is why it is quite unlikely he will
ever be decorated “ as a compliment to Australia.”
Griffith’s Doubt.
Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., complains in the
Newcastle (N.S. W.) Herald that The Bulle-
tin did not publish in full a long letter
he sent it in defence of his conduct re the Suf-
field case. Tile Newcastle journal prints that
letter in extenso, so it is a great deal less kind
to Griffith, M.L.A., than this paper was.
However, as Mr. Griffith apparently wants
to have his want of logic put on record, this is
his statement of the legal aspect of the case ;
Those who supported my motion contended that Suf-
fikld’s was an exceptional case ; those who opposed it
argued that if Suffield got a Royal Commission because
his friends believed the verdict of the jury to be wrong
then every other person whose friends thought him inno-
cent must have a Royal Commission, too, and that would
be obviously impossible. Your article then goes on to
say, among other things, that “ the law distinctly pro-
vides for an inquiry in any case where there is a doubt as
;to the righteousness of a conviction.” And in your issue
of this week ypu state further that I “ could have oarried
i my motion when originally put.”
Concerning the former of these statements, though it
is quite untrue, The Bulletin has made it so often that it
has by now probably got to believe it. Section 383 of the
i Criminal Law Amendment Act runs as follows “ When-
ever after the conviction of a prisoner an3 T doubt or
* question arises as to his guilt,” the Minister may grant an
inquiry, &c. Now, in Suttield’s case no doubt or question
lhas arisen since his conviction. The doubt—and to my
■mind a very grave doubt—as to Suffleld’s guilt existed
iprior to his conviction, and was, therefore, so far as the
Haw is concerned, settled by the verdict of the jury, from
which, according to our laws, there is no appeal. My con-
tention all along has been that this is a case wherein the
jury convicted on such unsatisfactory evidence that, in the
absence of a court of criminal appeal, the Minister would
have been justified in straining or even breaking the law
in the interests of justice. But, unfortunately, the four
gentlemen who have held the portfolio of justice since
Sutfield’s conviction have thought Otherwise.
That is the only part of the letter which deals
with the merits of the Suffield case, and it is
a miserably thin quibble. Of course, there
was a doubt as to Suffield’s guilt before his
conviction; there always is—in a legal sense,
anyhow. And the same old doubt arose in a
much worse form after his conviction, when
the public had all the evidence before it. And
the law provides that whenever a doubt arises
after a prisoner’s conviction he may have an
enquiry. It doesn’t say that it must be a perfect-
ly new, fresh doubt, and wholly different from
any doubt which arose before conviction, or
that it must arise for the first time after con-
viction. For that matter, so far as the bulk of
the public was concerned, the doubt didn’t
arise till after conviction, because nobody ex-
cept the few inhabitants of the district really
knew anything about the case till after it was
fully heard in Court. The hair which Griffith
splits so carefully is based on the theory that a
legal doubt is something like a balloon, and
that it rose before conviction, and after convic-
tion it didn t rise — it simply remained up,
haying been already elevated. Following thisout
to its logical conclusion, the result is that, sup-
posing tvyo people had a doubt before Suffield
was convicted, and a million people had the same
doubt after, still because two people were un-
certain before it isn’t a doubt which arose after
conviction and no rehearing is possible. In
fact, no rehearing is possible except iu cases
where every person was dead sure before con-
viction, and before hearing the case, that the
prisoner was guilty, aud only became dubious
later on. If the law said “ Whenever after the
conviction of a prisoner a perfectly new ques-
tion which nobody had ever thought of before
arises for the first time as to his guilt the
Minister may grant an inquiry,” &c. ; and, in
addition, Mr. Griffith could show that the
new question was exactly the same as the old
one, and that it hadn’t risen any higher since
the conviction, then there might be something
in his theory.
4
A Bright Idea.
The Argus pleads for a reform of “Parlia-
mentary management,” on Tory lines. Why
should the 48 Rich Landlords be so frequently
forced to adjourn for lack of work to employ
their splendid intellects, the Argus wants to
know.
When a measure has been exhaustively debated and
keenly scrutinised in a competent Council, such as the
Vic. Upper House, the task of the Assembly is substan-
tially lessened. Were the business equitably divided,
each House would help the other, and both would have
plenty of time to get through a good sessional pro-
gramme. And the country is entitled to ask that this
commonsense method should be adopted.
Well, the Fatmen of Victoria are a duller
fraternity than even The Bulletin has found
them to be if they don’t perceive the impudent
foolishness of their organ’s latest tune. An
equitable division of business between the
House that passes Liberal measures and the
House that either rejects them with jeers or
adds impossible amendments to them, is
out of the question now and for ever. Under
the present system, a few Bills approved
by the Assembly get through the Council as a
matter of course. A few other Bills are passed
after encountering some feeble opposition from
woolly-headed obstructionists— i.e., the Camp-
bells and ’Wallaces —in the “ Upper ” House.
The principal measures are either hopelessly
mutilated by those “keen scrutineers” who
vote exactly as Saroood directs them, or
deliberately slaughtered. They are born in the
Assembly to die in the Council, and if they
didn’t come to light in the “Lower” House
they would not get born at all. No alteration
of the business arrangements could have
legalised the One-man-one-vote Bill for Victoria
this last session, or in any previous session. As
for the Bills that are eventually passed with
Fattnan’s precious modifications, it is obvious
that if the originating of them were given to
the Council they would be presented to the
Assembly in such an absurdly Tory form that
the time spent on amending them would be
much longer than the time now * occupied
by the people’s representatives in putting
them through. If the Legislative Council is
willing to reform itself root and branch—to
make itself a House elected by One-man-one-
vote and witli no property qualification' for
members—then there is no reason why the
work shouldn’t be equally divided ; there is
much more than the Assembly can manage in
any case. That would be appointing an extra
policeman to run after the criminal because
there is more of him than one policeman can
run after. The Argus’s mild idea is that,
because there is more burglar than one bobby
can run after, the work should be divided, and
the burglar should assist by running after
himself.
A Most Profitable Concession.
Melbourne Tramway Co. directorate, replying
to a recent deputation front the local munici-
palities urging the introduction of penny sec-
tions and other improvements, raised its voice
in a great wail about the grasping nature of
the public and its want of generosity. Per
contra, the generosity of the Tramway Co. is a
touching circumstance. It graciously permits
the public to ride one-third of the full distance
on payment of half-fare—provided it buys a
dozen tickets at a time. This it is pleased to
call a “ clean gift,” yet this sectional concession
must have resulted in greatly-increased busi-
ness at little extra cost. Then the manage-
ment pointed to its poor little 5 per cent, divi-
dend, and remarked that it was making no re-
serve whatever to reinstate its capital at the
end of its lease. Which was an unfortunate re-
mark—firstly, because its capital is presumably
invested in rolling-stock, offices, etc. (not in
the track aud the machinery, these being the
property of the Trust), all of which are to be
purchased by the municipalities at a valuation
at the expiration of said lease ; and, secondly,
because the Tramway Co. is at present paying
a good deal more than 5 per cent, to
the original shareholders. The reference to
the dividend was particularly unfortunate,
as it recalls the happy days of ’B9 and ’9O when
the co. paid its 12 and 16 per cent, respectively,
in addition to bonuses of 60 per cent, and 20
per cent. At that time the co. nearly
doubled its capital by issuing £460,000 worth
of new stock at par, without premium, which
stock was practically bought with the bonus—
shareholders being restricted to 60 and 20 per
cent, of their existing holding of shares. As
these shares (paid up to 10s. and ranking as
ordiuary scrip) stood at £4 4s. in ’B9 and
£6 10s. in ’9O, the co. practically paid!
its original shareholders the stupendous;
dividends of 512 and 232 per cent, pear
annum for those two years ! And in cases*,
where the original shareholder aforesaid (in-
cluding directors) hung on to his newly andl
easily-acquired scrip he now holds nine shares
for every original five. So that the measly
little 5 per cent, suddenly swells to 9 per cent..
on the cash which the original shareholders*
actually put into the concern—not a bad return*
all through the bad times, though undoubtedly
paltry beside the huge profits of the boom days.
The directorate also threw out a gentle hint—
it is a master of the art of offering a gentle
hint—to the effect that the co. might be found
willing to give concessions for concessions. The
co. has already received one valuable concession
—it got an extension of its original lease ia
return for a substitution of cable for horse-
trams on North, South, and Port Melbourne
lines, and apparently it is willing to “con-
cede ” the penny-section matter provided a
further extension of lease be forthcoming. It
is quite likely that this instituting of penny
sections would be very profitable to the com-
pany, and, as the dreadful suburban councillor
is capable of almost anything, it is just as well
he should be warned to be careful before he
gives away the people’s property. A fair
exchange is no robbery, but when a ntan offers
to exchange his old coat for your new one, you
are a fool if you pay him for doing so.
♦
Amateur Justice Once More.
During the last month or so in Victoria the
Jay pee has been strenuously endeavoring to
outdo himself, with surprising success. A few
weeks ago several fines of <£s or so were in-
flicted for breaking arms and ribs, hut lately
the awful J. P. reduced the punishment to
a 20s. fine, sometimes even allowing a month
or so in which the assaulter’s degraded female
slave may earn it, or the finee may skip the
province. The dreadful Carlton Bench having
led the way by imposing a £1 fine, accompanied
by a “severe lecture,” for a brutal assault
little short of actual murder, the other sub-
urban “honorariums,” as well as sundry
country dittoes, made haste to follow suit.
Collingwood Bench mulcted a man in 20s. for
knocking down and ferociously kicking a girl
of 13, ten minutes after which it had the cheek
to fine another individual 40s. for breaking a
sixpenny butter-dish. At about the same hour
the Richmond “great unpaid ” were pouring out
the vials of their wrath on a hardened ruffian
who stole £1 from a shop till, and they fined him
£5 or a month. The week previous, at Leon-
gatha, J. P. Ogilvie dismissed as a “rather stupid
practical joke ” a charge against a local farm
laborer of having forced hot charcoal into the
boots and held it between the hands of a 16-
year-old lad. Medical evidence showed the
lad’s feet and hands to be so severely burnt as
to be useless for months. A charming joke 1
As a result of all this sort of thing the local
papers now teem with letters demanding the
lash, and suggesting all sorts of remedies, from
boiling oil to instant decapitation. Yet the
law is amply sufficient to prevent these recur-
rent outbreaks of violence, provided it is honest-
ly and justly administered, and provided the
just punishment of any offender is made
almost absolutely certain. But to expect
justice, or even decent law, from the
ordinary J.P. is to look for snow in Janu-
ary or straightforwardness in Yes-No Reid.
The butcher-J.P. and the furniture-dealer and
house-and-laud-agenfc and bootmaking ditto
have to study their customers and their cus-
tomers’ friends, and their fellow lodge-mem-
bers and their relatives to the fortieth genera-
tion, and it doesn’t pay to be honest. They
aren’t going to sacrifice business that pays them
for abstract justice that doesn’t. In most cases,
they sit on the bench simply to push business—
to acquit their customers, to decide in favor of
their customers with costs, to let their cus-
tomers out on light bail, and to give judgment
against the fellow who doesn’t deal with them.
Justice with the average J.P. is only an adver-
tisement for his personal butter-and-egg busi-
ness, or a means of pushing a cheap line in
boots. And he has been so long on the bench
pushing his cheap line in boots that
the country has really forgotten what decent
justice looks like. Last week at Carlton (Mel-
bourne) Court a 40-year-old brute with 26 pre-
vious convictions was brought up for assaulting
and battering his aged mother and severely
biting her as well. According to the evidence
he never followed any honest occupation, was
mostly drunk, and made the feeble, terrified
old woman work for his support. She lived in
a state of perpetual slavery to her 40-year-old
lout. The reason why he bit her and knocked her
down was that she tried to prevent him robbing
her; and taking into consideration all these
circumstances aud the 26 previous convictions
he got six months. Six months, be it observed ;
he was nob committed for trial in order that he
might get six years. And this was such an
unusual effort on the part of the law that the
facta were actually telegraphed all over Aus-
tralia and published far and wide under the big
heading—“An Exemplary Sentence.”
A Slur Upon Proputty.
Apropos of the perpetual claim of Victoria’s
House of 48 Rich Landlords to be a representa-
tive body, just like the Assembly, it is a pity
that someone can’t itake a poll of the Council’s
133,575 constituents and get a definite expres-
sion of their opinion on the subject. The con-
stitution of the House of 48 Landlords is really
a gross insult to its 133,575 propertied con-
stituents, and it is just possible that they might
like to say so. It is built on the assumption
that the propertied class of Viotoria is an ass
and a dolt and a fool, and can’t be trusted to
choose its own law-makers from its own class
lest it should scald itself, or blow down the
muzzle of the gun when it is loaded, or fall over
a bit of fluff. So it is provided ithat it may
select anybody who is willing to serve for
nothing, and has at least £lOO a year clear from
land and tenements, and a few other qualifica-
tions. So far as allowing the Council’s
propertied constituents fair representation,
they might just as reasonably be per-
mitted perfect freedom to elect any red-
headed man owning to the value
of not less than £20,000, and with a club
foot; there would probably be only one man
like that in the province, and the electors
would have absolute freedom to elect him and
no one else. There was once a Central
American President with a reputation for great
luck in being re-elected ; he gave the people
complete liberty to choose any presidential
candidate they liked best, but there was never
more than one candidate—the others met with
fatal accidents before polling-day; and the
House of Landlords is built much on the same
plan. It would be an interesting experiment if
someone proposed that the Council should
abolish its special qualification for members,
and let anybody with enough property to
qualify for an elector be also eligible to sit in
the Upper House, advancing as a reason that
the 133,000 propertied electors are the brains
and intelligence of Victoria, and can be fully
trusted to choose 48 solid Conservatives with-
out interference. The present arrangement
intDlies that they are the 133.000 worst fools in
the province, and can’t be trusted even with a
simple little job like that. It is a grievous
imputation on Proputty, and what Proputty
has doue to deserve it nobody really knows.
4.
Education in Victoria.
A Victorian pedagogue writes —or rather
curses:—
• 9| , *f^‘? ecret » r y-Mi r iiBter-of Education Peacock is now-
just beingf found out. His laugh is well and widely
known. That he is a great philanthropist is also well-
known. Has he not introduced a Factories Act enforcing
a minimum wage? In the Education Department he has
also introduced a minimum wage of 7d. per day (pay on
holidays deducted), though he most kindly allows would-be
monitors to teach for nothing. But, first, greatest, and
~, e8 "> J Uis * le P°* save< * £56,200 a year in this department
without closing a single school or affecting the salary or
status of a single teacher?” How was it done?
rirst, the schools were degraded. This caused a block of
teachers in each class. After nearly four years in the
class which was formerly the starting-point in the service
there is still an excess of over 800, so that for another ten
years no teacher can hope to get even to the old starting-
point. A similar chaos exists in the higher classes. Thus
pronlotion is virtually suspended. Then the monitorial
or clnld slavery-in-schools system began. To become a
monitor, a terra varying from one to two years is usually
spent in teaching gratuitously. Then the fortunate ones
in a competitive examination are appointed. There are
now in town schools about 300 monitors receiving 7d. a
day (females) or Bd. (males), and most of them receive
wi S l m * v * or *- wo or fl ,ree years before getting more !
When at last appointed pupil teachers they receive
£2O a year; then, if they pass an examination, £3O;
then another exam, and they get £4O. Males rise
even to £6O. At that they stay. There are at
present men who have been ten years in the department
men who are doing work which in any other country
would require a fully-paid teacher; men who, under the
Peacock poverty system, live, have their being, devote
the best portion of their lives, keep up “ appearances,”
and are supposed to give to charity-calls, all on £6O a
year! But even this was not enough. For every school
to which two kennels (10ft. square) are attached-places
where one would be loathe to house even a dog, and
which hence, in nine cases out of ten, were unoccupied—
rent was charged. “ It's not my fault if they don’t live
there; they ought to,” suid boss Pkacock. Seeing
that £2O vvould build most of the so-called resi-
dences, all the rent paid soon becomes dear protit.
Regrading of schools, pensioning-off best teachers and
inspectors, percentage reductions on salaries over £2OO,
income-tax, child-slave teachers, unoccupied-house rents,
reducing maintenance allowances, and disallowing travel-
ling expenses, not to mention half-pay or none on siok-
lenve—all these were yet not sufficient. “Dismiss the
head teachers of town schools, and appoint the first
assistants as head teachers without increase of salary,”
suid boss Pkacock. “ Done,” responded the subservient
secretary. Hence the remarkable anomaly that in nearly
every town school the head teacher receives less than his
assistants. Throughout the whole service pervades an
atmosphere of terrorism and insecurity. The crying in-
justices daily ignored or silently connived at have dissi-
pated the hope of remedy, although Pkacock is a chief
grandmaster of the cosmopolitan Freemasons, one of the
leaders of the A.N. A., and a poser as a democrat. In spite
.Of those appearances, sedulously maintained, in his de-
partment he has bartered every principle of democracy,
ibe has dragged in the dirt ottr glorious education system
itilj now it is a stain to be called a teacher ; he is the arch-
priest of puppydom and flunkyism ; he has violated all
principles qf fairplay by enforcing a Factories Act on
private .companies to put down sweating and make them
.pay a niinitnutn wage', while sweating in its most hideous
form—child-slavery—prevails in his department. At the
present rate of progress, about the year 1903 we shall
have the whole service run by monitors on £4O a year,
and the hoys over seven teaching each other dressmaking
and Latin.
4
The Man Who Ought to “ Do Something.”
Apropos of some remarks made by this paper
on the Tocsin, Melbourne Labor organ, when
it fell heavily on Premier Turner for not doing
something quite unspecified to the Vic. Upper
House, that paper says it isn’t like this paper
(things seem rather mixed here) to “try and
put the stripling David in a funk when he
sallies forth with his little sling to give the
giant Goliath one in the eye.” All The Bul-
letin can say is, that if it did anything of the
kind it is sorry, and will try not to
do it again—though why the Tocsin should
speak disrespectfully of Goliath in the matter
it can’t imagine. So far as history shows,
Goliath was a large, stupid, but well-meaning
person who fought for his country against »
brutal invader, and died, leaving baby Goliath
an orphan. Moreover, Goliath’s side of the
case has never been heard to this day, the depo-
sitions having been lost somewhere. The
Tocsin’s plaint now is that Premier Turner
should have forced the Council to formally re-
ject the One-Man-One-Vote Bill, instead of the
Assembly dropping it on account of the Council’s
impossible Tory amendments—which would have
just been the same thing in the end. Then
the Tocsin goes on to say that if Turner
wasn’t a shuffler and a coward, or words
to that effect—if he had the pluck and honesty
of Berry or Higinbotham or Ballance— he
would rise up and fight the Council. But,
as usual, the Tocsin doesn’t say exactly how
he should fight the Council (which can’t be dis-
solved, or swamped by new appointments, or
have its salary stopped), because it doesn’t
know; it simply says generally all over again
that he should “do something.” The Bulletin
pointed out three ways in which it believed the
Vic. House of 48 Landlords might be shifted.
The Tocsin doesn’t point out any way at all,
but it is quite sure that if somebody wasn’t a
grievous fraud he would do something.
4
“The nation that will not fight for freedom
does not deserve freedom, and never gets it.”
And if N.S. W. will not hustle for decency of
government she will not much longer retain the
few miserable tatters she possesses. The other
day, Sydney Truth charged an M.L.A. with
having seriously plotted the murder of a politi-
cal opponent. The paper also cheerfully in-
vited the M.L.A. to have it out in the Supreme
Court, and to come on anyhow he liked ; and
the M.L.A. hasn’t. When the House met, he
simply reared his brilliant young form aloft,
and for two solid hours howled for a Royal
Commission ; and the House looked on with a
jaundiced, uninterested eye, and when he had
finished howling another obscure person got up
and commenced to talk about imported bulls or
something equally irrelevant. That was all. No
crowds of indignant voters have rolled up at Par-
liament House and demanded that that M.L.A.
shall either clear himself or be kicked out, or
sent to gaol, or that Truth prove its charges
or go to gaol. In fact, N.S.W. does not seem
to care a rap whether it is ruled by men charged
with having planned murder or not. It is an
interesting speculation what would have hap-
pened had the M.L.A. reared up and said : “I
did it, and I’m quite sorry I didn’t carry it
through.” Probably nothing. If N.S.W.
does not wake up to the gravity of this sort of
thing, site will find her name a by-word among
even the South American States, and her terri-
tory a place utterly unfit for human habitation.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of tlie TJ.S.
FINANCIAL POSITION, JANUARY Ist, 1899
(Preliminary Figures as Conveyed by Cable).
ASSURANCE IN FORCE exceeds
ASSETS amount to
SURPLUS exceeds...
... £204,150,000
53,125,000
w 11,450,000
PROGRESS DURING YEAR 1898.
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE exceeds ...
INCREASE IN ASSETS exceeds ... ... ...
INCREASE IN SURPLUS amounts to
£6,000,000
3,750,000
950,000
The New Business for 1808 exceeds that of 1897 by
over £2,700,000 .
A Large Surplus is the best test of Strength and Guarantee of future Bonuses
THE BUSINESS OF THE SOCIETY IS CONDUCTED ON THE MUTUAL PLAN ;
ALL SURPLUS BELONGS TO THE POLICY-HOLDERS.
LOCAL DIRECTORS
(With Power to Issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM M'MILLAN, Esq. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & C
Agents. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, £c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
' running
s*
m
civltH 0 V
5 . MACHINES
Write for our lllaitrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patter ns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s.... “ Forty Thieves."
Lyceum “Formosa.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Jubilee Singers.
Alhambra Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The Geisha.”
Bliou « Dandy Dick.”
Theatre Royal “ One of the Best.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
h linders st. & Sprinq ST. Corner —Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Exhibition Building. .. The Aquarium.
It was vaguely implied in last week’s notice
that the opera season at Sydney Lyceum was
meeting with rough weather. The “Bohemian
Girl ” was then laboring in a dismasted condition
with the gaff topsail blown away, and the anchor
being drunk and in a state of mutiny the whole
affair was expected to founder without insurance
at any moment. It did founder before that issue
had got out of the press, so most of the long list of
operas on the programme were never presented.
The season only lived long enough to get through
three—the same old three: “Carmen,Mari-
tana,” and “Bohemian Girl.” On the whole it
looked moderately prosperous (it certainly deserved
to be in the last week or two of its existence at all
events) but apparently it wasn’t. It is generally
understood that the sordid and mercenary charac-
ter of one or more people had something to do
with the downfall, and that their conduct was just
what might have been expected. Anyhow, the
rout was so sudden that the Lyceum was closed
for four nights before the old co. could throw itself
into the breach with “Formosa.”
* * • *
“ Formosa,” by old Dion Boucicaulfc, is
notable principally as being the earliest drama in
which a man goes round trying to sell a dawg.
Otherwise it is a good, ordinary show with a fallen
girl in it —a girl who falls twice, and does it grace-
fully each time. Possibly a girl falls better the
second time through practice. Anyhow, Jenny
Boker, after a short career as a notorious siren,
gathers up the profits, and repents, and estab-
lishes her father and mother (who don’t know of
her downfall) in a quiet public-house by the river,
and draws the twopenny beer for the passing lout
like any other harmless child of nature. But,
being found out by her old riotous companions,
who turn dorg. on her, she goes back to the old
life, and falls into a lovely villa, and sinks to a
gorgeous wardrobe and a carriage, and acquires
great wealth, and finally reforms again, and
marries a very rich man who loves her dearly.
Whereby the advantages of being good stick out
like a huge gum-tree on a bald, burnt mountain, for
if Jenny Formosa had been good all along she would
have been a slavey or a seamstress, and might
ultimately have married a rheumatic person
devoted to agriculture, and had twelve children in
a thatched cottage. As for the best girl of the
crowd, she is rewarded by the sudden discovery
that her real father is the dreadful person who
wants to sell a dorg. She hasn’t sense to fall, so
she goes to live in an attic with the doggy parent,
and makes boots for a living. She has her reward
in the end, when a gentleman who has lost all his
money and is in gaol for debt bestows his embar-
rassed paw upon her. As for the other good girl,
she gets nothing in particular. But old Sam
Boker and his wife, who would probably have ended
in the workhouse if their daughter hadn’t fallen,
are comfortably provided for. The moral of
“Formosa” is terribly wrong somewhere.
* * * *
Most of the old Lyceum co. has got
together again. Miss Helene Burdett, who is
developing into a very clever as well as very
pretty actress, falls to great advantage as Formosa.
She dresses like a dream of fair millinery in her
had days, and when she repents for good, and
bangs her fair head in grief against the floor before
her afflicted parents, she goes and puts on a nicer
frock than ever to abase herself in. This is logical,
anyhow. The lesson contained in such dramas as
“ Mrs. Ebbsworth, ” that the repentant one must
give her nice clothes and jewellery to the heathen
and start afresh in dull brown, with no collar,
and her hair anyhow, and her hand tied up in a
soiled rag, has kept many people from becoming
virtuous. Formosa, in her best clothes and a
lovely hat, with the light of a purer life shining in
her eyes, and her various expensive bangles raised
to Heaven as she swears off, and her necklace
showing to advantage when her bosom heaves
frequently with emotion at the thought of her
past sins, is the sort of repentant Flossie who is
calculated to lead to business. The two good girls
are commonplace, and dress in a manner which
would incline anyone to leave off virtue permanently.
The hero, _ Diver, stands out conspicuously as a
fine, intelligent actor, whose somewhat hurried and
nervous style is his only drawback; and Bert
Bailey, Frank Harcourt, Fred Patey, and Miss
Mansfield are a very admirable quartette. Two
other prominent characters, Sydney Smith and
Fitzgerald, deserve a very bad fate. To be
presented with 1000 contributing shares in the
Standard Bank would meet their case about as
well as anything else.
Illness or something has made Miss Pattie
Browne’s appearances at Her Majesty’s somewhat
precarious of late, and on more than one occasion
the gay tights of Ganem have been filled by Katie
Towers instead. It makes little difference, for
Pattie Browne’s part isn’t large enough for her in
any case. Various other persons are in the same
condition —Sweeney, for instance, has hardly any-
thing to do save carry much lethal ironmon-
gery around as the second robber, and Albert
Whelan is merely the unimportant wife of
nobody in particular. And since it has been
cabled that Hooley the Great will only pay next
to nothing and some coppers in the £ the glory of
that obliterated fraud has faded, and he might as
well be taken out of the panto. The spectacular
glory of the “Forty Thieves ” seems to grow more
notable as time goes on, but the book, which was
very faint at the beginning, threatens every night
to perish feebly in the distance. Still, while the
corn and poppy ballet, and the march of the
Amazons, and the “ Progress of the Anglo-Saxon
Race, ” and Gulliver and the donkey, keep up it
doesn’t matter much even if there is no book at all.
** * *
Alfred Dampier’s season at Sydney Cri-
terion closes to-morrow (Friday) night, and the
Cri. will be closed for a while pending further
arrangements. Certain rumors about the re-
appearance a month or two hence of George Rig-
nold are afloat, and report also has it that he has
dreams of signalising his return with a great pro-
duction of “Othello.” But Rignold has dreamt
more or less indefinitely about doing “Othello”
for a number of years now, and the brown Moor is
still waiting.
** * *
“When London Sleeps” is in its fifth
week at Sydney Royal, and no definite report of
any change is to hand. The Jubilee Singers, how-
ever, close on Saturday night. The sleepy coon
lullabies, and the dreamy songs about the rolling
of Jordan and the golden gates of Jerusalem and
the apple that hangs on the tree of life, will be
missed a good deal when they are gone.
** * m
“ Last nights ” arrived with a rush at the
Melbourne theatres, and the sounds of a great
shuffling of managerial cards are in the air. Bland
Holt is about to knock off “New Babylon”
(which has been improved lately by the substitu-
tion of a massive cow for an appalling prize-bull in
the cattle-show scene), and the s.s. Antarctic will
be engulfed by a bounding ocean for the last time
on Friday night. The mechanical wreck of that
Atlantic liner is generally spoken of as the wettest-
looking illusion on Melbourne record, but it
rather tends to dwarf the subsequent tableaux,
therefore The Bulletin advises Bland Holt to
produce his next revival of “Newßabylon ” back-
wards, so that the famous maritime disaster
may impress the public at the last moment,
instead of leaving them 2J hours in which
to recover from the thrill. No matter, the
old melodrama has done a large business.
“ One of the Best,” wherein Walter Baker
gets unjustly stripped of his kilt and philabeg
owing to Dreyfusian causes, is to come along with
a blare of bagpipes on Saturday, and will hold the
floor until “The White Heather” bursts into
bloom.
** * *
At the Bijou the last performance of
“ Madame Sans-Gene ” was to happen on Tuesday.
Unless the management changed its mind instead
of changing the bill, “Niobe ” has already started
a three-nights’ career, and Mrs. Brough is Hailing
the household of Petramos Dunn, stockbroker,
with outstretched arms and a sweet mythological
smile. And in that case “ Dandy Dick ” will
supplant the galvanised relict of Aphion on
Saturday night and play Brough’s Bijou season
to a close. Admirers of the interesting “ Sans-
Gene” show would have been glad to find it
putting the company through their final paces at
the pretty little house in Bourke-street. On
Saturday week Brough will transfer his company
to the Princess’s, for the production of sundry
new comedies, and then
** # *
Rickards takes formal possession of the
Bijou on February 4th, but meanwhile Cora
Caselli, Wheatley, Lieut. Travis, Florrie West,
Shields’s sole remaining leg, and many other items
appear as usual at the Opera House, and the
exact date when the demolition of that doomed
edifice will begin is not yet announced. Rickards
is understood to be now rushing back from Maori-
land to open the Bijou with a loud report.
** * #
The Firm having arranged to sublet the
Princess’s to Brough for a term, there will be only
a few more appearances of those sailors bright and
breezy-o, who love the Japanesy-o. Although not
an opera that tempts the average customer to call
again and get some more of it, “ The Geisha ” is
“ The Geisha,” therefore many people who haven’t
seen it as yet and will not feel happy till they’ve
been there, had better hurry up. Also they may
as well go prepared to submit to several painful
encores, which are absolutely necessary, it seems,
to the importance of the show. “ The Geisha ”is
somewhat wanting in length, and conductor Caron
adds the encores to fill up time.
Fitzgerald Bros. ’ circus was severely tested
by the weather last week, and the waterproof be-
haviour of the tents under trying conditions de-
serves honorable mention. Previous circuses have
been apt to spring leaks in the roof when the rain
blew a hurricane, but the Fitz.’s place of business
is guaranteed to preserve the multitude unspotted
from the sky. Evidently it was born under a lucky
star. The Flinders-street site is sheltered by
a tall tabernacle on one side, and by solid
secular structures elsewhere, and all the ani-
mals living on the premises are quite happy —
with the exception of the elephants. Lizzie likes
getting wet. Her chief delight is to wobble out
of the menagerie and be played upon by the fire-
man’s hose, in which respect she is different to
most females who leave home with a trunk. The
new programme at the circus promises to boom
till further notice, and the first appearances of the
tigress Kitty have not had a fatal result up to
now. Kitty seems to get along on good terms
with the horse, also she reciprocates the tamer’s
smile when he puts her through her leaps. But it
isn’t quite an artless grin. Kitty’s leaping stages
are high above the tamer’s head, and probably she
has half a mind to vary her course of flight and
give the gentleman a surprise that would stagger
nim.
** * *
The death of that lamentable person, Pro-
fessor Kennedy, explains the thinness of his
imposture in his later Australian shows. For a
long time Kennedy was a hypnotist who hum-
bugged the public and encouraged his wretched
“ subjects ”to humbug themselves. Being some-
times free agents they tried to believe they were
always acting independently of Kennedy’s influ-
ence, and the boss didn’t care what they thought
so long as they served his purpose. His internal
arrangements became diseased and Kennedy lost
his hypnotic force, or, if he had any left, he rarely
attempted to exercise it. The performance ceased
to be quite genuine in any particulars ; the publio
lost all faith in it, and the hard-up Professor
slipped off to ’Murka to die, leaving his subjects
howling for their unpaid wages. Then they “gave
the show away,” and gave the public to under-
stand that Kennedy had been an utter fraud
all through his mesmerising career, which was an
absurd insinuation, anyway. The ginger-headed
Prof., in his strong days, had all his principal sub-
jects under control more or less. One or two of
them had served under other mesmerists and wore
well-known to the medical faculty in England
and ’Murka. These crossed the sea with him.
The others he picked up as he went along, select-
ing them from a mob of applicants on account of
their voices, agility, or specially ridiculous foolish-
ness. They were mechanioally hypnotised at the
outset. Kennedy did pretty well as he pleased
with them afterwards, but, as far as they could be
“entertaining” without putting any strain upon
their fat master, they were allowed, doubtless, to
go “on their own.” Kennedy brought his hypno-
tism to bear when necessary, and his presence on
the platform was absolutely essential to the show.
At the conclusion of his first visit to Australia,
when he had gone away with hatfuls of coin, some
wiseacres engaged his late subjects to travel the
country with a new professor. The result was an
awful failure. The wretched hirelings did as they
liked, and, when the new authority came to the
tallow and kerosene “acts,” they told him to
swallow the loathsome stuff himself.
** * *
Australia, glad to hear that George Tither-
adge is to get a show at the Cburt Theatre (Lon.),
will be particularly interested in the notices of his
performance. Titheradge, in all parts that didn’t
demand tragic intensity, has appeared a fine actor
to the habitual playgoers of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and if he fails to make a London success
they will want to know the reason why. Many
scores of imported actors, some of them with re-
putations, have been sampled on this side during
the past fifteen years, and not one of them seemed
as capable and versatile a leading man as the Tith.
who was always with us.
*f * *
When the present burst of “purfeshnal”
enthusiasm has exhausted itself, the Australian
Dramatic Fund scheme will drop dead, there is
too much reason to fear. Managers seem to think
that a permanent levy of even one penny in the £
on salaries is out of the question. The contribu-
tion must be voluntary, and inasmuch as the
voluntary penny would represent a new departure
in Thrift for the small-salaried employes who are
most likely to need a fund to fall back upon, they
are not in real sympathy with it. The average
pro. will give a penny to any beggar in the pre-
sent, but he doesn’t care to give it to his own
future impecunious self. He would rather be a
beggar from other people when the hungry time
arrives.
** * *
The beast may have been bred in captivity
like his parents and great-great-grandparents
before him, but a lion’s a lion for a’ that, and a’
that. A family of five lions and lionesses (a year
old) are growing up together, with a spotted dog
for a mate, in a big cage at Fitzgerald’s menagerie.
The public, seeing them during circus hours, might
think them the most amiably-disposed youngsters
in the world. When schooltime comes, and peda-
gogue Zapf steps quietly into the cage, with his
chair and his cane, the nature of those five car-
nivora asserts itself “something awful.” They
form a bloodthirsty pyramid in the further corner
of the apartment, and roar and spit at the
“tamer” until he gets tired, and sits down
to smoke a pipe. With small meat offerings
flung to them in the earlier stages of the
lesson, and subsequently held between his fingers
for the benefit of the first lion that cares to call for
a snack, Zapf gets the better of his pupils’ nervous
savagery. They recognise their master in the
cool, self-contained little German expert—but
that’s all. Next time he looks in to see them he
has to repeat the same old process of bringing them
to reason. Zapf understands his business and
expects to die a natural death. When he was at
Adelaide, soon after his arrival in Australia, he
foresaw the fate of the rash fellow who
was presently wiped out by Harmston’s tiger.
“You are no animal trainer—mind your life/”
said Zapf to the vainglorious amateur. A week
or two later he had no life to mind.
£|£
“ M.A.P.” repeats the oft-told tale :
“ Every time the Prince of Wales goes to the
play he pays the ordinary tariff rates for the Royal
box. Indeed, he and the Princess have always
been most scrupulous not to accept any so-called
favors of this kind. Were they to do so, they
would find it impossible to prevent their presence
being used as an actual, instead of as an indirect,
advertisement.” Why can’t the boss representa-
tives of “loyalty ” in this country follow the ex-
ample of Albert Edward, whom they professedly
adore? Why is a Waxellency Madden, for in-
stance, eternally accepting invitations to shows,
and playing the part of an actual advt. ? A Ixm-
don manager is expressly requested not to hurl
any bars of National Anthem at the Heir Appar-
ent, whereas certain amateur (though well-paid)
Governors and their womenkind actually pause on
the threshold of the dress-circle until the orchestra
announces the fact that they are about to present
their family array of naked head and bare bust to
public notice.
** * *
Two theatrical shows have been stranded
in Adelaide for sevi al weeks. The holy-city
people have been treated so badly in the past that
only first-rate co.’s now stand a chance of making
money. Adelaide hasn’t had a pantomime at
Christmas for over ten years.
At Poverty Point.
“Wail ! and likewise woe with thy wail, O theatre-
goers,” croons Tins Bulletin's London correspondent,
“ for ‘ Tith.’, the only Titheradge, has burnt his hoots and
hidden hissox, determined never again to leave England. He
opens in London as Capt. Poynings in ‘The Mayflower,' a
transatlantic drama. Ten fsop. pages by this niail tell the
sharer of his joys and daffodils how best to uproot them
and convey them to this happy land where winter bus
this year forgotten to come—at least, up to now. Relia-
bility and steadiness are prime virtues here, and will lift
suburban mediocrity into a comfortable living, but when
they are combined, as in the case of George Titheradge,
with genuine, solid ability, just push the horizon back a
few degrees, for Australia’s old favorite will own a lot of
this side of the earth.”
“ Melb.” : Rickards at length announces the rebuilding
of the Opera House and his transference to the Bijou. 1
remember the opening night of the Opera House. The
play was “ London Assurance,” with Mary Gladstone and
W. J. Holloway, long before Essie Jenyns floated him up.
Architect Johnson and the moon-visaged father of
Madame Midas, as architect and contractor, were clamor-
ously summoned before the curtain and congratulated for
the biggest ramshackle ever seen—hastily run up to
forestall Coppin at the burnt Royal.
Edith Sutton, who “chaperoned” Mrs. Maesmore
Morris when the beauty took to the stage—or was it Mrs.
M.M. who chaperoned her? —has quit the boards and
gone to a brother in South Africa. La belle Sutton’s
brother was a Jameson’s raider, and, of course, a young
man who does that sort of thing wants a sister to look
after him.
“The Meistersingers, who shortly R. S. Smythe it
through Australia, are,” writes Tiib Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ perhaps the finest quartettists in the
Anglo-Saxon world. At the opening of the new London
Australian Club, where the wine circulated like whisky,
they petrified even the ‘ North Carolina ’ absorbers for
one full five minutes, and anyone who knows the ‘city’
antipods will realise the heavy weight of that praise.’”
The Bulletin declines with malice aforethought to
assist at any more farewell benefits to Sydney artists—
unless a written guarantee be given that the artist really
will go away when benefltted. During the last two years
there have been heaps of farewell benefits, the recipients
of which are still going to London for further study—
but have not got beyond George-street.
There was a melodramatic touch in the remark of the
burglar who invaded Mr. Miranda's room (Melb.) the
other night. Miranda was awake, but feigned to be
asleep. “ He’s asleep,” said one of the robbers, striking
an attitude, “but if he wakes we’ll settle him.” Which
made Miranda sleep harder than any soporific known to
the Pharmacopoeia could have done.
That melancholy rumor was true, after all. “Poor old
Fred Maccabe, the champion of monologuists ” (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent), “ wasfound by the
press in Ormskirk Workhouse hospital. Then a military
brother also discovered him, and took him from paupers’
food and bed. Now the ‘ purfesh ’ is rushing in with
matinees and subscription-lists to drive off the wolves of
debility-cum-poverty, and the world-wandering minstrel
has some sort of a Christmas assured to him. Peace to F.M.
—and his flageolet.” Printed accounts tell of the old man
being in an almost hopeless condition, physically and
mentally.
Albert Norman, as boss villain in “ New Babylon,” with
a red beard and broadcloth coat, is a burly reminder of
the eternal J. S. Butters.
Mdlle. Celinski, the rising Melb. pianiste, who is pro-
ceeding to Europe via America, has arrived in Sydney,
and will shortly play at a Town Hall concert.
“ C.C.” : Some solemn facts re “ When London Sleeps,”
at Sydney Royal, that Bulletin scribes haven’t noted as
yet. F’rinstance, it might improve the play if Mr. Hol-
loway could nerve himself, at the very beginning, to drop
through the trap-door, into a better land, the heroic child
that knows “ how to die, papa.” In real life, would
same uidawful child have recognised papa, except
as the “ kind gentleman that comes to see mamma some-
times”? The villain-haunted heroine who ter-usts in
Heaven to protect her innocence, instead of smashing the
window and yelling for a policeman, is possibly an in-
evitable circumstance in playland. It is only the girl of
real life who comprehends that the best antidote to man
is more man. By the way, your ladv's-pager who notes
the tense situations that gather round the doorstep of the
Sinful Mansion hasn’t spotted the dreadfully irreligious
tendency of the last act, when the about-to-be-sullied
heroine shrieks to God for aid, and, receiving no answer,
prays to the Grim Idol above her—at which point—not
before I—rescue comes.


Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in any sums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent.
Sydney Agency:
135 PITT STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
((
TbcReALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Sarriaoxi & A.ttwood, Sole Proprietors.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/°
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
.98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pittst., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
E. A. DAWBABN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
United States gets some big figures by cable from its
head office. The insurances in force at the end of 1898
were over £204,150,000 (£6,000,000 increase during the
year). Assets were £53,125,000 (an increase of £3,750,000).
The surplus of assets over liabilities is £11,450,000
(£950,000 more than the surplus at the end of 1897). Also,
the new assurances effected for 1898 were £2,700,000more
than the new business of 1897 and £9,000,000 larger than
that of 1896. And the society has great hopes for 1899,
for on the first working day of the year, 3rd January, it
received applications for over a million of new assurance
—the biggest record in the Equitable’s history.
• • • *
The Bank of Victoria shows still another
material improvement, the profit for the second half of
1898 being £27,800. This is the best half-year save two
since the 1893 reconstruction, as shown by the following
list of profits :—
Dec. 1893 (7 m’ths) £31,665 December, 1896 .. £17,928
June, 1894 .. .. 29,921 June, 1897 .. .. 17,877
December, 1894 .. 21,087 December, 1897 .. 22,729
June, 1895 .. .. 19,863 June, 1898 .. .. 24,380
December, 1895 .. 20,631 December, 1898 .. 27,800
June, 1896 .. .. 15,068
The profits equal £3 12s. lOd. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds (capital, £1,476,554 ; reserve, £50,000).
With the balance left over from last half-year (£22,650)
there is an available total of £60,450. A dividena on pre-
ference shares at 5 per cent, per annum absorbs £10,419 ;
£20,000 is added to reserve, making it £70,000; and
£20,031 is carried forward. The business shows a further
increase during the half-year, and the reserve of cash and
liquid securities is equal to 28 per cent., of all liabilities to
the public. Said reserve has increased by £260,000 during
the half-year, and now stands at £1,545,010.
The management haBgiven notice that one-third
of the remaining reconstructed deposits will be released in
March, and it is probable that the remainder will bo paid
off before the end of 1899. With ordinary good fortune,
therefore, another year should see a further material im-
provement in the position. The Bank of Victoria is one
of the few institutions which never asked for any oon-
oessions after 1893, so its reconstructed deposits carry
per cent, interest to this day. And as they are mostly
renewed on repayment at current rates, every release
saves about lUj per cent, interest on the amount repaid.
On the other hand, the Colonial, Commercial of Aus-
tralia, Queensland National, and A.J.S. make practically
nothing by the repayment of their reconstructed liabili-
ties, having already obtained a reduction of interest to
about present rates. The Victoria, with its steadily-in-
creasing profits and its growing reserve-fund, now looks the
most promising of the Melb. banks, and its £10 preference
shares are worth £11 on the Exchange. It is a solemn
reflection, by the way, for the Bank of Victoria’s manage-
ment that it was somehow induced, in 1893, to follow the
lead of the Commercial’s great Gyles Turner, and trans-
form £416,760 of its deposits into preference shares, in
consequence of which it has paid 5 per cent, on them in-
stead of 4J for nearly six years, and is a loser of £11,450.
Also, if it hadn’t turned them into preference capital it
could pay them off now, and get the same money at
about 3 percent., and save £8385 per annum—equal to
nearly 1 per cent, dividend on its ordinary capital. Whioh
is a nice thing for the board to think of when it wakes up
in the night and can’t get to sleep again by reason of the
cat-fight on the verandah.
* * * *
The balance-sheet of the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney shows a profit for the second half of 1898 of
£40,864,’ equal to £4 Is. 3d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds (capital, £1,000,000; reserve,
£1,010,000). As usual, the Commercial shows enough
profit to pay its regulation dividend of 8 per cent.
(£40,000), and sufficient of a balance to preserve the
accounts from utter monotony. Some of its past records
in this respect have been as follows :—
Profit. 8 p.c. Dividend.
December, 1894 .. £36,599 £36,498
June, 1895 . .. 38,037 37,984
December, 1895 .. 39,474 39,227
June, 1896 .. ... 40,303 39,965
December, 1896 .. 40,067 40,000
June, 1897 .. .. 40,119 40,000
December, 1897 .. 40,150 40,000
June, 1898 .. .. 40,410 40,000
December, 1898 .. 40,864 40,000
£356,023 £353,674
The balance of £864 (the largest balance carried forward
since 1893) leaves £16,681 at credit of profit and loss,
making the total shareholders’ funds £2,026,681. And,
presumably, there is a further balance which Is being
used to write down the value of securities, for the re-
markable uniformity of the visible profits is difficult to
account for on any other basis. The Commercial of
Sydney shows some cheering figures for the half-year.
The note circulation has increased by £75,000 since June,
1898 ; the deposits by £342,000 ; and the cash and liquid
securities by £652,000. The latter now stand at the
magnificent figure of £4,510,746—equal to 39J per cent,
of all liabilities to the public. The Commercial of Sydney
is the largest holder of Government securities in the
Seven Provinces, this item alone amounting to £1,281,731
— an increase of £272,000 during the past six months—so
that the whole of the reserve is thus invested and some-
thing over. Altogether it is an excellent balance-sheet,
and shows the Commercial of Sydney to be one of the
very strongest financial institutions in Australasia.
• • » •
The report issued by the Commercial Bank of
Australia for the second half of 1898 pours a considerable
quantity of further gloom over the affairs of that big in-
stitution. The profits of the outward and visible half of
the bank, however, are set down at £52,801 ; and the
five balance-sheets issued since the second reconstruction
show these profits :—
December, 1896 .. £41,636 | June, 1898.. .. £62,363
June, 1897.. .. 52,529 December, 1898.., 52,801
December, 1897 . . 53,222 |
The regular 2 per cent, per annum dividend on preference
shares absorbs £21,171 ; £30,000 is added to the “ Special
Assets Trust Reserve,” and the balance is carried forward.
The nominal profit is equal to £3 8s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on capital, but since the accounts of the Assets
Trust were wholly dropped out of the balance-sheet a
year ago the entire situation is a mystery. The posi-
tion, so far as the balance-sheet shows, is this : The
Commercial Bank of Australia started the half-year
with £6,855,785 of assets, and out of them it
earned enough to pay interest on £3,363,872 of
deposits, to pay 2 per cent, dividend to preference share-
holders, and to have £31,630 over. Also, the Special
Assets Trust Co. (really a part of the Commercial Bank,
and for whose losses and disasters, if any, the bank is
responsible) held an unspecified quantity of assets, and
earned some amount unknown, with which to pay interest
on £3,526,671 of deposits, and it came out square, or had
a large or small profit, or a small or large loss as the case
may be, and the assets of the Special Assets Trust Co., at
their present value, are either large enough to cover all
its liabilities, or they are not large enough, just as may
happen. And, putting the two together, the shareholdere
either made a net profit unknown, or a net loss unspeci-
fied. And the prospects, so far as can be seen at present,
are that when the old assets are completely liquidated,
the shareholders will have to face another large or small
loss of capital, or will come out about level, or will
recover a little or a great deal of the capital already
written off. In the absence from the balance-sheet of any
statement as to the earnings or profits or losses of the
Assets Trust, or whether the £60,000 a year paid to the
Trust by the bank is sufficient to cover the losses, if there
are any, or whether it is wholly insufficient, or whether
there are no present losses and the £60,000 is merely
paid over as a wise precaution ih case some losses should
turn up later on, The Bulletin is driven to the above
luminous conclusions.
Therefore this paper constructs the profit and
loss account of the whole concern for the past half-year as
follows :—
Dr. Cr.
Dividend paid .. £21,171 Net profits of
Net loss of As- Commercial
sets Trust, if Bank .. .. £52,801
any .. .. Unknown Net profits of As-
Balance .. .. x sets Trust ..Unknown
Balance .. .. *
x x
The certainties of the case are these : The Com-
mercial Bank of Australia (os apart from the Assets Trust)
is making a pretty good profit, as profits go nowadays.
The public deposits show a small increase for the half-year.
The reserve of liquid securities is strong; the Commercial
Bank’s securities seem rather more in favor on the stock
exchange, and the bank is providing £60,000 a year out
of profits to help along its own son and offshoot, the
Assets Trust. Also, the liabilities of the Assets Trust
were reduced last year by £102,000—at which rate they
will all be cleared off in 34 years ; and whether its assets
are or are not diminishing at the same rate, or at a greater
rate, and if so how much greater the rate is, this paper is
not aware. The Bank of New Zealand has a similar off-
shoot, but it publishes the accounts in full. The Bulletin
has seen no published accounts of the Commercial Bank’s
offshoot for 12 months, and before that they were very
meagre. And it recommends that the assets and liabilities
and half-yearly profit and loss account of the Assets Trust
should be published in the same manner as those of the
bank, for public information. Without these the ac-
counts of the hank itself are of little value. And the new
Vic. Banking A t is of littlo value either, if a bank can
put a very large part of its business into a trust and drop
all particulars, about it.
* • • •
The Queensland National Bank publishes, for
the half-year ended 31st Dec., 1898, its third balance-
sheet—dating from the time when it made its fresh start
after reconstruction No. 2. It is set forth that the gross
profits are £21,256, and after putting £12,255 to a con-
tingency account there is a net profit of £9000. So the
situation for the three half-years is as follows:
Transferred to
Gross Profit Contingency Net Profit
Account
81st Dec., 1897 .. £16,636 £8,635 £8000
30th June, 1898 .. 17,796 8,795 9000
31st Dec., 1898 .. 21,255 12,256 9000
£55,685 £29,686 £26,000
Out of the £39,050 alleged profit for the last two half-
years, however, no less than £10,036 is amounts recovered
from old debts written off as bail, and if these were not
written off out of profits then they certainly shouldn’t
be taken into profit now. There is no definite informa-
tion on this point. The £29,685 carried to contingency
account apparently goes towards covering losses which
even the tremendous writing-down of 1897 failed to pro-
vide for, and it seems quite probable that this same con-
tingency trouble will swallow up the bulk of the earnings
for a long time to come. The £9000 set down (rather
arbitrarily, it would seem) as net profit is equal to £4 6s.
4d. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds. One-
quarter (£2250) goes to reserve fund, making it £6500;
£2250 goes to reduce the nominally written-off liability
to the Government; and £4500 to repay the amount
nominally written off private deposits.
The following represents the present situation
of the Queensland National Bank as accurately as the
information at command will allow. The balance-sheet
of that institution is an amazing complication for
various reasons. In 1897 it wrote off one-fourth
(about £1,040,850) of the private deposits as lost'
it took them out of the list of liabilities and
wrote off a corresponding sum from the assets,
to help make the accounts look square. But, as it agreed
to set aside one-half the profits towards the repayment of
this £1,040,850 allegedly written off, it wasn’t really
written off at all, and is as much a liability as ever, though
the payment is indefinitely postponed, and the amount
carries no interest. Also, it was agreed that £458,331 of
the Govt., deposits should also be allegedly written off,
and yet paid by instalments out of profits, but this item,
for reasons unknown, wasn’t dropped out of the balance-
sheet like the other. Therefore the corresponding £458,331
couldn’t be written off the assets as yet, and they pre-
sumably were left standing in the balance-sheet at that
amount above their present value. So the present situa-
tion is something as follows :—
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital .. £412,597 Cash advances
Reserve fund .. 6,500 and other visi-
Notes, bills, &c.. 457,808 ble items ..£6,938,613
Govt, deposits .. 2,436,060 Deficit .. .. 1,479,682
Private do. .. 6,105,330
£8,418,295 £8,418,296
The deficit, which has been reduced in the past
18 months by £19,500, represents the sum written off, or
professed to'be written off, the deposits to cover deprecia-
tion of assets. This sum has still to be paid—by slow
instalments out of profits and without interest, certainly,
but still it has to be paid, so it is really the Queensland
National Bank’s shortage. And, in addition, there is
reason to believe that there are other losses, amount un-
known, which even the above large sum was insufficient
to cover; and it is presumably towards these that the
£29,685 put to contingency account in the last 18 months
was applied. Last year £13,500 of the admitted deficit
was wiped off ; £21,050 was provided to cover losses not
included in the visible deficit, and £4500 added to reserve.
Provided nothing further goes wrong—which, under the
new system of State auditis hardly likely—as soon as all the
contingencies (amount uncertain) not included in the
above visible deficit are provided for, the process of pay-
ing the visible deficit out of profits is likely to go on very
much faster. But as the 1J millions (nearly) of deposits
which make up that deficit bear no interest, the repay-
ment doesn’t relieve the Queensland National Bank of any
interest burden, and thereby increase the net earnings.
Judging by some remarks in the Auditor-General’s re-
port of July last, there seems reason to suspect that there
may be as much as £380,000 to provide for in addition to
the visible shortage abovementioned—though, of course,
the amount may prove to be much less. At that rate,
the real deficit, to be made good out of earnings, may be
over £1,850,000, and the Q.N.B. will do well if it clears it
off, and becomes a sound dividend-paying concern again,
in 25 years.
The position certainly shows some slight
signs of improvement. Private deposits have increased
slightly during the half-year ; the earnings show a
considerable increase ; the old dead horse is being
shifted a little faster each half-year; and the regular
State audit inspires a certain amount of confidence. The
Queensland National has £112,000 a year less interest to
pay than before the 1897 reconstruction ; its old fixed
deposits now cost it only £2 12s. 6d. per cent, all round ;
and there are no dividends going out. So there is a cer-
tain glimmer of hope, even for this very remarkable
bank, on the far horizon, though the shareholders will
require the enduring patience of Job’s boil before they
get a show again. But still they have the satisfaction of
owning about the most remarkable bank on earth —one
which has lost all its paid-up capital and reserves, and
more than a million in addition, and which goes on just
the same.
• * • *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Mel-
bourne) reports that it has made, during the half-year
ended 31st Dec., 1898, a profit of £llOl, and it cheerfully
declares a dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum,
which absorbs £l5OO. Seven years' record of the Trus-
tees, Executors and Agency Co.: —
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1892 .. £8548 .. 30 per cent. = £9OOO
December, 1892.. 6874 .. 22} „ 6750
June, 1893 .. 4656 .. 15 „ 4500
December, 1893.. 3909 .. 12} „ 3760
June, 1894 .. 2287 .. 7} „ 2250
December, 1894.. 2265 .. 7} ~ 2260
June, 1895 .. 305 .. Nil.
December, 1895.. 256 .. Nil.
June, 1896 .. 1702 .. 4 per cent. •* 1200
December, 1896.. 1779 .. 6 „ 1500
June, 1897 .. 1766 ... 6 „ 1600
December, 1897.. 1706 .. 6 „ 1600
June, 1898 .. 1723 .. 6 „ 1600
December, 1898.. 1101 .. 6 ~ 1600
The business has really improved considerably
during the post half-year (also, the great increase in the
number of estates entrusted to the co. should result in a
much larger income next year), hut the expenses of a disas-
trous law-suit swallowed up £1348, with the above result.
And the Trustees Executors and Agency selects a very
had time to pay a dividend that isn’t fully earned. The
law has decided that certain unlucky investments of its
clients' funds on fixed deposit in some late lamented
banks were not lawful, and has ordered it to make good
the loss. Consequently £29,400 of the reserve-fund has
been set apart for this purpose. The other £10,600 of the
reserve and £2OOO from profit and loss are used to write
down to something like their real present value the 2800
Australian Mortgage and Deposit Bank preference shares
held by theco., which shares have hitherto been put in
the balance-sheet at their face value—-in other words,
they were formerly reckoned as worth £14,000 when they
were only worth about £l4OO. Tub Buw.ktin has over
and over again drawn attention to this inflation,
and it is glad to see that the matter has at last been put
right. There is still a somewhat-inflated item left in the
balance-sheet; £lB,OOO worth of deposits in the same Aus-
tralian Deposit and Mortgage Bank are put down at face
value, whereas at latest quotations they are only worth
about £11,260,80 that another £6760 should have been
written off—only the reserve-fund is now exhausted, and
apparently the management hadn’t the nerve to meet this
further loss out of capital. Still, the deposits will proh-
ably be paid in full some day, so this mattor may ulti-
mately come right of itself. Whether the £29,400 pro-
vided will quite cover the losses on the luckless deposit
transactions isn’t quite certain—probably it will. But
the Trustees, Executors and Agency finds it necessary to
call up £30,000 more capital, so it will take £2250 to pay
the half-yearly 6 per cent, dividend in future in place
of £l6OO, which doesn’t improve its prospects. And
within the last seven years £112,000 of reserves, nearly
two-thirds of the whole company, have vanished into
nothing.
• • • *
Eureka, Bendigo. For nearly two years share-
holders have been reading “ still sinking ” in the weekly
reports. To sink 800 ft. and cut five plats in hard ground,
starting from over 2000 ft., is a business unknown in
N.S.W. At 3035 ft. they ran a cross-cut out 238 ft., and
the New Ohum Railway reef, for which all the work was
done, was struck on Saturday week. Many divs. have been
paid out of it in the N.C.R., as well as the mines to the
north. The Eureka shareholders deserve the same.
* * • *
Vic. Mines-Minister Foster has refused a lease of
three miles of Kangaroo Gully, Bendigo, for sluicing on a
big scale, because of a protest from a number of fossipkers,
chiefly old men, who manage to dig a few shillings a
week out of it when they can find no other work.
» * • •
North Mt. Deddick, somewhere in the wilds of
Vic., another humming report. “Putin a branch tram-
line to ore paddock.” Not a word about the cost, which
could not have been less than 365. 1
• * • *
The Vic. absconding legal-manager has got him-
himself arrested at the Cape. He had foolishly written
to friends, detailing his narrow escapes. A detective
actually asked him at Albany, “ Are you quite sure you
are not the man we want?” The absconder also wrote
asking for a letter of introduction, with the object of
getting a billet in Capetown, failing which he was going
to the Rand. With all this before them, defrauded share-
holders put up the money to bring him back, and a
detective is about to sail for that purpose.
* * * *
Vic. goldfields production for last year:—Ben-
digo, 214,2050 z., an increase of 13,8820 z. ; Ballarat,
186,6930 z., increase 77860 z. ; Beechworth, 111,7030 z., de-
crease 12,0820 z. ; Gippsland, 106,7930 z., decrease, 83650 z. ;
Castlemaine, 71,7780 z., increase 91700 z. ; Maryborough,
64,3390 z., increase 52620 z. ; Ararat, 38,9060 z., increase
60720 z. Divs. : Bendigo, £225,774, increase £61,959;
Gippsland, £108,840, said to be a falling-off ; Ballarat,
£99,198, increase £18,396 ; Castlemaine, £75,227, increase
£20,308. Total divs. for year, £616,634, increase £78,540.
Men working gold, 30,804, or 2016 less than previous year.
» * * *
The Long Tunnel Extended directors refused
the offer of £27 a share cash, and nearly as much again in
share value. Within an hour shares fell from £29 to £27.
Stated, too, that the offer is a genuine one, subject to no
unreasonable conditions, and tnat the. directors have inti-
mated their determination not to sell the mine for less
than £45 a share cash right out. If so, here is a nice
anomaly. The mine has been a div.-payer for some years,
the public values it at five years’ purchase, more than
enough for the average Vic. div.-paying gold-mine. The
directors refuse to sell on a basis of over eight years’ pur-
chase, and yet have not money or sense enough to stop a
£2 drop in the shares the moment they decline. How do
the directors explain the position ?
• • • •
As has often happened before, Mt. Mercer
(Vic.) shares had a horrible slump after the champagne
shivoo given at the start two weeks ago, when the Mines-
Minister and other personages said they were pleased at
the prospects, and excuses were given for the disappoint-
ment of the wash-up. These did not go down —shares
went that way instead. Always sell before the wash-up.
Mt. M. shares were then over £2 —they are now under
10s., and the remarks of Ministers and excuses of others
avail nothing.
• • • •
KanownaMoonlightlead, lately-found and much-
boomed, about five good wages-claims to date ; so far,
nothing- to skite about. Bulong Deep Lead nearly
defunct—public battery not yet ready to deal with some
hundreds of tons, ready bagged, awaiting the Govt, s
sweet will. Very little fine gold found in the puggv-green
wash, mostly slugs, loz. to as high as Boz., specked out of
the face. Sinking, 80, 90, and 100 ft.
* * * *
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
* » » »
The West Australian Gold District Trading
Corporation has come to the front again—this time with
Goodman, the chief engineer of the business, in the dock
accompanied by a knight named Lee, one of the directors,
also the secretary. Another person, likewise charged in the
conspiracy to defraud, has been arrested at the Cape.
Major-General Tulloch, formerly boss of the Vic. army, who
was also a director, was excused on the ground that “ he
appeared to those who had examined him to be one of
those military men sometimes found ornamenting^ boards
of companies and possessed of little experience.” This
awful concern started with a mythical capital, subse-
quently enormously “ increased.” Sent a man named
Grant to manage at Fremantle —also sent him a cable :
“ There will be a meeting soon. Suggest you telegraph
me (or us) as follows : ‘ Transactions enormous. Con-
tinue shipments steadily. I expect the profit to be
£25,000.’” Grant declined, but wrote privately to the
boss asking what he meant by such a wire ; that there were
no transactions ; that he had no money for an office or to
pay dock charges on merchandise if any arrived, tine
little lot of gal. iron was sent, but before it was available
for sale it could only be got rid of at a loss. Before the
concern absolutely collapsed the arch-boomster secured
the rights of a wonderful gold-saving machine which for
a time he worked with his own wind. Lee was admitted
to bail, but Goodman and the sec. went to gaol to await
further proceedings. * , ,
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Hock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.* 0
Westralinn gold production for December,
96,8160 z., bringing the total for the year to 1,050,1790 z. as
against 674,9860 z. for '97, an increase of 376,1980 z. Divs.,
£810,051 against £480,084,’an increase of £330,507. Last
year’s production was 80,000 oz. more than the province
turned out altogether up to ’90 —and yet this is the year
a great and lasting depression fell upon it !
The big mines for Kalgoorlie for ’OB ro at
Boulder, 41,043 tons, 74,4040 z. ; l<ake View Consols, 67,358
tons, 98,1100 z. ’, Associated Mines, 27,704 tons, 42,1190 z.;
Hannan’s Brown Hill, 24,032 tons, 50,8940 z.; Jvanhoe,
27,120 tons, 50,6010 z.; Golden Horseshoe, 9299 tons,
29,0370 z.; Boulder* Main lteef, 8474 tons, 10,3890 z. ;
Boulder Perseverance, 14,842 tons, 18,012 oz.; Kalgurli,
245 tonß selected ore for 21020 z. There are about a dozen
other mines on the camp which manage to keep going
with the gold they produce, and it takes a good deal
to keep going at Kalgoorlie, where mining is being
cheapened, but is still far from cheap.
# * * *
Tindal’s, Coogardie, has had another wash-up
290 tons for COoz. Time to shut up. Owned anywhere
outside of Vic. it would have been long ago.
• • • *
Gilfvllan and MoCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assa.vers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.
m * • •
Half-yearly meetings of Mt. Lyell Extended
and Mt. Lyell Consols, held in Melb. last week, at neither
of which was a single director present. Their absence
was excused at each meeting by one shareholder, and
defended by another. In the first-named the fees are
£lOO, and the second £2OO a year. One report said the
directors were most hopeful that the ore-body would soon
be located ; and, in the other, prospects were spoken of
as encouraging. Well, there are some people asses enough
to regard the total absence of the directors as another
sign of richness.
* * * *
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinders
17" and 38" by 60" stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 151 b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably the
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
* • • *
The sec. of the Homeward Bound G.M. Co.,
Yalwal (N.S.W.), writes :—Re your recent remarks upon
our 00. ’s operations, it may surprise—and I hope it will
please—you to know what we can do with 2dwt. even. Our
cost of all works at the mine is generally under ss. per
ton, but this month it was a little more. Actual expendi-
ture was £397, in which is included cost of cyaniding por-
tion of the tailings _ ,
Value.
Returns, plates, 184 oz. 1 15 y 0Z- £530
Do. from 300 tons oyanided, 2Soz. j
700 tons tailings sold at 3s. per ton 105
£635
Balance profit is £238. Our average free gold is 4dwt., so
when we are able to cyanide all our tailings we shall make
a fair thing out of the mine.
* • • •
Cobar notes Cobar Gold Mines (Fort Bourke)
is apparently making no provision for the treatment of
its slimes, though it is tolerably well known that the
slime resultant on wet crushing will contain at least a
third of its gold. The co. is applying for six months’
partial suspension of labor-conditions. If this be granted,
the property will have been more or less idle for 18
months. Chesney showing ironstone at last. Should
it prove of proper quality and quantity, the mine will
have little to wish for. Occidental (mill hung up for
want of water) shows very fine ore in 150 and 200 ft. levels
as development proceeds (a big formation of nearly loz.
assay value has been tested), and has an army of men
enlarging its tank. The work of doubling the capacity of
its present cyanide plant has been commenced, and when
this is completed, a few weeks hence, there can be no bar
to regular divs. and a large increase in the crushing plant.
... *
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
6cwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
. . . •
A small consignment of rich ore has been sent
from the Grasmere mine, in Wilcannia district, the resi-
dents of which await results ere wading right into the
copper business. Estimated value, 20 per cent.
(Continued on page 18.)


d
DAVID
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Catholic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
PRESCOTT’S 4. CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME
LIME
JUICE^^-
AND
JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents
or Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL &. CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUA ID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufaetuiers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Premier Reid's action in providing funds
for another Volunteer Infantry Regiment to be
recruited mostly in Minister Carruthers’ elector-
ate, looks rather shady in view of the fact that it
will be absolutely useless, as practically all the
other infantry regiments take in the district con-
cerned, and are still unable, without continuous
ad vertising and recruiting of boys and invalids,
to keep up to their “establishment.” The Pre-
mier’s only excuse for authorising the scheme was
that it was cheap—the uniforms to cost only 30s.
per head. So, presumably, if St. Brunker—-who,
by the way, lias just been publicly boasting of
how much road-and-bridge money he has got for
his constituency since the general election —were
to come along with a scheme for forming an
army to consist of a million cold-water drinkers
mounted on worn-out milking cows and attired, in
butcher’s aprons to cost 7id. each, permission
would be granted immediately. When the new
WHERE CHARITY BEGAN.
WEEDA : “My word, Gonifa, you are a toff; what’s up? Been to afire? ”
GONIFA: “ No, my dear, I have NOT been to afire . I have been helping at a charity-bazaar for
the last three weeks ”
WEEDA : “ Oh, I sec; and the charity began at home! ”
regiment has worn its cheap slop khakee for a
few months it should form an interesting contrast
when drawn up beside the other gaudy warriors at
a review. Mr. Reid’s only excuse for recently re-
fusing the Australian Horse increase was that he
hadn’t any money—which makes his latest mili-
tary move look doubly questionable.
* • • •
Apropos remuneration to Acting-Gover-
nors. Lord Belmore left N.S. W. after four years’
service. He took passage for England in the
Sobraon, now the training-ship, which was to have
sailed on a fixed day (21st Feb., 1872). Belmore
went on board, but, owing to some hitch, the
vessel did not sail until next day, H.E. and family
sleeping on board that night. Although he had
surrendered his office to Acting-Gov. Alfred
Stephen, Belmore sent in an account for the extra
day’s pay and got it, >£l9 3s. 6fd.
* * • *
There are 150 applicants for the office of
“ Governor ” or Resident Magistrate for Norfolk
Island ; salary, .£250. It is suggested that the
best use the Govt, could put the island to would
be to make it a reformatory for long-sentenced
prisoners, living in cottages and cultivating the
soil, the preference to be given to married men.
• • * •
Thursday, January 26, is not the anniver-
sary of the founding of N.S.W., as some think, or
of Botany Bay, as believed by others, but of Syd-
ney alone. Botany Bay was founded on 19th
January and N.S.W. established a colony on 7th
Feb., 1788. Apropos, Anniversary Day occurring
this week is officially and otherwise referred to as
“ the 111th anniversary,” etc. But it is only the
110th. The first anniversary was January 26,
1789, not 1788.
» * * *
Slangdon Bonython, who, since his glori-
fication has apparently gone in for heraldry more
than ever, has been requesting sundry town and
shire councils to forward him their coats-of-arms.
This has been a poser for municipal magnates,
whose knowledge of blazonry is chiefly confined to
the local Queen’s or Bricklayers’ Arms. North
Melbourne Council handed the matter over to its
town-clerk, and the following is what he didn’t
suggest:—“ Quarterly, let and 4th, azure, a figure
of Justice with bandage off one eye, proper ; 2nd
and 3rd, gules, a weeping woman, improper, hold-
ing an infant displayed, argent; motto, ‘ Seven-
ansi x ! ’ ”
* * * *
A VOTARY.
“ You favor peace?” the Russian said.
Cried good John Bull : “ Most certainly.
That’s why I’d knock upon the head
All those who disagree with me ! ”
A Bendigo (Vic.) daily paper lately said
that “His Excellency the Governor yesterday
visited Melbourne Geological Gardens.’ Also,
that on the eve of a race-meeting there
had been “a considerable ,exodus of
bookmakers into town.” And.
lastly, that there was danger,
on a certain part of the
railway-line, of sparks
from the locomotives set-
ting fire to “ the grass
and other herbivorous
plants alongside. ” It was
the same organ, by the
way, which, having oc-
casion to apologise once
for a misquotation of
Dickens, said it did so
“ more out of the re-
spect we have for the
late eminent novelist
than for any other
reason.” Melbourne
Herald is a close
runner-up. Re a re-
cent local execution :
“ Like a flash of light-
ning the click of
the bolt was heard.”
A Tas. West Coast
daily, with a reputa-
tion for its mining
intelligence,recently,
in an in memoriam
poem, asked God to
“ help us this lode
to bear.” It takes
for its motto some
doggerelending with
“ and the good that
we can do,” which,
in a recent issue,
appeared as “ and
the food that we
can do.” It prints
various items over
the signature “Emu,’
one of which recently
concluded: “ The history of France is marked
by milestones of widows and the cries of the
oppressed Emu.”
The repeated announcement that there is
only one link missing in the chain of evidence,
and when it is completed the police will be ready
for the instant and conclusive hanging of some-
body over the Gatton unpleasantness, sets one
thinking of a certain character in one of Grant
Allen’s novels. He was descended from the ancient
royal family of the Plantagonets, only there was one
link missing in the pedigree. And the author holds
forth on the art of building up such pedigrees, and
the inadvisability of looking for that missing link.
You begin by tracing your own pedigree back as
far as it will go. Then you find a well-known
historical family of the same name, and trace it
from the Norman Conquest down to about the
place where you left off, and after that you remark
that there is only one link missing - the one
that connects the two families—and leave it
there, lest through further investigation you
find there is no link at all, and burst a
beautiful pedigree to shivers. Grant Allen’s
character, in the course of 50 years’ hard drinking,
never once looked for the absent link ; but after
lie had fallen into a canal through too much beer,
bis son recklessly hunted it up, and the pedigree
burst.
Apparently the Gatton link is built on much the
same lines. The police hear of a small, thick-set
man plodding along the road with his hat drawn
down over his eyes, and they trace him right tip
to these slip-rails. Then they find him miles
away, and trace him from the point of arrest back
to the slip-rails. And the only trouble is the ab-
sence of any positive evidence that he stopped
inside the slip-rails and battered three people to
death. Just one link short.
• • * *
“ H.F.” on the Gatton outrage :
Accepting the bulk of H. Stockdale’s conclusions, other
deductions follow. Barring the doubtful possibility of
the murderer being an abnormal maniac, who might also
have killed the boy, and whose methods could not be
reasoned about, the motive of the crime was retribution.
No mere lust-crave, on that road littered with women,
would have chosen two females accompanied by a man.
This points to the man as the chief object of vengeance,
and we must seek in his history for those who
had a real or fancied grievance. These persons
will be of Irish blood, for to them the degrada-
tion of their females makes the strongest appeal. They
may have lived in the neighborhood once, but not now,
otherwise they would not have had to run after the cart
to recognise it and the occupants ; also, neighbors would
not have done the deed with such completeness—the out-
rages w'ould have followed each other. Here the men
were evidently in a hurry—they had come some distance
—and, if strange to the place, must have been there some
days. The mutilating hints that the motive was recent-
stale vengeance would not have gone that length.
• » • •
Dear Bulletin. — Re Harry Stockdale’s im-
pressions of the Gatton murder there ain’t no
words to express my tiredness. Would a naked
man “ask or be proffered a lift” without being
promptly biffed ?—Yours, D. Busst.
• * * •
From Townsville Herald, 9/l/’99 : —
It is rumored that the bodies of the Gatton victims are
to be exhumed a second time to see if they are dead.
Good old Northern rum !
* • * •
“Jeff,” from Roma, Q. :
Up here just now there is a perfect epidemic of “ flog.”
“An Australian girl” and writers with like pen-names
are most anxious to see the “ young men of this country
taught a lesson with the lash,” but what if they found
out after all that the Gatton criminal was a female and
did certain things for a “blind ” ! Don’t scout, the idea
until .you’ve seen some of the specimens of Banana-
landresses that I have met.
* * * *
When the “ Boot-Trunk Mystery ” was
still unsolved the whole Vic. police force was
on the look-out for mysterious strangers, and
actually got on the track of some casual stranger
who had passed the locality in a covered cart. As
usual, he turned out to be the nice young man
THE OBVIOUS
SOLUTION.
INFANT PRODIGY (who has been told, in answer to
query, that father's shirts are starched in
order to stiffen them, watching minor brother
collapsing helplessly in his .first efforts to
walk): “ Muvver, why don't you starch
Johnny?”
from Sunday-school, and his companion was the
pet lamb of the “lady workers.” Up at Gatton
they are scouring the country looking for blood-
stained strangers hiding in holes and bushes, while
the murderers are probably maundering around
calling the public “ Brother ” and asking how is it
with its collective soul.
• * * *
The notoriety-craving which seems of late
years to have become characteristic of the female
mind was well illustrated by the young woman
who recently did the disappearing trick, and
heard with triumph that the whole city police-
force had turned out to save her from various
imaginary horrors. What a difference between
the modern damsel and the early-Victorian ditto
whose only duty was to look up with the gaze of a
startled fawn when any male thing ventured to
address her ! But, as usual, it is Man the Active,
not Woman the Passive, that is responsible for the
change. Time was when Man’s Ideal lay in the
little daisy by the wayside. When he chooses to
bring it into fashion again the little daisy will
look up with the gaze of a startled fawn once
more.
* * * •
“Samuel Ballarat” must chuckle in his
episcopal sleeves when, day by day, evidence
rolls in to support his sweeping criticism
of the moral condition of Victoria. Ever
since Christmas a gorge of squalid crime
and dirt has been served up in the Melb. news-
papers. So that Samuel Ballarat may well con-
sider that he emerges “on top,” and that every-
thing comes to him who waits. Samuel had not
to wait long. And, as he is probably as human as
most bishops, it is likely that the fact is not
wholly unpleasant to him.
* • * *
The excellence of the entertainment pro-
vided in N.S.W. prisons has been newsed among
the Afghan camel-men and others out-back, with
the result that they begin to turn up at the police-
camps and demand to be sent to gaol. So far,
Bourke has had most experience of them; but a
couple bustled into Broken Hill lately and insisted
that they had broken a whole lot of agreements
and wanted 14 days’ apiece.
• * • *
Peroration by a newly-elected Westralian
Mayor:
I will always do in the past as I have always done in the
future. I will clear the town of all sanitary arragements
and leave the nightsoil entirely in the hands of the
councillors.
• * * *
“F.C.”: A Salvarmy wedding in full
regimentals is a liberal education in the methods
of said Army; also, the proceedings generally are
a fine sample of pure, unadulterated larrikinism.
At Prahran (Vic.), the other day, “ Ensign ” Cook
married “Lieutenant” Mildred Wise. “Com-
mandant” Booth took charge of the proceedings,
and urged the loving couple to be true to one,
another, etc., and so forth. Before the placing of
the ring and the final tying-up, they were


ssX
‘Jliijl
mil
mill
You
ForGOTTEH
Turw. 7»>
7,rfii;iii
THANK YOU !
MINE IS
SYDNEY LAGER BIER
The Splendid Local Brew,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
__ __ , , j 178 VVilliam-st., Melbournb
Hy, Markwaia, ll Pitt-street, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; 27 Easiest., Brisbane; Lambton
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Soft Shifts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/8.
Very Strong;, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen's Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the'
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
severally called upon to promise that neither
would m any way attempt to hinder the other
from doing anything for or giving anything to the
Army. Also, they were required to agree that
they would always regard their home as a quarters
for Salvarmy officers. Love and faith and trust
in one another are all very well, and it is desirable
to respect and worship God now and again, but,
let it be remembered, that always first and fore-
most comes the Army. After the performance,
the “ Commandant ” invited the audience to have
a quarter-hour of real right-down Salvation Army,
which they did in a style that would have earned
a Carlton “ push ” a “ severe lecture ” and a 10s.
fine.
• * • *
At a labor conference out west a half-crown
fine was instituted for every refusal to accept the
chairman’s ruling. One well-known individual
FLY .
PEDAGOGUE : “ Now, my boy, here is the map of
Australia. Gan you tell me where Sydney is?”
MY BOY : “ Garn! You want to find out so’s yer
can tell the other boys.”
soon came into conflict with the chairman afore-
said, whereupon, marching to the end of the table,
he planked down a pound note and intimated that
“he meant to have a quid’s worth.” The quid did
not last long.
» * ♦ *
“ A good wife is a man’s right hand,” says
a Melb. lecturess. And just observe how man
acknowledges it and respects the Scriptures in not
letting his right hand know what his left is up to
most of the time.
R.C. Bishop
Murray’s condemna-
tion of the use of
flowers at funerals,
on account of the
•waste of money in-
volved, should lead
him logically to
condemn as unre-
servedly the use of
mourning silks and
satins.
At Albert Park beach, the other day,
several children were noticed having a good
time, making gallant dashes into the water,
sometimes up to their armpits. They be-
came so excited that one or two adults were
attracted to the spot, and asked the head of the
juvenile party what he was after. “ Wait a bit,”
was the reply; “it’ll coine along again. We’ll
have it soon, I bet.” Presently there was a chorus
of “ Here it is !—here it is ! ” and three of the
kiddies floundered joyfully into the water again,
careless of the excited shrieks of the elders. What
the youngsters were chasing was the dorsal fin of
a seven-foot shark, and, according to their own
assertions, the game had been going on for quite
half-an-hour. This at the spot where, years ago,
one Rooney, a bootmaker, while bathing in two
or three feet of water, had his thigh severed by a
shark-bite and bled to death at once.
* * * *
As an excursion-steamer was passing Mos-
mans Bay (Sydney harbor) last Sunday a huge
black shark suddenly rose to the surface, yawned,
and winked his wicked eye at the passengers who
were gaping at him. One mamma got such a
shook that she dropped her infant ; fortunately it
bounced off the rail on to the deck. Another
observant lady clung to another woman's husband
and gasped : “Oh, Lord ! what is it? It’s too
big to be a shark—why, it’s nearly as big as a
man/” And the brute must have measured 12
feet at the least.
* * » *
For the first time in N.S.W. history, a
lawyer-medico has been made Coroner. The ap-
pointment of Dr. Todd (whose name first came
prominently before the public in the Dean case) as
deputy-coroner for Sydney is a most desirable
selection.
* * • *
It is said the Sydney morning papers’
issue of evening editions was provoked by a move
on the part of the evening papers to obtain free
afternoon trains as the morning papers enjoy the
a.m. trains.
• • * *
Salvation Army, besides buying the cen-
trally-situated German Club in Adelaide, has
just acquired also the Bushman’s Home at the
same place. The building, &c., cost originally
over =£Booo ; the price now paid is between four
and five thou. And of that only .£750 is paid
down ; the balance is covered by mortgage, “ at
the cheapest rate ever negotiated by the Army in
Australia.” The old town-home of the hairy man
from wayback is to be used for “prison-gate-
brigade ” purposes, and for the of
the amateur and more-or-less repentant Flossie ;
while the old-established Bushman’s, now on very
tottering legs, goes into obscure quarters in a lodg-
ing-house row.
* * * *
“ Wilcannia should be the Federal capi-
tal.” Last three years’ rainfall-record of this can-
didate ’96, 7 39m. ; ’97, 7‘24in. ; ’9B, s'47in.
None, so far, this year. The pastoral country
thereabout is in a worse state than ever before ;
it is so parched and powdered that it goes sky-
ward on the smallest provocation. A tank
scooped out eight years ago was cleaned out before
the months where the last winter should have
been. It is now silted level again. The only
thing about Wilcannia that the last three years
haven’t dried up is the very thing that might pro-
fitablv have dried up first its M.P., Sleatb.
The appointment just notified of Miss
Cowan as the inside doctor for Melb. Children’s
Hospital is significant. Why has there been a
fight to get lady medicos into such a very appro-
priate sphere? Now they have to battle v. the
Tabbies of the committee in the vet more appro-
priate sphere of the Women’s Hospital. YVny is
the Church of England so desperately anti-lady
■doctoral ?
* » • *
Father J. Milne Curran has found in the
Canonblas Mountains, near Orange, N.S.W., a
mass of petrified insects and reptiles, such as
snakes, lizards, centipedes, and scorpions, which
he believes lived ages ago. He is now, so it is
stated, making an active search in the vicinity for
the probable remains of a pre-histono coffee-
palace and sanatorium.
* » * *
“You have to pay 7s. 6d. a week for your
unborn child.” —Cowan, P.M., at Perth. The
decision staggered the Sydney youth before him.
“ What about the other blokes ? ” he indignantly
asked. “Woman knows best,” said the P.M.
“Better make it up with her.”
• * • •
Of all paternal laws enacted by W.A.
Govt, before it became “responsible,” the best is
that compelling well-to-do sons and daughters to
support their indigent parents. Example: Two
sons left their parents in Victoria, destitute.
Erionds found out about the state of W.A. law,
and sent them to Perth. The father first sued.
One son said the old man drank. “ Let him
drink,” said Cowan, P.M. “He has evidently
looked after both of you very well, when you can
earn £6 a week each. Order for .£1 a week against
each.” The mother next came along. She got
15s. a week from each.
Writes a Bul-
letin correspond-
ent :
Did you ever (to
for a Sunday trip
round the Beautiful
Harbor? No! Well,
when you do go take
your camera and
vour gun. I went
last Sunday and this
is what I saw : First
of all the steamer
was so overcrowded
that the people on
the lower deck got
their feet wet. They
were jostling and
cursing each other
for damaging corns
and dresses the whole
trip. From one side
of the opening over
the engine-room a
crowd of well-
dressed women
amused themselves
bv throwing lollies,
bits of ginger, and
small fruits into the
mouths of a straw -
hat push on theothcr
side. The straw-hat
mannikins seemed to
enjoy it, for they
rested their little
chins on the railing
and kept their
cavernous mouths
open and their small
eyes shut as long as
the fast dames threw
sweet things. Near-
ing Pearl Bay I
noticed a place
branded “Public
Baths.” Certainly
they were publio—
not a scrap of pri-
vacy about them.
Then an unsophisti-
cated young thing
remarked loudly:
“{Look at the native
companions on the
jetty 1” When we
got therethey turned
out to be native
companions indeed
—to wit, half-grown
men, as naked as the
most disreputable of
Greek statues. As
the steamer drew in
they danced a high-
land fling in the face
of all Israel ; and
Israel looked on with
snorts and jeers, ex-
clamations and gig-
gles, mysterious re-
marks and swear
words—but never a
brick. On board men
struggled and scram-
bled to get umbrellas opened in front of their women folk
and made absurd remarks about the heat of the sun and the
severity of the wind and the beautiful view “ further
along here.” When the dancers got tired they flopped
back into the briny with hilarious shrieks, and the blush-
ing steamer crept silently away.
Dr. Neild, the interesting Melb. identity,
reports a growing disposition to starchiness in
young women, especially servant-girls. Not that
they put on “ starch ” in the old sense of the term.
They chew- it and become anaemic. The washed-
out appearance of many marriageable spinsters is
entirely owing to the stiffening compound which
they “like to grit between their teeth.”
“ A Christian clergyman,” writes to Melb.
Age re the push-revival, pointing out that the lash
is the only sure cure. Argues the gentle soul: —
I am fully prepared for the remonstrance of the sickly
sentimentalism which asserts that flogging has a brutalis-
ing effect on the subject of it, and the obvious answer to
such an objector is that the larrikin of the “ push " cannot
possibly be more “ brutalised ” than he is already.
But tho “ Christian clergyman ” is evidently nob
prepared for the fact that the brutalising effect
applies to the giver as well as the reoeivor, and is
really general —witness that ’orrible example, “a
Christian clergyman.’ v
• • • •
At a way-back town tho residents had a
treat tho other day when tho city train arrived.
A littlo woman went to a first-class carriage and
pulled out ft burly legislator, who happens to bt
tier ’appy ’usband, and hauled hiin up and down
the platform by the hair, the while reciting her
domostio wrongs to the delighted crowd. When
the whistle sounded she gave hubby a final kick
and placed him back in the carriage. But his in-
fluence in that part of his constituency is gone
now.
* • * •
Tho Church the friend of the poor ! St.
Saviour’s 0. of E., Redfern, olforod present writer
SUPERFLUOUS .
position of school head-master at the princely
salary of <£4o per annum and find himself.
Beneath him, he was informed, he would have
two lady-teachers. What salaries they get “ were
curious to inquire.”
* * * *
“I have never yet searched the effects of
a thief without finding some strong evidences of
piety.”— Dect. D. 0. O' Donnell, of Melh.
• • * *
A new Melb. disease —Dubberkelosis.
DIVIDED
"Y[?]ERE S[?]LL BE RO PARTING THERE"
* <*% lp< allele. girl, wf)cp
WV &fye trailed f)o 190 re
i V *i * record £>prll)K
• ' If rf>e
And waited lon£> at"' i
iPefers ©are |
gill old o)arj cAitje<
H) e 1)0 ur wab latc^.
Oe looked l)er o'er wilt)
f at) eye ii)ert7
i /nji)d watted wilt) scori) i
_ Ker divided bkirT; j
Tfhjeij &l)pt" tt)'e boll" 7
b like a cl)orli&l) t)o&!7’ !
f]r)d b u a e»‘£>9 09 nfe*
yj door- posat".
' yf~ b cr ' b car *""
.wtH) a dull despair.,
|yor it * read
B .E.
VIRGINS, WISE AND FOOLISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wooed a maid too good by far,
And vowed to love her faithfully ;
But found the promise slaok, and why ?
She, too, loved me.
I love another maid to-day,
And things like that, do not occur ;
Because I know she only loves
My love for her.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
THE STARCH-EATER.
Behold yon wan and wasted maid,
The one-time bonnie Nell!
Her secret is by signs betrayed,
Alas ! we know it well,
How dull the orb that smiles beneath
An ebon eyebrow arch !
Observe the action of her teeth 1
The girl is chewing starch.
O fold her gently to your breast
And tell the foolish dear
Her hunger were appeasfed best.
By biting of your ear.
If, in the warmth of her embrace
Your shirt-front’s glory wane,
Well, bid her breathe upon its face
And starch it up again.


GOOD BOOTS
Good Leathers.
Good Stitching 1 .
Good Pit.
Just Openedi
Gent’s Patent Seal Lace and
Button Boots at 25/-
Gent’s Tan Lace Boots, leather lined, 22/6; also,
Ladies' Calf Lace and Button Boots, 17/6; Shoes, 14/6
because all that is
in them
is
G00d...
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-s t M Sydney.
“The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
tt S, ~p rano Son f?> 2s - 5 Postage 2d. extra. W.
H. Paling and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane.
Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
REDUCED PRICES!
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks, 1
Dent s ” Austrain Lairb Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Fownes Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
“ Dent’s ” Chevertte Kid Gloves, any color and black, 3/6
“ Dent ’ 8 ” Chevrette Washing- Suede, in white, 1/11
». „ special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
Fownes best Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 2TI
The “Merlier” Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broidered backs, 3 11
Superior Chevrette Suede Gloves, in all shades, 3/11
Dent s Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; worth 3/11
Long Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
White, new stitching, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompt and special attention.
W. T. WATERS & CO.
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER
Mr Deae Myee— Srdner ’ J “" ary * lm '
Tho dolorousness of mid-summer lies over the
city. All the gaiety goes on at Hobart, or at
Bowral. Sydney’s biggest excitement for the
past week has been the opening of the People’s
la i ac ®;, T bisis th e “Army’s” latest venture,
and although it is a huge scheme, and will need
cute superintendence, the arrangements are so well
planned, and the Army has such a way of working
out its plans successfully, that it is bound to
prosper. Commandant Booth—they call him
Commandant you know, in true military style
with the accent on the “ com ’’-came over from
Melbourne for the opening on Thursday. A slushy
afternoon and night had no effect on some three
thousand people who trotted, single-file, upstairs,
and downstairs, along corridors, dormitories,
through dining halls, and reading rooms, at the
heels of their leader Booth. This procession was
repeated at night and proved such an alluring way
of throwing open an hotel that a rush of boarders
followed immediately.
Mrs. Booth is credited with the idea of the
Palace. You come across her likeness a score of
times as you go the rounds of the building, and it
e touching to see the devoted way in which
at her beautiful dark face. Her
Hutch blood doesn’t manifest itself in her coloring
or features, but the foreign tint comes out in her
speech, and manner, and has much to do with the
charm she casts over everybody, civil or military
so to speak.
ThePakceis divided into three parts, a hotel,
yclept the Metropole; the old Natatorium— where
sixpenny, threepenny and twopenny dossers of the
male sex are accommodated, washed and fed : and
the women s shelter, where sixpenny and three-
penny beds are provided for homeless women, not
forgetting a special compartment where drunks
are to be kindly treated These three regions are
entirely cut off from each other. The hotel proper
is the biggest of the three, and has already begun
active work. Here you find bedrooms to let from
five to sixteen shillings a week, a public dining-
room where meals are sixpence, a room for women
where meals are nniepence, and a fine reading
I<3 bedrooms are as nice as possible: even
the cheap pnes on the upper storeys are all daintily
fixed up with fresh, light paper on the walls, light
linoleum underfoot, sprmg-mattressed beds, little
washstands dressing tables, looking-glasses and
chairs. Hot and cold baths everywhere and plenty
of box-room. Imagine getting all this, and
attendan9 e ’ a « d a great open piazza at the top of
the building furnished with seats, and arbors and
fresh air and a wide out-look across the city, for
the sum of BJd. a night! J
And how sensitive the Army is to the effect of
CO u Ol \°r , P®°P le - I never saw so much red in
a building before. And—let me whisper it—never
knew there were so many texts. Every room is
adorned with at least three. The Woman’s
Shelter has been made especially bright. A red
dado runs along the dormitories and little white
qmits With deep red borders liven things up won-
derfully. And I must not forget the frilled white
pillow-cases, fresh from the Army’s own laundries
and decorated in red embroidery with “Jesus
Saves. All this for sixpence !
A very special dormitory is the gutter-boys’
asylum, where a comfortable little bunk and
a bath—and, later on, an evening’s read—can be
had for twopence. And it’s cheering to know
that you can get food here if you’ve only
one halfpenny in the world. That coin will
provide a basin of soup, while three-halfpence
will turn into a good hot meat-and-vegetable
dinner. And, finally, this wonderful institution
will provide work in the shape of wood-chopping
for men and laundry-work for women, for those
who can t pay for meal and bed. If the country
doesn t soon make this self-supporting the town
certainly will.
By way of send-off to the Hampdens, a few un-
seasonable gaieties will bloom next month. There
is no talk of anything extravagantly festive so far.
Mayor Harris lias asked his Ex.’s leave to banquet
Tof 11 ’ -vr ® X- bas given permission. And
Mrs. Mat. Mayoress proposes to give a large-sized
farewell-reception to Lady Hampden. The usual
presentation furore has not shown any symptoms
yet. It seems that the thought of Govt. House
without its Easter balls, and a dull season to fol-
low, has somewhat damped Society’s spirits.
Quite a moral—or at any rate, a delightful—
lesson on petticoats can be gleaned at the M.M.
wharf when a French boat is making its exit. As
he H rench women come down the gangway from
fareweHmg their friends, not one in twenty fails
to Mt her skirts well up, and show a perfectly-
fitting pair of Pmets, and a frilly garment whose
fascination is often far ahead of the frock that
covers it. I was particularly struck with this last
Monday when the Australien was the out-going
ship. Ihe plainest serge ran up suddenly over a
flutter of tartan flounces, and illustrated the
aesthetic, as well as commercial, value of not
putting your best goods in the windows.
Among the passengers by the Australien were
Mr. and Mrs. Funckh. A big crowd of this city’s
Continental people were seeing them off on a trip
to Pans under rather sorrowful conditions.
Handsome Mr. Jack Wagner, just back from a
litterateur’s life in the States, was also travelling
m the boat as far as Melbourne, where family
affairs are demanding his return. His brown slouch
hat was worn k la Richard Harding Davies, whom
he really resembles. In fact, all good young
Americans having been getting up a resemblance
to this idolised novelist since Gibson immortalised
him as his clean-shaven handsome-man-type. I
also noticed that popular commercial man, Mr.
Harry Tallermann, taking a year’s farewell of big
groups of friends. Mr. Tallermann seems to be
endowed with more than one life. A year or two
ago he went into an Adelaide chemist’s for a dose
of anti-pyrin. The chemist gave him 20 grains
of atropine. Mr. Tallermann swallowed it. And
yet he is alive.
™S°, I 1 ? ra * ;u^a^ons are still pursuing Mr. Ernest
Wilshire, the new Stipendiary Mag. Really, to
hear the heart-felt felicitations that flower out
every day in some new petty-sessions court or
other, one would think the billet was builded of
pure gold, to say nothing of carrying unlimited
fame and glory. The latest thing in S.M’s. is a
popular good-looking man of about 40 years, with
a brown moustache and a twinkle. He is shortly
tvt- ‘ 3e I? arr * e( i to one of Sydney’s prettiest girls,
Miss Nina Church, the youngest of several beauti-
ful, black-haired, blue-eyed sisters.
- The Sydney Comedy Club is acquiring quite a
Packed collection of amateurs. The co. played
School ” at the Opera House on Monday with
plenty of go, and the moderate amount of good
dressing that the play allows. Miss Reni Arnaud,
as a pretty golden-haired school-girl with a million
at her back, made a hit in a white muslin over
scarlet, with smart red shoes and stockings. Miss •
Beatrice Moppet, the brunette beauty, clad herself
in grey, and kept up the peculiar stage tradition
of wearing conjointly a hat on her head and
flowers in her hair. The men were not quite up
to the women’s high water-mark, but then men
amateurs are always several degrees behind women
ditto. Dressing-up is the first real game a normal
female infant wants to play, and her hand is
usually well in at this particular sport before she
comes to her teens. The Opera House was
crowded everywhere for the production, and con-
sidering that “School” is only the co.’s third
experiment, one might write it down a success.
Pattie Browne’s innumerable friends will be
sorry to hear that she is not likely to appear again
in the panto. It ends in a fortnight, and at pre-
sent she lies dangerously ill at the Imperial Hotel,
” ynyard-square. She was to have been married
soon to Mr. Walter Harper, a brother of pretty
Mrs. Molyneux, and brother to Mr. Herbert
Harper, who married Miss Lucy Garran. If a
big heart helps to make a big artiste, Pattie has
every right to consider herself one. Her generosity
to fellow-artists is always acknowledged by the
profession, which is quite remarkably unanimous
in a good word for Pattie both as an actress and
as a generous little woman.
•“i T he omman^a pt ” has also a big part to play
in “The Term of His Natural Life,” now drawing
to a close at Dampier’s theatre. On Saturday an
audience took the horrors cheerfully, and shrieked
and ate chocolates blissfully through the blood-
curdling man-eating scene. “ Tell me when it’s
over,” said the nervous lady in front of me. She
held up her playbill to her face, and shut her
eyes, and popped a nougat into her mouth, and
crunched. _ When the scene changed, she peeped
over her shield. “ They told me ’e’d eat two men
alive,” she mumbled disappointedly to her hus-
band. Then the sickening lash-scene came along,
and again she got behind her playbill. “ Now, be
sure and tell me when it’s over.” She ate another
chocolate in retirement, then emerged with a
thundercloud on her brows. The matter with her
was that “Sara told me they flogged ’im till the
blood run down, and he dropped dead. ”
There is no dressing in the play to speak of.
Rose Dampier gets herself up in a weird white
costume, topped with a baby’s hat and strings, and
puffs her hair out as widely as ever. A plain,
sleek coil would do wonders with that fine head
of hair, but to dress it large and wide and falling
down in promiscuous bunches is to do herself a
cruel injustice. Miss Roxy Barton brings a
strangely-youthful face to bear on Rose Darnpier’s
mother, but wears a nice black frock over tur-
quoise with a graceful, matronly swagger. I hear
that this rapidly-rising young actress has been
engaged by Rignold to play Bianca in his coming
“Othello.” Her prettiness, grace, and easy
adaptation of stageland traditions have given her
a phenomenally quick passage from amateur to
pro.
Phil Newbury’s second series of “Pops” are
opening with much sound before crowded houses.
The second concert gathered in a tremendous
audience, and sustained it on samples of the vari-
ous musical substances that lie between Hope
Temple and Handel. Madame Spada let “The
Bright Seraphim ” wander through the hall, ac-
companied by Messrs. Wiegand and Freeman,
and gowned herself for the effort in a blended
heliotrope and green with touches of red and a
finely carven pair of shoulders. The only other
lady vocalist (unless you count as one the sweet-
voiced boy-soprano, Mr. Rodda Perry), Miss
Kathleen Morvan, donned a prim little blue and
white frock, and a curtsey to correspond, and sang
?i“L Bad f°, ng as encore to another, in correct con-
alWedtoKfJh T S at ° nly so P ra nos are
allowed to lift the gloom of an agonisingly pathetic
number by a light, bright encore. The contralto’s
E: ni a. brin f>‘,f in again,
Detore. The jovial Phil himself was in excellent
little’ trifle lll^! 6 a ? rC Q t V th that caressing
Ws Song.” by Gilruth. Alto
PnK,?l sjnllmgsworth of concert invested in the
tu and bi ££est musical re-
turns, with unlimited bonuses in the way of en-
S aa ? exac . tlng city is ever likely to get
this side of Jerusalem’s gratuitous homophonies.
thw' H, eW f bUryimC 'n a great hand at discovering
n&S, 4 , no , one Wl ll be surprised if he finds the
philosopher s stone some day. He himself thinks
he has come pretty near it with a “ voice” iust
picked up at Manly belonging to a youno* girl.
THlw ry r j gar ? s , tbis voice m uch as
Trdby s and is looking forward to electrifying all
of Pnr^r ne -l h -! a - ds ’ bal <i-heads and dead heads ”
or Burope with it in the near future.
iesson to be gathered from “ Formosa”
(at the Lyceufh Theatre is that the public now
takes as a matter of daily bread what once used to
cause it national fits. The grown-up part of the
house sits through the play nowadays with a
chfidre^ 1 !?’ ■ a V, d ■L U 8 the ordinary large number of
n d _ 5 dn - nk lfc Wl th a wide-awake air that
d % ton ° rates lnt « a shocked look. After
al nfi LT long ? l ver , tho stra >'ge maternal disci-
S, at br ing 9 colonial infants out to all the
specially shady spectacles, I solve the problem by
assuming that the mothers can’t keep away thern-
selves and can’t leave their children J home.
, u , ev . ei ? from this point of view there is a melan-
choly sickliness in the sight of half a d.c. under
scrans fc i e H lng ? lnfant H P B all tb e unpalatable
scraps of doubtful dramas.
Formosa otherwise Jenny with a Past, almost
assures a future to Miss Hel6ne Burdett, who
plays the heroine with restraint and art and a
sinuous Mrs. Potterish grace, and the real wicked-
heroine voice, that rises from the soles of high-
sl,loes > and thrills into the darkest corners of
vefvif In h , nglng P ink muslin with a black
velvet band round her throat she carries out admir-
ably Rossetti s idea of her namesake, lazy, laugh-
mg, languid Jenny. Her opera-frock is a Frenchy
creation in pink glace silk with wido lace panels :
an d her hair, parted at the side and filleted high
with pink bands, sets up further resemblances to
the lovely Cora. The darkest blot on the pro
d / J ° tlon 18 a triple affair, and incriminates the
three youths who play Oxford men with a baok-
b,\ck acoent, and talk about their ancestors,
and suffer sadly from new clothes. As far as the
IXIO h • ser , fc ®ail6y is the only correctly-
garbed being in the show. y
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“A ‘Geisha’ incident recalls Mark Twain’s
story of some muffled Hindu ladies ‘with legs
naked to mid-thigh ’ who spoke out indignantly
against unveiled European girls, wondering that
people could be so shameless as to expose them-
MiT J' lf a V P? roth y V ane, as an English
Miss, falls foul of her rickshaw boy ’cause he’s
b, ardly ,g°t anything on. Lover Pauli surmises
that the culprit must have come untucked.’
.Nevertheless the unmollified female foreign devil
cuts short her drive owing to the two-legged gee-
gee s undress. Probably her own tight-fitting
tourist costume, frankly following the outlines of
wearers altogether,’ might seem equally shock-
ing to almond eyes, accustomed to the sartorial re-
serve of bunchy ‘ Geisha ’ uniform.
“ In the scene referred to, Miss Vane wears a
cream serge yachting-suit, its skirt clinging so
closely that only for explanatory buttons you’d
wonder how the inmate got in and out. Those
poor little buttons ! Their arrangement, or maybe
their whereabouts, has repeatedly outraged the
feelings of aunties and other extra-sensitive guar-
dians of holiday juveniles anxious to learn about
Japan.
Stage-heroes, somehow, though sharp-sighted
enough, are seldom blessed with lashings and lav-
mgs of flashing orb. Julius of the beautiful legs,
and Barrett with the clustering curls, are bygone
cases in point. A sweet singer and petticoat
pet of the moment is accused by exacting beauty
critics of beady black eyes, like twin currants in a
junk of pallid school duff. Gushing admirers of
same warbler credit him with ‘ the daintiest little
ways you wouldn’t believe.’ His rdle exacts two
different suits of an evening, and both times, so
say his worshippers, the conscientious clother in-
dulges in fresh under-plumage. Also, if the
weather is warm enough to wilt so much as a hair
of Adonis s head, he struggles into a thick, stiff,
starched, laundned confection, so that, if during
his solo-in-chief the vocalist doesn’t look clean
enough to eat one’s breakfast off, it isn’t his fault.
N ■!>• Stage wardrobes laundried at management’s
expense.
“ Those European misses touring Japan with
their golden hair braided closely to the back of
their heads, bright blue jackets and skirts, white
vests, shoes and yachting-caps, are intended to
look quite English, you know’—trim, trig, and
tall, in comparison with the gay, bunchy little
Geishas. Somehow the fair Britishers seem a
raw-boned quartette. Their white-shod feet look
substantial; tightly-coiled coiffures tend to undue
ear prominence; and the gold braid on their bright
blue suits makes a crude color-clash among the
soft brilliancies of a Jap. dress-show.
“ T’other night, when their work in Sans-GSne’s
laundry was over. Misses Temple and Bessie
±homps°n dropped mat the Princess’. Both
visitors affected black—one, no sleeves worth
mentioning; t’other, ruched transparencies to the
wrist, still, by the way, the two types of arm-
treatment most prevalent among theatre-goers.
A few seats off a pretty Toorak girl wore, with
her white-goffred silk skirt, a low-cut bodice of
chenille-spotted white chiffon, her dimpled arms
coquetting through close-fitting, unlined sleeves.
“Lady Brassey, quiet and tired-looking after
her voyage in the Sunbeam, came late to the Bijou
on Friday evening (Jan. 20), in all-black frock and
aigrette. Sympathetic aide Neville wore a long-
suffenng expression in common with her ladyship
lhe Governor did not arrive, presumably prefer-
ring home and beauty-sleep to wet-weather gad-
dmg. Boyish attache Cecil, convalescent to the
extent of getting along with one stick, smiled
joyously at all those laundry jokes about chemises.
“The seat-auction on the Princess stage for the
sale of places for the theatrical charities’ matinee
was more of a social than a business function!
Mrs. Brough, as principal hostess for the occasion,
gracefully queened it in a blue costume, with a hat
~ of corn-flowers a dress fully in harmony with
the Geisha scenery which has been utilised as a
baefcground. Florence Terry, Dorothy Yane, Mrs.
-Bland Holt and Mrs. Bracy, did their share of
hostessing’, and all rich people who are fond of
theatricals, assembled and drank tea, and offered
big prices for seats. Purves, Q.C., auctioneered,
and said that actors and actresses were brave men
and noble women; as, thanks to the dramatic
authors, they often are, of course. Lord Richard
Seville s bid of twenty guineas for a box for Lord
.Brassey was almost sensational. Of course a good
many people who were there did not bid at all, but
secretiy determined to go into the gallery, price
one shilling—and had another cup of tea at the
expense of the charity on the strength of it.
r b'be fifth and only unmarried daughter of
John Ferguson, of Rockhampton, M.L.C. and
Mount Morganaire, has just announced her en-
gagement to Mr. Hope, a young English manu-
facturer. The Ferguson establishment is an
imposing edifice with the most expensive entrance
gates in Australia, inscribed “Kenmore” (Gaelio
for “The Mansion.”)
Any amount of fuss, feathers and military
pomp at that northern wedding t’other day (Jan.
4th) when Ina, daughter of Dr. John Thompson,
°f '’isbanc, married Lieut.-Col. Ricardo, formerly
ot Vic. Mounted Infantry, now of 6. forces.
Every northerner has heard of the bride’s father—
that stout, dark, hospitable, extremely vivacious
bcot, leading Brisbane doctor and ex-naval sur-
geon.
“For the last quarter-century, few Brisbane
.Naicest have entered or left this world unsuper-
vised by Dr. Thompson. He was the first
medical man called in hot haste to the
death-bed of the late Gov. Musgrave, when
the latter was seized with fatal illness while
dressing for dinner. When the doctor arrived, he
found the moribund’s feet cruelly blistered owing
to over-hot bottles and bricks, applied by well-
meaning attendants before alarming the sufferer’s
wde. Ihe Governor’s wife was terribly afflicted at
the thought of that unseemly torture. She lamented
that an official somebody’s wife was worse off than
an overworked washerwoman—never a minute to
spare for her nearest and dearest. Her only little
daughter, she went on to say, had been fatally
scalded m her bath, through the mistake of a pro-
fessional ly-trainod, higlily-rocommended nurse.
“ Iu the circus menagerie on Sat., Jan. 21st,
Charles Kenninghain, looking more British and
beefy than in his monk’s cowl, pottered insinuat-
round Mahomet, the talking horso, winning
the gee-gee’s affections, presumably in preparation
for their joint turn at the Distressed Actor’s
Matinee. Straw-hatted baritone Pauli “ did ”
the animals with Kenningham. The latter,
wicked rumor says, has arranged all Pauli’s
Geisha ’ part in a tenor key, and now prays
nightly for the present hero of the Jap. opera to
catch a temporary cold so tfiat a discerning public
may learn the loveliness of the improved version.
“At the farewell banquet to P. O. Fysh, Tas-
mania s new Agent-General, at Hobart the other
night, Mayor Davies anti-climaxed the gorgeously-
hilarious proceedings with a special vote of thanks
to the caterer—‘For we have enjoyed a magnifi-
cent spread for a very small amount of money ” !
How MERCURY-like it was !
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The Manhattan Luncheon and Tea Rooms.
The coolest, largest and best-lighted room in
Sydney. A speciality is the dinner of three
courses, Is. 6d.—from 6 to 7.30 p.m.
The devil’s number again. Fourteen per-
sons were expected at the Ministerial (N.S.W.)
luncheon last Friday, but only 13 turned up Now
who is going to die within the year ? Federation ?
Messrs. Raine and Horne to The Bulletin :
We note that, in referring to the sale of the Woollahra
House property, you state that “the splendid house itself
will probably be run as a residential hotel.” On this
matter you have been misinformed : the present owners
do not intend either starting an hotel themselves or sell-
mg the house for such purpose. As our principals may
surfer indirectly from the statement in question, we shall
esteem it a favor if you will contradict it emphatically.
Brisbane Street on th© Ipswich horror *
Interest in the “Ipswich Horror" is only just com-
mencingin “thetownof its birth.” It is stated that a
nice little boy, a member of an “aristocratic” family is
tangled up in the “horror.” It is further asserted that
the mother of this boy, accompanied by some friends
proceeded to Brisbane some time ago and interviewed*
some of the “high officials,” with a view to having the
affair hushed up, and most people here hold the opinion
that, had it not been for the discovery of the Oxlev mur-
der, the man suspected would never have been arrested
It is also stated that the nice little boy has been sent
away into the country so that he will not be called unon
<PJ' e explanation or evidence. The poor little boys
who had the misfortune to get into the clutches of the
bad, wicked man are going to be made the scapegoats


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
CbSoes
E 3
CIGARETTES.
Q
U .
Hill
z ajui
<UilUOfi
OCQHUI
iffiocca
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
*Tlie Famous Frencb
Chocolate.
CHOCBIBT-niEBIEg
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners
Wholesale
Agents:
W, M. Cameron & Co.,
249 Georye-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A James Tyson was forger Fauntleroy’s
chief clerk and principal witness against him.
Buxton and Hampden having resigned
their offices have both been rewarded with the
G.C.M.G. —Going to Clear ’Mediately Governors.
Nonagenarian George Colebrook, born in
Sydney in 1808, died p,t Balmain the other day.
He had a clear recollection of the proclamation of
William IV., and of the excitement caused in
Sydney on the receipt of the news of Wellington’s
victory at Waterloo.
Alex. Sutherland, the pedagogue-poet, late
of Melbourne, is now London correspondent of
S.A. Register. He is a pawky little man, with
all the gifts necessary for the position except two
—imagination and humor. And without these
a London correspondent is a mere bag of dry
shavings.
“Titles Jemmy,” as ex-Acting Justice
James is called in Perth, has, a host of Eastern
friends will regret to hear, gone mentally wrong.
Mr. James, an Oxford 8.A., was imported from
England in the W.A. Crown-colony days. His
amiable and generous nature has made him be-
loved in a wide circle.
J. P. T. Caulfield, the old-boy politician,
“ knocked them ” in Brisbane, where he has
opened a drink-cure business, by declaring that
foreight consecutive years he went to bed drunk
every night and arose drunk every morning.
Seasoned Bananalanders behold and admire the
man—not without envy.
When Ernest Giles, the eminent explorer,
died (the State’s reward for his great services was
a miserable billet of 10s. a day), Premier Forrest
sent a wreath, and promised a monument to mark
the spot where the great bushman lay. So far,
Giles’grave is marked by a mound of red earth.
All Giles asked for when dying was that he should
be buried at Ullaring after the manner of black-
fellows there.
Ex-Treas. Bruce Smith will have his long-
talked-of political novel before the publio in a few
months. II is previous excursions into book-
making displayed plenty skill in the management
of his subjects, but the subjects were of a kind
that don’t naturally lead to the novel. As the
novel is understood to be of a politico-social class,
he has been already asked under what disguise he
will dish up Jim Hogue.
CLEM. HILL, Champion Batsman of Australia, 159 v. N.S. Wales.
His third century in four interprovincial matches.
Ee the Marquis of Salisbury’s visit to
Bendigo. Six or seven years ago the Marquis, in
answer to enquiries from a crawlsome little clique,
wrote stating that he only stayed one night on
Bendigo, having ridden from Castlemaine on one
day, and returned on the following. Also said he
did not remember the cottage in which he is per-
sistently said to have lived. Besides, it is doubt-
ful if there was even one permanent cottage on
Bendigo at that time —if it wasn’t all canvas and
sundries.
“Melb.” : Demise, Nankivell, yore-
time city merchant here. One of the best-known,
as a rival of such as Service, Sargood the first,
Dalgety, Degraves, Grice, Summer, Francis,
M ‘Ctilloch, and so on ; embalmed in Garryowen,
and G. F. Train’s “Young America Abroad,”
graphic on our mercantile life 40 years ago. After
being bright as a new key, qua business man,
Nankivell travelled, and became quidnunc, in
which capacity he returned to his beloved Melb.,
even as the Bendigonian comes home to his
adored dust. Nanky was a universal nunky, the
gobbler of everything on ’Change.
The champion tough is Thomas
Reynolds, of Carlton (Vic.), now doing six
months for eating some of his 70-year-old
mother. He has been practising on the
old lady for years, but has hitherto con-
fined his assaults to occasional knoekings-
down, odd kickings, &c. Thomas made
his 28th appearance at the local Court in
the capacity of cannibal —the victim of his
appetite being old Bridget aforesaid. He
bit a piece out of her arm, and, as the
morsel couldn’t be found anywhere around,
there is circumstantial evidence that it
was swallowed and assimilated by the
affectionate son. Thomas told a policeman
it was no use arresting him, because his
mother wouldn’t sign the charge-sheet.
But he was wrong this time. Even at 70
a woman objects to be chawed up by her
offspring.
After old Jack Robertson got £lO,OOO
from New South Wales Parliament, an
enterprising wine - and - spirit traveller
waited on the veteran and got an order
for about £4OO worth of liquor. The order
was duly executed, and account rendered
regularly every month. Nearly a year
passed, but no reply. Merchant sent
traveller to get a cheque on account and
book another (small) order. Of course he
mentioned the order first, and, taking
it down item by item, found it came to
nearly as much as the original one. Then
he gently alluded to the cheque, and old
Jack flared up. “ What ? Want a cheque
do you? I suppose you took the first
order on the strength of the £lO,OOO ?
Well, I never saw a damned cent of the
money. 1 owed every shilling of it and
more.” The second order was never
executed nor was the first ever paid
for.
The unveiling, last month, of a memorial
to Hugh Childers in London Chapel Royal carries
the mind back to the early days of Vic. Parlia-
mentary life. Forty-nine years ago Childers
landed in Melbourne. The rapidity with which
events then moved is shown in the fact that one
year after landing he was a member of the Vic.
Govt., with the office of Auditor-General. This
beats the achievement of the luckiest men
in the Parliaments of to-day. When Victoria
gained Responsible Government, Childers was
elected and became Commissioner for Customs.
Altogether, he spent seven years in Victoria, filling
offices and drawing a substantial salary most of
the time. He returned to England as Agent-
General, and, as quidnuncs lately gossiped of G.
H. Reid, slipped out of the A.G.-ship into the
Commons, where he highly distinguished himself.
When Jack Con-
way and a mate ran
.Sydney Spouting
Life, some years ago,
"no of the comps, went
on the razzle-dazzle
for some time, and, on
turning up, gave the
customary excuseabout
twins. “That’ll do,”
sternly ordered Jack.
“Go to work ; but
never let me hear of
you getting drunk
again. Ido all the
drinking for this estab-
lishment.”
Father Lantana,
well-known on N.S.W.
Northern rivers, was
once travelling by rail,
and, at a wayside sta-
tion, a clergyman of
another brand got in.
These two were the
only occupants of the
carriage, and travelled
long in silence; the
priest reading his daily
offices. At last the
other said : “You are
a Catholic clergyman,
I presume?” “Yes.”
“ I was thinking it
would be a good thing
for us to have half-an-
hour’s religious con-
troversy.” The priest
smiled. “ Could I
convert you to our
faith in half-an-hour?”
he asked. “No ! ”
thundered the would-
be debater—“ nor in
fifty years 1 ” “ Ah,
well, my friend, in
that case what’s Jthe
use of making our-
selves uncomfort-
able ? ”
Mat. Battersby used to make such ram-
bling and incoherent speeches in Q. Leg. Assembly
that a ] oca j paper last session took to reporting
him verbatim. This angered West Moreton’s
c h o sen so much that he threatened dire vengeance
on “the in the gallery with the glasses on.”
And said winker-wearer became so scared that he
brought a revolver to the House with him, and
arranged with the police and caretaker to be on
band when they saw B. about. But nothing
came of it worse than the frequent shaking of the
“hon. gent’s ” fist at the gallery.
THE NEXT AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.-SOME UNCERTAINTIES .
'so,m^uiJc^t]mWiE s
A recently-elected member of N.S.W.
Assembly used to be nick named “ My Lord ”
when at school. This was probably on account
of his extensive pocket-money. Nothing delights
him more, now that he is beastly rich and a full-
blown legislator, than to meet one of his boy-
chums and be addressed by the old sobriquet.
But he likes it best when there is a big audience—
and then “his Lordship’s” pocket opens and his
face beams.
Thomas Glassey, now on his way to
federate Australia, is an Armagh Irishman, 55
years of age, and 15 years a Queenslander. He
was the first Labor-member to enter Q. Parlia-
ment, and is now accepted leader of the Opposi-
tion. He still professes out-and-out Socialism.
The late Chief Justice Lilley prophesied that he
will reach the Premiership at a near date —which
shows Lilley had some spots that were not so sen-
sible as other spots.
“Traveller” : That interesting lady con-
tributor (B. 14/1/99) narrates of Tyson that he
declared he never used soap. A few years back I
happened to be travelling to Wagga by the
southern mail when the sleeping-car guard whis-
pered me that the grey man talking to Halliday of
Brookong was James Tyson. I was in the next
seat, and my attention being arrested, I heard the
old man say: “ No, I never use soap. A little
sandy soil is the best thing to clean yourself with.”
“Nosey Bob,” N.S.W.’s official man-
butcher, expatiating on the subtleties of his pro-
fession, thinks it an artistic mistake to keep the
condemned too long. “ They get soft,” he says,
“and the neck weakens too much ” to give satis-
factory scaffold results. The noseless one’s
favorite recreation is, appropriately enough shark-
catching, and, according to Dubbo (N.S.W.)
Despatch, when he hooks a shark too big to haul
out unassisted, he tails his old horse on to the
line.
Travice Tod, the youthful land-agent ac-
cused of complicity in the Melb. boot-trunk
tragedy, owes his Christian name to his father
having been attracted by a novel with one Travice
as the hero. Which recalls certain remarks fre-
quently addressed by old Dicky Youl, Melb.’s
late coroner, to weeping relatives. “ Why did you
call this child Aubrey Sardanapulus Smith ? You
might have known he’d die with a name like that.
Call your next child one name—John or James or
William. It’s no use giving them names like
Cholmondeley or Cedric or Basil ; they always die ;
or, if they don’t die, they get drowned or hanged
or something, so they come to me all the same.
Give your next child one name, madam, and that
name a simple one. ”
“ Old Raspberry ” on the late Chief Jus-
tice Pedder: —
Re paragraph (Bulletin, 14/l/’99) touching Chief Jus-
tice Pedder, of V.D.L., the writer thereof talks through
his neck. Got hold of the wrong person altogether.
Pedder was notoriously humane and hierh-minded. The
present scribe could give many illustrations of his bene-
volent temper. But he was a Judge, and had to ad-
minister the law as it was made for him. A’Beckett, in
Victoria in the forties, hanged a poor devil of an
aboriginal for stealing a sheep. The law supported him,
but he could have evaded the obligation. Pedder never
hanged a man if he could escape the duty, and, for that
reason, was constantly at loggerheads with the Attorney-
General—afterwards known as a good hanging man in
N.S.W. For the rest, Pedder was not “little”—in any
regard. Fully six feet in height, and of handsome face
and figure—a gentleman par excellence.
Well, perhaps Chief Justice Pedder was a good
man—of his day. But it does freeze one’s marrow
to read the death-warrants, all in the Judge's
finicking little fist—of men hanged by his order
for trivial offences. “To be hanged by the neok
until he is dead ” for—being illegally on premises.
And only 60 years ago !
When Sidney Webb was in Melbourne he
bought all the locally-written political books ho
could hear of. Amongst them was David Syme’s
work on “Representative Government in England ”
—which attacks Party Government. Subse-
quently Webb wrote to a friend, enquiring if the
author of the book really was David Syirte of the
Age, because, he said, he had read it through and
was startlod to find that there was not a single
roferenoe to Australia in it from beginning to end.
Wm. Simpson, the almost-celebrated
accountant who reoently died in Melbourne—an
indirect victim of the boom—was a first-class
chess-player of the brilliant order, and was one of
the few who beat Blackburne when that champion
was here, a dozen years ago. Like many other
brainy men, Simpson liked whisky. Meeting a
orony once whom he had not seen for some time,
they sat down to a game, and Simpson played
erratically—the result of too much “ sun.” “ Old
man,” said his friend, “ you ought to knock off.
Tt’s getting the better of you.” “I will! By
Cod, I’ll swear off. I’ll lake a resolution from
this moment.” They shook hands on it, and,
AT THE MORGUE.
1ST LADY : “ Ain't it 'orrible! Just ’marine me
or you bein' shoved inter that there box and
chucked inter the Yarrer! ”
when the game was over, “Come,” said the
friend, “it’s months since I’ve seen you; and
now you’ve made that grand resolution, we’ll go
over the road and drink to its success.’’ They
went.
London Times published a two-column
obituary of millionaire Tyson. It was somewhat
subsequent—perhaps because Miss Shaw, who
probably wrote it, was away in America when the
old squatter’s death was cabled. The most in-
teresting passage relates to the cattle-man’s only
love-affair: —
Mr. Tyson was never married, but even the bush has its
possibilities of romance, and it was at this time that he
met the lady in whose power it would seem to have lain
to change the tenor of his life. He was then 23, and 60
years later he described the incident with a vividness of
detail which bore witness to the tenacity of the impres-
sion produced. He had crossed the range, and being
weak with hunger had begun to fear what the ordinary
man might well have feared from the beginning—namely,
that he might never find the house of Sir John Hay, when
he perceived a cottage and an old man about to enter.
He approached, wishing to ask his way, but hesitating in
consequence of a shyness of habit which throughout his
life caused him to shun intercourse with strangers. As
he reluctantly drew near the door a young woman came
suddenly out—“a beautiful,young, bush-reared girl, dark,
rosy, and well-grown.” He told her that he had wished
to ask his way. She looked at iiim and without answer-
ing his question bade him come in and eat. He refused.
She then laid both hands upon his arm, and with gentle
compulsion drew him in, saying, “ You are hungry, come
in and eat.” Being “ well-nigh famished ” and supposing
that she “saw the truth in his face," he let himself do as
she bid. She called to her sister to help to get some food
ready, and in a few minutes he was sitting before a good
breakfast. He was not in all more than 15 minutes in the
house, he never spoke to the girl again, but for 20 years
he continued to visit the neighborhood and inquire after
her until he learned that she was married. Then he
thought it was time to discontinue his visits. His shy-
ness, he explained afterwards, kept him from seeking to
speak to her again, but he added, “ She was the only
woman I ever thought of marrying.”
FEDERAL REID.
Australia, so this man declares,
He represents. 'Tis hard to probe
The depths of George's modesty.
He shows himself, ami all can see
Ho really represents the Globe 1


Brewed from the finest English grain, and bottled in England.
Holbrook’S Vipegar.
Mr. WILL A. DIXON, F.1.C., F.C.S., SYDNEY, ANALYST UNDER THE
PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, WRITES AS FOLLOWS:
“ I find that it i a ‘ Pure Malt Vinegar ’of the highest quality and strength, being quite
free from Mineral Acids or other Deleterious Matters.”
Holbrook’S Vipegar,
Beware of Common and Low-Priced Vinegars—they are most injurious.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Efkkctivb.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free bg post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
A Gippsland native-cat story. A boy, son
of a selector, climbed a high white gum after a
magpie’s nest, but slipped from a brough, and,
falling, just managed to catch a limb, from
which he hung by his hands. After making re-
peated efforts to draw himself up, he abandoned
the endeavor as hopeless, and remained hanging,
calling for help all the time. When he had been
in tliis position for about a minute, a native-cat
crept along the limb, and smelt at his fingers. It
tin n bit them. The boy shrieked at the animal,
but it took no notice, and set deliberately to work
to eat his hand. After the third bite, the young-
ster let go, and fell to the ground, breaking a
rib and stunning himself in the fall. When he
recovered consciousness, the cat had descended the
tree, probably witli the intention of resuming its
meal if conditions were favorable. But the boy left.
* » * *
“Scotty tlis Wrinkler” propounds and
illustrates an aphorism :
Pear Bulletin.— Never pick up a mate on the road,
unless he allows you to do the barracking. Here are two
in one trip :
No', t.—Good-looking working-man. Call at big cookie’s.
Mate faces the missus for a hit of meat. “ No, lam sorry
we have not killed, and have not a scrap.” “ Well, can
yon let ns have some bread?” Same old yarn —she
hadn’t baked. Then, like a bomb, my swaggie shot her
with: “What the devil have you been doing all day?”
The most, extraordinary thing occurred then; a man ap-
peared and called out, “7'lint's the sort of husband you
should have had.” And he gave us flour, tea, sugar, and
tobacco. An I tobacco!
No. 2.—A fat man. Asks a red-faced lydy for a job or
tucker. The harridan began a sermon, telling him to be
ashamed of himself and so on, ending with, “ I know you
drink.” My friend stood it like a lamb till the tirade
ceased, when he quietly remarked ; “ Look here, Madam,
if I had as much brandy in my stomach as you have in
your face, I’d advertise myself as an automatic still.” No
more mates for— Scotty W.
* * * *
Copy of letter received by N.S. Wales
Public School teacher:
Mister,—Billes farther ses you are not to hamer Bille in
skool agen no mater wot Bille dose and bedam to you.—
Your trulev, Mrs.
* » « *
“ Yarrum ” : Went the other night to feed
my horse, when something came with a swish, and
knocked the light out. Just started to wonder
what it was, when another something struck me
on the roof, and staggered me. Got another light,
and found two big peaches, dropped by passing
flying-foxes. As no peaches grow nearer than a
mile from my domicile, the fruit must have been
carried that distance at least. And hero is an-
other: The loft in the old barn was shaky; and,
when we had put up 400 bushels, the hired man
reckoned she wouldn’t carry “another cob,” and
we didn’t want to take any risks. We had just
turned in that night when there was a crash ; and,
rushing up, we found the corn down, and counted
39 more-or-less mangled ’possums buried in it. We
hadn’t allowed for ’possums !
■9* • •
The cockies were discussing the "Xmas
Dues Bill as read out from the altar of Fourpubbs
Chapel. Timothy Terence Auchterlonie, Esq.,
J.P., &c., <fec., had contributed only .£l, the
lowest amount given by any poor butter-splasher
THE “INEVITABLE GATEWAY "—WHEN YOU’RE DRIVING
YOUR LIVELIEST PAIR OF PONIES.
present. “ That’s only th’ haff av what he shud
give,” said one. “ Well, thin, isn’t ut quite
enough ?” said another ; “ Misther Auchterlonie is
only haffa Noirishman. His fathirr is a Hoigh-
landher, and his inothirr is a Connaught man.
Be th’ powers, but Oi con-sidher ho done well forr
what Oi call a shandygaff Oirishman. Yiss ! ”
» • * •
Said the Freetrade candidate’s barracker
to a group of cockies in the bush pub. :
Yous blokes want Pertection, yous do ! Why yous
don’t grow anythink ter pertect. Freetrade’s the best fer
yous. Then yer can get other countries’ supplus food
cheap, and hav a change. Why, yer lives on cow-pump-
kins, corn-beef, and “ tick ” from the store. Wait till yer
grows somethink ter sell in yer proper market, and then
howl fer Pertection. Now yer sits on a fence and spits,
en wish the blasted rain ed come and freshen up yer peas,
and wont bother to go to the crick fer a few casks a
water fer ’em ; yer aint got enough henergy left to mind
a Kerry cow, let alone a farm. Yer think yer'll fix up
that fence ter-morrer, and when it's termorrer yer find
yer best cow’s got ter yer greenstuff, and died of gripes.
Then yer talk about being hard-up ! Yah !
* * * *
“ Geolay ” : Re boot-destroyingest places.
The track at Sea Lake, in the Vic. mallee country,
does a horse shoe skirt, and Sim and I decided to
bee-line across the dried salt-bed. Shortly after,
AN AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN,—(From a photo. taken at Parramatta Benevolent Asylum.)
we were sitting on the opposite bank and wonder-
ing where the soles of our boots were. I entered
Hopetoun with one hoof encased in a superan-
nuated water-bag; other in a derelict hat. Sim,
small-footed, wore a pair of squat fish-tins,
treasure-trove from an old camp. Salt’s a terror
on boots.
* * * *
“ B.B.B.” : More animal companionship.
Once had a she-cat which showed great affection
—not flesh affection —for young pigeons. One
young whistler was hatched under the house, and
the old cat, every morning, carried it from its
nest to a box in the laundry, where she would give
the whistler the chance to help himself to milk.
The bird would flap his featherless wings and bob
his beak into the cat’s stomach to tho music of her
purring. When the young pigeon grew to know
too much the oat got another feathered fosterling
to supply tho vacancy.
* » * *
A Northern paper t’other day received a
letter from a Christianised nigger on a mission-
station complaining that a certain whito visitor
had been making too free with certain gins. What
degeneration ! Forty years ago a nulla-blow or a
spear-thrust would have settled such a grievance.
Nowadays Mr. Warrigal writes to the paper !
“D.”: Wayback,
recently, saw a speci-
men of the almost
extinct old - time
cheque -smasher.
Handed over his
cheque to the publi-
can with—“ Say,
boss, before I start,
I want you to send a
pound of that to ‘Tat-
tersall.’” Publican
looks at cheque : “It
ain’t so big this time,
Billy.” Billy: “No;
there was extras ! ”
“Oh, extras be Mow-
ed. I can’t afford
extras. You’ 11 be
landing here with a
silver cheque before
long.” Item for
“Tatt.” cancelled
forthwith.
* *
“7 x 7 ” on the
ought:—
Whatever the effect of
the present drought in
other parts of N.S. Wales,
the northern plains have
fared the worst. For
nearly 300 miles to the
N.W. you may travel literally in a Sahara, un-
relieved by a single oasis, the burnt-up plains reek-
ing with carcases. The total death-rate of sheep
averages 60 per cent. ; in fact, in one of the worst
districts the loss has been 12,000 out of 14,000. The
“ man on t he land ” has not had such a dismal time since
’B4, and hundreds of small holders are already ruined—
even if the desired 7in. of moisture now happened
along. As for the station-owners, their working stock
are, in almost all cases, mere hide and bone,
and the carriers have suffered almost as much as the land
men. Keeping working stock alive consumes their whole
earnings. The carrier during the past 12 months who has
earned £4OO by forced journeys, day and night travelling,
has not a penny profit. A team of 12 or 14 horses takes, say,
£8 or £9 per week to feed. Carrier dare not spell—he must
keep going. There is sufficient loading -in fact, a ple-
thora, and no one need be idle with a team, but it is
purely a matter of starving themselves and their stock.
There’s no alternative. Most streams have ceased run-
ning, and N.S.W. Parliament during the next session
might well consider the putting down of bores wherever
possible, and the small landholder should receive premier
consideration. He is the majority, in any case.
• » * *
“Jep”: Shooting in the swamp near
Grafton, ono day, put a sick pelican out of its
misery, and in bag under the bill found a good-
sized live eel. The entrance to the bag from
mouth being much smaller than the eel, I could
only conclude the fish had slipped in when young
and small, and in the bag attained the dimensions
found.
• * * •
“ B.B.” : On a N.S.W. wayback selection
lives a family containing three male idiots who
amuse themselves as follows: Ono climbs a tree
and imagines himself an opossum, whilo tho other
two yap at him on all-fours as dogs; and when
they come into collision they worry each other in
true eanino fashion, until one holds up his leg and
runs away howling. Then tho ’possum comes
down, and they all laugh consumedly. Fact.
* * * *
“ Bnmberanka ” : Re “ animal com-
panionship.” At a Bega homestead I was amused
at seeing a common greyhound slut trotting about
with two young pigs at her heels. The mother of
tho pigs had died, and the ingenious farmer, after
drowning the slut’s pups, got her to suckle the two
little swine. Pigs now full-fledged and awaiting
conversion into bacon.
» * * »
“VonKotze”: HarryStockdale’sremarks
on the habits of some Australian aborigines, who
anoint themselves with the fat of their dead,
remind mo of the charming customs prevalent
among tho Kuku-Kukus, in the Albert Ranges,
near the mouth of tho Fly River, Papua. These
amiable cannibals pretty well rule the roast in tho
Gulf of Papua. They place their deceased rela-
tives on high scaffolds, and when the corpse begins
to dissolve—a speedy process in that humid
climate—the mourners sit under the drippings.
These same Kuku-Kukus are ono of the most
interesting mixtures of comparative civilisa-
tion and utterly revolting barbarism. They
are cannibals, and practise, as I have been
unanimously assured by all white men who
ever were in touch with them, the notorious
abdominal cut for the purpose of artificial child-
birth—nobody knows why ! The mortality of
females thus operated on is said to bo frightful; but
apparently the tribe recruits fresh spouses from
surrounding villages. They scalp slain |enemies
Red Indian fashion, and use a small poisoned
arrow similar to that employed in Borneo, which
they carry in quivers. They have no pottery, and
use skulls as d. inking and cooking vessels. They
wear hats and clothes made of bark fibre, and also
manufacture a kind of blanket, for nights are
middling cold on top of those hills. They use this
fibre-stuff as armor during their nearly continuous
raids on the neighborhood. They are tall and
well-built, with clear-cut features, and are often
very fair—the color of a sunburnt European.
Perhaps they come from the west, or had at one
time closer connections with the Malay Archi-
pelago. That many of these Western Papuan
peoples have degenerated or are degenerating from
a higher standard of civilisation seems to me to be
proven by the fact that their languages often con-
tain words ,of an abstract meaning, implying an
intellectual status far above the present, and, in
fact, mostly without significance to the average
present day tribesman.
» « » •
Possibly apropos of the physical degenera
tion of tho Australian. Saw a showily-dressed
woman carrying a fortnight-old baby enter a
C.P.’s office, the other day. “ Ren,mter a birth ?
Urn. Just had five teeth drawn. Gas? Not
me! Hurt? Rather! . . . Just turned 22
three youngsters in 11 months ! Well, the first
two was twins—born the day I was married. Had
two before that. No, I ain’t lost much time, life’s
too short.’’
* • • •
“C.M.G.”: Bulletin has many pars, of
late about one animal suckling the young of
another, and a Melb. paper publishes a process-
picture of a mare giving suck to a calf, and labels
it “ A Wonder of Nature.” Fact is, the female of
any animal, when her own young are not by to
relieve milk-pressure, is grateful for any means of
easing the resultant pain. Know of a woman,
whose baby had died, sending to a neighbor for a
loan of a litter of pups; and remember, as a
youngster, seeing a woman using a kid (goat) for
the same purpose.
Dear Bulletin. —ln contra-
diction to “6 x 8,” 17/12/’9B: the
cobbler , as the name implies, is the
last sheep in the pen. The word was
used in the very old days, before
large sheds were known, and when
the shearers drew out through one
common gate. Almost without ex-
ception the cobbler is a ‘bad ’un to
cut, especially when the men are old
hands at the gSme. Generally the
first sheep to go are the bare-bellies,
or rosellas ; then the animals with
much whisker ; but the worst in the
pen is the last.— The Cobbi.er’s
Last.
• * »
Dear Bulletin. —My Le Clerc
was also a Murrumbidgee fisherman,
but at Maude, or, rather, Boyong,
the junction of the M. and the
Lachlan. His nick-name was “The
Count,” although his wife was never
called “The Countess.” I fancy
this is the man who said he knew
about Tyson’s will. He claimed to
be Compte de Columbier, and he
caught the monster fish. His wife
hooked it, and called him to her
assistance. Whilst he went for the
dray to cart it to his hut Mme. la
Comptesse caught the mate—there
are nearly always two. Le Clerc
was gravedigger in Hay, and I should
not wonder if he did know a lot
about the Tysons. He claimed to
have been at Bonn Uni versit.v with
Prince Albert, and he spelt his
name as I have done. The jaws of
the two fishes were long in the
Count’s hut. I advised him to send
them to Sydney Museum.— Scottee,
Compte de Outset.
HARRY PLIMMER , as Marcus Superbus, in
“ The Sign of the Cross.”
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
AT MAO’S ON THE GUEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I could have stood Mao’s only the Qnlf was dull and
lonely—
There’s nothing stirring on tho Gulf but live-stock three
days dead,
And even when it’s shady, the air-tags on your “cadio"
Would burn the hair above each ear right off j'our blessed
head.
Mao wouldn’t spend a shilling —he reckons pig-weed
filling;
He gives us “spuds” and dumplings—well, ev’ry New
Year’s Day—
Ho swore by all creation we’d break the blessed station,
Because we had three puddings the month he was away.
His beef was corned by Nero (or was it not by Pharoah ?)
They tried it with a “ crosscut,” but soon began to balk,
And Mac’s old black-gin slavey went stabbing at the
gravy,
But, hang mo if the gravy didn’t bend the blooming fork I
JUMBUCK.


Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c. ? &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
LADIES
THINK
MEN
Match-Box ahd Sovereign-Box.
Plain Solid Silver, 20/-; Richly Engraved, 22/-
Are difficult quantities when they wish to give them a present, and so we study to stock in large
numbers all the lines that a man of taste can use. Solid Heavy Goods, and always at LONDON
CASH PRICES.
3P AJItE"* AX & ROBERTS, Art Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
A few of
THE AUSTRALIA'S
attractive features
Fireproof
Telegraph Office inside
Elegant Drawing Booms
Handsome Dining Room
Splendid Table and Table
Service
Healthful Position
Hot and Cold Water in
every room
Perfect attendance
You touch a button, and
the whole hotel ma-
chinery is in motion, if
need be, to fulfil your
wishes.
' Once a guest always a guest.'
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
CLOSE THE CENTURY WELL
BY DRINKING
WHITE LABEL LAGER.
A MERRY XMAS—AT PARRAMATTA (N.S.W.) BENEVOLENT ASYLUM.
“Trufax”: Know a man once whom no
insect would bite. Neither sand-fly, “skeeter,”
flea, nor even “ bull dog ” ant. Have known him
change sides with mate when sawing logs, and
oaluiiy stand on the ant-hill that had been too
much for his mate. Says he is also reptile-proof,
and that he once stood on a snake which, while in
act of striking, checked itself so suddenly that it
broke its neck /
* * * *
What may happen to the Archimedean
lever in Australia. From the Tweed (N.S.W.)
Herald, 20/1/99 :
A FOWL FARMER.
During the few minutes the Tweed Herald boss can
spare out of this palatial mansion of an office, he intends
going in for the “ hen and cock business.” To start
properly a few fowls of some sort are required. Should
any of our thousands of friends in this district think that
the Tweed Herald man deserves a New Year’s gift of a
couple or three pullets, or ducks, or geese, or turkeys, or
emus, or anything else with feat hers on, we are not too
beastly proud to accept them. Perhaps our readers may
consider it a piece of cheek to ask for a New Year’s
gift. Well, we are giving you a paper for “8 bob” a
year, which is worth a pound at least. Q.E.D. This is
Euclid, the Tweed translation of which means “ send the
chuckies."
on the boot-trunk reward ques-
tion :
Dear Bulletin.— Whilst agreeing with “ Cockney” that
the Melb. detectives should have no share in the reward
for unravelling the Boot-Trunk Tragedy, I nevertheless
don't blame them for acting as they did. “Cockney’s”
reasoning is all right, but his facts are crooked, and about
the facts of the case I happen to know more than any-
body else except the principals in the affair and, say,
three or four others. To start with, the two detectives
who went to the residence of Thekla Dubberke were put
on to it, not by her old “boy,” but by a sister, who
imagined that the head at the morgue resembled the
missing Thekla’s. The detectives at this time knew
nothing about Dubberke’s connection with the young
man whose name was scribbled on the boot-trunk, and
simply regarded Thekla as one of the 600 missing girls or
so whom they had already traced. Also the visit of the
detectives to the house where the tragedy occurred was
made, not long ago, as “Cockney” infers, but on 31st
Dec. When the girl was asked if she were Thekla Dub-
berke she replied that she was not. The detectives, how-
ever, recognised her by her likeness to the sister, and
pressed her till she admitted her identity. The sister in
question had certainly said that Thekla possessed a boot-
trunk, but at the lodgings where the girl had lived prior
to coming to Madame’s the detectives were told that the
box was a much smaller one than that at the morgue. It
must be remembered that the only reason the detectives
had for tracing Dubberke was that she was supposed to
be the dead girl, and, from what they had heard about
her, the chance of her going under a false name was
strong enough.
Having found the girl, they reported to the superinten-
dent, and set about tracing some of the other 699 girls
who had been positively identified as the owners of the
head. A week later, on 7th Jan., two other detectives
received information that the young man whose name
was on the box had been “going with” a girl named
Dubberke, description of whose head resembled that of
the head at the Morgue. They interviewed him, but he
did not, as “ Cockney ” asserts, say he had given Thekla a
similar boot-trunk with his name written on it. In fact,
he knew little of the girl—did not even know that she
possessed such an article, and had not spoken to her for
many months. Didn’t even know that her second name
was Regina, and consequently s , v no significance in the
initials, “T.R.” When the sc- t batch of detectives re-
turned to the office with this .ination they found that
Thekla had been traced by their colleagues and was alive.
Then, regarding the character of the house occupied by
Madame, it must be remembered that she had been in
occupation only aix weeks at the time of arreBt , and
tha t the street has houses only on one side, so
that there were no opposite neighbours to observe
things. The detectives had nolhing even to con-
feet South Yarra with the tragedy. In fact, the
give-away excepted, not a scrap of information
of any value reached the detectives from first to last. The
weak'point of the detective system as exposed by this
case is the want of proper “ intelligence ” (in a military
sense). The second batch of detectives who hunted up
Thekla should never have thus wasted their time. As
HIS DISADVANTAGE .
FAT: “ Orright puddin’, ain’t it, Inseck?”
INSECT: “ Yers; wisht I ’ad it! ”
FAT: “ Wouldn't be any good to yer—it ain’t yer
shape.”
each girl was traced, her name should have been posted
in the office, and thus the confusion and doubling which
have occurred would have been prevented. The'Depart-
ment in general also suffers from the penurious and
short-sighted manner in which it is conducted. When-
ever a detective, for instance, has to visit the country to
arrest or investigate he has to requisition the railway
dept., giving full particulars of his business—often to the
defeat of his object,
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken or communications insufficiently
Stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Gr. R. Harris : You say that, if land was taxed
to its full-rental value, we could have free railways, tram-
ways, posts, telegraphs, telephones, education, justice,
and medical attendance. Well, these thing's in Victoria,
without medical attendance and justice, run to £6,814,000
a year, and local taxation raises this to about £8,000,000.
The annual value of all rateable property—land, buildings
and all improvements—is £10,393,000, and nearly half
of this is the annual value of improvements. The
highest rental you could get out of the unimproved
land wouldn’t nearly cover the things you mention.
Come down from the clouds of rhetoric and look at
the figures Mars: “Last N.” very neat; will
print Crosby : Have you ever considered the poetry of
a cow?—the placid eye, the gentle moo, the reflective
chew? Write us a cow-poein— you can C.V. : Not
enough to have a plagiarism-charge on Stupid :If you
come to Sydney will give you the address of a reliable
specialist... D.A.T.B. : Many thanks A. J. (Blackall):
Buenos Ayres is ahead of Sydney as a shipping
port; Rio Janeiro comes behind Sydney W.P.S. ;
We hold that you tendered it as original, because you
sent it in MS. signed with a pen-name (which happens
to be that of the author, of whom we had not previously
heard) without saying it was not original. We discovered
its real genesis by mere accident—and so escaped being
taken in by you C.W.: Can’t you take a hint? Don’t
you see that you send in items of 40 lines, and that such
of them as appear are all boiled down four-fifths?
First write your story, and next day—or, better still,
next week—see how much of what you have written is
really essential. Then re-write it E.A. : The city by-
law was ostensibly instituted not specially to put down
street-preaching, but to prevent obstruction of thorough-
fares. If the street-preachers obstruct the thoroughfare
they should be prosecuted ; if the sporting gang does ditto
it should be similarly treated. Tub Bulletin dislikes
street-preachers, who are either cranks or bores or
both. It also dislikes the spitting gang of so-called
“sports” who block the footpath at Tatt’s Gurney;
Don’t seem to have sketch you mention. “ H.S.M.” yarn
very good in places, but weak in others Stylus : May
alter and use Camiro : “Kitty" in the scales. Other
puerile. Verse, 17th class Onlys : Both well-written,
but interest not tense enough D.D.: Yes, doubly D
8.8.8. ; Some items good enough Liber : Couldn’t do
it on your bare assertion Messmate : Too sultry
Primo : But it isn't prime-oh. First verse has a wooden
leg, and the other three squint El "Cuchillo : The
knife —well, you don’t write with one, anyhow. Dull to a
marvel A. Casson : Fairly humorous, but we want the
unfairly humorous A.K. : “Triangle" rather well-
written, and unequal, and ends in an anti-climax. Other
has traces of power ; will consider Dabton : Lapses
into prose in spots. Instance, “ one ” cannot be poeti-
cally used in the personal sense ; the involved precise-
ness is fatal B.E. : Item bit trivial-and familiar
Quh. : Will only make par Huasha : Sorry none up
to mark. “ Peg-Leg” best of the three .... Ailsa C. :
Good skeleton to put literary meat on M‘Carlo : Not
worth printing, anyhow, in present shape Gagan :
Tottie-yarns unusable unless Tottieness cut out—and
the n more unusable than ever! ... Loo H. : But we do
read anything—to our sorrow ! X. : Roughly graphic ;
may use A.H.T. : The gentleman with the reversed
pants was respectfully kicked into the backyard
J.L.S. (Brisb.) : Very good, but fear too abstruse. Will
consider Malcolm A.: “Brimstone-armored devils”
not in our line J.G.R. : Bookfellow posted ; no
space for other, but any doctor will tell you
John R.S.: Thanks, but it wouldn’t be visible in a repro-
ductionß.E. : While it is, of course, easily possible
that you happened personally upon those flowers of
speech, it would be absurd to regard them as typical, or
as in any way characteristically Australian..." L.M.P. :
“Devil" dull—and we can’t imagine a devil dull
Timi : Derivation of “ cady ” from code, provincial Eng.
for “ cask,” is familiar; other too conjectural E.McD. :
Just a shade more force would carry it Jen Reb. :
Didn’t laugh P.L. : Will consider “ Tennyson."
Burnard : Hardly up—lacking original magic .. G.F. :
You see this paper prints short, bright verses—as often as
it can get them—and you send long dull ones Gordon
R. : Tedious variation of worn theme H.O’D. :
Can only deal with matter suitable for B.
Shandygaff: Intention good, anyway .... Knoggs: Literary
hydatids—get ’em cut out Ginghie: Comment too
long and heavy—the first was all right Goodbye:
“ P.S. verse ” struck out, as permitted ; also all the other
verses, as not permitted M. B. (Q.): Sorry unsuitable ;
returned E.M. (Q.); Ditto .... J. O’M.: "Chance”
half-and-half kind ; returned .... A. (Aramac): Not up..
T.Q.R. : Not enough life in it .. Langlo: Commonplace.
Jean : Keep it for his ear only . H.R.M. : “ Bum-
petty” no good Leonidas : Timid lit tle thing—kind of
runaway knock at door of Muse’s lodgings C.P.Q.C. :
It purports to be an insider s strong cry—and remains an
outsider’s weak echo. .E.A.V. : “ Ancientry ” empty. .
The Harp: Still rusty .... Adam P. : Agree Milky:
“Night” reads like a “faked” emotion .... A. W.W. :
Same old doggerel Shannon : Trivial, tame .. Scotch-
man : Are there no surgical instruments at Wagga Hos-
pital? E.L. :“ Soul’s Garden ”is the better, hut fancy
seems hardly weighty enough for sonnet ... W.H.D. : Ail
miserable Malua : Very ancient .... Kurilla : Will illu*
trate H.V.C. : Joke old; drawing painfully new
E.M‘G. (Tas.): Unusable. .. Bleater: Not here, mj
sheep Moko: Miserable G.G. (ML M.): No thanks'.
And no comma after the No E.A.W. : Already an-
swered worthless The Rip : Well, you write like a
tea-meeting lecturer .... J.L.S. : No interest —you write
as if you were solving quadratics G.S.E.D. : Can’t re-
member item W.M.B. : Hopelessly wooden William
J. : There are a million poets in Australia mostly had.
Cab : One may make par W.H.D. : “ Love-o’-Women ”
has some strength, hut not enough Bulletin relevancy. .
Cocksparrow :No force or novelty F.N.O. : Too
preachy. Besides, there are some queer stories about
Tyson’s early dealings, and his flinty heart over a mort-
gage W.D.O. : Neat ; not neat enough Reg. Or. :
Wanders meekly over a meadow of commonplace
Barkis : Kate’s lines are too long and her verses too
numerous. When you have a butterfly subject, be a
butterfly Leslie B. : Unbearably prolix ; all daily-
newspaper matter P.C. (Glebe Point): Please call
Trundle : Very ancient, indeed .... K.K. : He makes the
curious error of supposing the truffle is a furred animal,
and talks about hunting it for its fur. Can never have
lived in England's country districts or he would have
heard the plaintive song of the truffle at roosting-time.
It is hunted for the sake of a small bone in its left leg,
which makes a fascinating toothpick. The unerring in-
stinct the pig displays when locating them is only
another proof that truth is stranger that fiction ,
nnt'?' ’ * n WilH Japs. ; in M. 1,, it is Austrians.
Ihe key of the whole situation is the axiom “Aliens
have no right of entry save what is conferred by
treaty." ...IS.O. : “Disillusioned" rather slender ....
Spoke: Tame pun, and would feed out of the hand
A. Peck : The man who didn't know the Lord was lost, is
dropping to pieces with old age J.L.P.: Par was
founded, as it is every month, on the Treasurer’s pub-
lished figures. Also, the figures are much more compre-
hensive than those you sent in W.J.VV. :22 bad verses
about a man who drives a cart rejected.... Tin Lit*:
C. Glenelg : Your proposal that the failed and
damaged male should lie chained up has a lot to recom-
mend it. Only how faded should he be before chaining?
And suppose, instead of chaining him he was sent to the
Northern Territory and left to walk back so that he could
get the fresh air e.n route ... F.W. (Tamworth) : Hardly
good enough. Try again Curra Curra : “ Bill "
started with a promise of something bright and original,
and it didn’t come .... E.It.P. : “ Three-bag Crop" a very
rocky jingle R.Q.D. : Jackson Bnrry story already
published in Bulletin ..Peter Single : Pure Tory
malice. N.S.W. Labor members are mainly very sober ;
they don’t “ jaw ” more than the average ; and they
weren’t all swagmen before they got into Parliament.
Cant you invent something fresh and plausible? ...
Colo : The man in the street has made up his mind that
nobody is going to be hanged over the boot-box affair,
anyhow Victor : You laid stress upon the fact that the
owner was “right,” and E.F. says that every owner is
right ” as regards a second-class horse for Melbourne
Cup. An animal with Carbine’s record couldn’t have
started at a short price Cherub (Melb.): Brewer’s
draymen item a very small-beer chronicle H.J.M.:
“Simulation Mine ” hardly up. Difficult to excite public
interest in even a well-written tale if there isn’t a woman
in it—or, at the very least, a dog H.B. (Armidale):
One verse out of the 17 on speo. :
We can.t help that don,t whip the cat
cheer up jim old bloke
there is a score just out the door
who are completely broke
for by all accounts it seem.s
that they have went right to extremes
for when they had done in their beans
they then done in their moke
A Revelation of Infamy: 18 pp. of whirl and whoop
about the dark crime and treason and peculation of Pre
inier Kingston (carefully built up during 12 years) which
you are going to reveal, and nary a revelation in it—only
more whoop and peroration. Are you a plain, tuppenny
maniac, oris it all a joke, or is it beer? If it is beer, where
do you buy that kind ? .... Shandygaff : More blanky
D. : “At Dawn” will do Palo: Will print
Roundsman: “Jones” is a filmy fragment Phoebus:
Good yarn in pencil on a sugar-bag to hand.
“APENTA,”
The Best Natural Aperient Water,
relieves the kidneys, unloads the liver and open'
the bowels.
Sole Exporters: The Apollinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.
A Fifczroy (Melb.) lady blacksmith has just
retired, with a small pile.
A cousin of Dean Farrar’s, the celebrated
English divine, keeps a pub. at Rylstone, N.S. W.


GRACE FORESTALLED.
CANNIBAL CHIEF (a missionary-Sunday-school boy in his youth , to visiting brother-potentate) : “ Ain't you going to ask a blessing on the ragout of missionary?"
THE OTHER MISSIONARY: “ Why, a Bishop blessed this before he sent it to us?"


“ A pat is being organised in Copenhagen to §eareh the east coast, of Qreei)
land for Herr Andree, the missing explorer ’
Leader of the Party • “ Now the first thing to be done is to go to the nearest tele-
graph-office and wire to one of those Queensland detectives to come and
find a clue for us ” „
" At a banquet at West Maitland on Saturday, Mr. Brunker
stated he had succeeded in procuring for his electorate since the
general election .£3650 for roads and ill 100 for fire brigades and
charities."
Saint Peter (when Brunker dies, if he
ever does) : “ My dear sir, that might
get you into the N.S.W. Parliameht
(or another place), but we require
something more convincing here.'"
The San Francisco Chronicle, com-
menting on a lecture delivered in Kansas
City on December 19, by Lieut. Hobson,
of the Merrimac episode, states : “ Lieut.
Hobson was the central figure in an ®seu-
latory carnival that clearly overshadowed
any of the kissing affairs in which the
gallant Alabama man has figured since
his return from more serious duties at
Santiago. Over 400 women—young, old,
handsome and plain—waited to greet the
popular hero. Most of them came to be
kissed, and 267 of them, by actual count,
were not disappointed.”
Fancy any man (a pressman, too!).
having the fortitude to keep tally under
such circumstances. Why, the most bald-
headed of The Bulletin staff would
have kissed every good-looking girl within
reach, if he had to swing for it!
God-fearing J ake’s reflections on taking his seat as Chairman of the W. and S.
Board : “ 1 The foxes have holes.’ Goodness ! I hope there’s nothing here that will
explode or go off sudden-like ! ” (Fumbles cautiously with the taps.)
At Merino (Vic.), the other Sunday, while the Rev.
Mr. Davidson was preaching his sermon, a tiger-snake
(the Devil, no doubt) clinched' the pulpit and coiled
itself at his elbow. It was promptly slain with a
parasol. What a pity JEve had no parasol !
“Tracking Criminals with Bloodhounds.— ln view of the failure 'of the
Queensland police up to the present moment to discover the perpetrators of the
GattOn outrage, it has been suggested in certain quarters that bloodhounds should
be employed in tracking criminals in Australia. To this objection has been, raised.”
SMALL TALK


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR*
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
Thus the Chinese Australian Herald (Kwong
Yick Wah Bo) re Australasian anti-alien legis-
lation :
It is difficult to reconcile the policy of the Imperial
statesmen of Britain with the policy of the petty states-
men of Britain’s vassal states in the Southern Seas.
While the great men who stand at the very elbow of the
powerful little white Queen are giving their brightest
smiles to English adventurers who are forcing English-
men and English laws on an unwilling Africa, petty Aus-
tralian politicians are seeking still further to isolate these
colonies and to keep them as a special preserve for people
of their own country. In N.Z. the local Government is
trying to stop the free entry of Austrians, who are a kind
of Germans, the race to which the powerful little Queen
herself belongs. So the farcical policy which began with
the taxing of our hard-working, wealth-producing, and
law-abiding fellow-countrymen grows in folly, and will no
doubt continue to grow until the descendants of these
colonies of the three tribes that make up the British
nation —namely, the English, the Irish, and the Scotch —
will commence to pass laws making aliens of each other.
It is well known that there is a strong racial feeling be-
tween these British tribes. The Scotchman professes to
be unable to bear the smell of the Irishman, and the
English feels a contempt for the Scotchman because the
principal food of the latter is a coarse grain considered
only fit for horse-feed. Mind, it is only the lower orders
of these tribes who have these stupid feelings. England
itself is governed by men of education who scorn gutter
opinion and who go on sending out their Kitcheners
and their Rhodeses to expand their empire by
hook or crook properly regardless of the opinions
of their lower classes. But in the .colonies men
of little education and standing rule, through the
favor of the lower orders, whom they please by coun-
tenancing or pretending to countenance the ignorant
tribal differences of the descendants of the English, the
Scotch, and the Irish. Brothers, remember that when an
Englishman shrugs his shoulders contemptuously and
says of one of us “ He is only a Chinaman ! ” he has still
the breath left, and the narrow-mindedness to use it, to
say of one of his own countrymen : “ He is only an Irish-
man 1 ” We Chinese can see that the ambition of Britain
to rule the world will not be gratified until a fairer and
more reciprocal spirit animates the Governments of
Britain’s vassal States in Australasia, which will not be
accomplished until the gospel that is preached in London
is practised in the Parliaments of Sydney and Melbourne
and the other capital towns here.
Lord Hampden !we are now addressing you 1 We met
you at the Sydney Cricket Ground, and spoke to you
face to face—not on these matters of unfair taxation, but
only in a complimentary way and about the weather.
But, having met you, we could without breaking etiquette
have come to your mansion and spoken to you about
these greater matters privately. We wish that all the
Chinese may know that we are speaking to you, so that
if we are not speaking what they think they may write to
you and condemn us as untruthful. You will soon leave
Sydney for London, and, if you live, which we pray you
will, you will be with those who stand at the Queen’s
elbow, and can tell her that the Chinese in Australia
think that the Imperial policy of Britain is not being
assisted by what happens in Australasian Parliaments.
We have always written in favor of England as the
nation most friendly to us, and the most just of Western
nations, but the happenings in Australia make the justice
of England hard to believe.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The fi' in has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extendi:. j over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The Rummer Friend
is..
Sydney [ayer Bier
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Company ltd.
Dl RECTORS :
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman.
ROBT. MURRAY SMITH, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice-Chairman.
JOHN GRICE, Esq. | C. M. OFFICER, Esq. | Hon. J. M. PRATT, M.L.O.
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager. FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
CAPITAL.
Subscribed, £150,000; Further Reserve Liability, £150,000; Paid-up, £73,375 15s
■VTOTICE is hereby given that the Forty-Second Ordinary Half-Yearly Meeting of the Shareholders of the above
• ' Company will be held in the Board Room, at the Company’s Offices, No. 412 Collins-street, on TUESDAY, 3i s t
inst., at twelve o’clock.
BUSIN ESS:
1. To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet for the Half-year ended 31st December, 1898.
2. To elect two Auditors in place of Messrs. Paterson and Cleveland, who retire, but who are eligible for re-
election, and offer themselves accordingly.
3. To consider any other business that may be brought before the meeting, of w’hich due notice shall have been
given. ■
REPORT.
Your Directors regret that during the currency of the half-year under review a call of I Os. per share became
necessary under circumstances already explained. Notwithstanding this, and the heavy expenditure in law costs
attendant on the appeal to the Privy Council and actions arising from the decision, the value of new business during
the year—which has only been exceeded in the years 1889, 1890, and 1891—and the conservative policy followed
during recent years in charging commission on the Corpus of estates warrant your Board in recommending a Divi-
dend at the rate of 5 percent, per annum on the Capital of £1 per share. The Directors have transferred from the
amount brought forward in Profit and Loss Account £2OOO to the Reserve Fund, and have out of this fund provided
for anj T loss in connection with the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank Preference Shares, and for claims in con-
nection with investment of Trust Funds on deposit. It having been suggested to the Directors that some modifica-
tion of the permanent constitution of the Board might be made with advantage to the Company, an Extraordinary
General Meeting will be held at the conclusion of the Ordinary General Meeting to deal with alterations to the Articles
of Association, providing for the retirement of one Director each year.
The amount remaining at credit of Profit and Loss Account and available for distribution is 1 4299 9s. 3d. which
the Directors recommend should be appropriated as follows :
To Dividend on £60,000 for Half-year ended 31st December, 1898,
at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum £1,500 0 0
„ Balance to be carried forward 2,799 9 3
£4,299 9 3
By Order of the Board, JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, 16th January, 1899.
Tbe Trustees, Executors afyd Ageocy Conjpaoy Limited
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT.
Dr. HALF-YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1898.
Cr.
1898—December 31.
To Salaries, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
including agencies
~ Stationery, Postage, and Office Expenses
~ Printing and Advertising
~ Furniture and Fittings (Sewerage)
~ Law Costs
£ s. d.
3,816 6 4
654 17 4
287 14 3
146 6 11
1,347 17 0
~ Allowance for widow of late Managing
Director
„ Difference in Amount Paid and Received
on Lease 37 Queen-street
„ Difference in Amount Paid in connection
with Mortgage on Premises and Re-
ceived on Investment of £22,400
~ Reserve Fund transfer
„ Balance carried down
6,253 1 10
250 0 0
320 17 6
316 2 4
2,000 0 0
4,299 9 3
£13,439 10 11
139J-.June 30. £ s. d.
By Balanoe 6,698 6 9
Less Dividend at the rate of 5 % per
annum 1,600 0 0
5,198 6 9
1898—December 31.
By Interest on Mortgages, Stock, etc. ... 624 6 8
~ Commissions and Miscellaneous Re-
ceipts, after providing for Contin-
gencies 7,529 8 0
~ Company’s Premises
Rents £302 4 6
Less Rates, Lift, and
Repairs 214 15 0 87 9 6
13,439 10 11
1898—December 31. —By Balance ..
£4,299 9 3
BA.LA.KTCB SHEET
31st December, 1898.
£ s. d.
Capital—
Subscribed £150,000 0 0
Less Uncalled 60,000 0 0
60,000 Shares called up to £1 10s. per
share ... ... ... ... ■■■ 90,000 0 0
60,000 Shares paid up to £1 per share ... 60,000 0 0
Amount paid in respect of call of 10s. per
share... ... ... ... ... ... 13,375 15 0
(Arrears of Ist instalment of ss. per
share, £2694)
Amount of Capital actually paid up
Fixed Deposit Suspense
Account £29,400 0 0
Less Amount transferred
to Special Account .. 13,000 0 0
Money owing on Open Account
Debt due on Mortgage of Freehold Pro-
perty
Profit and Loss Account
73,375 15 0
16,400 0 0
.100 13 3
25,000 0 0
4,299 9 3
£119,175 17 6
Investments—
Inscribed Stock, at par
Money lent on Mortgage, at face value ...
Money lent against Interests of Bene-
ficiaries, at face value
Investments set aside to meet Mortgage on
Freehold Property—
Bank of Victoria—
Deposits, at face value £2,743 0 0
National Bank—
Deposits, at face value 257 0 0
Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank —
Deposits, at face value 18,000 0 0
2800 £5 Preference
Shares at 10s. per
Share 1,400 0 0
Debts due to the Company other than those
abovementioned, amounts paid in ad-
vance, etc
Cash to Credit in Bank of Australasia
-£ s. d.
10,000 0 0
5,054 2 4
11,203 19 6
22,400 0 0
48,658 1 10
66,000 0 0
500 0 0
773 19 7
4,243 16 1
£119,175 17 6
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
1898—December 31.
To Australian Depost and Mortgage Bank
Preference Shares, amount written
off
„ Fixed Deposit Suspense Account
£12,600 0 0
29,41)0 0 0
1898-June 30.
By Balance £'40,000 0 0
1898—December 31.
~ Profit and Loss Account ... ... 2,000 0 0
£42,000 0 0
TRUST, EXECUTOR, AND AGENCY BUSINESS.
Contingent and Other Liabilities otherwise than in
RESPECT OP ANY OF THE ABOVEMENTIONED ITEMS.
Amount at credit of Estates Trusts and
Clients, represented by Investments
and Cash at Bankers, as per contra ... 6,135,298 13 4
£6,135,298 13 4
Contingent Assets.
Advances on Mortjrape of Real Estate ... 2,154,655 7 6
Debentures and Stock 565,831 5 4
Landed Property 2,303,449 14 £
Other Securities 1,054,030 6 1
Cash at Bankers at credit of Trust Cur-
rent Accounts 57,332 0 0
£6,135,298 13 4
BOOKS you WANT!
Telephone 2216.
|f WILL
:! ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER
CHEAP BOOKS
illli WILL ANDRADE
Wipe’s Guide and Friend ;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the right to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaugh, prose-
cuted work, Is ; post free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mar-
riage Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1/9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Moll Flanders, Balzac’s Droll Stories, Zola’s Novels,
all cheap ed. How to Excel in Business. Post free, Is 6d.
Maupassant’s Spiced Tales, ninth series, Is.; post Is 3d-
Crisp Tales prom the French, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is ; post Is 3d. Australian Crime and Criminals,
300 pages, 5s post. Robbery Under Arms, new complete
edition, Is; post Is 3d. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is; post Is 3d. Australian
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, wage earners, etc., Is ; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, Is 6d. Friquette, French, 1/3.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
Tommy Atkin’s Mary, by Paul de Kock ; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is 6d.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d, post free. The
Same for Girls, Is 6d, post free.
Dr. Beaney’s Private Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
post free, Is 2d. Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated ; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron of Navarre, and
Works of Rabelais, all in cheap ed., illus., unexpurgated
Our List of SPECIAL LOOKS post free anywhere.
WILL
ANDRADE,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
opposite Waxworks.
The Bulletin last week met a man just back
from Dawson City, Klondyke. There is no mistake, he
says, about the richness of the field. There is gold in the
water, gold in the air, gold everywhere. The barmen at
the local public-houses make tons of money every week
by saving out of the floor-sweepings the gold-dust brought
in on customers’ boots and clothes. The handcuffs of the
local police are of gold. The river which runs through
the camp is simply liquid gold. Nets are set in the river
over-night to catch the nuggets that come floating
down, and the miners breakfast off the goldfish caught
along with the nuggets. Wash china in the stream and it
comes out gold-plate. A “ whaler ” went in swimming and
came out completely clad in gold armor, but, not being
satisfied with a 13-carat suit, he dived in for a second coat
and was drowned by the weight. Cattle driven into the
water so that they may drink, walk out on the other side
gilded and watered stock. Calves walk in and, on emerg-
ing, are worshipped by the population.
* '* * *
“ Diori te ”: Be N. S. W. prospecting vote. Should
be termed pensions for played-out politicians. Modus
operandi : Take up abandoned ground under miner’s
right. Apply for aid from prospecting vote ; let ground
on tribute, conditionally that 50ft. or 100 ft. be sunk or
driven the first six months. P.O.P. receives and pockets
subsidy, leaving tributors to receive their reward from
quartz crushed, if any. Know of cases where aid has been
granted to those who know how to pull the ropes, though
they had n ;ver expended one penny in labor or capital.
A return of how the prospecting vote was distributed
around Sunny Corner would be interesting reading.
Ditto anent Parkes. It takes influence to get a “ cut.”
Anyhow, if we bar Mount Drysdale (Cobar district),
writer cannot call to mind any good result from this
vote.
* • * •
“ Flabby Paul ” to The Bulletin from Tamata,
Papua, under date 29/11/’9B: Since last writing nothing
startling has happened. There has been a new rush about
five miles nearer here than the old one, but results are
not satisfactory. Rations are scarce on the field owing to
nearly all the storekeeper’s carriers deserting. Some of
the miners are destitute ; in fact, some have applied to
Govt, for provisions. Dysentery and fever are not so
prevalent as about six weeks ago. Total deaths for the
last three months—whites, 12 ; carriers, 35 ; but many
whites and carriers have left on account of sickness.
There has been much rain, and all the creeks are flooded,
making it much more difficult to travel.
* * * *
Sooner or later almost every big Australian
mining field offshoots in an asbestos show, but, so far, all
have proved unprofitable. Samples from the Westralian
(Nor’-West) finds have been sent to Sydney experts, who
guardedly reply that the only thing to be done is to see
what European firms that deal in the article will give for
it—they make the market. Quality depends, not only on
length, but on flexibility and tensile strength also. And,
finally, the Canadian deposits are in “strong” hands.
* * * *
The owner of a leading southern gold-mine,
who has been in the habit of sneaking below to catch
anybody who might be smoking, dropped in the other day
for a tremendous bashing from a big Irish miner, who,
though knowing the boss and his errand well enough, pre-
tended to mistake him in the dimness for an intending
gold-thief. Pat got fired all right, but his mates bless
his memory, as they can now once more get “ a draw ’’ on
the quiet.
* * * *
He the prevalence of thefts from proprietary
gold mines, a well-known mining authority says that one
W.A. co. sets down its monthly loss from this source at
something between £5OO and £lOOO.
* * * *
A wealthy British parson lately wrote to a
Launceston mining adviser, asking for full particulars of
the present state and future prospects of a couple of
much-boomed mining properties in the N.E. end of the
island. The anxious one enclosed a 2£d. stamp to pay the
cost of expert’s report, rail and coach-fare, to and from
the properties in question.
f «
The working miner is great on diagrams.
Usually, he can’t describe an oblong block with a reef
running straight through the centre of it, without draw-
ing weird lines in the dirt with a stick or the stem of his
pipe. An expert visiting Grafton was rushed by the
locals, among them a delver full of information about a
phenomenal show he was interested in. He tried hard to
get the expert to promise a visit, and, putting his failure
down to want of a plan, he tore off a margin of a news-
paper, borrowed a pencil, and sailed in to make one. He
turned the scrap of paper round several times, then,
after putting a dot in one corner, he regarded it thought-
fully, and turned it some more ; then exclaimed enthusi-
astically : “ Yes, that’s where the sun rises all right.” The
expert left him trying to illustrate a 14-acre block with an
18-inch reef, 5 shafts, a number of drives and adits where
they lost the reef, and where they picked it up again, all
on a piece of paper an inch wide and 3in. long, with
water-level indicated by a streak of beer running down
one side.
• « • •
Westralian goldfields yarn. Two English mines,
adjoining. One had a good return, other hadn’t. There-
upon, the directors of the latter, per cable : “ Why can’t
you crush same ore as (say) Blazer ? ” Smiles, of course,
here. But why? Unfortunate beggars had no doubt
been assured solemnly that “ the same lode, carrying ore
of the same character, occurs in this property as is being
worked so successfully in the Blazer.” And the few
papers that dared to counsel caution while these things
were being said were “ bears,” and lots of other nice
animals. This paper knows, because it has heaped up in
its backyard a rare assortment of curses which were aimed
at it from afar in these old times. (N.B. —These curses,
which are as good as new, will be returned on application.
They may do to aim at the promoters now.)
• * * *
“ P.” : Even The Bulletin quoted a “ district
warden” (N.S.W.) who had said brave words about a
copper show somewhere. Some wardens may know, but
most of them are police magistrates who know absolutely
nothing of mines and mining, and aren’t interested in
learning, since they are not paid for the warden’s part of
the business. I think the particular warden quoted
lately got the P.M. billet by examination after a life spent
school-teaching.
* * * *
From a West Coast (Tas.) mining-prospectus :
“ Aconsiderable sum of money has already been expended
on the property—four substantial wooden huts, a black-
smith’s smithy, and a charcoal-house are erected; the
mine is fully equipped with tools, &c., and there are
nearly one hundred bags of charcoal available.”
• * * *
Reported in an Eng. journal that a man has
gone off with £68,000 made out of the “ rights” enjoyed
by the Electrolytic Marine Salts Co., whose business was
to extract gold from sea water. Many of our remote fore-
fathers have been taken down by the same idea. The
inventor came from America—they often do—and invited
investors out to the end of a pier. They brought, their
own pan of clean mercury which was lowered into the sea.
The “ electric current ” was then applied and “ kept on ”
during the night while men stood by and watched. Next
morning the pan was raised and the mercury was found to
be “ well charged with gold.” This was quite enough,
and money was put up. Further investigation and the
sudden absence of interested persons created the suspicion
that during the night somebody must have dived down
and sweetened the mercury. >.
• * » *
Pritchard Morgan is said to have come out of
the Chinese scramble loaded to the neck with mining and
railway concessions. He declined peacock feathers and
allother decorations, but modestly walked away with
“ preliminary contracts ’’—whatever they may mean. The
letter he is said to have received from “ his most intimate
friend,”Li Hung Ohang, is great:—“ Dear Sir.—l must con-
gratulate you on your well-deserved success in obtaining
the concession for working mines in the province of
Szechuan. I know the province well. You will find
there gold, silver, copper, antimony, cinnabar, asbestos,
coal, iron, petroleum and salt. There, too, in the coal
measures, the natives are using natural gas, obtained
from rudely-made borings to evaporate brine from salt.
Also, in the gorges of the Yang-Tze River are concen-
trated millions of horse-power now running to waste, but
ready to be utilised for manufacturing purposes as at
Niagara. The field is an ideal one for mining industries.
My long personal acquaintance with you justifies my be-
lief that you will rise to the occasion—(you bet) —and
leave nothing undone to make a great success in Szechuan,
benefiting alike the Government, the people and the in-
vestors.—Your friend, Li Hung Ohang.” Evidently it has
not struck boomsters in China as strange that John who,
in other parts of the world, is satisfied with “tailings,”
should leave such amazing mineral riches untouched in
his own country.
» * * •
“Von K.” writes: Burns, Philp and Co. are
knotting themselves firmly into the growing tendrils of
Papuan trade. They take money at fixed deposit from
settlers and officials, thus making everybody to a certain
extent a shareholder; and at Port Moresby they issue bank-
notes redeemable at any of their agencies in Australia.
During the late lamented rush, when there were about
200 men camped on the beach near the Papuan capital,
these B.P. £1 notes formed the chief medium of exchange,
other currency being rare. At that auspicious moment
two foreign ladies arrived from Westralia, and explained
to the Administration, which eyed them suspiciously, that
they were merely sight-seeing tourists. And, as they
spoke no Inglees and the Administration knew very little
French (polyglot Mac being absent), the authorities had
to beat an ignominious retreat, shaking their virtuous
heads ominously. When the charming tourists left again,
per next monthly steamer, they paid their passages in
new B.P. notes; and they took so much more of that
currency with them that paper was scarce on the coast
for months afterwards.
♦ * m m
Ah Hing, a new-chum Chow, took a half-ounce
nugget he had found in the bed of the creek to an Omeo
district battery-manager. The latter had been silvering
his plates, and the nugget turned white the instant he
handled it, to the amazement and horror of Ah Wing,
who, suspecting devilment, refused to have anything fur-
ther to do with the bewitched slug. He was not pressed.


20 MILLION POSES of
BILE
BEANS
(FOR BILIOUSNESS)
Were Consumed IN AUSTRALIA ALONE Last Year.
Tb€ “People's Popular Priced Preparation”
Bile Beans and their Origin,
WHY SO MANY MILLION BOXES WERE
CONSUMED LAST YEAR.
Startling figures are what the Bile Beans Manu-
facturing Company deal in. We just glean that
last year twenty million doses of Bile Beans were
taken in Australasia (we only give figures for
Australasia). In the face of the following facts
is it to be wondered at that Australians should one
and all take this great world’s specific when ail-
ing : Bile Beans for Biliousness have, from their
origin, earned for themselves by their unequalled
excellence a reputation which places them to-day
far in advance of any other similar preparation.
This specific is not a carelessly-prepared nostrum ;
on the contrary, it is the result of long and
thoughtful research on the part of a medical man,
an American, who, after years of study, discovered
a natural vegetable substance which, after further
study, he succeeded in compounding with other
ingredients, so that its effect on the digestive
organs of the human system is identical with that
of the natural bile created by the liver. _ Finding
this then to be the most natural cathartic obtain-
able, the public rapidly accepted it in preference
to all others, and consequently the old methods
of starving and the use of pepsin and bismuth
sank into insignificance and oblivion. Acting on
the bowels in a gentle manner, Bile Beans do not
weaken or in any way distress the patient. This
is a point in which they differ materially from
nearly all laxative remedies sold to-day, as the
latter usually act in a violent manner, weakening
the patient, and in many cases doing more harm
than good. Bile Beans have been aptly termed
“a medicine for the people at a popular price.”
Many wonder how this remedy can have the
great virtue that we claim for it, and still be sold
at so reasonable a price ; yet the solution is simple.
Millions upon million-! of Bile Beans are con-
sumed annually (a fact that in itself is of positive
proof that the world’s inhabitants know how to
appreciate a really genuine remedy, and they are
manufactured in possibly the largest and best
equipped laboratories in the world, situated in
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A. In this establish-
ment only the very best of latest improved
machinery is used, and this fact also greatly
minimises the cost of production. Thus it will
be seen that through the great consumption the
proprietors are enabled to sell this valuable
remedy at a price that places it within the reach
of all.
♦
A West Australian Cure-
The case given below comes from West Aus-
tralia,' and shows that on every hand and all over
cures are being effected. Mr. Nelson, a citizen
of Perth, W.A., senior member of the firm of
Nelson, Moir, and Co., of William and Aberdeen
streets, general contractors, builders, and carpen-
ters, was called upon by a reporter re his pro-
longed illness and sudden recovery from same.
Mr. Nelson, after the usual greetings, said, “ I
have suffered from biliousness in such a form as to
make my life a misery. Constant headaches and
morning vomiting kept me in a condition that
made existence wretched. I took medicines as
prescribed by medical men, and mixtures sold by
chemists, without benefit. Seeing Bileßeans so
widely advertised as a remedy for the complaint
which was torturing me, I ventured to try a box.
The first box gave me relief such as I hadn’t
known for years, seeing which I continued the
treament until I had used a number of boxes, and
was absolutely cured.”
“Have you recommended the remedy to any of
your friends ? ” queried the reporter.
“Yes, and more,” said Mr. Nelson. “Not
knowing that Bile Beans were to be had in any
part of the world. I bought several boxes, and
have sent them to my friends in Scotland. I will
be pleased to let you know the results when I hear
from them,” he added.
“Presumably, then, Mr. Nelson, you don’t
think you made a bad investment when you bought
those three boxes of the Beans ? ”
“ I made the best investment in my life when J
bought them. Why, work is a pleasure to me
now. I hope that the publication of the results
In my case will result in others being benefited as
I have been ; and I may add that I shall always
be readv to afford information to those who have
suffered' as I have, in the hope that they, like me,
may obtain a relief that is wholly due to the use
of Bile Beans.”
Debility,
SOME HINTS FOR SUMMER WEATHER.
HOW TO KEEP HEALTHY.
General debility is a state which is generally
caused by a combination of nervous exhaustion,
indigestion, deranged liver, and constipation. It is
brought about by the system becoming run down.
The functions of the body are irregular and weak,
the waste matter is not carried off properly, the
blood becomes poor, and the complexion sallow.
The whole system, in cases like this, needs “ toning
up.” The diet must be regulated, and a remedy
Bad Breath.
When you get up in the morning, do you ever
draw a long breath of pure air, and then notice the
foul smell the same has as you discharge it from
your lungs? There are two distinct causes for
foul breath—a foul stomach and an over supply of
burnt carbon in the lungs. The latter is most
common. It makes the blood heavy and the cir-
culation slow ; the liver fails to cleanse the blood,
and the whole system becomes choked with refuse
and waste matter. A greasy skin, heavy eyes,
and sallow complexion are the usual result of such
a condition. In a case of this kind a remedy is
&
&
-it'
must be taken that will put the digestive organs
in thorough working order. For this work, Bile
Beans for Biliousness are the very best specific, as
they act in a gentle manner, and are so com-
pounded that they repair the waste of the nervous
system, and make pure, rich blood. Bile Beans
on every hand are effecting cures for debility and
all summer ailments, such as loss of tone, lack of
physical force, &c., &c. Sold at per box, they
come within the reach of all; and that the great
mass of Australians appreciate this fact is illus-
trated by the fact that last year over 20 million
doses were taken in Australia alone.
needed that will clear off all offensive matter,
create a free circulation and put the liver in good
working order. This is done by BILE BEANS
for BILIOUSNESS, which act directly upon the
bile ducts and flush the bowels thoroughly. In
the case of a foul stomach, Bile Beans promote
digestion, and if the digestion is good and waste
matter carried off properly, the stomach is sure to
be in good condition. Bad breath is a most
offensive thing, both to yourself and your friends.
If you are troubled in this way, try BILE
BEANS EOR BILIOUSNESS, and you will
find them the best remedy.
A Martyr for 13 Years.
SUFFERED FROM INSOMNIA—PAINS IN
THE TEMPLES.
KIDNEY TROUBLE, DEBILITY, AND
LOSS OF APPETITE.
THREE LEADING DOCTORS FAIL TO
EFFECT A CURE, AND PATENT
MEDICINES WERE UNSUCCESSFUL.
ANOTHER GREAT VICTORY FOR
BILE BEANS.
There’s a lady living at Beaumont-street, Hamil-
ton, Newcastle, who, years ago, was attacked by a
variety of internal ailments, which, as time went
on, became so severe that not only was all hope of
recovery abandoned, but for some time her life
was almost despaired of. Mrs. Jane Colman, for
that is the lady’s name, is a woman of some 57
years of age—the mother of 11 grown-up sons and
daughters. She was born in Kent (England), but
has been in the colonies for some years, the last
six of which have been spent in Hamilton. Mrs.
Colman commenced to suffer about 13 years ago,
when she was assailed with severe pains through
the head, which were most acute at the base of
the skull and in the temples. An attack of this
kind was invariably followed by retching so vio-
lent in character as to prevent Mrs. Colman from
getting about at all. This continued for some
time and the sufferer’s system rapidly ran down.
She was only able to obtain temporary relief,
although she had three of the best doctors in
Newcastle in constant attendance, and tried no
end of patent medicines. At last her sleep became
disturbed, and wakeful nights, through which
Mrs. Colman would toss in nervous agony, became
the rule, instead of the exception as hitherto.
The lady also suffered from a complete loss of
appetite, being unable to take more than a cup of
tea for days at a time. The small amount of food
that Mrs. Colman did take she found herself un-
able to digest. Sharp pains distressed her in the
shoulder, back, and kidneys, and she was totally
unable to recognise in the poor frail wreck of a
human being the once robust and healthy woman
she had been. She became listless and morbid,
her eyes had a dull, heavy, sunken look, the least
exertion prostrated her, and she could not stand
for 10 minutes without getting restless, her feet
becoming numb with the feeling of “ pins and
needles.” Taken altogether, a short time ago, Mrs.
Colman was about as near the grave as most people
ever get without actually attending their own
funeral. And now for the bright side of the story.
Not long ago, in some manner, Mrs. Colman
learned that there was a remedy on the market
that had cured several people in Newcastle who
had suffered in much the same manner as she
had. She determined to give this remedy a trial,
and the result was that she was completely cured.
Speaking of her recovery, Mrs. Colman says :—“I
experienced a slight change for the better after a
few doses of the Beans, and when I had taken
them for three or four days a decided improve-
ment was to be noticed. After that I got steadily
better, the various ailments disappearing one by
one. My appetite improved, and I was able to
sleep at night. Gradually my whole system was
built up, and though it took some time, of course,
I am now in as good condition as I have been for
20 years. My brain is clear, and the headaches
and pains are unknown. I attribute my cure
solely to Bile, Beans, as I took no other medicine
during the course. I cannot speak too highly of
their beneficial 1 effects, and I am glad to give my
testimony, as it may help others who suffer as I
once did.”
In conclusion, let us say that Mrs. Colman’s
neighbors are all surprised at her recovery, and
those who doubt the genuineness and complete-
ness of this cure are invited to investigate it fully.
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick
and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls,
Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches,
Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dys-
pepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side,
Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone,
Heartburn, and that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and
Storekeepers generally, or direct from the AUS-
TRALIAN DEPOT OF THE BILE BEAN
MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Victorian Branch, Flinders-street,
Melbourne. S.A. Branch, King William-street.
Adelaide. W.A. Branch, Murray-street, Perth.
Queensland Branch, Charlotte-street, Brisbane.
Price 1/14 per box; six boxes, 6/-.
They Cure Yon While You Sleep,”


A Good Innings. The Crack Eleven.
RIGHT TO A TEA.
This is how Popular Opinion places our TEAS, &c. &c. :
BILLY —O&ptiii n.
WHITE HEATHER—Long-
on.
GOLDEN I A—Point.
RAN EE—Cover-point.
LOTA —Wickets; stops long
in favour.
JUMPER All over the
field!
DONOOLA—Square-leg.
API OM—Best bat. Yes,
sir ! Ask for it.
COOEE CEYLON—Scorer ;
and a good ’un, too.
GRANUMA—Best bowler.
Porridge Bowl! See ?
ZENANA —Mid-on, and A 1
at that!
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents— WHOLESALE Only,
Salvitis Remedies, Electric Cleanser Soap, Granuma,
Commendador Port, Fodah and Homah.
THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA ! !
Wines, Spirits, Spices, Meals, Baking Powders, &c.
DEAN’S PLACE, SYDNEY ; and at Brisbane.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“Yours in Contentment.”
Contentment in life may be called a rarity.
We meet too many discontented people on every
hand. True happiness is only compatible with
good health. The most angelic dispositions be-
come sordid and morose when assailed with har-
rowing pains or continued ill health. Here is one
who signs his letter with, “ Yours in content-
ment,” and no wonder.
“ ‘ The Glen,’ West-street, North,
Sydney, 14th Sept., 1898.
To the Proprietors of
Warner’s Safe Cure, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, it is with pleasure I can endorse the
many congratulations you have received re the
value of
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
To myself it has proved beyond doubt all the
proprietors proclaim it to be. Being racked with
pains and troubles arising from the kidneys and
liver, and after spending money on doctors and
chemists without avail, I tried your world-ivide
remedy, with most satisfactory results. It has
undoubtedly relieved me permanently of my
troubles, and I now feel in better health than I
have for years.—Yours in contentment,
I. BERRIE.”
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
J3F” Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Transvaal Boer just now looks very
like a beggar on horseback, riding to the devil.
All Leg. Councils are run on the principle
enunciated by squatter Splatt, Vic. M.L.C. 40
years ago, “D’ye think we’re going to tax our-
selves ? ”
S.A. Gov. Buxton’s resignation takes effect
in March. Meanwhile, Premier Kingston is en-
deavoring to arrange for an interregnum of 12
months before his successor is appointed, which,
if agreed to, means a saving of about .£3OOO in
salaries.
The Reid Govt., which last week dumped
ex-Minister Garrard into a comfortable Govt,
billet of £6OO a year, intends to provide for an-
other rejected confrere, Sydney Smith, by appoint-
ing him general agent in London at about £BOO a
year and expenses.
Premier Reid’s appointment of ex-Minis-
ter Jacob Garrard to the presidency of Sydney
Water and Sewerage Board at £6OO a year takes
place inside six months of Jacob’s rejection at
the polls. Patronage thus dispensed Parkes used
to call “ the (h)acme of political (h)indecency.”
George Black, on condition of being ap-
pointed to N.S.W. Public Works Committee
agreed to give one-half the emoluments to the
Labor-party for propaganda purposes. Watson
has taken Black’s place on the present P.W.C.
Query : How much has Watson agreed to give ?
The Cheviot estate, in Maoriland, was
taken over by the Government under its Closer
Settlement scheme in 1892. The estate covered
84,000 acres, for which the State paid £260,220.
The only residents on Cheviot when it was re-
sumed were four families and a few station hands.
To-day there is settled there a population of over
a thousand people, almost all deriving their living
from the land. 8
S.A. National Ass is elated over recent
Leg. Council successes, and is making great pre-
parations for the coming Assembly campaign. It
intends to assault Labor strongholds which it
treated with solemn respect three years ago. But
the Ass counts a great deal too much on its
Upper House successes. Only 45,000 persons can
vote for the Council, whereas about 145,000 are on
the rolls for the Assembly, and the odd hundred
thousand will make a lot of difference.
W. L. Vernon, N.S.W. Govt. Architect,
in disapproving of day-labor as distinguished from
contract-labor in Govt, works, honestly told the
P.W. Committee the other day the reason on
which his disapproval rests. “ Day-labor,” he ex-
plained, “puts the worry of profit and loss on to
me ; with contracts, that worry goes to the con-
tractor.” How many other heads of departments
endeavor to prejudice the Govt, against day-labor
AT THE SYDNEY ELECTRIC - LIGHT
CARNIVAL. —The champions of their province.
for the same reason, but with that reason
suppressed ?
One man who really would be useful in
N.S.W. Leg. Council is financier Reginald Black.
No ex-Treasurer can give Mr. Black points on
finance, and he was never a mere party hack, like
“ Cocky ” Burns. He is the only politician of the
later eighties now out of the mill who ought to be
in it again,
1? Sydney University was founded 1852,
Melbourne ’55, Maoriland ’7O, S. Australia ’74,
and Tasmania ’9O. Westralia and Queensland
have yet to go on the list. When the list is com-
pleted one more University will be needed—a
Federal one, to examine for degrees students from
all parts, whether educated at a University or not.
Figures for Centralians : From
’9l to ’97 the sale of lands from the
Q. Central district yielded £440,826 j
Southern lands gave £223,678; Nor-
thern, £15,558. South and North, for
same period, ran up a deficit of
£1,265,673, of which they made good
by aforesaid sales £239,236; while
the Central district returned a sur-
plus of £167,154, which it was com-
pelled to supplement with aforesaid
£440,826, derived from the sale of its
acres. Is it any wonder the Central
folks talk about automony ?
“ Rad.” : Quite clear that Har-
court’s resignation of the Liberal lead-
ership was forced upon him by the
intrigues of Rosebery and his followers,
Campbell-Bannerman, Asquith, and
others—the men who secretly hated
Gladstone’s Home Rule proposals and
yet pretended to support them. Eng-
lish democrats are only just discover-
ing that for years they have been fol-
lowing men like Rosebery, the son-in-
law of millionaire Rothschild, the
owner of seven castles, wealthy land-
lord Campbell-Bannerman, and As-
quith, whose wife is one of the court
favorites. A big attempt will be made,
now that Gladstone’s legitimate suc-
cessor, Harcourt (such as he is),
is pushed aside, to re-instal that
“ Liberal ” fraud, Rosebery, as leader,
but the forward ranks will never
follow him. Now is the time for a
brainy man to spring from the middle
classes and unite the real Liberals
with the Radicals and sweep away
the band of aristocrats and capitalists
who at present control the alleged Liberal party.
In the first quarter of 1898 Westralia
gained 6063 people by immigration ; second
quarter, 2254 ; third quarter, 929 ; fourth quarter
—when the tide seems to have definitely turned—
it lost by emigration 5293. But a good many
t’other-siders come home for Xmas, and go back
to swell the first quarter of next year.
While the “ respectable ” Australian
dailies howl on behalf of the Newfoundland
fishermen, who are likely to be ousted by the
French, the threatened monopolising of the
Maoriland gum-digging industry by Austrians,
and the squelching of the native worker by cheap
foreign labor, meets with their cordial approval.
Melbourne Age, crying out for less taxa-
tion, bids Premier Turner remember that he will
probably have =£200,000 or =£250,000 surplus this
year, and that it will be a clear surplus, seeing
that Shiels’s deficiency-bonds are now all paid off.
So the Age wants it applied to making the Fat
Man’s burden a bit lighter. TheS. A. Critic, speak-
ing in the same strain, says Turner will be
“ <£250,000 to the good ” next July, and demands
to know, “Will he remit taxation, or will he
scatter it in development schemes and higher
salaries ? “ Not a word about the fact that there is
still about £2,900,000 of old deficit to pay off, and
that it will take nearly 12 years of such surpluses
before there is really a penny available to reduce
taxation with. Now that Victoria has paid-off
about 5 per cent, of its overdraft, it already begins
to talk about how nobly it has overcome its diffi-
culties, and how “ the accounts have at last been
balanced.”
The poor Q. Pearl Fisheries Act is
already in some respects a dead-letter. The
Act forbids Japs to own 'pearling-boats, but
does not forbid Japs to lease them. As soon
as it became law, 28 boats owned by little
brown aliens were transferred to a big firm,
which immediately let them again to the pre-
vious owners. Drastic legislation with a
vengeance !
S. A. Laborites in Parliament contend
that, having won their seats, they ought not
to have to submit to the party’s plebiscite
before every general election. But a vote,
just taken at the same time as the selection
of eight other candidates was made, has
decided that in future members must submit
to the plebiscite like other candidates for
nomination. Nominally that principle is
adopted in N.S.W. Nominally—that unfor-
tunately is the word which nowadays has to
be applied to most things in connection with
the Labor-party in Parliament, including
the party itself.
Seven years ago, when the Ballance-
Seddon Ministry first outlined its democra-
tic policy, the voice of Buchanan, the Jere-
miah from Wairarapa, was raised to declare
that it would “reduce wages, cause great
distress and depopulate the country.”
Dismal Jimmy Rolleston said that “agitators
had taken advantage of the country’s dis-
tress to suit their own purposes,” and warned
the new Ministers to beware, for the reaction
had already set in, and the country was even
then beginning to shudder at them. And
old, suave, gentlemanly Russell told them
that they had already “ done incalculable
harm to the country.” Maoriland has en-
joyed seven years of prosperity since then,
but the thin, short line of Jeremiahs rises
on the Opposition bench and says almost the
same things to this very *day.
Colonel Rowe, late President of Sydney
Water and Sewerage Board, was hardly 24 hours
dead before Jake Garrard got his billet. Jacob’s
visible qualifications for the post, erstwhile filled
by a highly-trained and experienced specialist, are
that he is neither an architect nor an engineer,
and knows practically nothing about his work —
the fact that he used long ago to personally
hammer large boilers at Mort’s Dock is quite a
different thing. Also that he is a rather ill-
educated house-agent; that he was a very inferior
Minister of Education and a failure as a gas-
expert ; and that the people signified, at the
general election a few months ago, that they
didn’t want Jacob any more.
The Bulletin has received about a dozen
letters from indignant Single-taxers pointing out
that it shouldn’t have talked, in a certain recent
article, about a land-tax but a “land-value tax,”
which, they allege, is quite a different thing.
This paper is sorry if it didn’t get the jargon of
the cult quite accurately, but where is the differ-
ence ? When 25 per cent, ad valorem is charged
on imported boots it isn’t a boot-tax but a boot-
value*tax—only most people call it a boot-tax for
“ ONE MANS MEAT," &c.
“I say, Bill, ’ow'd yer like to be ’ Torney-Gen’ral for a change? ’E as a good time of it, eh?"
BILL: “ Wouldn't be much of a change for me! ’E ’as too much fishin' to do! ”
ehort. There are really no taxes on imports even
in the most intensely Protectionist countries—
only on the value of imports, but the Single-
taxers call them taxes on imports all the same. If
there was any land-tax in existence which was
based on anything else than the value (either
capital or annual) of the land—if there was any
tax that was based on the shape or size or muddi-
ness of the land—then it would be worth while to
be particular about calling the other a land-value
tax by way of marking the difference. But when
every land-tax is a land-value tax what is the good
of worrying about the' alleged difference that
doesn’t differ?
AN OFFICE NECESSITY DURING THE HOT WEATHER.
“ Would you mind mopping yourself down in the dripping-pan, please,
and not sprinkle my carpet?"
“Homer’ lyrically discourseth on Our
Jack’s fishing-expedition to the Nile :
Maoriland, under its law of 1893, has
about the simplest and most efficient Civil Service
Superannuation system in the Seven Provinces.
Every officer who joins the service is insured in
the State Life Insurance Department. His policy
is protected against all creditors. If he dies before
60 his relatives get the money; if he lives beyond
60 (which is the age of retirement) his policy en-
titles him to an annuity for the rest of his life. If
he leaves the service before 60 he loses nothing';
the policy remains good on the same conditions as
before, and he can either keep it in force or give it
up and take the surrender value. Supposing he
is retired before 60 through permanent incapacity
arising from illness he gets also from the revenue
a month’s salary for each year of service. It is a
simple and efficient scheme, but it can only work
in a province. where there is a State-guaranteed
Life Insurance Department. Compulsory insur-
ance in a private office which might burst and
leave the superannuated civil-servants all adrift in
their old age wouldn’t fill the bill.
“ Harcourt the Distrusted,” writes The
„,_, , , ,
Bulletin s London correspondent, has got the
sack. He earned it. A formidable trimmer,
jealous of Rosebery (he never recognised his exist-
ence as Liberal leader in the Lords) his policy was
self first and Liberalism later. The Daily Mail
jibed at the unionless Liberals, offering <£loo for
the best Liberal programme and its leader. Led
blind or not led at all, the party burst bounds,
erupted into letters of reply, and in two days
Harcourt resigned. Now Campbell-Bannerman
or Asquith will lead in the Commons, and Rose-
bery in the Lords—after a while.”
Westralia’s Early-
Closing Act comes
into operation this
month. It isn’t a very
violent early-closure,
for it exempts pub-
licans, druggists, fish
and oyster dealers,
tea and coffee house-
keepers, restaura-
teu r s, tobacconists,
news-agents, booksel-
lers, undertakers, flo-
rists and butchers.
Also, in its early
stages it only applies
to Perth and its im-
mediate surround-
ings, also Fremantle,
Gerald ton, Coolgar-
die, Kalgoorlie, Boul-
der, Kanowna, Bu-
long, Menzies and
Broad Arrow, though
it may be further ex-
tended till it spreads
all over the province.
It provides for the
closing of all shops
(bar the numerous ex-
emptions) from 6
p.m. to 8 a.ra., ex-
cepting two evenings
in the week, when
shops may keep open
till 10 p.m. Also, it
provides for a weekly
half-holiday for em-
ployes, and forbids
keeping any
at work more than 45
minutesafterthe shop
has closed. The
weekly half - holiday
applies to the em-
ploy&s of exempted shops also; and it is enacted
that no woman and no boy under 16 shall be kept
afc work more than 48 hours per week. Not a
perfect measure by any means, but (if it is ad-
ministered with any vigor or honesty) a remark-
able democratic advance all the same.
THE STRONG MAN.
Sampson is a strong man,
Wondrous feats doth he :
Break iron chains he can,
Expanding marvellously
His brawny muscle.
He snappeth asunder
Coins of the realm
Without any bustle ;
He is a wonder.
I know a stronger man
Than Sampson the brawny—
Jack Want, of Japan,
General Attorney.
Happy and healthy,
Burly and wealthy,
Four months again he wants
To go on his little jaunts.
Sampson strong ? Cant!
What price Jack Want ?


PALING’S
Send for
Catalogues,
FREE.
FOR
THE BEST,
MOST
DURABLE,
And
CHEAPEST
EASY
TERMS.
©
V\© v "
PIANOS
%
O'
0
*
\
©
V
❖
fr
<4
❖
V
©
4
<»
©*■
°©4
©
\
ws
They Have
Fully Sustained their Reputation for
Nearly 50 Years.
Every known
Musical Instrument Stocked.
W. H. PALING & GO.,
limited.
SYDNEY. . . .
BRISBANE and
NEWCASTLE.
Sharp Practices and [ightuieight
It having come to our knowledge that certain unscrupulous cycle
agents are in the habit of charging excessive prices for
Dunlap Tyres
and, at the same time, endeavoring to sell imitation covers and
tubes in their stead, trying to mislead the buyer into the belief
that Dunlop Tyres cost so much more than the imitation ones,
WHEREAS, the proper retail price for DUNLOP COVERS and
TUBES is (plus carriage when agents reside in the country)
COVERS (fabric-lined) 27s 6d each
TUBES (complete with valve) 9s each
or only a few pence more than the price charged for the poor
imitations now being foisted on the public, NOTWITHSTANDING-
THE FACT that a DUNLOP COVER contains Three Shillings*
worth more rubber than the imitation tyres —every Dunlop (Road-
ster) Cover containing over 20oz. of rubber as against 15oz. in the
majority of other tyres, a difference which is quickly perceived
when a cover is subjected to a few months’ wear on the road—
so that the SLIGHT DIFFERENCE IN PRICE is all in favor
dllhe purchaser of the GENUINE DUNLOP COVER-a fact
quickly appreciated by all Dunlop riders.
To detect imposition, examine the cover and tube for
our Registered Trade Mark, without which no tyre is a
genuine Dunlop. First in 1888 : Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
[Trade Mark.]
Some of the lieasons which have
prompted Members to select the
Equitable in preference to all
others.
“It is the safest.”
m • •
“ It pays most promptly.”
• • • •
“ It offers the best security.”
• * * *
“ Its policies are absolutely incontestable.”
• • * *
“It is the largest, wealthiest, and most
popular.”
* • * •
“I believe it to be the soundest and most
progressive.”
• • * •
“ You get more value for your money than
in any other concern.”
• * • •
“ It gives me liberal guarantees which are
not granted elsewhere.”
* * * •
“ Its surplus resources are larger than
those of any other Society.”
• * * •
“ In addition to the all important element
of security the results of the Equitable’s
policies have been eminently satisfactory.”
* • # *
‘ 4 l consider security of paramount im-
portance. The Equitable has a wider margin
of safety than any office I have ever heard
of.”
• * • *
“A bank without surplus funds is not
considered safe, why should a life office be ?
I therefore select the Equitable Life because
of its large surplus.”
* * * •
“ I have been assured in the Equitable for
many years, because my knowledge of the
management of the Society is quite sufficient
guarantee for me that my policy will be paid
promptly and in full no matter when it
matures.”
* * m *
“I prefer the Equitable Society for my
purposes because it makes a special feature
of paying its claims the very day proofs are
presented, and because I believe it is the
safest company with which to enter into con-
tracts extending over long periods of years.”
* » * •
“ Why do I choose the Equitable 1 Partly
because of the dignified attitude it assumes
in competition with other Societies, and
partly because, being myself a man of means
and understanding the value of money, the
Equitable appeals to me above all other
companies as a financially strong and wisely-
managed institution.”
* * * *
“ Apart from the consideration of financial
security the Equitable Life Assurance Society
is doubly safe in having its risks distributed
all over the world, thus avoiding the dangers
of war, financial and political disturbances
and epidemics to which any company con-
fining its risks to one country must of
necessity be exposed.”
• * * *
“ In the light of constantly recurring com-
mercial depressions and serious fluctuations
in the values of securities I do not think
any company can be quite safe which has no
additional funds in excess of current liabili-
ties. I have, therefore, selected the Equit-
able Life as it carries out my ideas of
security in conducting the business of life
assurance.”
• * * *
“ I prefer the Equitable because in in-
vesting my funds in that Society I know what
lam doing. Valuations of its liabilities are
made every year by competent authorities
outside of the company, and its entire assets
are periodically valued by independent
Government officials. In addition to its
published reports and its returns to the
Board of Trade in England information
covering its entire investments is supplied
officially each year to the Government In-
surance Departments in America. I can at
any time make reasonably certain of the
correct amount of its liabilities and the value
of its securities and investments.”
• * * *
“When I assured my life I gauged each
office by the results of its administration, and
paid no attention whatever to representations
of agents of other companies under review.
In the thirty odd years of its existence the
Equitable Society has grown out of all pro-
portion to the development of any of its
competitors and has at the same time
accumulated a safety fund amounting to
many millions sterling. This is far in
advance of the security offered by any other
life office I know of.”
* * * •
“ Taking everything into consideration I
am of opinion that the future results of the
Equitable’s policies will show to advantage
in comparison with those of its competitors
in Australia, for, notwithstanding the fact
that a substantial decline in the current rate
of interest in America took place some 20
years ago, the results of the Equitable’s
policies have been remarkable ; whereas a
similar decline in the rate of interest in
Australia has only been experienced during
the past few years, and the inevitable reduc-
tion in bonuses is yet to come.”
» » * *
“ In view of its having a larger amount of
assurance on its books and larger surplus
funds than any other office, it must be the
most popular, and I therefore vote with the
majority.”
* m m m
“I like the various options given at the
end of the Tontine Period. I like to feel
that the policy matures within a fixed period
during my lifetime and that I have nothing
more to pay after the twentieth payment.
All these and more I get from the Equitable.”
* * * *
“ I prefer the American Companies (I am
insured in the Equitable Life) because they
are subject to examination by the Govern-
ment, and the results are made known to
the world. I know they are financially
sound, and I can ascertain all about their
investments, which is more than I can do
with Companies not subjected to the same
inspection.”
* • • •
“The Equitable Society is my choice be-
cause I believe that their system of allowing
profits to accumulate and form a reserve
balance, which is essential to the security of
every financial institution, is the only safe
one for a Life Insurance Company to adopt.”
* ♦ * •
“I became a policy-holder in the Equit-
able Life Society, and advise all my friends
to do the same, because of the guarantee
features of its policies and its unquestionable
ability to fulfil its obligations in good times
and bad, by reason of the surplus accumu-
lations it has provided against the contin-
gencies of the years to come.”
* » * *
“ I feel secure in the financial strength of
the Equitable Assurance Society, and I like
their policies which guarantee the return of
all premiums in the event of death.”
* * * *
“I have made a very careful study of the
accounts of our principal Life Offices, and, as
a business man of long experience, I should
hesitate to entrust my savings to any Com-
pany whose published reports do not disclose
a substantial reserve-fund in proportion to
and in excess of its gross liabilities.”
* * * *
“ What a company claims to be going to
do in the future is one thing, and what a
company has done in the past and is now in
a position to guarantee to do in the future is
another thing. The Equitable has in the
past saved up surplus moneys which now
enable it to make absolute guarantees for the
future. I believe in certainties, hence my
predilection for the Equitable. ”
• * * *
“ I have only annuities in the Equitable
Life Assurance Society, but I invested my
capital in it because I believe it to be sound,
its immense special reserve qualifying it in
my humble opinion to undertake and fulfil
obligations of this character with a degree of
safety that can be insured by no company
which is not cautious enough to accumulate
funds well in excess of its necessary re-
serves.”
* * * *
“I believe in the principle that persons
who persevere with their payments and
contribute the most and the longest towards
the prosperity of the Society of which they
are members, are entitled to more considera-
tion and to receive greater benefits than
those who drop out, and I therefore throw
in my lot with the Equitable Society which,
I understand, originally introduced and has
become the great advocate of the system of
accumulation of bonuses, which system I
believe to be the safest and at the same time
the most equitable and fair to all con-
cerned.”
. * * *
“I support the Equitable Life Assurance
Society because I consider it a public bene-
factor to Australia, and because I consider it
beyond question the strongest, financially
speaking, of all our life offices. It has
given us two of the most magnificent speci-
mens of architecture in the length and
breadth of Australia. It has thoroughly
localised itself, and its Australian Branch is,
to all intents and purposes, a local institu-
tion, and furnishes to thousands of our
people protection and indemnity and an
absolutely safe depository for their savings.”


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
n. 8.111. mint de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEKEAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
JPawnbroJeinc/ Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
jpjart. month;.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
N
EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited.
CASTLEREAGH-STREET, SDYNEY.
GENERAL MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders
in the above Company will be held on TUES-
DAY, 31st inst., upon the Company s premises,
as-above, at 11.30 a.m.
Bv order of the Board of Directors.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
BUSINESS :
To Receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-
sheet, and to transact any other business that
may be brought before the meeting, in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th January, 1899.
EW SOUTH WALES MOMT DE PIETE
D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited.
74 CASTLEREAGH-STREET, SYDNEY.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st instant inclu-
sive. By order.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Dated 16th January, 1899. ,
C\V\* |(||||||
H E A D OFF leg ■■
INTERSECTION HUNTER,BIIGH AND
Castlereagh Streets.
. • SYDNEY •
Annual Income and Invested
fuHDs Exceed 000 fieri frig?
n
EsTAB Li SH£O - 1373.
I ' •-iBIRALah 0 « .. .
\L f E Office in Austro
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Lite-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital £ |qs’nnn
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability £218,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in retrard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
WFAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S.’ D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
? „ ....xmTT (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
WM. C. SMITH.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders •• ••• 2.>0,000
£700,000
£350,000
N
EW
ZEALAND INSURANCE
COMPANY.
Shareholders of the above Company are hereby
notified that a Dividend of 2/- (Tvvo Shillings)
>er share for the Half-year ending 30th November
s now payable at the Company’s offices, 81 i ltt-
treet, Sydney. g HAGUE SMITH,
Manager. '
Q
ITT ti KljTj'S Fluid Disinfectant clears out Bugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
J\)€ Trustees, €x€C^»torS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linj*t€d,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED ...
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount; at Credit of Estates,
Clients, 30th June, 1898
Insolvency Department, Mr.
trustee.
£160,000
£60,000
£150,000
Trusts, and
£6,073,603
L. I. Barker registered
F R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. •• £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up Capital .. . . £3,082,511
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esn., J.P.; Hon. W. IT. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Baymarket, Gosford (with asrency at Wvong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
--THE—
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
■ Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
CUiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessof, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Ceyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Fakquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, s/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We ore the cneapeStin Aua-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.~Wigzell,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps (or full Prioe List.
Prompt attention'given to Country Order*
ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning- grey
should send tor a Bottle of ELEOTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 - 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest, Type, £7 10s ;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ E Talking Macbii)« Depot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, N-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 28,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Saturday,Feb. 4,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Peregrine. Saturday, Feb. 4,12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Peregrine,Saturday, Feb. 4,12 Noon.
Takes passengers and cargo toi
' S.S. Gabo leaving Melbourne
Tuesday, Feb. 7.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 28, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Jan. 31, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 4, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE I
LUCINDA POINT]
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c. J
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 28, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 4, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices —Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street,
1,1 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
JlA by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under: —
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G P.O., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; B.I.S.N. Co., Brisbane.
Special Trip
to .. J0F*
cmni * mm.
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
i i
AUSTRALIAN
From SYDNEY on or about the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming: a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Bates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to^-
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
ATIONAL trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man); W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Telephone No. 095.
Box No. 237, G.P.O.,
Adelaide.
Cable Address—Kiemsele.
Code— Mokeing & Neat., etc.
ClarKe & Co
(A RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALG00RLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
GUII)E ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
MARK
TRADE
girl \\ brand
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET. -
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Ointra, Friday, January 27.
S.S. Marrloo, Saturday, February <L
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Cintra, Frida)-,
January 27.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
February 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
January 27.
j ßest & Cheapest Monte to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. 8. YtULL and CO., r.TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Co’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSA6ERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(H‘|!uiraith, ffl‘Eacharn & go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
rassa.i'e irLuiiej noui wo.
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE -British, India and Queensland Agencf
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
„ Patent ~ 10/6
t Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
f> All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
All Ooze Tan Calf ... ... ... 10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
ar e Famous
. . SEND FOE . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies% Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
JiOUJIKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
fci/2
I
:
HEADACHE
i CURED!
A Headache Cure should be
instantaneous, safe, certain,
and effective, however often
it is used, and free from dan-
ger of evil after-effects. The
public should know that some
so-called headache cures are
dangerous, and ought not to
be used except under medical
advice. A headache cure, free
from every objection, is ob-
tainable, and known as
BISHOP’S
Citrate of Caffeine
It immediately cures the
•worst headache, and dispels
all feelings of exhaustion and
weariness. Supplied by all
Chemists at
lli}i and 2/-, or
of ALFRED
BISHOP, Ltd.,
iVlfg. Chemists,
Mile End New
Town, I Y on don.
kPLAIN.
Danis
JEUf
TJSE
Spooler's
% ,00NE/?^
IROVALKAVVDRESSIHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 8t SHOES
1! OF MU DESCRIPTIONS
DIRRCI lONS FOR USE
SOohiiiiliiiiiiliiiiiimmiliiliTS!
ROYAL NAVY
PRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Hotels.
H3&~ Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
0, (CAIRNS),
IVorth Queen gland.
James Watters Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
R. GEIIEET,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Eue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-elass Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
Medicine Sent Free
T'O MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVE TROUBLES,
x WEAKNESS, ATROPHY, DEBILITY, VARICO-
CELE, etc., etc., no matter how SEVERE the case may
be. THOUSANDS cured annually. Remedy sent by
mail in plain package. WHEN CURED we charge you
not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. Write
to-day. Address—
HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
P. 0., Box 347, SYDNEY.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address-
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
D.S.MAIR
g p
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2,6, Jewels,
2/6 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand's ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.-
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Supply Agency,
| Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones
Sheepskins -
Tallow -
Hides -
Thursday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrougb, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgerv, Limited.
Wincheombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young- and Co.
Dr. TARRANT,
E.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.E.C.5.1., I.M.E C.P.E,
.
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duty registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, ami
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applied ,le
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
Secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded "as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
HVTo M!a,n or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is vour intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ functional DERANGEMENTS. ”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
ori'dn traced ;heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, replv cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
jou experience Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation., or Relaxation of the
Rowels • Bad Taste Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
AVbso Titely jKTo Charge
for Consultation • but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
nlaint including’speoial Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints Fistula Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
Gon Hir> Disease Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Npnralo-ia and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in vour first letter thus proving bona ftdcs, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
d t d at Dr TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If vou are ill be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARR4NT who’will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, B.T. Box 1204, Gr.F.O., Sydney.
Please mention 'The Bulletin when writing-
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FUNDEES ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/C. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Bugs, 13 O- Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Bugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
TM ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT
FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOR
13s. 6d.
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments & Remittanceof 13s.
6d., when you will have
mailed to you,post free
apairof those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow
or wide;
toes. <
inns
&OUP.ON
Guinea
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corp, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z. ,
As ELLIS S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed Within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address:
W. J. ELLIS,
Sydney.
635 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Our New Address.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! — -1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
T*E T*M* F* R e*E*Y*Q*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we tnay inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English. Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
A. Solid Silver Watch
Absolutely GIVEN AWAY. Can You Read This?
[ W'A*S I T* E | T* M * |
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Hunter Watches (Ladies’ or
Gentlemen’s) to every reader who sends us the correct
reading of the above rebus. Conditions—that your
answer be correct, and you undertake to purchase one of
our Solid Silver Chains. We make this offer solely with
the object of introducing our catalogue and advertising
our goods. Send at once, enclosing stamped-addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if correct. Address:
THE MANAGER—
The London Watch & Jewellery Co.,
3 Central Arcade, George-st., SYDNEY.
's-pioo '
‘ojioj
VsdmvzQ
Cuts,
i Burns,
V Bruises.
\
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
■Pain-Kitter
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.


6/6 A WATCH and CHAIN for 6s. 6d.
To every purchaser
of one of our 2s. 6d.
“ Burmese ” Silver
Chains ('either
Ladies’ or Gent’s
Curb) we will pre-
sent on payment of
4s. extra an OPEN-
FACE KEYLESS
WATCH (as illu-
strated), which we
guarantee. There
are no conditions or
guessing about this
watch. We send
the watch and chain registered (any colony) on receipt of
postal note for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage. VVe make this
extraordinary offer merely to circulate our price-list, and
.will send, as a FREE GIFT, a Beautiful Pendant Charm
'Penknife to hang on the Watch Chain. Mention The
Bulletin.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
“TOKOLOGY”
A BOOK FOR EVERY WOMAN.
. . BY . .
ALICE B. STOCKHAM, M.D.
Dedicated
To all women who, following the lessons taught in
this book, will be saved the sufferings peculiar to
their sex.
“ To be well-born is the right of every child.”
Sent post-paid on receipt of price, 12s. 6cL, to
any address in Australia.
Chicago Publishing Co.,
232 Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep6t, 257 Georere-street,
Sydney. *
Prevention of Seasickness. —The extra-
ordinary nature of the new remedy is the subject
of a letter from Mr. G. Cunningham, of Auckland
(N.Z.). He writes :“ I was very pleased with the
result of the * Seajoi ’ I purchased from you.
I have done a lot of travelling, but this trip
is the first I have enjoyed; on all former occa-
sions I have been a martyr to seasickness.”
“ Seajoi ” is sold by Albert Sharp, 257 George-st.,
nearly opposite Bridge-st., Sydney.*
“Tokology,” by Alice B. Sfcockham, M.D.,
is a work dealing in an exhaustive but simple
manner with the hygienics of pregnancy, the
amelioration of accouchement conditions, and
kindred subjects. The book, which should be of
great value to married women, is obtainable from
William Lewis, 232 Clarence-street, Sydney, who
may be depended on promptly to forward it, upon
receipt of 12/6, post free.*
“Cable Just to Hand.”
Champion Wm. Martin
and his Red Bird Special
Defeats VAN HEEDEN,
Champion of South Africa,
IN MATCH RACE, 1,5, and 10 MILES.
MARTIN rides a RED BIRD SPECIAL from choice, and the wisdom of hia
selection is evidenced by his wonderful performances.
Tbe 6oold Bicycle Co. Limited,
Factoktes :
BRANTFORD,
Canada.
64 KING ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q.
HARRIS ST, WELLINGTON, N.Z
Agenis injmcn and Country. SUlllig-llt In YOUr HOmeS.
USE THE H fg _ Np^
■ New Sunlight Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s, 6d,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
That mysterious body, the S.T.C., holds its
Anniversary two-days’ meeting- to-day (Thursday) and
Saturday, at Randwick. Hurdles on first day looks well
for Lord Gresford or Orangeskin, whilst the Maiden Plate
may fall to well-bred Rifieite. The “ Amateurs ” will do
their usual “all in," with the result, perhaps, of Playboy
winning. Challenge Slakes may be won by Johansen,
Admonition, or Beaulieu, the latter, a more than smart
two-vear-old, likely proving the winner. Turf Club
Handicap may fall to Burleigh ; whilst, on the second
day, surelj- Blue Metal should win Anniversary Handicap,
Kitavvare seeming next best.
* * * *
Lord Gresford, by his win in the Welter at
Moorefield, showed himself better on the flat than over
hurdles. L.G. wasn’t backed much, but Ikey’s best price
about him was 12 to 1. His dividend from a shop-tote on
the race (ss. and pay first three) was £9 11s., or 37 to 1!
**' * *
The fact of the pony Crimson starting first
favorite for Moorefield Handicap last Saturday speaks
volumes re the number of triers in that race, and yet the
sapient stewards had Crimson up, and let the dozen or so
stiffs alone altogether, as was the case in one or two
other events. Truly the ways of racing stewards are at
times peculiar.
* * * *
It seems an unwritten racing law that notice
shall not be taken of a horse running “a bye,’’ so long as
the horse is not backed. On Saturday, at Moorefield
(Syd.), there appeared to be more horses out for an airing
than “on the job.” One case in particular was most
glaring. This particular neddy started a week or two
previously, but long odds not being forthcoming, it was
not a trier. Last Saturday the books called still shorter
odds, and the moke not being backed of course ran no-
where. Some Saturday in the near future the money will
go on and the animal will romp home, but narv a question
will be asked as to previous running. And this sort of
thing goes on weekly on the courses under the wing of
the A. J.C., that holy body which looks with horror upon
pony-racing.
* • * *
The recent running of the Queenslander, Bosco-
bel, who was made favorite for the Anniversary Handicap
as soon as the weights appeared, can hardly be called con-
sistent. Boscobel finished a close fourth in Summer and
Tattersall s Cups when well-backed, but amongst the
very moderate lot in the handicap at Moorefield on Satur-
day he wasn’t considered to have much of a chance, and
started at tens to one, to finish nearer last than first.
On this performance (and with a stone less to carry), 100
to 1 against him for the Anniversary Handicap would be a
short, price, but he will probably start about first favorite,
a fi v la^ever can t> ca k him should give the prize a nasty
* * * *
W. R. Wilson’s well-named Majestic nearly
brought off an 8 to 1 chance at Caulfield on Saturday, and
might have actually won had Morrison bustled him a
little sooner. Majestic owes the stable a lot of money by
this time, and may perhaps supply the deficiency at the
V.R.O. Autumn meeting. Weight is not likely to stop
the big four-year-old if he cares to do his best; but the
“if” is an important consideration.
* • * •
Albert Miller, who practically trains his own
horses, seems to be doing well since brother Septimus
went away on a trip to Hingland. He landed the jump-
ing double at Caulfield with Iramoo and Leeway—a
hollow victory in each case. Considering that Iramoo led
his field all the way, and took the liberty of giving one of
the hurdles a clout which nearly brought him to grief,
he ought to be worth following for the present.
* * * •
Painful to read that old Tommy Wilson would
not have run victorious Relic for Geelong Cup but for
being laid a third of the Tatt. sweep-money by the drawer
of the Relic ticket. The Bulletin doesn’t fully believe
this yarn, but it recognises the spirit in which the yarn is
published. Every “Tatt.’s” sweep investor is thereby
threatened with the scratching of his horse (when he
happens to draw one) unless he consents to sacrifice at
least 33 per cent, of his winning chance. The tendency
of every horse-owner from this' time forward will be to
“despise” his gee-gee’s prospects and “make up his
nnnd to withdraw it from the race ” —unless he can back
it for a win and a place at the expense of a terrified ticket-
holder.
• * * *
S.A. totalisator receipts during 1898 amounted
to £268,156. Of this £221,640 was invested on metropoli-
tan courses. The racing clubs took 714 P er cent., or
over £20,000, as commission, which gives an idea of the
amount Moses and co. must have scooped in the good old
days. Nearly the whole of the totalisator commissions
have been invested by the clubs in improvements and
increased stakes, as proved by their balance-sheets.
• * * «
Still believed by Giffen’s friends that he will be
chosen for England. The ex-champion, by the way, was
with the S.A. team at Bacchus Marsh when the Sydney
papers arrived with the names of the nine certainties—-
minus George—and it is testified that “ Giff’s ” agony was
all too painfully apparent.
* • • •
S.A. Cricketing Association objects to the pro-
posed match, Australians v. S.A., fixed for the eve of the
departure of the team from Adelaide for England. Proposed,
too, that Jones, Darling, and Hill should play for S.A.,
and it is difficult to conceive of a more farcical match.
S.A.O.A. has now decided that it will have Australia v.
next-best team, as in the matches at Melb. and Sydney,
or nothing at all.
• * * •
Considering the many opportunities Newell has
had of distinguishing himself, and the rareness with
which he has risen above mediocrity, the selection com-
mittee could, without doing him an injustice, have placed
him twelfth and thus given Duff a further chance to
show his brilliant qualities as a bat and field.
* * * *
On performances, Pye’s claim for the English
trip should at least be considered. He made 80 (not out),
31, and 55 in his only innings against Stoddart’s team;
and, bowling for his province v. S.A., took Hill’s, Dar-
ling’s, Giffen’s, and Lyons’ wickets for 87, in a total of 479,
* * * *
Should Howell go ’Ome—and he begins to be
looked on as a certainty—he may develop into the smiter
of the team. On Saturday, at N. Sydney, he went in
first with Farquhar for Central Cumberland, and ran up
63, by first-class cricket, whilst Farquhar made 18. He
made one straight hit for five clean over some gum-trees
outside the Oval, the record hit for the ground.
* * * *
A well-known cricket dogmatist to The Bulle-
tin :—“ Inevitable muddle re picking team for’Ome immi-
nent. Team should be definitely decided on after match
N.S.W. v. Vic. What kind of interest will there be in
matches v. Rest of Australia if Johns, Billowell, or Tom
M'Kibbin have to play for the Rest ? Team should be :
—Darling-, Olem. Hill, Syd. Gregory (three best all-round
bats going), M'Leod, Noble, Trumble, G. Giffen (all first-
olass bats and ‘ondeniable ’ as bowlers on ’Ome wickets),
Iredale and Worrall (can not only bat well but field like
demons), Jones (the fast bowler of the world vice Tom
Richardson, bowled-out), Kelly and Johns (‘ stoompers '
of first water and batsmen at pinch), and last but not cer-
tainly least Tom M‘Kibbin and Billowell, perhaps the two
best bowlers in the world—ask Col. Ranii.”
• • * J *
Sid. Gregory and Newell, starting for Waverley,
the local premier club, against South Sydney, ran up 157
between them, but, so soon as their wickets fell, a rot set
in, and the whole lot got out for 209 (15 sundries). And
S. Sydney played without its two crack bowlers, M'Beth
and Bowden. Marsh took the three last men’s wickets
(Carter, Macnamara, and Austin) for 0. The glorious un-
certainty of cricket thrown in, it might be long before
eight such wickets as Pemell, Ebsworth, Noonan, Calla-
way, MTntyre, Carter, Macnamara and Austin go down
for 23.
• • a
0. A. Richardson, the ex-Sydney skipper, is
oyer on a short visit from Maoriland. He played with
Zingari against Warwick on Saturdav, but was beaten by
a good ball early in the match. Richardson, who was
unable to get enough leave to play with the coming M.L.
team, considers it a fairly representative one.
* * * *
The electric lights on Sydney Cricket Ground
last Thursday night were much inclined to play the pro-
moters false—the start was made a quarter of an hour
late in consequence. The general opinion amongst
cycling-men is that racinsr is no more dangerous at night
than in the day, providing the light is good. On Thurs-
day night some of the lights kept going out and flashing
back into existence after a spell. Somerville met his
death by bashing his head into the fence, and at the
inquest the usual verdict—accidentally killed—was, of
course, returned. Racing-men appear to be of opinion
that the fault of the course is that it is deficient in width.
Strange to say, the times are faster at night, perhaps due
to the absence of wind, half-miles being rattled off in 58
anrt 59sec., day times being never less than the minute.
Walne vvon the big handicap, but, being off-color, ran off
after doing about three miles in the ten miles scratch
race. Megson, M‘Donald, and Corbett fell, but escaped
with their lives.
Night-racing is r.ot likely to boom for long, the
great drawback being that the riders cannot be distin-
guished. Even the most experienced lookers-on are
unable to pick out the racers except by their “seat" on
the saddle.
* * » *
Prof, bikers are about tired of Melb. Cricket
Ground as a raoing-track. On the first Saturday of the
L.V. W. Cup-meet smashes were frequent. Very expensive
men came down in flights, and Melbourne was dotted
with broken heads for a week after. Writer counted four
in the Opera House same night. N.B.—When the cyclist
has picked up a bad grating he does like to parade it.
“ Proud as a boy with a broken arm."
* * » *
Cycling polo, introduced for the first time at
Vic. League’s meeting on Saturday, came as a revelation
to nearly every one present. Expecting to see a theatri-
cal show after the manner of trick-riding, the spectators
found it to be a real live ding-dong game which “went”
from start to finish. Though dangerous to the player and
extremely so to the mount, cycling-polo is the makings of
an excellent sport.
* * * *
The second day of Vic. League of Wheelmen’s
meeting at Melb. Cricket Ground provided some very
good racing, but the morning’s rain kept the gate down
to £251. If the daddy cyclists want to escape suspicion of
“ cutting-up ’’ tactics, however, they must run their next
Cyclone Scratch Trio-contests on different lines. At the
L.V. W. meeting last Saturday there was a Cyclone Trio—
distances 1,3, and 5 miles—lst prize £3o| second £l5,
third £5 ; with £5 to the winner of each final. Results
happened as follows :
1 Mile. 3 Mile. 6 Mile.
W. C. Jackson D. J. Walker F. S. Beauchamp
F. S. Beauchamp F. S. Beauchamp W. C. Jackson
D. J. Walker W. C. Jackson A. C. Forbes
All the same, the exhibition of “ form ” in cycling is more
satisfactory than in horse-racing, where the cracks are
generally beaten by one or other animal that has
no chance on paper. In the trio of cyclone contests the
public found the placed men for the One Mile filling five
out of six places in the longer-distance events. The indi-
vidual “ form ” was a caution to punters, but the collec-
tive superiority of three men was well maintained.
The League Cup became the property of the
dusky little Gordon, who came in second to ex-amateur
oarsman Fitzgerald. The latter, however, was rubbed
out for interference, and the race awarded to the second
man. The ordinary race fell to Herman, who was im-
properly allowed to start on a pneumatic-tyred machine,
Kellovv, the favorite, scratching himself in disgust.
With fairly good luck in the matter of weather
and no strong counter attractions to “queer their pitch,"
the L.V.W. couldn’t make more than £5O profit on a two-
Saturdays’ meeting at the M.C.O. ground. One wet day
would have turned the profit into a loss.
* * * •
Woollahra Council was lately asked to
license Larry Foley’s local hall as a dancing-academy.
One of the aldermen expressed a doubt as to whether the
academy could be conducted without disorder. The
applicant for the license quietly remarked that the hall
adjoined Mr. Foley’s residence and that gentleman “ had
undertaken to see there was no trouble." That settled
the matter—the license was granted immediately. The
soothing influence of Mr. Larry Foley is well known and
respected in the district.
* * * •
“Billy’’ Williams, (father of the quartette of
fair-haired little biking damsels who ornament New Baby-
lon) the trainer of Bob Walne, put on his forsaken youth
again on Saturday night and met Jack M‘Gowan in a fistic
contest at the Vic. Hall, Melbourne. He got home so
repeatedly on the handsome face of his younger and
smaller opponent that the verdict was given him at the
end of the limit. Billy is understood to be returning to
the ring solely for the purpose of striking form in case he
meets the burglar who visited his house recently, threat-
ened one of his little girls with a revolver, and walked off
with £5O-worth of trophies.
* * * *
Much expected but little done was the general
verdict re the Gaffney-Keys fight at the Golden Gate
Club (Sydney) on Saturday night, when 600 people paid
five, three, and two shillings each to see the pair thump.
Keys was a good man once, hut has been on the shelf so
long that his limbs have stiffened, and all relish for “ mix-
ing ” has left him. Gaffney, who has kept his hand well
in, and is on the eve of arranging a match with clever
little Melb. Jack M‘Gowan, showed great respect for the
probable “ bit up his sleeve ” that Keys might possess,
and only foroed the fighting occasionally. Gaffney
knooked his man out In the eighth round, but he’ll need
to improve a lot to have a ohanoe with the Melbourne
top-notcher.
• • • •
Prof. Miller and strong - man Sampson are
matched to “rastle” and lift weights, and the public is
asked to get excited over the event. Miller’s name in
connection with a match comes as a whiff of old times —
a memory of the musty past. Sampson will, of course,
win the “ lift ” from the good old “ has been,” but, as he
knows absolutely nothing about wrestling, Miller must
score there. Verdict —“a draw.” Sequel—each man’s
banking-account considerably added to.
* * * *
Boxing promoters nowadays seem to know
little about the rules. Abe Willis, who once fought Black
Dixon in America for the world’s bantam-weight cham-
pionship, and Essler, the “Kaffir,” are billed to fight in
Sydney for the bantam-weight championship of Aus-
tralia — the avoirdupois limit being fixed at Bst. 41bs.
Now, anybody who knows anything at all about M.Q.
rules needs no telling that Bst. is the hard-and-fast limit
for bantams. Last month two men were frequently re-
ferred to by a Melb. sporting print as being engaged to
fight for the feather-weight championship at 9st. 21bs.
when the extreme limit for that class is 9st.
* * * *
There will hardly be room on the little island
for all the fish-chasers who will rush off to Tasmania on
the strength of Melbourne barrister Bryant’s splendid
Great Lake record of close on scwt. of trout in three
weeks ! Average weight, 81bs. But Mr. Bryant is an
indefatigable expert who thrashes the Lake every year.
The reported mutilation of the Gatton
victims is now officially denied. “ There is not a
word of truth in it. The only marks on the
bodies were the death-wounds on the heads, and
the marks of violence attendant on the fight made
by the poor girls to preserve their honor. There
was absolutely no mutilation. Some papers, too,
have reported that the horse driven by the
Murphys on the night of the tragedy had its
throat cut. That is also entirely wrong. In
short, no knife was used either on the Murphys
or their horse by the murderer or murderers.”
According to journalist Jack Wagner
(whom Sydney D.T., by the' way—perhaps with
reference to Wagner pore’s coaching celebrity-
styles “Waggoner”) the good old Orange-and-
Green trouble is not wanting amongst the causes
of the Samoan kick-up. Mataafa, it seems, calls
himself a “Cattlick,” while Malietoa labels him-
self “Prodistan,” and their merry men are
accordingly stoushing each other more or less on
behalf of King Billy and the Pope respecti velv.
The Bulletin can’t help wondering, just here, if
the rumpus has anything to do with the simul-
taneous appearance at the Celestial gates—arm-
in-arm, as it were—of Father Chiniquy and Rev.
Orange-firebrand Madgwick, of Sydney. The
little Samoan sectarian difficulty might have been
arranged up aloft in honor, so to speak, of such a
portentous combination.
Burgess may or may not be the mysterious
slip-rail man of the Gatton murders. But whether
he is or is not, the method of his identification is
so farcical and dishonest as to be a blasphemy
against justice. The lady who now identifies him
appears to have stated at the outset (before any-
one had been arrested) that she did not think she
could identify the man she saw at the slip-rails:
now, it is printed, she is quite sure about him. A
lot of other people are also quite sure—abo(| the
identity of a man whom they only saw at night
with hishatoverhiseyes; this after Burgess’photo!
in two attitudes has been printed in nearly every
newspaper in Australia. Why were not the lady
and the others, given the opportunity by the
police of picking Burgess out of 20 or 25 people
before his portrait was known to all men and
women? The man had been in custody for weeks
before being confronted with the witnesses. Why
there is not a solitary little newsboy in Australasia
who could not now identify Burgess. The suspect
is accused of a foul crime. Let him have a fair
trial.
To be hoped the builders of Federation will, at
their second attempt, proceed on scientific lines and pro-
duce a structure appealing to the democratic Australian
soul as a thing of beauty and a joy for ever. In which
case they will emulate the builders of our attractive out-
fits which are assuredly things of beauty, giving infinite
joy to their wearers and their wearers’ best girls. Write
for particulars for first-class outfits, head, neck and foot
wear, &c., to London and American Supply Stores,
Bourke-street, Melb. Prices moderate, satisfaction im-
moderate.*
The N.S. W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.
“A NIGHT CAP”
Of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.CL.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.


WHAT WE SAY THEY’LL DO
THEY DO DO • • •
In the final of the £4OO Austral
Wheel Race, the greatest of all Cycling
.vents for which 187 of the world's finest riders
*rented, the 16 winners of heats started on
Saturday last. Of these 16, 7 were mounted on
English-made machines, 5 on Colonial-made
achines, 2 on American machines, and 2 on the
Easy - Running Canadian Massey - Harris. In
r.aby “ .
the 11 neats, bi-
every kind made
country in the
1 he result of ihis
perfection in'
ness of propul-
the 2 Mas-
Bicycles
jst and 2nd.
Meeting, M-issey
won not only the
Wheel Race, but
of the Cl aSSIC
cycles of almost
in almost every
world were used.
| exacting- test of
'quality and easi
sion resulted in
sey-Harris
f i nishing
At the Austral
- Harris riders
Great Austral
3 out Of S
Austral
International Scratch Races,
including the Austral Derby, in all of
which they secured world’s records,
and earned £472 lOs. prize money,
more by £lO3 10s. than half of all offered.
We have all along claimed for Massey-Harns
Bicycles that “ They Run Easy and Keep Run-
ning Easy.” What we say they’ll do they do do.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA
AUSTRALASIAN HEAD QUARTERS : WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
.Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Tlere !
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
-TT7E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
W we know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date. _, ,
P BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Agent for “ Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
PILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank Qrimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
wniTirmri
«&SH9U
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CHEMEVI',” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the Other is
“Elios’ Kill i-streiT Totter Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Ollice.
Proprietor - » GEO. W. ELLIS.
T 0....
PIGEON SHOTS
..AND OTHERS.
A GENUINE Greener
Gun can now be ob-
tained from all the principal
dealers in Australia, bearing
the well-known GREENER
marks. Write for a Gun
bored like Mr. D. Macintosh’s,
who has just returned from
Europe loaded with trophies
of his skill and won by his
favorite “GREENER” to
(]). ID. Greener,
BOX 326, G.P.0., SYDNEY ; or to his Yic. Rep., !
C W. BUCKLAND, 16 Ourral Road, ELSTERN
WICK, MELBOURNE.
4 4 Imperial ’ ’ Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGIITLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
,T. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDN EY
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘garden City’
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
{
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss Nellie Wilson Miss Ethel Yorke
Miss PEGGY PBYDE.
Mr. ZFMR-lEID* _ - -
Sisters Phillips ...and... Bros- Lorenzi-
Miss KITTY WAGER, POPE and SAYLES,
OHAS W. COGILL, WALLACE KING, PRISCILLA
VERNE, HETTIE PATEY, NITA CLARKE, FLORRIE
RANGER, and our Double Co. Matinees every Saturday.
OPERA MOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Cora Oaselli- Lieut- Frank Travis-
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
Mr. H. WHEATLEY. CONLEY & CAREW.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mrsoßovu.
FAREWELL TO “THE GEISHA."
LAST NIGHTS!
£he §eisha: 4 (Story of a gea §ouse.
Book by Owen Hall.
Lyrics by Henry Greenbank. Music by Sydney Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
Uew
SATURDAY EVENING, Jan. 28th, for a Limited Number
of Nights Only,
THE GREAT DREYFUS DRAMA,
ON€ OF TH€ B€ST.
aj4 3l,pe E: o. E gmo's^ 8 A 1
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Hr. Hamilton.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Jan. 26th and 27th,
NIOBE.
TURD AY, Jan. 28th, for Four Nights Only,
DANDY By A. W. PINERO.
The Season will be continued at the Princess Theatre
on Feb. 4th, when will be produced
THE ADVENTURE OF LADY URSULA.
PRICES AS USUAL. - Box Plan at Glen’s.
H E
HE
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
BOOM.
BOOM.
. . Fitzgerald’s . .
New Coipbipgd Sljows,
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGISTER
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location).
TWO BIG
SENSATIONS
}
The Tiger and Horse. . ,
The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY'S THEATItE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Matinees Thursday and Saturday Afternoons, at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Will be presented the Gorgeous, Humorous and Spec-
tacular Pantomime, entitled
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
By ARTHUR 11. ADAMS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Mr. O. M. McADOO’S
JUBILEE SINGERS.
LAST 3 NIGHTS 1
GRAND DOUBLE PROGRAMME.
Matinees TO-DAY (Thursday) and SATURDAY.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., is.
rjl HE AT it 10 ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
sth WEEK sth
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular and Powerful Dramatic Company, in the
Enormously Successful Original Play,
When London Sleeps.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
-fcXHIBITTUN BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE EERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING ; Children, SIXPENCE.
IJIHE GAIETY THEATRE, ZEEHAN.
Seats up to 1000. Beautiful building; large stage, 38 x
48 ; electric lighting; usual stock scenery ; all modern
accessories. Equals any provincial theatre in Australasia.
In a rapidly rising district, with an amusement-loving
public. Terms from proprietor, EDWARD MULCAHY,
Hobart; or S. F. Hickom, Zeehan, agent.
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c. , &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN,
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
ReaL§efuvia.im Hollow GROUND
never requires grinding.
u . n p IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
MAD f N black and ivory handles.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. W.
bi
uiATrure
Yo--
oun
l'
GSnUfr. TWS7
Whats the use o'talk-
ing .'SWlFT’cjctes
were made before
%u wei^-xthoUghUf-
Sole Agents
The Austral
Cycle Agency LTD.
Debots V Agencies in
all the principal towns
Of AUSTRALASIA.


i
The Falling Leaves
Give Warning of Winter
So the falling of the hair tells
of the approach of age and declin-
ing power. No matter how barren
the tree nor how leafless it may
seem, you confidently expect leaves
again. And why?
Because there is Life
at the Roots.
So you need not worry about thel
falling of your hair, the threatened de- 1
parture of your youth and beauty. And why?
Because if there is a spark of life re-
maining in the roots of the hair
Ayer's *
Hair Vigor
•will arouse it into healthy activity. The
hair ceases to come out: it begins to grow :
and the glory of youth is restored to you.
Prepared by Dr. J.C.Ayer & Co.,Powell,Mass., u.s.A
“ Ocean Spray,”
Coogee.
Messrs. FREEMAN & SONS.
Gentlemen.
I have used your Flour, Self-
raising Flour, and, Batho’s Baking Powder
for six months at my weekly lectures in con-
nection with the Australian Gas Light Co.,
and am very pleased with, all three. I con-
sider the Baking Powder letter than any I
have previously used, and both the Flour
and Self-raising Flour cannot be better. I
shall have much pleasure in recommending
them all three at my xveekly lectures, subur-
ban ones, private classes, and among my
own personal friends.
Trusting that you may meet with the
reward your excellent articles deserve,
I am, gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. MARGARET COOK.
Teacher Scientific Cookery,
Lecturess to Aus. Gas Light Co.
December 22, ’9B.
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine!
This inducement is Offered You to know the
TIME to STITCH !
--- WATCH THIS ---
The British Watch Co.,
of George Street, SYDNEY, desiring to introduce into
every household its stock of watches, chains, bangles,
rings, etc., GUARANTEES to present a Solid Silver
Keyless Watch to any person guessing the following
Puzzle
W*T * H T E T M
CONDITION : Send your answer with a stamped-addressed
envelope for reply, and if correct you will receive a Solid
Silver Keyless Watch free of charge, on condition that
you purchase one of our Solid Silver Single or double
Chains to wear with your Watch.
Address — THE! MANAGER,
PRICE
27/6.
British Watch Company,
George Street, Sydney.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €rgbrocatioi)-
iales of the convict system.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
OUI HELL’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
WHY PAY FOR
A WATCH?
CAN YOU READ THIS?
In order to introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 10s. Solid Silver Keyless
Hunter Watches,
LADIES’ or GENTLEMEN’S, to every reader who sends
the Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS.—That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER SINGLE OR
DOUBLE CHAINS. Send Stamped Addressed Envelope
for reply. Money returned if not satisfied.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE GTiOBE WATCH COMPANY, Ltd.
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPVNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Appi.y Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never fie without it.
Over fifty years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORIJ).
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES,
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and a/- each.
Proprietors" GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
& CO., KENT and EIVERPOOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
OF NATUKE
" * —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK EOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated v- : th more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ;by post 4s.
It is Impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new ’
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
1 p IP iNGt Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s • post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heftameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is Cd^post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6 ; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free IS. TIIE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc. , 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d,
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is Cd post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Bools. Depot
16 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
B Y ROYA.L WA.RR-A.KrX OF A.i-FOIWT 3VEEKTX TO
“ THEE QXJEEKT.
( 3dd3M<ps,
pde A)|?iqM
JOl >|s«
SCHWEPPES
,3dd3/Aq>s,
ptie Aptiejg
Joj >|Stt
SOPAWATER, &c-
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
(LI MITE!
of Australia
n A T»Tf> (Lake Illawarra), *xear SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
roducers
fine silver
I
•• *.
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARAA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
of all classes of
HIGHEST TRICES PAID FOR ORES
GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ 8.E.” : A correspondent objected some
time ago to prisoners “going up” being pilloried
in trains. My suburb (Glebe, Sydney) goes one
worse. Was standing at street-corner t’other
day, waiting for train, when up came two cop-
pers ” with four “ coppeds ” handcuffed together,
the ironmongery looking fresh and newly-sand-
papered. While waiting for the tram, cops and
copped lined up along with us and chatted affably;
and when the tram hove-to we all got in together
and rode gaily to town.
The story of siege-guns made in Sydney.
When the first Maori war broke out, Major
Baddeley and many troops left Sydney for Maori-
land, and the services of Capt. Mann,
who died only a week or two ago, were
temporarily secured by N.S.W. Government
in lieu of those of the Major aforesaid. Shortly
came news of disaster —the “ pahs ” formed by the
Maori warriors being practically impregnable, and
the fire from behind them particularly deadly ;
in fact, only artillery could put an end to the
“ sniping ”of the Maori marksmen. But artillery
was out of the question, for the simple reason that
there was no road or means of taking guns to the
front. It was then Capt. Mann found a number
of sJin. shells in the ordnance yards, and the idea
struck him that mortars might be constructed to
fit these projectiles, and light enough to be carried
through the mountainous Maori country. So one
such gun was cast out of brass, its bed-carriage of
iron, each portion weighing but 1001 b. A trial
took place in Sydney Domain, and the
Governor, Sir George Gipps, being much interested
in the work, placed his hat and handkerchief on the
target staff. He never saw them again, so well
was the mortar handled by the 99th Regt. squad
acting as gunners. Twenty of the mortars were
immediately ordered of the founders (P. N.
Russell and Co.), and were forwarded to Maon-
land per the East India Co.’s frigate Elphinstone.
On arrival, they were carried by four men each-
two to the mortar, two to the bed—to the front,
placed in position, and shortly started dropping
shells into the Maori strongholds. Strange to sa.y,
these mortars somehow or other reached India,
and were afterwards shipped off with the siege-
train for the reduction of Magdala, the stronghold
of Theodore, Abyssinia’s king, in the war of ’6B.
And they were “ made ” in Sydney !
Last week the casualty-room man in a
Sydney hospital looked up and saw a vision of
juvenile beauty of about eight summers blocking
the door. Its mamma was with it, but the c.r. man
didn’t grasp the fact for about five minutes. They
wanted the vision’s tonsils removed. In due time
three doctors carried her behind the screen. On
sounding the vision, it was decided that she
wasn’t a good subject for chloroform, and one nice
young doctor stood up and told horrible falsehoods
in the most brazen manner —told her it wouldn’t
hurt a bit : in fact, it was rather pleasant ; and
he often had his out just for the fun of it. Here
the casualty-room man groaned under his breath
and wanted to murder the doctor. Then out came
one tonsil. The vision gasped and then broke the
windows and split the fire-proof ceiling with
shrieks of “Blue murder! Police!! You
, let me go ! ” And they let the
beautiful little vision go without extracting any
more tonsil.
In Auckland, M.L., where the “pubs'’
shut at 10 p.m., the German landlord of one was
aroused about midnight by a loud knocking. He
opened his window and asked, “ Vot you vant?”
“ I want to come in.” “Veil, you gawd gome
in. Ve vas all gone to ped.” “But I want to
stay here all night.” “Veil, you yan zday dere
all nighd, und pe dam ! ” and the window
slammed.


H err RaSSri)(iSS€i)’S Alfaliije Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmdssen.— Dear
gj r ,_l think,it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Xalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through inremperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks. —I am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that .your Alfaline Blood
Pilis completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A. —“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—" Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir-,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “piles.” I tried almost everything-, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
IDission in the Herbal |||orld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Paiisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-~
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs any where.
ft
'.'V'vv
Herr Rassmussen , TJp-to-Daie Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Altaline Remedies.
£SOREWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Itecommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen.)
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Ha,IIS RaSSHIUSSGII,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus “H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OK THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinal Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEH’S
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable. Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo >derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
aagtasasrsa
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness ail atvo-tot- c-rw-n rnn 1
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALE ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Kiassmussen’s Head Office: - 54*7 Georgfe Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N\Z . WELLINGTON 91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


&fkin Wi6ea6e6.
s9leu) %)i6coi)ery
“cPigmoUiene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronie
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. 11. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir, —For years past (about ten), I have been
troubled with “ Acne ” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “Ligmolliene,"
and speaking: very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally' took same “ Cum Gra.no Salis and was in-
clined not to use it ; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured ;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same
Wishing “ Ligomolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O'BEG AN.
WHAT THE DOCTOHS SAYS
„ , Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Mai,yon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “Eczema, Oapitas,” from
which 1 suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When X met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. 1 will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so wi'tli brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSK, M. 8.0.5., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRYMALYON,
Man ufactnrinff Che mint,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and. Vs. od. Eaolx.
anywhere when stamps receiv ed for postage.
Wholesale Agents -Elliott Brothers, Sydnky.
ON€ HONEST MAN.
I )EAR SlB,—Please inform your readers that, if
1 7 written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of stiffen"g from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 160, SYDNEY.
rnALES OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE Is.;
per Post Is. 3d.
%
0
P
VJo
M? G
\V-
in
%
$
KV"
about
W«
ev
<S
i>
W-
cure
t®
cP
>0
....
Mr S. A.Palmer
tow
*•
w
LI
tflJ that we, the undersigned, have known the bearer, Mr S A
PALME R , as a resident of Invercargill, New Zealand, for a great many years. We know
he has been a great sufferer during the past 14 years, and he never was expected to recover
but as the result of taking a course o" VITADATIO, he has quite recovered his long lost
health and now appears to us to be r.mtz a now man. We have pleasure in recommending
him to the public, wherever his lo . '.lay Lc cast, as a honourable man, and worthy of the
conndence ot all with whom he may comc la contact.
JOHN SINCLAIR, Mayor, Invercargill.
JNO. W. MITCHELL, Merchant, J.P., Invercargill
apFRO(3QA l TT I yF?i!,vfrcfrg i m! liVe
lIITIDITIO.
For Testimonials of others
that have been cured,
write or send to the
agent, S. A. PALMER,
45 and 47 Bourke-street,
Melbourne. A Thorough
Cure is Guaranteed. The
sum of £5OO (five hundred
pounds) will be paid to
anyone that can refute any
Testimonial in circulation
about VITADATIO,
The price of this Medicine is:
Large Size, ss. 6d.
Small Size, 3s. 6d.
Ask your Grocer or Chemist.
If not obtainable locally, send
to Head Office—
S. A. PALMER,
45 & 47 Bourke-street,
MELBOURNE.
W. WEBBER, Sole Proprietor,
106 Elizabeth-street,
Launceston, Tasmania.
DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
re SICK LIVERS. SICK KIDNEYS, and FEMALE AILMENTS
Escaping the Surgeon’s Knife.
; he fear of death causes her to
TRY A POPULAR REMEDY, WHICH
MAKES AN OPERATION UNNECES-
SARY.
. I'old by Mrs. Slater, No. 1 Waterloo-street,
Balmain.)
“ There are many people suffering from a com-
plaint needing an operation, which means life or
death, to go under; and rather than risk death
they go on suffering terrible pain. I was one
of these, but lately I have found a remedy which
makes me feel in the best of health, and which I
thoroughly believe has cured me. It was when I
was cook in a Judge's family that I was compelled
to see a doctor by the sharp, cutting pains from
which I had suffered for a long time, and which
were rapidly growing worse. He told me that I
had a tumor in my inside, and advised me to go
to the hospital and have it cut out. He said that
the operation would be as likely to kill me as to
cure me; but that if I did not have it out it would
cause me to die. When it came time to go into
the. hospital, however, I grew afraid, and would
not go. I took a remedy which was much talked
about instead, hoping it might do me good, but I
rapidly grew worse. A little book had been
thrown into the house, telling of the cures made
by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and my sister
said, ‘ Why not try these?’ I did so, and since
then have suffered no pain. Only for Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills I dread to think what may have
become of me. You may publish this, as it may
chance to benefit others.”
«.
The Man Who Waits gets
Everything.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS IS AT LENGTH
GIVEN THE HAPPINESS OF GOOD
HEALTH.
(Told by Mrs. J. A. Hawkins, Trevor House,
Temora.)
“ I have suffered for many years from indiges-
tion and liver complaint. It appeared nothing
would ever come along to do me good. I was
always studying medicine advertisements, and at
last saw some testimonials in the papers for Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I determined to try
them, and I am happy to say that they cured me,
and I can add my testimony to the others, of
whom one meets so many.”
Troubled With Her Head-
Mrs. Frank Grant, Girilambone, near Nyngar
N.S.W., writes “ I have been suffering for some
time with my head and stomach, and tried many
doctors, but without any good result. I have
found that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
done me a deal of good, and I recommend them
to all my friends, who all praise them.”
A Modern Bruce.
KEEPS ON TRYING, AND AT LAST
SUCCEEDS.
(Given by Mr. J. Thwaites, Tinsmith, Cook’s
River-road, St. Peters).
“For many years my wife suffered from bilious
attacks, and was often in bed days at the time.
We tried many cures without finding relief, till
one day somebody came into my place with a yarn
about Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills being a cer-
tain cure. After a deal of persuasion my wife
bought a bottle, and after a few doses found the
desired relief. As this is some months ago, there
is no doubt that they worked a permanent cure.
I am glad to state we have found them a blessing
to us, and we are never without them. If any-
body is doubtful about trying this medicine they
may come and get my opinion from me direct.”
♦ :
Looking Well.
PEOPLE WONDERED, AND WERE TOLD
HOW TO DO LIKEWISE.
(Given by Mrs. H. H. Robbins, Rawdon, near
Rylstone, N.S.W.)
“ I can safely say Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
have given me great satisfaction. I have been in
bad health for many years, and have been to
several doctors and taken every kind of medicine
which I thought might do me good, but all of no
avail. I have not quite taken two bottles of
the pills yet, and my head has lost all the swim-
ming and pain I once had. They are a blessing in
any house. People ask me how it is lam looking
so well, and I tell them what Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills have done for me.”
*
A Great Change Indeed-
SHE SUPPOSED HER CASE INCURABLE
TILL SHE TRIED MORSE’S PILLS.
(Told by Miss Agnes Woods, 251 Riley-street,
Surry Hills.)
. suffered for the past twelve months from
indigestion, dyspepsia, and terrible pains in my
right side. I tried every medicine I could hear
of, but gained no relief; my mind was made up
that my case was incurable. Five weeks ago a
lady advised me to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. I sard I would try them, but at the same
time thought it useless. The first dose gave me
relief and in a very short time the terrible pains
vanished, my appetite returned, and the result is
I can eat my meals without suffering as formerly.
After taking, food I suffered terribly, and could
not sleep at night, but all is changed. I sleep
well, and can say that Dr. Morse’s Indian Roo t
Pills have ni&de a positive cure in my case,”
A Hopeless Subject.
WON FROM THE DOMINION OF
DISEASE.
(Told by Mrs. Thos. Ryan, Murrumburrah.)
“ It gives me great pleasure to say that I have
used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for indigestion
and general debility. I used to be so bad for days
at the time that I could scarcely move. Other
medicines only gave me temporary relief, and I
was hopeless of ever getting well again, and knew
that I was hastening to the grave. I would not
go through the same time again if I had to choose
between it and sudden death. Mr. Taylor,
chemist, here urged me to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and he praised the medicine so highly
that I did so, and anyone by seeing him can
prove the marvellous results which came of taking
them. This was eight months ago, and I had not
taken one bottle of them before I felt as well as I
ever did in my life. But I still continued taking
them, and finished the second bottle ; and though
I am over fifty-six I feel as well now as I did
twenty years ago when in my prime. I consider
it my duty to suffering humanity to make my
cure known, and I consider that anybody who
values his health should not be without Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.”
Nature’s Revenge.
(Told by Mrs. Jacon, 50 Oxford-street, Waverley.)
“ I have been bad with an ulcerated stomach for
three years, through indigestion and dyspepsia. I
tried every remedy that I thought might do me
good, but all failed. I had been laid up in bed
three weeks before I commenced to take Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and then, for the first
time, my health began to improve. Previous to
this I was unable to take solid food, but after
taking the Pills for a few days my appetite re-
turned, and the food I ate did me good. They
are the best remedy of the day. I strongly advise
all I know to take them, as they have cured me,
and I cannot find words to express a high enough
opinion of them in order to let everybody know
what a remarkable cure has been effected in my
fyusp **
. %. V
Those Fearful Nights.
CHRONIC DESPONDENCY AND INSOM-
NIA CURED BY A BOTTLE OF MORSE’S
PILLS.
(Told by Mr. J. Hourn, saddler, Temora, N.S.W.)
“I have been suffering with nervousness and
restless nights, and general depression for years,
and never expected to recover. The medicine did
not seem to be made which could do me good.
But, after taking one bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, I was cured. I never fail to recom-
mend them to any of my friends whatever the
complaint.”
The Value of Health-
A lady who writes is Mrs. R. Paterson, Tonga
Station, Wilcannia “Kindly forward by return
post six bottles Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I
received the last lot safely, and have derived so
much benefit from them that I think no one who
values their health should be without them.”
A Reliable Medicine.
(By Mr. Coulson, tailor, Muswellbrook.)
“It is with pleasure that I acknowledge the
wonderful efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills in curing indigestion. They are, indeed, in
my estimation, the best pill in the market. I
have tried a good many medicines, but yours I
shall always recommend to my friends as a reliable
medicine for indigestion, pains in the back, bilious-
ness, and for the stomach they are unsurpassed.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
HAVE CURED THOUSANDS, AND
WILL CURE YOU.
One of the roots from which these Pills are made
is a sudorific, which opens the pores of the skin,
and assists nature in throwing out the finer parts
of the corruption within. The second is a plant
which is an expectorant that opens and unclogs
the passage to the lungs, and thus, in a soothing
manner, performs its duty by throwing off the
phlegm and other humors from the lungs by
copious spitting. The third is a diuretic, which
gives ease and double strength to the kidneys ;
thus encouraged, they draw large amounts of im-
purity from the blood, which is then thrown out
bountifully by the urinary or water passage, and
which could not have been discharged in any
other way. The fourth is a cathartic, and accom-
panies the other properties of the Pills while en-
gaged in purifying the blood ; the coarser particles
of impurities, which cannot pass by other outlets,
are thus taken up and conveyed off in great
quantities by the bowels.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a Perfect BLOOD
PURIFIER, curing BOILS, BLOTCHES,
PIMPLES, SALLOW COMPLEXION, JAUN-
DICE, ECZEMA, and all SKIN DISEASES,
•*nd a positive cure for SICK HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, DYSPEP-
SIA, CONSTIPATION, SHORTNESS OF
BREATH, FLATULENCY, LIVER COM-
PLAINT, KIDNEY AND FEMALE
TROUBLES. Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS, Price, Is. ljd. per bottle,
or six bottles six shillings.
If not obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keeper, same will be forwarded upon receipt of
price. Sole Proprietors—
The W. H. COMSTOCK CO. Ltd.
Australasian Branch-
-58 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,


Christmas and New Year’s Presents.
mm
A. H. MOORE & CO.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/- ea -
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 2 9'' ••
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore's THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, 6d. String.
RACQUETS RE STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/8
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
n sicker iimm free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
hut to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH KItLK if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. Gd. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our ful.*Blzed wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
Publications, etc.
Mrs. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED AND ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3a. 6d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Doinestio
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Barmaid.
Oonfes-;
Sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
UnniTCi Book.B Books
JjUUiVIJ Published Second
Price. Hand.
Chambers’ Encvclopoedia, last edition,
10 vols., 1887 £7 10 0 £2 15 0
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vols 16 16 0 310 0
Popular Educator, 6 vols 400 100
The Home Physician 260 017 6
Large Family Bibles,colored plates... 4 0 0 1 6 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
by the best authors for 255.
New Up-to-Date Publications.
The Soiled Dove : Miss Skittle 3, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s
Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy, each post
free ls6d ; The Ballet Girl's Gay Life behind the Scenes,
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard, Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
R. W. SKINNER,
Telephone, 3043.
New and Second-hand Book
Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Sydney.
THERE ARE TWO WORLDS.
A pro y one an t a world of Mueic. Which do you inhabit?
lithe latter, your world isnot complete withontour Diamond
Collection of Songs. As the name implies, it is a musical
Jewel. Songs of all nations and kinds,humor, pathos,sen-
'timent anti patriotism, eoo gems that appeal to all tastes,
words and musio. hound in beautiful covers, with sewed
binding that allows it. to open flat on piano or organ. A list
of them if you Send stamp for it. All yours by mail, post
free throughout Australasiafor on ly 2'6, stamps, id. extra
Agents wanted — Anglo-Amehican Publi hino to., Com-
mercial Chambers, Sydney , N.B.W. Mention this paper when
writing.
The Editor .. „ f ..
Henrietta Street, London, W.C., England,
Invites AMATEUR or PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHS.
... Good Prices Paid ...
Also TALES of TRAVEL and ADVENTURE.
Anything of Interest Accepted will be
Promptly and Well Paid for.
“I Only Live for Thee.”
Words by Edward Oxeneord ; Music by E. J. Emmkrton.
Sun-- by over 20 Eminent Vocalists ; in three keys, E flat,
F and G. Published at 2/-. Intermetzo, “ Federation,”
composed by Henri Laski (composer of “My Polly
Waltz”), the favorite composition of this favorite com-
poser, 2/-. Also Chimes of Normandy, Songs of Other
Years, Rose of the Morn Waltz, and many others. Of all
music dealers. Wholesale of the Publishers. W.
CO., London and Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Catalogues of over 1000 Songs, Dances, etc.,
at 6d. and 3d. each, post free on application.
HENRY FARMER S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha," “Robert le Diable,"
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell ” “ Faust,” “ Un Ballo in Maschera,” “ II Trova-
tore’,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2". 6d. each. Of all Musiesellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., liOiidon,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Bead Phil May’s Winter Number, 1898.
A Marvellous Shilling’s-worth.
Important New Features.—lo full-page and small
illustrations, by Phil May and other artists. 15 stones
by the best leading authors of the day. Illustrated
Supplement, containing portraits of the contributors,
etc., etc. The cheapest and best number yet published.
Order at once of your bookseller or newsagent.
W. Thacker & Co., Publishers, London.
7
/
Tropical Helmut, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
S. H. Smith i Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO LAPIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 6/6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 Georor St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wale s' Barbers’ Supply House.
1
ijf+i^
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d; 12 Russia, 6d; 12 Roumama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, Cd ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 60 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 60, Is ;
100, 2s 6d; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
toimm
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism 9 Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains ,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don't purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
moutii & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOMESTIC
2 O
in x >
(lUr
H C
in in
in yy
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOMESTIC
'DESTROYsS
ALL
HOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL.
.DOMtSTIC
'DESTROYS^
ALL
HOXICU&
INSECTS
•Ml
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience, delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. 0. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l hod a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Agk of your “ Bronchitis Cure,' I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned; arid 1 was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which 1 am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine nuite cure me, and
1 have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 69
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by tbe pro-
prietor, W. G, HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
SYDNEY’S MODERN PHARMACY.
MAIL
OKDER
Shots that
Reach the Spot
Clarke’s Blood
Mixture, 28 ;
Eno’s Fruit
1 Salts, 21; Fel-
lows’ Syrup, il- ; Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, 1/11; Pain Killer(Perry Davis’),
1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6. Everything in pro-
portion.
Dr. Clarkson’s
Re-In,vigor ator
We still offer
*lOO Reward
for any case
we cannot
cure. This Remedy stops all Ailments
in 24 hours; restores Vigor, cures
DEBILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER,
and all other Wasting Effects. Sent
the Colonies, 7/6 bottle, 8 bottles £l.
sealed to any part of
Guaranteed to Cure.
Caution to Women!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY'S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box; extra strong, 10s. ;by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE HOUSE.
Pyramid
Pile Cure .
THE LATEST SPECIFIC
for Curing
Hemorrhoids
The most Chronic and
Obstinate character of Inward or Outward J'ILKS
yield readily to this improved mode of treatment.
PRICE 3/6 per Box ; or 3 for 10/-; postage 6d. extra.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. lor Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate Liston application.
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE. SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates soquietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HAVE NO AGENTS■
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address —
the eucrasy CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
ourSPECIAL BELTforLADIESis
REALLY A MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They onlv stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature s own
gift to man Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, anti
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEARTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ng current that can be felt
t.v the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
wl\at we say. and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
(.•eel .rivur' illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELE:TRIC APPI/ANCE AGENCY,
(IS Elisabeth Street , Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor •
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DRROBERTS’
SO/{
Mirf MEAiEf
and Wounds
or £. VER Y
DESCRIPTION
□"ROBERTS
Alterative
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMA CH & LIVER .
or ALL CHEM/STS //// X 2/^EACH
BEACH & BARDIC,OTT L°- BRIDPORJ.
NERVOUS PEOPLE.
%
■n
c?\2
i
a"
rf' i
w
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
the languid, for the
nn-down system, for
.hose who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. For all
torms of nerve weakness, the American invention — DR.
PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT is a q R A N D REMEDY.
It assists Nature by agentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by infusing a inilci, warming, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE.—If Ruptured, send also for “ Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
OouirhP, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
tioanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (Ul.
Sole Agents :
The Result .
Craig & Ailken, 680-682 George-at., Sydney
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Married Ladies.
/tS’Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
just issued, 108 pages, illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
Missing Friends.
OLDSWORTH & CO., 101 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, Australia, trace missing persons
and make confidential inquiries of all descrip-
tions.
Unparalleled Success.
HOLDSWORTH
HOLDSWORTH I
HOLDSWORTH |
HOLDSWORTH J
The “ Sheklock Holmes ’
of real life.
The Philosophy of Power.
[From "Might is Right," by "Ragnar Redbeard," U.S. A.
Might was Right when Caesar bled upon the stones
of Rome ;
Might was Right when Joshua led his hordes o’er
Jordan’s foam,
And Might was Right when German troops
poured down through Paris gay ;
It’s the Gospel of the Ancient World and the
Logic of To-Day.
Behind all Kings and Presidents, all Governments
and Law,
Are army-corps and cannoneers to hold the world
in awe ;
And sword-strong races own the earth and ride
the Conqueror’s Car,
And Liberty has ne’er been won except by deeds
of war.
Then what’s the use of dreaming dreams—that
“each shall get his own ”
By forceless votes of meek-eyed thralls—who
blindly sweat and moan ?
A curse is on their cankered brains—their very
bones decay :
Go ! trace your fate in the Iron-Game is the Logie
of To-Day.
The strong must ever rule the weak, is grim
primordial law —
On earth’s broad threshing-floor the meek are
merely beaten straw ;
Then ride to power o’er foemen’s necks, let nothing
bar your way ;
If you are lit you’ll rule and reign, is the Logic of
To-Day.
You must prove your Right by deeds of Might—of
splendor and renown ;
If need be march through flames of Hell, to dash
opponents down ;
If need be die on scaffold high, in the morning’s
misty gray:
For “ Liberty or Death ” is still the Logic of To-
day.
“ Put not your trust in princes,” is a saying old
and true —
“ Put not your hope in Governments,’’ translateth
it anew ;
All “ Books of Law ” and Golden Rules are
fashioned to betray
“The survival of the strongest ” is the Gospel of
To-day.
4.
Recent Melb. advt. :
WOULD R o ,ne generous Christian person donate
VV Bioycle for overworked suburban minister.
Address, &c., St. Hilda.
When the parson comes down to praetioe, he
promptly shelves the “ answer to prayer ” racket
in favor of the common, ungodly “ ad.”


gECOND-HAND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
' HOW to PRESERYE the EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application-
It tells of a remedy with 300 YEARS
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION-.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OE MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
‘Afflicted Many Long
And Weary Years.
A PERFECT CURE
ASCRIBED TO AN
Act of Providence.
The Case of
Mrs. JAS. COPLAND.
(From the “ Newtown Chronicle.”)
The other day a “ Chronicle ” reporter was
making his usual tour, seeking for news of
interest to our l’eaders, when word reached
his ears of a most remarkable case. He
pursued further enquiries in the matter,
and the same day he proceeded to enquire
into the cure of Mrs. Copland, of Prospect-
street, Erskineville, near (Sydney. This
lady received the man with the notebook
with unusual courtesy, asking him to be
seated, and volunteering to afford him all the
information that he could possibly require.
He first of all said :
“ I hear you were ill, and are cured.’
“ Well, rather,” replied Mrs. Copland,
“I was most emphatically ill—ill for many
long and weary years with a complicated set
of complaints, which entirely defied the
efforts of the doctors, as well as the enor-
mous quantities of pills and medicines which
I was induced to take. It is a great wonder
that I survived all this physicking. lam
sure it did me a lot of harm, and prevented
my food from digesting.”
“ Do you mean that you deprecate the
flse oi all medicines ?”
“Oh, dear no ; but I mean to say that
you must use the right kind—if you don’t
you will only suffer for it, and your illness
will be prolonged. I found the right kind
in the end and one bottle absolutely cured
me from a most distressing list of maladies.”
“ Kindly relate your experience.
“ I first of all found that my vitality was
gradually waning. I lost my interest in
things. work wearied me, and I felt
it was too much trouble to even walk up
the street. My usual cheerfulness of spirits
disappeared. I was dull and depressed, and
it often seemed to me that I was too tired
even to think. I took some strong tonics
and pick-me-ups, but they were all failures.
1 continued to get worse. Slowly my
digestive organs lost their power. Bilious
attacks came on at frequent intervals, and I
was seized with fits of sickness. I now never
experienced the sensation of real hunger;
indeed, it was a matter of utter indiffer-
ence to me whether I ate anything or not
As my complaint established itself I experi-
enced severe pain, especially in the breast
The sensation was exactly as though my
chest was full of lumps of wood. Again
pains in the back and sides began to assert
themselves, besides a heavy languorous ache
in the fore portion of my head. Often I had
to the quiet of my bedroom oppressed
with a terrible sickness and sick headache.
At these times Icquldn’t bear anyone to come
near me, let alone to speak to me. I was
excessively irritable and peevish.”
“No wonder, Mrs. Copland.”
“And I could take no pleasure in any-
thing. My nights were a torture to me. I
indeed went to bed, but not to sleep. Night
after night I never closed my eyes, and I
got out of bed languid, tired, and fairly
broken down. I lost greatly in flesh. My
eyes got dull looking, and my complexion
was very sallow and unhealthy. On and
off I suffered like this 'or years—a regular
burden to myself, and a cause of distress to
my friends. Meanwhile, I consulted doctors,
I took bott e after bottle of physic, and
boxes of pills too many to count. All were
ineffective, and I was forced unwillingly to
the conclusion that I was doomed to be a
martyr to my complaints, and an invalid for
life. ''This was a very saddening
for me, and I often wonderedwhy all
.these ills should descend on a poor weak
woman. My nervous system was not able
to stand the strain, and I got utterly broken
down. ”
“ How unfortunate you were.”
“ Yes, I was ; and 1 don't know what
would have happened to me but for
something that, though it seemed at the
time a pure accident, I shall always look
upon as a veritable act of Providence. I
read in a newspaper about an astonishing
cure of a lady from a derangement of the
liver and other internal organs. On reading
further down the column, I found that not
only had she suffered from similar symptoms
to mine, but had been entirely cured by
Clements Tunic after the doctors had given
her up as lost. Of course, under these cir-
cumstances, it would have been sheer mad-
ness on my part not to have given myself a
chance, so I sent for a large bottle.”
“ What was the effect of Clements Tonic
in your case ? ”
“ Well, it would have to be felt to be
described. Imagine my astonishment when
I found that before I had taken half a bottle
a marvellous change for the better had come
over me. The pains in my back, side, and
chest disappeared as though I had been
touched by the magic wand of a good fairy.
My spirits plucked up, and I felt toned and
strung up all over. From that time I began
to enjoy and digest my meals once more, and
to sleep the peaceful, refreshing sleep of a
healthy woman—and, mind you, I hadn’t
done this for years. That’s the astonishing
thing about it ! None of the other things
I took were of the least use to me, yet here
I had run across a remedy, which in a few
days had put me on the high road to
recovery after years of illness. By the time
I had completed the first large bottle all
disease seemed eradicated. However, I
continued Clements Tonic as a general
restorative, to enable me to pick up my lost
nervous strength and flesh. It did this most
effectively, and made me as strong, and
vigorous, and bright as I could wish.”
“ Is there anything else that you would
like to say about Clements Tonic ? ”
“ Yes, there is, and I think it not the
least wonderful portion of all that that
remedy has done for me.”
“ What is that, Mrs. Copland? ”
** Why, I’ve been absolutely free from any
sign of my old complaint ever since Clements
Tonic drove it out —or, to use a somewhat
slangy expression,” said Mrs. Copland, with
a smile, “ I was cured at one go.”
“ May we publish this ? ”
“ The sooner the better, as I think such a
miraculous recovery as mine should be made
public.”
DECLARATION BEFORE A MAGISTRATE.
I, Mrs. Jas. Copland, of Prospect-street, Erskine-
ville, Sydney,’ in the colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of five folios
and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and curebv Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way;
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily and
without receiving any payment, conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions cf an Act made and passed in the
ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition
of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New
South Wales, and to substitute Declarations iD
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary and
extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Erskineville this 24th day of November,
1898, before me, ANDREW MURRAY, J.P.
CARLTON ALE.
*53
f
6
VS
q/z
P
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
WHY are the Preparations manufactured by K. HOL-
LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge -20 years’ experience— of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says “ Everywhere Igo I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
7W&
52
sSa&SsH? £3 S?r
PEICt, per Bottle, 3», ts.,fla., IQs. 6d, 12. lid. Nioepenco (~,,.11) ~,4 1,. extr.W £»£,“" iSd bykll oSl»l»
‘cmvnoH -a
lIA in SPEC I A LIST ,
ID3 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
BRUSH’S Celebrated Harness and Saddlery.
m
M
M'
Brush’s Pair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Ma<ie with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden I lames, Collar
Straps, Stout Traces, Simple Fads,
complete—No. 1, £5 log No. 2,
ili 10s. ; No. 3, i 7 Ills.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching--No. 1, £7 10s.; No. 2,
i 8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.—A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Haines, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2. A superior
Harness, better finished. Collar
and Hanies complete, made in any
color, t'4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 8.-A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Haines com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.—The “Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £0 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH'S American Collar and
Hame Harness, from 70s.
thigh p«£ h yi;B8 2 fc 47 h8’15= 6 ' g? 1^ 8 . 1 . 1 “** ,K»Ml™. »«* and
t&sitvtKto* *&wfc
&*3gsi''sax^ ,r '«'»«* Note », „
1/3, 1/6. Flv Nets, 46, 7/6, 10 6 15/- Wat, or Ratrs 1 /•* i/« o/ o/ oa a ia»?7 f * A !.», » */“• * ,A< ( Nets, od, l/*>
Oash W w-th na ’ J ree 0f 9, harfre ’ t 0 a, *y P° rt or railwaV station in’ New South
Cash with order, or allow 5 nor rout, disomint tn thr» . *uco, aii orners oi tut v.uue ot f>.> - up.
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to countrySques for exchange" '' ht ' qUC "' or
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION 1 exchange.
John Brush, Son & Co.
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 Georgfe-street, Sydney.
NEWER than the NEW YEAR.
REGS
14.0 (id
Thousands of Latest Novelties,
OUR LATEST 'REGISTERED” NOVELTIES.
“Solid Gold”
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant,
16s. 6d.
Re G*
Without Pendant,
13a. (id.
Solid
Gold.
m
m
yew Bird Heart
and
Bell Brooch.
Remarkable
Value,
ISs. each.
G
O
X
n
p
i
JV
s
&
c
n
A
i
N
P
E
N
D
A
y
T
8
o
o
J.
1)
p
I
N
s
A
C
II
A
I
N
P
K
N
n
A
N
T
S
Om Sew Mild Itoar’B Tush
Brooch,
With Chain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, ss. 6d.
Gold-mounted, 14s.
LINKS TO MATCH.
Silver, 4s. 6d.; Gold, 10s. 6d. pair.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
All Goods Post Free.
Real Amethyst
Mutton Boole
Very Pretty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6,6
„ Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ „ 4/6
„ Heart, 7/6 „ „ 5/6
„ Cross, 8/- Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3 6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/-
Gold Xmas Bell Brooch, 10s. 6d.
Our Netv
Twin
Bird
Brooches.
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
18s 6d pair.
NOlE—Owr ONLY Australian- Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY*


Superscription upon a humblo habitation
in Bendigo (Vie.): —
Paris: bn Laundry
QUONG KEE
FROM PARiB
SHEETS, COLLARS, STIFFENED
AND IRON IN 11BST FRBNCH
WAY
CHINESE PLUMS fIiVEN
To Add Customer.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Arnott’s
Pictures
m
> *- a « m'* m * m *
, MS
i
RITA and SYDNEY MURDOCH-Fed on
TESTIMONIAL.
Court-street, Windsor.
WILLIAM ARNOTT.
Dear Sir,
I enclose a photo, of Rita and Sydney
Murdoch, who have been fed on Arnott’s
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits. Once our grocer
sent another brand, saying they were just the
same ; but Sydney knew better, and would not
have them. Rita is five years, and Sydney
eighteen months.
I remain, etc..
M. MURDOCH.
ARNOTT’S Milk Arrowroot Biscuits!
The Children’s Food of Health . Always ash for Arnott’s when purchasing.
“ Dust Thou Art.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
** When I die,” continued Mitchell, standing up
in the moonlight and scraping the fire round the
billy with his foot. “ When I die I’d like to die
in a cold place—where there’s a glimpse of distant
snow on the ranges across the tussock and black-
fern hills—where the mountain rivers run all
summer—down yonder- in—in Maoriland.”
Mitchell looked across the breathless plain, and
then at the moon, which was the only thing that
looked cool out there.
“ I’d like to look clean and decent for a day or
two, at least, after I’m dead, so that some of my
old mates, and some that knew me as a boy, if
they happened to be round, could come and take a
last look at me ; so that my unfortunate soul, if
I’ve got one, could have a look at me too, and
then get a decent, comfortable start on the Home
Track. There’s one or two that injured me, and
they’d be sorry for it and leave my name alone.
.... There’s one or two that I have wronged,
and they’d forgive me. . . . You might get the
tea out, Joe ; that billy will boil directly.
“ I can imagine it all; the chaps rubbing their
hats off, and standing round looking as if it was
their funeral instead of mine, and one of ’em say-
ing, maybe, ‘ Ah, well, poor Jack, he’s camped
down at last! ” And afterwards, when they get
outside, one of ’em would be sure to say, ‘ lie
looked well, didn’t he?’ For someone always
says that, no matter how ugly the chap might
have looked when he was alive—or when he was
dead for that matter. You always look well, and
act well, and are a good deal better every way,
when you’re dead. . . . And some women cry-
ing round. (I wonder whether a woman will
ever lay me out). xlnd an old mate —you,
perhaps, Joe—standing by himself away from
the house with his arms resting on the
top rail of the fence, and a watery look in his
eyes—looking away over the scenery.”
“ I wouldn’t make such an ass of myself, Jack,”
Baid Joe.
“And maybe a girl,” continued Mitchell,
“ fretting her pretty eyes out in the front room,
and being comforted by another chap. And the
chaps making the coffin in a shed at the back,
using old screws, and trying to hammer and saw
soft, so’s not to make a noise; and asking for a
match or a cut of tobacco in subdued and sorrow-
ful tones—as if they’d just committed a burglary
and shot their own mother by mistake.”
“ You must have a mighty big opinion of your-
self, Jack,” said Joe, “ to have a funeral like that.
And what girl would cry over your ugly carcase ?”
“ There was—well, there was one once that
would,” replied Mitchell, slowly and absently.
Then, with an impatient kick at the fire, “But
let’s get the funeral done with. . . . Maybe
there’d be some pretty girls bringing some flowers
and laying ’em on me, with their lips trembling
and their eyes full of tears.”
Joe : “Oh Lord ! Draw it mild, Jack.”
“ And then the funeral. Four old chums lifting
the coffin on their shoulders, very softly, as if
they were afraid I’d break, or else wake up and
go on the booze. And the people along the way
rubbing their hatß off over their ears till the
funeral got past.”
“ All right, get buried as soon as you can, Jack,”
said Joe.
“ And all that sort of thing. And the scene
around the grave, with one of the fellows blubber-
ing right out. . . . And the chaps talking about
poor Jack Mitchell on the way home ; and saying
that he was never anybody’s enemy, except, per-
haps, his own ; and remembering dozens of good
points about him that nobody ever saw before —
except, perhaps, one little girl—and remembering
good acts that he did which he couldn't remember
himself if he was alive. . . . And, after dark, a
slight little figure in a black dress, stealing out
in the starlight and kneeling down by the new-
made mound, and crying her heart out all by
herself."
Joe : “ Oh, give us a rest, Jack !”
“I think it just as well for a chap—especially a
scamp like me —to keep as far away as he can from
his home and his friends and relations while he’s
alive ; but it’s nice to be buried by your friends,
and in the place where you’re known, when you
die—provided you ain’t a rich man.”
Joe : “Now, I think that’s mean, Jack, to keep
away from your sorrowful friends while you’re
alive, and might do them some good, and then
want to fall back on their hands as a dirty, ugly
carcase, and give them the expense and trouble of
burying you.”
“ Perhaps you’re right, Joe ; but my friends
ain’t sorrowful, except to think that I was ever
born and might turn up alive again. We weren’t
a sorrowful family. I was about the only one
that had any feelings to speak of, but the track
rubbed ’em off pretty soon and cured me. Ain’t
that billy boiling yet? ”
“ And one thing I forgot—my old soul, if I’ve
got one. I wonder what my soul would think and
say when it saw the corpse ! ”
lie stood up, stretched himself, and then folded
his arms and looked down at his swag, as if he
were the soul and the swag the body.
“ Very likely my old soul will say, ‘ Well, Jack,
you’ve cut-out at last. Ah, well ! it’s just as well
as it is. There isn’t much to blame, and there
isn’t much to praise. I’m off now for the head-
station. When I see old St. Peter I’ll put in a
word for you. Then I’ll say—no, I’ll say just no-
thing. Let the old super plead his own case. . .
But perhaps a bushrnan ain’t got any soul except
his swag—that’a his soul, and there’s no God out-
back.” And Mitchell stooped down and up-ended
the swag gently and proceeded to unbuckle the
straps.
“ Ain’t you buried yet ? ” said Joe. “ I thought
you was buried and done with. How many more
times are you going to dig your old carcase up?”
“ Well, I'm sure you ain’t got a soul, anyway,”
said Mitchell, with a good-natured grin. “I
suppose a swagman is born with a soul, but it
can’t stand the track—waits for him on the other-
side, maybe. I was born with one, I think, but
we’ve tramped long ways on different tracks since
then. That billy is boiling at last, Joe.”
HENRY LAWSON.
My House-Agent Friend.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I SAY, old man, I want a house.”
“ Hum ! you do ? ”
He looked amused and then thoughtful. “ Then
you’ve come to the wrong shop. ”
“ I don’t understand,” I said. “ There’s one in
the window there that will just suit me To Let.
Detached Villa, Woollahra, four rooms, kitchen,
bath, copper, cooking-range. Seventeen shillings.
The wife .”
“ Look here, old man,” he broke in impres-
sively, “ I’m going to tell you something. Let
the house rip for the present, and listen to me. I
haven’t let a house these three months. That
detached villa of yours was on the board before
Kirby died, and spiders have grown grey-headed
under it. I’m a testimonial-faker. I write rig-
maroles about the way that I had that tired feel-
ing and couldn’t move hand or foot until some-
one advised me to try ‘ Robbuni’s Remarkable
Rousers,’ or ‘Bulger’s Giant Tonic,’and how I
feel young again and people are just discovering
what a fine figure of a woman I am. I
want you to join me. There’s a good living in it
at present, and the prospect of a fortune when we
get the advertisement-inventing branch in full
going order. You see, you're just the man I want
—a clever artist with originality and brains to
take charge of the pictorial department, and to
exchange ideas with me all round. Now, I’ll
show you what I’ve done in the testimonial line.
See! Here’s one about ‘ Atkins Liniment for
Bruises and Sprains.’ He unlocked his table
drawer and picked the following from between
two pieces of cardboard
8122 Underwood-street, Paddington, Nov. 4, ’96.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to write and let you
know that I have discovered your “ Liniment ” to possess
a wonderful power of healing. My youngest child acci-
dently dropped a bronze crucifix upon my head from the
balcony a few days ago, inflicting a most disagreeable
wound, which, I am happy to say, is now quite well. I
expected it to have taken at. least a month to heal.
“You sec, to begin with,” he continued, “I
happened to have No. 3122 on the books at the
time, and knew it to have been just vacated, so I
addressed the letter from there to give it a genuine
appearance. You notice, too, that I drop the old
phrases about “ feeling it my duty ” and “ suffer-
ing excruciating pain,” and so on. People don’t
write like that, as a rule, and it’s a complete give-
away to any sort of observer. The crucifix,
though, is the strong point. Who ever heard of a
man being wounded by a crucifix ? You see it’s
the detail and unusualness of the thing that scores
every time. I tell you what it is, there’s a big
chance in this biz. for a man with brains ; but he
must have brains ; in fact, he must be a first-class
fictionist with an unbounded imagination and an
intimate acquaintance with the great round-
headed public. I find it much easier to
write in the uneducated strain, for several
reasons. As I said before, it’s the detail
and unusualness of the thing that grips, and
educated people won’t go into irrelevant detail.
If a fellow tries to make them, the result is un-
natural. In fact, I’ve carried the illiterate idea
so far that I reckon not only to make the public
believe my tales of woe, but to make ’em remem-
ber the address and all about the marvellous
healer, on the Kindergarten principle. Here s a
sample:
Sandy Crik Queensland. Sir thee Slises she as ben
varey siok an i now rite hoppen too find you all well sir
as Thee mises is olrite now an tol Me too tel you rnee
glorus gluhles curd her thee dame yong welp 'rum thee
porkpin lie stayen wit uss he wodnt doo nothen butt red
boks an play joks he got on too thee wood with hes close
off an bo an arer too gamen he wass kuped an wen tnee
mises stopt don too strane thee spuds thee dame sconaei
he shot her shee got ell off frite thee shok putt her too
bed butt she is olrite now thanks too you sined W.
Martin Sandy Crik.
“ You see there are a good many Sandy Greeks
in Queensland,” commented friend Mack. “The
virtue of the testimonial, put into a nutshell, is
this, ’he went on. “Truth is stranger than lies.
Tell the truth strangely and no one will believe
you; tell a lie well and everybody will believe
yon. Now, to tell a lie well and regularly you
mustn’t do it twice alike, you must always be on
the alert for ideas, and never attempt anything in
a hurry. I get most of my ideas from the Domain
on Sunday - sometimes from the park and street.
It takes me a week at times to write a single testi-
monial. If I can’t get the correct effect, I wait
till I can. Now, here’s another one that l m
going to some of the drapers with to-morrow :
Bathurst.
Dear Sirs,— . ...
I received the parcel of black stainless hosiery that
you sent. They are simuly lovely. All the men here
are passing complimentary remarks about them.
Yours truly,
MINNIE DUCKS.
P.S.—You know I wear short frocks.
“ That ought to fetch ’em,” he commented.
“ Bathurst will be a perfect forest of black legs
and curious men after that comes out. That » a
guinea’s worth. I get a guinea for each one, and l
trade off about six a week. Of course it wouldn t
do to send out too many of the Sandy Creek sort,
but one or two will work wonders. 1 won t take
a fraction under two guineas for that one. Now,
to come to business : what do you say ? ”
We’re both in bed now over the effects of the
little misunderstanding that promptly supervened,
and I’m looking forward with interest to my
friend’s next testimonial.
OLD POSSUM.
“ A well-known Australian author recently
received this startling 1 telegram : ‘ Will you take
delivery of ’sears?' The message (says Thk
Bookkkllow) was signed by two other well-
known authors, and the blank was filled with the
name of a well-known newspaper proprietor.
Enquiry elicited that the signatories, disgusted
with newspapers and all their failures to appre-
ciate ‘the grandest yarns ever written on earth,
had formed a brigand society to decoy prominent
cheque-persons into a bush fastness, and hold
them for ransom. ’s right ear was to be sent
to his editor as a guarantee of bad faith, with an
intimation that the price of the other was A.lOOO.
The conspirators wanted a trusty metropolitan
agent who would swear to the ears and the bad
faith. The plot is still maturing, and all rejected
contributors are invited to take shares.” All very
fine to talk flippantly about sending along a pro-
prietor’s ear. In some cases it would take a loco-
motive to shift it.


Special value in Tennis ihirts. We will
post to the remotest corner of this great colony one
of our Special Value Tenuis Shirts (just the thing
for cool, comfortable wear) upon of N.S.W.
stamps, postal note or P. 0.0. for 3s. fid. (three
shillings and sixpence). Good unshrinkable
washing materials, plain whites or colored, stripes
and cheeks. Collars and pockets attached.
Address orders :—HORDERN’S,; Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
LIKE A STAB IN THE BACK!
Back Fains and Doan’s Backache Kidney Fills
fij
I
The back bears more burdens
than all the human organism, When
it aches, it means the kidneys are
out of order.
Sharp piercing pains in the back,
unable to move without torture, as
tired in the morning as at night.
Don’t neglect the slight dizziness,
the irregular heart’s action, the un-
natural urinal discharge, the pains
in the back or head. These come
from the uric acid and other poisons
in the blood, which the diseased
kidneys have failed to filter out.
In such cases, with every beat of
the heart, the blood is laden with
a substance as suiely poison as
arsenic. It’s a lingering poison,
but some day it kills like lightning.
There is no hope for the kidney
sufferer unless he heal the kidneys,
and, by making them well, rids his
system of these poisons—Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills do this
surely, safely, and speedily.
Here’s a case in Sydney :
Mr. JOHN ALLEN, of 127 Woolloomooloo-street, this city, says “My kidneys have been
out of order for two years, and my back has been aching more or less during the whole of that period.
The pain was located sometimes just between the shoulders. A white sediment appeared in the
secretions, which were generally much discolored. Various remedies were recommended to me, but
I got no relief until I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I purchased some of these. They went
straight to the kidneys without affecting the bowels, and consequently causing no weakness, or incon-
venience, or interference with my work. They have effected a cure in my case, and X have nu
hesitation in recommending them to others.”
- tr~^9**^° * —> r~'—*
EVERY WALK IN LIFE.
Kidneys are put into our bodies to filter the impurities and poisons out of the
blood. If they are sick, or unable to perform their work, the poisons stay in the
blood, and are carried back through the system.
Kidney trouble must be treated as a serious matter. It IS serious, and every
day that it is neglected makes it just that much more so.
It is honor enough for one remedy that it can cure well and absolutely one class
of diseases. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills do this with kidney disease, and that is
why they are gaining ground so fast here in these colonies. If now or at any time
the reader have any kidney trouble, remember the medicine that’s made for the
Kidneys— DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, and be sure you get Doan’s.
bear in mind one thing : DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are NOT PURGATIVE PILLS. They have no action on the bowels. Their action
is on the kidneys, and for their purpose are absolutely unrivalled.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS may be had of Chemists and Store-
keepers generally throughout the colonies for 2s. 9d. per Box, or Six Boxes for
15s. 3d., or will be mailed on receipt of price by any of our branches, as follows:
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney (Main Office); 292 Flinders-st., Melbourne;
54 King William-street, Adelaide; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street,
Brisbane, care Elliott Brothers; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fairthorne & Son.
Nets Below the Gangway.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For the grey-nurse knows the barb-hook,
As a codfish kens the line ;
And the bull-whale’s blood is fountained
Where the dripping lances shine ;
And the clumsy turbot wriggles,
And the fatted herrings leap,
When the heavy nets come sweeping
From the harvest of the deep.
There are trawls for deep-sea dredging
Where the Grimsby smaeksman goes ;
There are Lim’rick hooks fine-pointed
That the great red schnapper knows,
There are nets for shallow waters,
Where the brown sand-mullet be ;
But the net below the gangway
Is the net for you and me.
So they siioot them in the Hudson,
In the Thames and at the Tay,
So they’ie cast in Sydney harbor
And in San Francisco Bay.
Oh, the liet below the gangway
It is sweeter for our togs
Than the slush about the Bridges
Or around the Isle of Dogs.
So they cast ’em down at Plymouth,
Where the Water’s dee)) and cool ;
So they drop ’em round from Melbourne
To the wharves of Liverpool ;
And ’tis pleasant to remember,
When.we’re blind and cannot see,
That the net below the gangway
Is awaitin’ yon and fne.
Oh, ’tis better that we gather
In the me.sh.es of the “ trawls,”
Where a drunken shellback flounders,
Where a swearing man-crab sprawls,
Than the bubbles at the surface,
Than-a splashing in the dark,
Than a drag-hooked boozer bloated
Or a.pipnic for John Shark.
So' ye rowdy,- roaring devils -
WRli your roaring, rowdy song ;
Hitch- youv trousers to your jumpers ;
Say “ Good-night ” a'n'd come along !
With ybtir vulgar-quids a-turnihg,
your cutties to the lip,
And a net below.’the. gangway
For-topatch ye if ye slip.
Little lambs ! : the| old man loves us
And. he’s loath to-see.us drown
Whe.n ; we’Ve rolled for recreation
With our sweethearts round the town ;
For,.she’s grinding on her fenders,
And.your head’s a rotten spud
That she’d use to paint the wharf piles
With a streak of brains and blood.
Oh, the owner loves, the master,
And the master loves the men,
And we’ll take it as we find it
Till we fill’em up again.
So “ Old Ranzo was a tailor ”
And he run away to sea,
And the net below the gangway
Will be kind to you and me.
E. J. BRADY.
The Man with a Conscience.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bar won was in flood ; but a weedy, oozy
smell on the languid night-wind told that the
great river was growing tired of its desolating
frolic, and would find its proper level in a day or
two.
Two people, a man and a girl, stood on the rise
of an old sheep-yard, and looked out across the
whisp ring, eddying waters.
The scattered black clouds swept past the moon,
the light of which shone full on the girl s up-
turned face, giving it a kind of spirit-like beauty,
accentuated by her soft, fluffy, flaxen hair.
“ Won’t you give me a kiss?” she said, and tha
full red lips in their youthful freshness were
tempting enough for anything.
The man slipped his arm round her waist, but
he did not kiss her, though the red lips were still
raised expectantly.
The lights of the bush public-house were hidden
behind the shoulder of the gravel range ; all its
occupants (excepting, perhaps, the maid-of-all-
work, who slept the sleep of the “ dead-tired ”
after a long day in kitchen and bar) were in a
state of greater or less drunkenness. Therefore it
seemed only natural that these two sober ones
should cling together. Whether or not they
should have clung fluite so closely was the ques-
tion troubling the man just now. It did not
seem to trouble the girl—why should it? She
was just at the age when love at first sight is a
real and believable thing, and in the state of
bread-and-butter innocence which looks upon kiss-
ing but as the prelude to the wedding-ring.
The man had kissed her a good deal during the
last few days, and was by no means tired of the
occupation—he had kissed a good many women in
his life, without the remotest intention of marry-
ing any of them—but then, as a rule, they under-
stood that just as well as he did himself. Unfor-
tunately ho was cursed with a tender conscience,
and it told him pretty plainly that he was a brute
in this instate. . The girl was wholly unpro-
tected—obviously unable to take care of herself ;
as foolish as she was pretty, and as ignorant of
the evil ways of the world as a child of ten !
A week ago she had been introduced to him by
the coach-driver as the “young woman as was
going to Smith’s to look after his kids and house-
keep, now his missus was dead.” He did not
know which to pity most, the girl, or the hard life
before her, or the confiding “ Smith ” for the mis-
take which was sending this bit of childish Dresden
china to “do for ” his motherless household.
The river rose in the night, and the coach could
not go on, nor could Smith send for his bargain ;
eo they were obliged to make the best of being
flooded up at the roughest and worst managed
pub. on the river.
She told him her name was “Marion, ’ much as
a shy child might, and said that the rest of her
belongings were coming on in the next coach. She
had hurried on because Smith’s youngest child
was teething and needed a woman’s care ; and he
responded by begging her to ask him for any ser-
vice she might need, wishing inwardly that fate
had sent him something more world-wise and
knowing as a companion in this dreary tavern.
She took him at his word, and flew to him for pro-
tection one night when the landlord was more
noisily drunk than usual. She had on a pretty
blue wrapper and her flaxen hair was all down,
and she clung to him in an agony of terror, begging
him not to leave her alone, or she was sure she
would be killed. “ I will do anythini for you, if
you only won’t leave me,” she sobbed.
Then the man took an advantage (a mean one,
he acknowledged), and demanded a kiss, which he
promptly got from the wannest, sweetest lips in
the world. He soothed her, and persuaded her to
go back to her room, and slept, himself, on a sofa
outside her door all night. It was a wooden sofa,
of home construction, full of big nails which had
not needed driving home; but she blushed and
thanked him so prettily next day that he felt like
a hero.
He often kissed her after that, and she artlessly
gave him as many opportunities as he desired.
He was not in love with her, but she was with
him—that was quite evident—and if she had only
been a different sort of girl! But she wasn’t, and
his conscience told him to leave her alone. Her
life would be hard enough on that rough station
without this wound to her heart, and the picture his
magination drew of that pathetic face and the big
eyes filling with tears when he told her of the cousin
down South —the cousin who quite understood he
would come for her some day if ever his prospects
allowed him the luxury of a wife—determined
him to put a stop to the flirtation, although the
determination might have been arrived at earlier
in the day with advantage. She had asked him
to come out to-night to see the river falling. It
was past midnight now, and she did not seem
anxious to go home, waiting for the kiss, no doubt,
which he did not mean to exchange—even after
the sweet, low-voiced question and the mute in-
vitation of those seductive lips.
“Look here, little woman, it won’t do. If you
weren’t such a child you would understand why.
If I weren’t the man I am, you might have been
made to understand long ago. I don’t love you
enough to want to marry you, even if you would
have me, and I was a brute to behavi ”
“ I didn’t ask you to marry me,” whispered the
girl. “I only asked you to kiss me. I thought
you liked me a little bit ”
“ What a simpleton you arc, Marion ! Tt’s just
because I do like you that I tell you this.” He
shook off the clinging arms roughly. “ Let us go
home,” he said, and—knowing that in most cases
“the man who looks is lost”—left her without
one glance at the bowed bead. He knew without
looking that the frail, white hands were clasped
in anguish and the slender form shaking with
sobs. “ I’ve been a damned fool,” he muttered,
and later events gave him no reason to withdraw
the statement.
The coach had got across, and came lumbering
in next morning. The man went out into the
muddy yard to see its entrance. To his surprise
Marion (filled, no doubt, with feminine anxiety
for her luggage) was before him, the sun shining
on her smooth, flaxen head. The coach had
several passengers a depressed, sandy-haired
man, and several children, ranging from a big boy
of ten to a girl of four.
It was so like her to rush out impulsively to hug
and kiss' a lot of travel-stained, strange children;
but he opened his eyes a bit when she patted the
depressed man on the arm and began a series of
questions in a quick, decided voice, rather different
from the pleading tones of the last few days.
“ What’s happened to Jack’s hat ? ”
“ Why has Susan her best boots on ? ”
“Has Tony his flannel undershirt?” &c., &c.
“Oh, they’re all right,” said the depressed man.
“Seems you might just as well have come with ns,
after all—since you’ve been kept here, and
couldn’t get to Smith’s. S’pose yon managed to
amuse yourself somehow ? ”
“Oh, yes, Jim,” she said, cheerfully; “I
always do, you know. Come in, and 111 see that
we all get a good breakfast. I gave that drunken
beast of a publican a bit of my mind this morning,
and things have hummed since.” And the
whole tribe walked in doors.
“Who is that? ’’demanded the man with a
conscience.
“ Oh, he’s the new overseer for Smith’s. Got a
bit of a fancy wife, hasn’t.he? Been in a genteel
shop one time. He’s proud as Punch of her.
Sez he to me, ‘ She’s 30, if she’s a day, and don’t
look 17,’ and, sez he, ‘she’s the smartest house-
keeper I’ve ever come acrost, and Smith will have
to let her boss the whole show without interferin’.
And,’sez he, ‘them that would want to get the
best of my Mary Anne would have to get up very
early in the morninV ”
“ He’s about right, too! ” said the owner of the
Conscience.
N.S.W.
E. M. M.
Some of the almost-altogether-German
communities in South Australia (observe, by-the-
way, that they have mostly got hold of first-class
country) continue Fatherland practices, among
them an annual shoot for “ the kingship.” After
the “king” has been discovered, the most impos-
ing-looking female available crowns him with a
wreath of oak-leaves, and gives him a medal.
Then they all say “lloch,” and most of them
make speeches. Later on, a lot of them make
speeches together.
Before the present turretted walls were
erected a strong guard of sentries, stretching from
Sydney Road to, the Merri Creek, encircled Pent-
ridge Stockade. A sentry who discharged his old-
fashioned, double-barrelled piece without proper
cause was fined a day’s pay—always enforced
A Pole, who had seen service as an officer
in the Russian army and was banished for a poli-
tical offence, let off his gun by accident. The
sergeant of the guard, a notorious martinet,
rushed up and took his name, whereupon the Pole
asked to be relieved for a few minutes. He went
straight to the office and entered the charge
against himself. On the Wednesday morning he
and the sergeant lined up before old Col. Champ,
one-time Secretary for Tasmania. Quoth the
Colonel: “Well, I see you have reported yourself
for breaking the rules. What have you to say,
sir?” “All I can say, your honor, is that! have
no wish to press the charge.” His readiness
saved him—he was the only man who over escaped
being fined for such an offence.


“i Always Give it to my Children”
It purifies the fclood, prevents the bad effects
of hot weather, gives a good appetite, and
builds up the whole system •
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
7J
>/J
m
&
m
m
Cf.
m
/
m
1
R
m
7/1
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family for years with the most satis-
factory results. • . . . ,
“ During the warm, debilitating days of summer it acts as a tome and seems
to build up the system and restore the appetite.
“ I have always given it to my children, whose photograph I send you with
this letter, for any disorder of the blood, and, in fact, for all diseases peculiar
to children. - . . , ....
“I have found it greatly improved their health by getting at the root of the
disorder ciuicker than any other preparation.” . , _ „...
These are the children of Mr. and Mrs. Morrall W. Curran, of Bowen Hills,
Brisbane, Queensland. Mr. Curran sends us this strong testimonial. It shows
again why the people have named Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
The old and young alike are cured with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, for it is a family
medicine. Give a few doses to the children any time they have indigestion,
sleeplessness, loss of appetite, headache, or general weakness. If they are pale
and thin, or have any rashes or pimples, they certainly need it. If you wish
the cure to be prompt, and if you wish it to last, be sure and use Ayer s.
Thepe is nothing "Just as Good.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
W 9 • • w That "Cures.
It is a Blood-Purifying Medicine.
Ayerjs Pills act gently, effectively. They cure constipation.
“Go and Tell the Others.”
Thehk were eleven of ns in all, four women and
seven men. We were passengers on board the
sailing ship Black Squall, 900 tons, bound from
London to Calcutta. The crew had mutinied and
marooned us on Amsterdam Island—a great,
bleak rock in the Indian Ocean. Ten days passed.
We had consumed most of our provisions and all
our water. Thus far we had vainly sought water
on the island. No rain from the heavens, no sail,
on the sea ! Our tongues were cracking like up-
lands in a drought. You have read of the tor-
tures of thirst. May fortune confine your know-
ledge to that.
One more attempt; the last. Two of the men—
the least feeble—started. Hours went by, hours
that smote like hammers and burned like dots of
molten lead. Exhausted and despairing the men
lighted upon a spring half hidden under a remote
cliff. Each took a few swallows. Then one of
them fell fainting on the ground, just able to say
to his companion, “ Go-go tell the others J”
People say that suffering is the mother of selfish-
ness. Often it is so; not always, thank God.
Anyway, the sense of relief ever glows with grati-
tude and pity. Read the following— a woman’s
story—and you will see why the two are paired in
my mind.
“From my childhood I have been subject to
headache and dizziness. At the age of seventeen
I was very weak and ill. My tongue was furred,
my appetite poor. My food seemed to give me no
strength ; I was always tired. My hands and
feet were cold and clammy, and my skin of a
creamy hue. One day, whilst in service at Mrs.
Firth’s, Park Farm, Thornhill, I visited my home.
On arriving there I had great pain and fluttering
at the heart; I could scarcely stand. It so
frightened my mother that she got some neigh-
bours to assist me to the doctor’s. He said, ‘ Your
heart is in a shocking state.’
“ He gave me medicines, but I was not relieved
oy them. Getting worse, I gave up my situation,
being too ill to leave home. Soon I was seized
with a nasty cough and irritation of the throat
and chest; I could get no sleep on account of ir.
1 would sit up in bed until daybreak coughing and
spitting, and was, of course, worse tired tlu.n
when 1 went to bed. My legs trembled so that I
could not stand or walk much ; I was not able to
wash or dress myself. In this condition I re-
mained month after month, growing weaker
daily. On one occasion I was so bad that mother
thought I was dying, and fetched Mrs. Senior, a
neighbor, saying, ‘‘Do come and help me.’
“In January, 1890, I went to the Dewsbury
Infirmary, where I was under treatment for six
weeks. The doctors gave me iron mixture and
other tonics, but they had no effect. Other young
girls were there, being doctored for ailments like
mine, to as little purpose as far as I could see.
“ I next tried change of air, and went to Hali-
fax, also to Batley, without benefit. I continued
to waste away, and people said I would never re-
cover. In May, 1891, I first read of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, in a book that was left at our
house.
“ Mother got me a bottle from Mr. J. Day, the
chemist, Thornhill Lees, and I began taking it.
After taking only a few doses 1 found a little
relief, the heaviness of my chest and the pain
at my heart were easier, and my food digested
and agreed with me. I now grew stronger
every day, and was soon able to go back
to my work. But I kept on taking the
Syrup still, and, to the surprise of every
one, the color came to my cheeks, and I have since
enjoyed the best of health. All my family were
delighted,, as you may well believe. (Signed)
Miss Hannah Milnos. 18 Walker’s Buildings,
Brewery Lane, Thornhill Lees, Dewsbury, Oc-
tober 12th, 1892.
“P.S.— lf we could have afforded it, we should
have published all the particulars of my case in the
newspapers, that others might know where to look
for a remedy. —H.M.”
There ! that is it. She wanted to.tell the
others. And by printing her story we help her to
tell them where to find a oure for indigestion and
dyspepsia and its dangerous consequences when
all hope seems to have faded away.
d
c)
%
\
A
<5
Pat (at the wake, after numerous whiskies): “Oi
don’t know whether Oi’m singin’ or cryin’
after that last lot, begob ! ”
GAS COOKERS.
The “gureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A astral in n Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per CeM. Disciat allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IS TIIK
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
KEEP
YOURSELVES
UP TO
CONCERT ,
PITCH
BV
TAKING
Beecham's
Pills.
m
VOU are SCire to get tbs Best Piaijo
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
pONISCN FanjoGS Piapos oi)ly to be bad
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
DCCNSTCIN SGperb PiapoS oply
U At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
JU|I6NON Piapos, World Reoowpcd, oi>ly
1 1 At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
|JANON PiaijoS WopdcrfGlly Cheap oply
n At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
|JO Other HoGSeS are iD v/itb
n NICHOLSON’S in George Street, SYDNEY.
Eonungton
P Cures While Sleeping.
8 misfire
TBSTIMOKTIAL.
Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONMNGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &e.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF ™
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and zl\ othm Lung ComclaS
tending to CONSUMPTION. g ° om P lalnfcs
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills
fei^ IVEI ISS M J >^ N rT S ’ BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, FLATU-
LENCE. THE BEST PAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.


asv* 6
SES^Wsistf
Establishes
184 T.
HI
K
high-class
Harvesting
■-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Bead Offlte and Factoriet - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 163-169 William-st. Milk.
New Seuth Wale* Addrees 1
3t Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue l ree. on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
]\l AN CJEACTU It ERS
AM> '‘ CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman's Buil d ins, Adelaide.
‘OLE AC
I isc veved by « hritfopher
Mnd«l, JT.ti S,. BoiaiMrft to
H.lt.it. the l'rio e of Wales
Permanent \ ure.
,-V
Jars (concentd.), 4/6,
p»st 4/10
I>KPOTS.
Sydsky-M. H. II
Adruidk—Habhis
Mklbochve—Fbkd. .T K
“tiLEftC’
II'HWITZ, 84 I itt St
& Kkmi>, (S Itnmlle St..
:. I'hillips, .817 Cnllins St.
•pajlddy Jias-
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
Wortl)ii)gfco!) Ptin)pii>g Eogio* Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SIUiPBOII J~i£’Otil. ei'3. (Australasian Branch. )
82 Clarence-st.,
<T*MVW SOVHI
IHiyOW
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johna-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
THE I«AJ»i£S.
W_ C- EXiX)-R,IDG-E & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 If OK It S'J'KWUI’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders bp I'oxt from'all Ills colonies promptly
of soiled to,.
, THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P PS’S
GRATEFUL - COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
>/4
W
•«
h
-a 1 ?
“Jupiter” Kerosene Gas Stoves.
NO NOISE. IN BURNING.
Latest Improvements : ® urns Kerosene without a wick, convert.
x • ing into pas Without None or Fumet.
I'RICK 12/6; post 1/5 extra. This Burner, fitted to our Ovens, will
RoshC, Bake, and Boil for ,-a family of 8 at a cost of 1/8 per week.
NOLSKLKSS Burners fitted to any Stoves.
Primus Stoves, !)/6 each; Price of Oven*, from lt/6 each*
LAMP and STOVE WAREHOUSE,
236 Pitt-st. (opposite School of Arts). SYDNEY
THE LAST OF SIX
ROBERTS’
George and Ufl'T CTI
Market-Sts. ■ • CbL*
Board or Apartments at Option
What is Health?
JJheumntittn, Sciatica,
Lutnlm’/o, .to.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F,
FAItKKK, 145 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send lor Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
fW~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these Brand medicines have not ,>een
recognised hy thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxhorij-st., London, {jjr" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Creani, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Wit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATRON; Manager.
PARKE & LACY
LTD
I
s’XTDnsriEiTr-
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining' Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
. . . Sole Agents for . . .
The ‘Newlngersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
ANP
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Bather's
Baking Powder .
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth’
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
Of THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
looks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complet e. Usual price
cleaners coi.Xte "Usual'price f2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the. Breech-
loadin-Guns at 6s6d per 100 in anv size shot.. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafls must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO. __ • _ __
V
B.S.A.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
I MELBOURNE, Absolute ly Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
pvnrr ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Rnlun/« gross) Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Co ers /ounlop principie, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3“ «'« M H,n rf l,.i™
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6.
8 Tcross ' ;*■ SEND FOR TRADE ILLUS'
opr cent* cheaper than any other house in Australia,
i tn c 7 i s to fclfi £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA. _
(1/6 'inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
rn/n dozen pairs), uenume *>.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double But'ed Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
(0/11 dozen gEND poR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Gin ran teed to supply 25
PNEUMATIC-TYiiE BICYCLES, up to
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
:
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
J. A, Fay & Co’s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
IN STOCK :
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
FAY’S HAND-FEED PLANER.
&C
&c., &c.,
