

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
3 FEY’S MALTED COCOA
aUARAKTXEED FIJRB COCOA AKTD BXrRACT OF MALT. '
B. G. WATKINS & 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
I
SOLE AGENTS
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS. u
Up-to-Da,te Fltmr Milling Maoh.inery, Sngines &. Boilera,' Stool Windmills.
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
fi4 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
268
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOE PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMFOLK'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sr,.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-w pm street, SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Huston, Proctor & Co.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
BOILERS
AND
ECCENTRIC THRASHTING MTACHIKTES, SAW BENCHES, &c., &c
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY
Kilminster's Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
THE LA IST OF SIX.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
touting, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
ing issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
tation from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
pt for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART.
■ '—
Hadley s Orient |j(M
cut/
f
oo
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d. .
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Sigb.est Awards wlierever Bxlaibited.
$3?
Vamcyck
CIGARS
V. i-J /?
ir
ri i r
wt/j<uvwr
SMOKE
Pimm
©P 8
©a Is.
:i«um%CSSmY!
The Bulletin
Voi. 19.—N0. 987.]
[Saturday, January 14, 1899.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin has just published
the first number of
The Bookfellow,
A Monthly Magazinelet
For Book-buyers and Book-readers.
Price, Id.; send 6d. stamps for six
months’ subscription.
A post-card brings a specimen copy
free to any address.
THE A.E.GOMA.XJT.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
The Bulletin” says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
the “ Argonaut ” is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors :
“ Whatever you are, never be commonplace." The re-
the most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper.
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sale at Tub Bulletin Office after the arrival of the
American mail; price, Bd. ; posted, 9d. ; mailed regularly
to any Australasian address.
fhe Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), Is. 3d. ; cloth, 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Eavenc, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers) —
Complete Poetical Works, ss. A limited
number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, 2s. 6d. A
few copies remain.
In the Press.
A Bush Tanqueray and Other Stories, by
Albert Doriiington (“Alba Dorion”).
The Ways of Many Waters; Verses by
E. J. Brady.
In Preparation.
On Our Selection, by A. H. Davis (“Steele
Rudd ”). Illustrated by Alf. Vincent.
Maoriland, and Other Verses, by Arthur
H. Adams.
THE SPORTSMAN’S CIGARETTE
CRICKETERS
YACHTSMEN
ROWING-MEN
FOOTBALLERS
GOLFERS
TENNIS-PLAYERS
RIFLE-SHOTS
SWIMMING-MEN
BICYCLISTS
HORSEMEN
POLO-PLAYERS
a « SMOKE i ■
CAMEOS
THE RED PAGE.
1“ Cripps Clark” writes of chanteys and chantey-
men —
A “shantey”—probably a corruption of the
French chanson —serves two very useful purposes
aboard ship : by timing the pulls on a rope by cer-
tain words in the chorus it ensures the watch bend-
ing their backs as one man ; and it enables the
shanty-man to voice his shipmates’ opinions upon
unpopular officers, and all their grievances
against the “blanky old basket” they’ve been
“shanghaied” into. These remarks are inter-
polated in time and tune with the chantey they
are singing.
A real good chanteyman must be a bit of a wit;
with a good voice, an extensive stock of assorted
chanteys suitable for the various occasions, and a
gift for hastily composing topical verses when a
lengthy pull has exhausted the stock edition. He
is the soloist, and sings the loudest and pulls the
least of the whole crowd. He rarely joins in the
chorus, as he requires the time to get breath and
arrange his rhyme for the next couplet. Imagine
him and his mates in position for hoisting the
main tops’l. The chanteyman stands by the
ha’ly’ds, gripping them well above his
head ; the rest of the motley crew tail on
along the deck with the “brass-bounders” in the
rear, where they are only credited with taking in
the slack. Sea-apprentices’ motto is, “We do
the grunting ; let those who are paid for it do the
pulling.” +
The chantey-man gives a preliminary yell and
leads off with :
Extra verses may be grafted on as required; but
the above are kept in type, so to speak.
Another tops’l chantey goes :
O ! up aloft that yard must go,
Away-ay ! blow the man down 1
0 ! shake her up from down below—
Give us some time to blow the man down.
If, early in the voyage, the mate shows a disposi-
tion to bully and “haze” the crew, and they
happen to be hard-cases and white, the next verse
may convey this gentle warning :
0 ! There is that man who stands on the poop,
Away-ay ! blow the man down !
If he hazes us round we’ll give him the boot,
0 ! give us a chance to knock the man down !
On the other hand, when the ship and her officers
are satisfactory, the chanty-man signifies the same
in the usual manner :
I thought I heard our “ old man " say,
Hooray ! Heisrho !
“0, steward, serve out some grog to-day,
John’s bound for Rio ! ”
Should the captain happen to appear at the break
o’ the poop, and the chances are favorable, the
chantey-man catches his attention with
A bully ship, and a bully crew.
Hooray! (putt) Heigho ! (pull).
A bully mate to see us through.
John’s (pull) gone to Rio (pull).
This is a hint direct; but, as a rule, the chantey-
man’s allusions to those in authority are so artfully
veiled that only the officer aimed at, and the
grinning crow, can sec the drift of them. Some-
times they are met with a sharp order to Hand-
over-hand on those ha’ly’ds,” which means more
pulling and less singing. When Jack is real savage,
he won’t sing at all, but gives a “ dry pull, timed
by a single grunt, for well he knows that nothing
is more irritating to the officer of the watch than
sulky silence. *
In these days of donkey-engines and smaller
crews, capstan-songs are going out of use. They
are not so incoherent as the haulmg-chanteys, m
which sense is sacrificed to sound. A favorite up-
anchor chantey is the homeward-bound chorus —
At the windlass Jack always has a kind word
for the girls he is leaving* behind, mingled with
pleasurable anticipations of the girls ahead of him.
Outward bound, he will inform his weeping Poll
on the pier -head that
Sometimes we’re bound for Liverpool,
Sometimes we’re bound for France ;
Heave away-ay, my bullies—heave away 1
But now we’re bound for Sydney town
To give those girls a chance ;
Heave away, my bully boys, we’re all bound to go 1
Sometimes, when “ hot coppers ” and a sore head
induce a repentant mood, he walks around the
capstan, exclaiming:
“ I’ll go no more a-ro-oving, with you fair maid a-roving !
a-roving ! since roving’s been my ruining,” &c., &c.
Another rousing windlass song is “Marching
through Georgia ”; but for plaintive melody I
prefer “Old Stormy’s Dead.” I well remember
lying on the fo’c’s’le-head one still, moonlight
night at Mauritius listening to it. The ship
getting up anchor was far enough away to tone
down the voices of the crew; and as the song, and
the clank, clank, of the windlass palls, floated to
me in the spice-scented air, I thought it one of
the prettiest tunes I had ever listened to. The
minor cadence of the air suited the hour and the
scene, and I shall ever remember the chanting of:
We dug his grave with a silver spade,
We lowered him in with a golden chain,
He stormed to-day, but he’ll storm no more,
Poor old Stormy’s dead.
It was a tuneful dirge. All the chanteys Jack
loves are musical, and even fashionable composers
have been known to appropriate the airs. The
words, of course, are impossible. They “carry no
moral.” Often enough they carry, a lot that is
most decidedly immoral. ,\
* * * *
Sailors singing at their work, and sailors singing
during their watch below, are totally different in
their choice of subjects. In his few leisure hours,
Jack has a decided leaning towards purely senti-
mental ditties. He will sit on his “donkey” in
the fo’c’sle, or outside on the spare top-mast in
warm weather, and sadden all hands with the
lament that
The white man came to Maryland
With slaves to buy and sell,
And so enticed that he bore away
My pretty, O ! my pretty Flora Bell.
Or he will relate in a tuneful jodel, and with many
peculiar chantey variations, that he will
Ne’er forget the day my Nellie lost her way,
And I traced her little footsteps in the snow.
And so on, from “Mother kissed me in my
dreams” to “I walked out one May morning to
view the flowers in Spring. ” He is not at all par-
ticular, and if the “old man” invites him to a
gospel-meeting aboard ship, in a foreign port,
Jack will go and tackle all the hymns with just as
much gusto as he puts into a chantey. Indeed,
Jack has often more religion than he gets credit
for ; his awful profanity —which is really only
automatic —being against him. But, if there is a
heated argument going on in the fo’c’sle, it is safe
to bet 6 to 4 on that the subject is either a knotty
point in women or—Bible history.
The most deeply-religious “shell” I was eVer
shipmates with was “Old Dad”; he was not
much over 40, but the oldest member of the ship’s
crew generally has that title thrust upon him. lie
used to kneel down in prayer every night before
turning-in, and was really a good fellow. But
one very wild night all the watch were stowing the
mainsail. Dad was next to me on the lee-yard-
arm, and was remarking, in a casual sort of way,
that, “ Gordam my soul to h —l if I can feel the
gasket, ” when the flogging of the canvas whipped
him into outer darkness, as he was “lost and
given over ” before I reached the deck. A parson
may not think his exit very promising, but I
believe, if there is any chanteying to be done aloft,
“ Old Dad ” will be there lifting up his voice with
the best of them.
Writes “ Thorold Dalrymple ”
What injustice is done to an admirable lyrist by
printing the “ best ” of Ogilvie’s unfortunate son-
net experiments ! It may be pleaded that our
sonneteers have hitherto neglected their Austra-
lian atmosphere; that Ogil vie is striving to
acclimatise the sonnet; and it is pleaded, seem-
ingly, that his last two lines,
The lifeless form bound to the saddle-gear,
The blood-drops falling on the stirrup-bars,
extenuate a metrical exercise which realises none
of the sonnet-ideals of dignity, heart, or grace.
Possibly the Bush will yet furnish us with a read-
able sonnet, “a little picture painted well” —and
little more. But it seems a sin to encourage this
hope at the cost of irregular verses upon themes
that do not suit an arbitrary form—and at the
risk of transforming an uncommonly fine lyrist
into a very ordinary sonneteer. For the methods
are dissimilar, and it seems more than possible
that the man who'meddles with artificial forms
will lose the spontaneity that is essential in the
lyrical poet, and sounds in every line of Ogilvie’s
—excepting, always, his lamentable “sonnet.”
All this, as timely introduction to some views
upon the sonnet as Australians have it. Dismiss
Kendall (for all save the thoughtful and melodious
“Rest”), on the grounds that his attempts were
colorless and in most instances irregular, and we
are left almost entirely at the mercy of the new-
comers. Of'this lately-risen, importunate band,
Arthur Adams sounds the deepest note —gets near-
est to the resounding bass chords of the Miltonic
organ. His “A.D. 1895” gives but a hint of
power—
How the line
Shall find in one fierce, vast convulsion, vent :
grates upon one’s sense of music, though, when
the sonnet is read, for sake of comparison,
between Wordsworth’s “Earth has not anything
to show more fair ” and Rossetti’s imperishable
“Sonnet for a Venetian Pastoral”,! Still, the
Maorilander is young, and progressive. He treats
his sonnet upon this year’s doings in China with
more adequate art. And, only for the interde-
pendence of each upon the other, there is good
work, also, in his series on the four cities of Maori-
land.
Next in order, place Arthur Bayldon. Next in
order, because he is not spontaneous as Adams.
Next in order, also, because he has gone near to
defining high-water mark of Australian sonnet
achievement with his admirable ‘ ‘ Marlowe ”
Yet, halt! How little of the poet is distinguish-
able in the line following—
He recked not that a compeer calm and strong
Ringing falsely as a cracked florin, it delivers to
us the secret of Bayldon’s assiduity with literary
hammer and chisel. Any real poet who had
written that majestio opening quatrain could not
help being whirled to the uttermost end of his
sonnet by the very torrent of his soul’s music.
One recent Australian sonnet has impressed me
even more than those already quoted or referred
to. It was printed without signature in The
Bulletin a couple of years ago, and notwithstand-
ing a certain failure of restraint, is a fine model of
exuberant fancy and artistic word-weaving ■
I“‘ ere are other writers whose works demands
erence, stick as Hubert Church, another M.L.
•ser. His sonnets (in a quieter groove that
ght have been Wordsworth’s, had not Words-
rth chosen to throw away the shepherd’s crook
d become a sonneteering Titan) are perhaps
3 neatest and most exquisite of local pro-
ctions ; “ Akaroa Heads/’ too recently in print
allow of quotation, for example. And I have
jmory of some others. Daley’s “Gleaner”
Imirable, but cold), William Gay’s clean-cut,
t lustreless jewels, an old-time triad by Roderic
linn, and a good half-dozen, at least, by writers
lose work is otherwise unknown to me.
From Current Literature :
The recent and irreparable los3 of Anton Seidl Bur-
sts oertain animadversions on music ; on certain
lases of it that are not always taken into considera-
m by laymen, for Seidl’s relations with mu9ic were
>t directly those of a producer or executant, al-
rnugh he certainly did, in one sense, produce music of
le supreme type, with supreme art. But music is far
ore than sound, more even than melody and har-
ony. There is more to music than the ear dis-
jvers. To those that know it, one of the most
nportant qualities is its appeal to the eye. Experts
>ad a musical classic as they do a famous poem or
standard novel, and they skim or peruse new music as
aey skim a newspaper. They claim, indeed, to derive
Imost as much pleasure from what is literally “ read-
ier ’ music as from playing it or hearing it played. One
jams to read music, as to read books ; picking out each
ote with hesitant deliberation, as a beginner cons the
jtters of his primer; constructing the chords laboriously
s a child groups the letters in a word, and combining
he chords into a phrase, as a child builds up its under-
tanding of a sentence.
* * * *
In time, the reader of books learns to grasp a word as a
,'bole without any conscientious spelling of it. Gradually
le is able to take in a whole sentence at a time without
lausing to study its separate words. So the practised
nusician reads his notes, and such a virtuoso as Liszt is
aid to have constantly read eighteen measures ahead of
he measure he was playing. To the physiological psycho-
ogist, one of the most marvellous abilities of the human
oind is a trained pianist’s rapid performance at first
ight of a brilliant composition. We are too sadly
Lccustomed to the übiquitous piano player either to realise
>r admire the astounding ingenuity of his mind ; but
;o appreciate it thoroughly one has only to make
i calculation of the myriad messages and the lightning-
ike volitions required for the playing, at a high rate of
speed, of complicated passages ; for they are written in
;wo clefs and on a staff which serves for any key, the per-
ormer being compelled to alter the significance of every
lote throughout ttpe piece according to the signature of
the key. The necessities for deciding the time to be
spent on each note, the quality of tone to be produced,
the force of that tone and its relation to everything that
follows it or preceded it, or is struck simultaneously with
it, are so appalling that one really ought to forgive the
average pianist for not adding'to'the miraole by playing
with large intellectuality and emotion.
* * * *
The reading of a piano composition is wonderful
enough, but there is something stupefying about the
reading of an orchestral score. The composition is likely
to be quite as brilliant as most brilliant piano pieces, and
it is scattered among a horde of instruments, the notes
for which are written in several different keys and clefs at
the same time. The main theme is tossed about from one
family of instruments to another, and contra melodies of
all sorts and descriptions are thrown in at every crevice.
Different instruments must be kept at different de-
grees of force, and they must express different emo-
tions at the same time. The problems presented to
an orchestral conductor at the first sight of a score for
grand orchestra would seemingl.v swamp the most agile
intellect in existence ; yet the trained student takes up
such a score with the iight-hearted comfort of a summer
girl opening a paper-covered romance to be read in a sea-
side hammock. The musician sits back in his seat at
home or in a street car or a railroad train —or, perhaps,
even in a carriage ! —and reads rapidly and understand-
inglv till the whole place about him resounds and quivers
with music that has no being except in the secret porches
of his soul. Many an old musician is biought to tears by
this silent reading of page after page--of orchestral score.
Music that makes no appeal to the eye is not likely to be
music of much prominence. Music that does so stir the
reader is surely' a sort of exalted literature.
—-- ♦
•“Journalist”: A sub-editor advised me never
to use the words Colony or Larrikin. “Colonial poetry ”
is the disparaging label for Kendall, Gordon, Daley, Banjo
and co., in Melb. Public Library.
“ Eulbertie ”: Rougemont’s fables recall Olive
Schreiner's satirical dictum that “ the histories of wild
adventure are best written in Piccadilly or in the Strand,
where the gifts of the creative imagination, untrammelled
by contact with any fact, may spread their wings.”
Loafer (Tauranga, M.L.): We have hero three
slang words for “ florin ’’—zweideehfr (from zwei=two,
deencr=a shilling); twopence, and a brace of pegs. Fol-
lowing are other local money-names : —£l note— flimsy,
rag, or carpet; sovereign —thickun or poldia; half-
sovereign— half-thickun or little uoldie ; 55.-piece caser,
K, or bull; 2s. (kl. —half-bull, half-caser, or two-and-a-
buclc; Is.— keener, bob, colonial robcrt, or penny; (Vl.—
tizzie, sprat, or tanner; 3d. — thrum, half-Hz, tray, or
tray-piece ; Id. —Maori half-crown, brownie, or copper. Of
course, some of these are not new, but I give you the
whole bagful.
A Yankee ship came down the river,
Chorus : “ Blow (pull) boys, blow (pull).
She fired a gun that made us shiver.
Chorus: Blow ! (pull)-my bully ((mll) boys, blow (pull).
And who do you think was. skipper of her,
Blow ! boys, blow !
A big bu;k nigger in a white hell-topper,
Blow ! my bully boys, blow !
And what do you think they had for dinner?
Blow 1 boys, blow !
A monkey’s head and a donkey’s liver —
Blow ! my bully boys, blow 1 ”
Our cargo’s all in and our ballast all out.
Good-bye ! Fare-ye-well ! Good-bye ! &o.
So now we’ll raise that good old shout—
“Hurrah ! my lads, we’re homeward-bound.”
We’re homeward-bound with twelve-months’ pay.
Good-bye ! Fare-ye-well ! Good-bye ! &c.
We’re homeward-bound this very day.
Hooray ! my lads, we’re homeward-bound.
0 ! When we arrive in the London docks,
Good-bye! Fare ye well! Good-bye! Fare ye well!
The pretty young girls come down in flocks,
Hurrah ! my laris, w'e’re homeward bound.
0 1 Here comes Jack with his twelve months’ pay,
Good-bye ! Fare ye well ! Good-bye ! Fare ye well!
He’s going to treat us all to-day,
Hurrah ! mv boys, we’re homeward bound !
As in some quiet city swathed in sleep,
Where, like a kiss, the twilight lingereth,
When suddenly the earth stirs far beneath—
Just moves, then pauses—and a silence deep
Falls on all ere the second shock should sweep
Spire, column, turret —all to shapeless death !
And white face peers at white face, while no breath
Is drawn, and every heart forgets to leap !
So now across this quiet, dreaming world
The first faint shock has thrilled, and men, aghast,
Wait for the second, whose blind forces pent
Shall find in one fierce, vast convulsion, vent :
When all the builded fabrics of the past
Shall be in ruins on their builders hurled.
With Eastern banners flaunting in the breeze,
Royal processions, sounding- fife and gong
And showering jewels o’er the jostling throng
March to the tramp of Marlowe’s harmonies. -
He drained life’s brimming goblet to the lees, —
Night in mid-Aututhn Bridge and bay and cliff,
Seethed in the moon’s milk, slumber silently.
A dying tide swoons to the distant sea.
The bland airs breathing round our little skiff
Sigh heavily from the gulfs of Space, as if
Faint with the fragrance of Eternity,
And in a web of silver symmetry
Dark ripples weave their mystic hieroglyph.
How glorious is Dian in her pride !l
And near her, with a lustre interblent,
Throned at the zenith see imperial ride
A single star 1 She passes; he, grief-spent,
Pales for one instant; then, a suicide
Superb, leaps flashing down the firmament.


I
$
i
A
Sydney’s leading Specialists,
WARN
DESPAIRING
YOUM MEN.
Symptoms
of Dreaded Diseases which
destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronio ailments of a more or less serious nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finder and says,
“Stop—be sad!” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unmarmed man,
“Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSofy-
This is a most loathsome affliotion. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poiwon, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment 8 delay. X)on t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSIIIVL CURL of this teruble
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURB, ABSOLUihLY and PERMA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
AT
60 Engravings.
16 colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
Debility, LoSS of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debi ity is no a c 'ijnce
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebod.ngs of the future Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society-you are troubled with stup.dness, bashfulness
and loss of energy. You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suede. Ihe cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. <,ro\v i .elan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an ac nng a. , y
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is e J ™ d , T)r»n>
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Wous Debility
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. ' J ,
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes-bnng back the lustre to your eyes and
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life ambitious successful. Don t e ay.
action is iar me oest.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
1 ake time by the forelock—nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting. ,
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. JNo matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
equipment and low charges. _ . , „ ~ , , . „ r, o
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don’t be afraid to state your case hilly. Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
nTTT>T.'n L-oon anvt.hincr hne.k. All communications are sacredly
CURED, we are ready to help you. Don't keep anything back,
confidential.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDBE33 ALL LETTEBS TO
M
sa
w
Vi
■fa
a
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 1859.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
an d Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
ulntiUNS, completed bis studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and coarse, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
oold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tend r-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mou h on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the baok, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &0., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6cl. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may bo quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the euro of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination i« the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dit. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
mmm
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send Gd. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-l)aily,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
gf>
m
mwmm
[ Jim u
‘ TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain same easily
and permanently Prof,
Read’s LIFE SYRUP cures the most obstinate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, Ac. _ A Written
Guarantee given in all cases The Life Syrup stim-
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdrain of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how at.
nervous disorders are cured, and in many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St., Meloourne,
Young and
Old Men ! !
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TKADE
THERAPION
mark.
This suocesslul anil highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Uicord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No l
in a rental kanly short tune, olteu a tew days only ,
111 Cfc iimmn»'o; ’ »
removes all discharges from the urinary organs.
iuovnui B ' «... » ”,
superseding injections, the use of which does 111c-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
(tlt.i Ullici eci UIQI.U. 1.-I
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of the blood, scurvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c„ to the destruction of sufferers'
teeth and ruinof health. This preparation purifies
the whole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p nsonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION the principal
Chemists and Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In.ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ab >ve Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Therapiok " as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty's Hon
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrafion —FELTON, GRIMWA.DE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSfTT & Co.
VARICO CELE
Every Mam
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hollaway Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
NO CURE-NO PAY;
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
consultations free.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
NorZney is 13 CaSTLEREAGH St.,
required in SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
your first ’
letter . or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
T)r TT fllavtnn’s marvellous
ur. a. oiayions vnrAL | T y PJL Is
Are tne best medioine on earth for the Permanent Cure
of Nervous Exhaustion, Debility, Despondency, Rheuma-
tism, Paralysis, Impoteney, etc., and all diseases arising
from Overwork, Worry, Excess, Female Weakness, etc.
No matter how caused, or how long standing. These Pills
are purely a vegetable compound, made from rare and
fine drugs. Success guaranteed. Literature free on
application. Full directions around each box. In boxes
at 6s. and 10s., post free from the Dr. H. CLAYTON
MEDICINE COMPANY, Box 017 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
ATROPHY
, IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the very first hour of its use. Strength,
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address :-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
Inis valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address —S. WARD Sc CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
liisf
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50, 000 Subscribers at 5.
To be Drawn on the Anniversary Handicap,
28th January.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mej :—-—. shares in the above.
Name i
Address '
s :
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTER SALE.
Please allot me : shares in the above.
Name _
HOBART C. February 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me —_ »,—, __shares in the above.
Name_
Address - ■ ~
LAUNCESION C. February 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
COOTAMUNDRA C. C.P.C. February 8.
10,000 Sutaacribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name,
Address
BALLARAT C. C.P.C. March 24
50,000 Subscribers a/fc 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
in the above.
Name
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Tl)? 6IaSS
of FaSbioO
• riORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . • •
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Croceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and Ceneral Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
CELLULAR
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
"Very Durable.
HEIR
. . FOR SUMMER . .
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undorvests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc, in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc.
CELLULAR CORSKTH.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Niftht Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
gar CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sou? Agents :
David graham
(between George and York streets).
73 & 75
King -st.,
Sydney
USB
Spooler’s
«OON£*.
FOR
: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
‘ OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRtC I lONS FOR USE
4bs
niatnnnnuiimuiLimiuii
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
Kor Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND AIX MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, full}' Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GEIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
THE
BE
?W~ “Common Sense Ear
Drnm3” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
[comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
[jrerons) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Asrent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
‘DOWRIDGE’S
as USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
AUD GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
naan
G-O TO HLKT.L-
-“ IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
■■ m f ■ a j| ▲ f Established IW“<
AOstraliai) Mtitdal Pr<wid „ ot Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established " w X■# *
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.H.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. -LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Halt Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head Office : 37 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3T Send for Price List. HS6
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 135 & J 37 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENOS‘FRUIT SALT’
A Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
-■
»
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
•with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYASMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “Ihavobeon a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fovor, pyremia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancor, and almost every mentionable disoaso. During this timo I
havo not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the uso of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot bo
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. J. HAYNES, M.L.A., states that “ while in Wellington, N.S.W., I saw two
children suffering badly from sore eyes, the flies being an awful infliction.” He sent
the mother two bottles of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion. This is the reply: ‘‘l
thank you for the lotion you sent me for the babies’ eyes. The lotion is doing them
good. They are so much better.” .
Mr. E. MORTLOCK, Rooty Hill, says: “I have used your Eye Lotion, and
find it most invaluable for all eye complaints.”
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PBOPEIETOR :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
Plum
THH
* Plum’
s \ ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
\ trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morooco leather ease, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory in beautiful oase, 30s.
Solo
Agents
Reyistered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street. SYDNEY
g sun niUTCU fuse.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address —
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
D.S .MAI R
&P
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2 6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
TVI.S.'W. Carriage & Sadldlery Ma,nf
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY (close to Redfern Railway Station).
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent.
bv buying from us. _ .
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spnng
Sulkiesi, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’ Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
1 vou pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£B.lB. 6.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A sarcastic Chinese yarn goes that when
man was created his brains were accidentally left
out on a saucer, and the cat ate them.. The cat
has been a knowledgeable animal ever since.
Extract from an old time-yellowed Wes-
tralian Government Gazette
Tenders are invited for the simply of one draught
horse. Plans and specifications may be seen at the office
of the Under-Secretary for Public Works.
Whenever the question of a State tobacco
monopoly comes up, as it did in Vie. Assembly,
the other week, the invariable argument used
against it is that there is a State monopoly in
France, and that French tobacco is bad. Yet the
Frenchman doesn't regard his tobacco as bad. It
is good according to his taste, and it is made to
suit his taste. Australian tobacco isn’t a State
monopoly and it is also none too good. Aus-
tralian beer isn’t a State monopoly either, and
most of it is awful. These should be equally good
points in favor of State monopoly. Moreover,
the badness of the French tobacco is mainly a
wheeze, like the mother-in-law joke. Fully one-
sixth of the cigars smoked in N.S.W. are French,
and their alleged awfulness doesn’t come notice-
ably to the surface.
The Prehistoric God.
The picture-tale of the Azteo,
The runic verse of the Finn ;
The sacred lore of the Teuton,
With Greece and Rome thrown in.
Nineveh, Babylon, Persia,
The monuments by the Nile ;
Cuneiform cylinder, graven stone,
And the prehistoric tile.
Hieroglyph of Egypt,
The Chippeway’s ear and tongue;
Avesta, Bible and Veda
Have all attested and sung :
That the firestick god of primordial days
Knew the people’s hearts and the people’s ways.
He dwelt on the hearth where the children roll,
The light of the home and its life and soul.
He fought the negation wet and cold;
And people trusted the god of old.
But we’ve built a god that has crushed us down
With the weight of a grand ideal;
An abstract god for the gods alone,
But to mankind all unreal.
And the ruins are tumbled over,
But never a spark they find
Of the firestiok god that the ancients knew
As a balm for the troubled mind.
Then give them their idols back again,
Tho’ they be but wind and wood ;
They express the peoples’ hopes and joys,
And have been for the peoples good.
Tho’ the tomples be many and many,
We’ve never a god in them all,
And the human heart is yearning again
For that god to hear its call.
W.A.
TMRAY.
To Rebelling Woman.
You are a goddess ! There we all agree.
But you complain, my dear, that our devotion
Is flavored with a homely, pagan notion
About the treatment of the deity ?
Well, I confess, our worship may appear
Irreverent and coarse ; much like the scrimmage
Between a Mongol and his brazen image
That keeps its answers somewhat in arrear.
But, after all, the heathen’s heart is stout
And unremitting in its sacrifices;
Although the fact remains that his devices
Are arbitrary—still he is devout.
As for the Christian with his higher bent,
His grand conception of a spirit-being
Beyond the range of hearing and of seeing—
Is he not just a bit indifferent ?
Say, would you rather be a silhouette
Upon the Vast, ethereal, transcendent;
That in its abstract chilliness resplendent
Man, carnal man, shall worship—and forget ;
Or, dear, an idol, to whose throbbing flanks
He fondly clings, with constancy, to rally
His hope and strength—and that occasionally
He takes from off the pedestal and spanks ?
VON KOTZE.
My Love.
Thy soul is a deep, deep valley, mournful and
pale with tears ;
And I throb through the tremulous twilight
hung over the harvest of fears,
Like a star at the weird hour of evening, when
light breaks the gloom of years.
Oh, thy voice is the voice of a bird, Love—a voice
that I heard long ago,
Who sang but one note in the greenwood, but
burnt my soul with the glow ;
And I choked in the darkness of silence, and
wept on the earth for woe.
Around thee the clear winds of heaven breathe
softly, dear love, for delight;
Around thee the moonbeams of heaven weave
vestures, dear love, of pure white.
For thou art a love-guarded lily, a flower in the
garden of night.
J. E. S. HENERIE.


BAKING
POWDER
,Guaranteed -
free from alum
WASHINGTON H.SOUL* C°,PITTST. SYDNEY.
AND SOLD BY ALL CROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
The Australian Widows’ pund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
PoMd^SSJISJf.* 11 the USUaI fonnS 0f Assurance > is the ONL Y OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
11. r>a?p t,le e . vent °f temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
1 ala U P 1 01IL > In the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
TT . Board op Directors :
Hon T ft RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUIHEUS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
A ceumnlated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M nte for Special Prospectus.] GIEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit
■ „. , , Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence iu the article, and cfmecom
meud it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Custard Giveit a trial
_ , . , , v Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1 /- each.
Arcliitects Specify
Piß
DAMPCOUBSE
BE CAUSE
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. The University of Sydney, May 2, '9B.
Gentlemen.—l have tested two kinds of your Ruberoid, which I will refer to as A and B.
Ais the P& B Pile Covering ; Bis the P& B Damp-proof Course.
Sample A expanded under a pressure of 10 tons per square foot from 6" x 6" to 6 02" x
6.02", and with 12 tons per square foot to 6.025" x 6.025". The latter pressure would be lust
about reached in a stone building 160 ft. high.
Sample B Dampcourse showed no alteration whatever under a pressure of 12 tons ner
square foot. r
In regard to porosity, both samples were subjected to a head of 10ft. of water for 20 hours,
and were perfectly watertight. Both were subjected also to pressure before testing.—Yours
faithfully,
(Signed) W. H. WARREN, Wh. Sc. M. Inst. C.E., M. Am. Soc. 0.E.,
Professor of Engineering.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
i Adelaide, S.A.
Boss & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N Z
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & MTherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents ; E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water."
CARLTON ALE.
THE MARBLE BAR
PUT STREET, SYDNEY 9^9
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading Theatres and G.P.O.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Every Visitor says: “Do not miss The Marble Bar.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.]
Pa.in.iesa Dentistry.
THE ....
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASH EE, Dentists.
i 3?“" Modern Dentistry in nil its Hr an dies
Def/itinintcly Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 93 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and liessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 ter Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at (id., 1/- and 1 6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
MPA
UMT?
Trade
Hawk
o°il
co
71 rnopnitront ■ '
Qt Distillers Company IT
EDIN BURGH. «u«*
L* - j J*. 0 J * to'"7 *^4?4P/^fS
\ ;*>' **> MW «»* JJ<i~ fir&k
V “ *u ,u / >/■*-
hi - M -
Drink
moderately.
Take a little Whisk}
“ for the stomach’s sake ”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L/
SAVE YOTJTx MONEY
Jty not paying Doctor's bills
.
WILL CURE YOU OF
Gout, Indigestion,
Dyspepsia or Rheumatism.
It is tlx© Perfect Table -Water.
BOTTLED DIRECT FROM THE MAORI SPRINGS.
Can be obtained at all Clubs and leading Hotels -ea
Retail from
The Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Sydney.
Agents for N.S.W. and Q’land: E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Agents for Victoria: E. SAMUEL k CO., 376 Little Flinders-st., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COIVEPETIXIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HISTORY or
YANKEE DOODLE.
SEE
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
+
Iq Africa.
ID AOstralia.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
| heat was so intense that some refused to
: fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ehb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
gi’andsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
arose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons per Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY FOR HIMSELF.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, fen• Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 19.—N0. 987,
SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 1899.
Prick Cn.
(From tbo "Evening News” Special Reporter.)
GATTON (Q.), Monday Moraiug.—Tho failuro
ot tho police operating here Is causing widespread
dissatisfaction throughout tho diatrlct. A feel-
ing of unrest and uusafoty prevails everywhero,
Strangers approaching homesteads
in tho district are carefully scrutinised, and If tbo
survey snould bo at all unfavorable, there is a
hurried bolt on the part of the inmates for shel-
ter in tho house, the doosa and windows of which
aro fastened,
bloodthirsty
I This state of things seriously affects the busi-
ness poople In tho town, who complain bitterly.
Several Informed me that since the commission
of the crime, and tho consequent disinclination of
outlying reeldenta to visit Gatton, their receipts
had fallen off amazingly.
J ><v
< V V
M Jf i
J A»t
\
Whtm the ofljeers In charge
here aro questioned on the subject, they Invar-
iably reply, "There Is nothing froab."
Singularly enough for once, at oil
events, since tho Oatton tragedy occurred
(hoy happen to bo correct, and nothing short of a
special Intervention of Provldonco, It Is thought,
can put them on tho trail .of the murderers.
cV
76e
k V,
i \ to / .y~
" While residents of-the district are loth to visit
tho town ship accompanied by their women folk.
no suTcompuncnou weighs with '*££*"*&
'.actual scene of the tragedy is coinm**.
latter place is always sure of an audience. \est
iay Crota daylight until dark, there was
a procession o£ vehicles and borsemenlntotho
naddock and already there is a wed-formed trpcK
•fo where the MurfSbys were so cruelly done to
.death. A large percentage of sight-
• seers were women.
TOUCHING THAT “OUTRAGE WAVE.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleop, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... Q ?
Half-yearly ... ... ...
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 o u
NOTICE.
Hu sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal note,
One Pound Note, or stamps, of any Australian 'province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Pratts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. I'.
Areiii HAL!).
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, o 1
any other part of the contents of this number, is ho eby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not. exteiding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed, hut we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that,
we arc not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaclc and White.
A nyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea', but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-sbrcct.
South Africa. — 11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Chiirch
Street, Capetown. Also in tiie Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-sb., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —IF. Jit. Smith A Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette , Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. A ustralia,
lf'estralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except (Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Ou’ing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To case o.Tin some degree the burden of the unreasonable
■postage ljd, on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted Ini the Queensland Post Ofiice, a special Ihynne-
paper edition o/ Thu Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
T7hP '$xxlZeZztfi.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 189‘J.
On Various Kinds of Grog.
The writer has before him a copy of the
Australian Brewers’ Journal, dated 20th
September, 1898. The Brewers’ Journal
is a weighty organ, published in Melbourne
and Sydney, and understood to be of great
mana in beer and whisky circles. It is de-
voted to the interests of every fluid which
makes a man see two dogs where there is
only one, and one dog where there isn’t any,
and which makes him arrive home late on
all-fours and try to blow out his boots before
going to bed. One page of it is devoted
to advertising a number of books which can
be procured on application to the Melbourne
office of the Brewers’ Journal, and the
advt starts with the announcement that the
books in question “ are directly interesting
and of value to brewers, cordial-makers and
vignerons in the different branches of the
business, and will be found of great assist-
ance in the manufacture and preparation of
the various beverages,” &c. Then it goes
on as follows :
“The French Wine and Liquor Manufacturer.” A practi-
tical guide and receipt book for the American liquor mer-
chant. Tim work embraces a clear and comprehensive
treatise on the manufacture and imitation of brandy,
rum, };in, arid whisky; with rules for the fermentation,
mixing, and management of all kinds of wine, cham-
pagne, &c. ; for preparin’? cordials, liqueurs, punch,
essences, bitters, and syrups ; for finin’?, flavoring, filter-
in’?, and coloring wines and liquors; for restorin'? and
keeping ale and cider, and for the manufacture of vinegar
by the quick method. It furnishes rules and tables for
reducing and raising the strength of alcohol, explains the
use of the hydrometer, and contains practical articles on
distillation,"maceration, &e. By John Rack. Illustrated
with descriptive diagrams and engravings, 12mo. Cloth,
21s.
“ The Manufacture of Liquors, Wines and Cordials with-
out the ajd of Distillation.” This work also includes the
best receipts for the manufacture of effervescing beverages
and syrups, vinegar, and bitters. It also tells how to
make cider without apples, to convert cider into all kinds
of wi ,es, to make strong vinegar in 24 hours, to distin-
guish imported from domestic liquors, to make fine
colorings for wines an 1 liquors, to make neutral spirits,
to rectify whisky, to make old barrels look new, to make
new barrels look old, to detect poisonous liquors, to
become a successful liquor merchant, to be an expert bar-
tender, to make wholesome liquors and wines at very low
cost and large profit, and a good deal more useful infor-
ination for the trade. By Pierre Lacour ; 12ino. Cloth,
21a.
“ The Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Dealer’s Guide.” A
treatise on the manufacture and imitation of liquors.
This work teaches how wines and liquors, from the
choicest to the commonest, can be imitated to perfection,
without the use of a single article in the smallest decree
approximatin'? to a poison, and yet stand the closest
scrutiny of the best judges and the severest chemical
tests. Each imitation is in every respect the twin of the
real, possessing the same qualities, performing the same
duties, and yielding the same results. The receipts are
given with exact proportions and specific instructions,
insuring complete success. Illustrated with diagrams ;
12ino. Cloth, 21s.
* • * *
Australia is pre-eminently a land of bad
liquor and bogus liquor, of kerosene and
potato spirit and sudden death, of muddy
brown beer, and thick, gruesome rum with
plug tobacco in it, and illicit distillation,
and d.t. A good part of the copious
drunkenness of Australia undoubtedly arises
through the bad quality of the drink sup-
plied. And a great deal of the badness of
Australian liquor arises out of the fact that
this country doesn’t take its adulteration
laws seriously. As a matter of fact it takes
very few things seriously, except the
necessity for floating another big loan and
the desirability of gaoling any man on the
bare assertion of any depraved and imagina-
tive woman. According to the letter of
the law, in some of the Australian provinces
anyhow, the selling of sham liquor is
just as truly an illegal act as the selling of
sham bank-notes or half-crowns. But the
selling of sham bank-notes is an offence
against Property as represented by the
banks—if the sham bank-note looks good
enough the bank whose name is on it has to
give cash for it to its own loss. The selling
of sham liquor is most notably an offence
against the Person—primarily against the
stomach of the Person—and Australian law,
except in a very few instances, takes little
note of offences against the Person as
compared with offences against Pro-
perty. So Australia doesn’t take its
adulteration law seriously or attempt to
make adulteration a serious offence. The
sale of bogus liquor is illegal, though in a
mild sort of way, but an allegedly respectable
paper can advertise with impunity books
giving instructions for the manufacture of
imitation alcohol, said to be so perfect an
imitation that it can be sold as the real thing
with absolute safety. If the same paper
advertised a book giving instructions how to
make equally perfect imitations of bank-
notes or half-crowns well, what would
happen ?
* • * •
Yet why the law should take so much more
cognisance of the adulterated or imitation
half-crown than of the adulterated or imita-
tion grog is a mystery. The bogus half-
crown injures no one provided it isn’t
detected. If it is sufficiently artistic to pass
•muster till it wears out, then the community
has been just as rich all the time as if the
half-crown was real. The bogus liquor is
hurtful whether the community discovers its
bogus character or not. If the community
habitually swallowed its half-crown, and
imitation half-crowns were unhealthy and
undermining to the constitution, as well as
being of less value than genuine ones as
articles of merchandise, the two offences
would be on a par. Bug the community
doesn't swallow half-crowns, and the two
offences are not on a par.
* * * *
There are a multitude of reasons why
Australia is pre-eminently a land of bad
liquor. The manufacture of illicit spirit is
one of them. Cheap liquor is another.
The tremendous multiplicity of public-
houses in towns and cities is a third. The
comparatively small profit made out of three-
penny drinks would pay without adultera-
tion if the publican sold enough three-
penny drinks, but where thoro are so many
public-houses that most of them can’t sell
enough threepenny drinks to make the busi-
ness pay on an honest basis they naturally
adulterate. Some of them would probably
do it in any case, but some others certainly
do it under pressure. The iniquitous “tied”
house system is a fourth reason. The
supremely idiotic law—in practice, if not in
theory—holds the retail publican alone re-
sponsible for the quality of his liquors, and if
they are adulterated it regards him as the
adulterator, no matter what evidence he may
bring to prove that he sold them just as they
were received from the wholesale dealer.
Therefore the wholesale man can adulterate
practically as he pleases, and compel the
miserable tenant of his “tied ” houses to sell
his liquors, no matter how bad they may be,
and to take upon himself all risks incidental
to their sale. The fact that the special organ
of the wholesale liquor trade deliberately
advertises for sale books of instructions re
the manufacture of imitation liquor is a very
interesting feature just here.
♦ * * *
There is one short, decisive, effectual, and
eminently profitable way out of the whole
adulteration question, if any of the Aus-
tralian provinces had energy enough to adopt
it —by the establishment of a State Drink
Monopoly. If it was done on the most com-
plete scale, it would include the abolition of
all private brewing and distilling, and of all
private sale of liquor. The main reason why
Australia’s wines are not. yet equal to the best
in the world is that the demand is not large
enough (owing to foreign imaortations) to in-
duce the applicition of sufficient capital and
intelligence to the business. This country can
make its own spirits and liqueurs and beer—
and thereby supply a considerable amount of
employment to its own people, and prevent
a large amount of money leaving the country.
It can hire the best available talent in the
world to supervise the manufacture, and give
a State guarantee of purity. Then, if it
abolishes the private grog-retailer, and makes
the man behind the bar a civil-servant who
is not paid by results, he will have no object
in making the public any drunker than the
public really requires to be. Also, he will
have nothing to gain by adulterating
the liquor, and he will have a great
deal to lose, inasmuch as detection
will mean the loss of his billet and
salary and future pension, and the final
closing of his career as a liquor-vendor in
that province, anyhow. There is no more
I'eal difficulty in making the liquor trade a
State monopoly than in doing the same with
the Post and Telegraph Department or the
Railways, and both these difficulties have
been overcome. And it w'ould put an end to
a whole multitude of evils —the demand for
the Bordeaux Wine and Liquor-Dealers’
Guide among the rest. Also, incidentally,
it would cut off the market afforded by the
private drink-retailer to the illicit manufac-
turer, and in this direction alone it w'ould
save the State an enormous loss of revenue.
The dimensions of the trade in liquor which
pays no duty are beyond all reckoning, but,
as a casual suggestion on this point, it was
recently stated in the course of a police-court
prosecution that the sale of alleged Wolfe’s
schnapps in New South Wales is seven
times larger than the amount of real schnapps
imported can account for. That may not
mean that 84' per cent, of the alleged
schnapps sold pays no duty—but it cer-
tainly looks like it.
The Land-Tax Superstition.
The Bulletin receives from Maoriland a loud
printed screech on “ Taxation, Direct and In-
direct.” It is written liy H. G. Ell, and cir-
culated by the “ Progressive Liberal Associa-
tion,” and its burden is a bitter curse on the
Seddon Ministry for not raising more of tho
State revenue by land-tax, and for depending so
extensively on customs. In 1893, according to
the figures of the Progressive Association, the
Maoriland land-tax yielded £297,000 ; it now
yields only £207,000. The customs revenue, in
1893, was £1,642,000 ; in 1898 it was £1,935,000.
And the inference of the pamphlet is that, as
direct taxation is a democratic idea and in-
direct taxation isn’t, therefore the Seddon
Government, which depends more and more on
indirect and less and less on direct taxation, is
an undemocratic Government and one to be
viewed with suspicion. Further, the Progres-
sive Liberal Association offers these suggestions
among a lot of others :
The total unimproved value ot the land, accord in if to
the last valuation, is £‘84,401 ,‘224, but of course this is not
the taxable value, as there are exemptions under the
Land Tax Assessment Act, included in which is the ex-
emption of £5OO, which applies to all holdings the unim-
proved value of which does not exceed £l5OO. After that
it commences to decrease, and finally disappears when
£2500 is reached, lint some idea of the enormous value
of land exempted under it may be gathered from the fact,
according to the Official Year Book, that while there are
over 90,000 land-owners in the colony only about 13,000
pay any land-tax. As is well understood, population and
the facilities for transit by rail and road are the chief fac-
tors in creating land.values. In bringing people to this
country we have incurred a liability of over £2,000,000,
and our railways have cost just on £10,000,000 ; total,
£18,000,000. Then there are the millions to be added
which have been spent on roads, etc., all tending to create
the land values, which contribute so small a'share of the
interest on our public debt, while so much is left to be
paid by the people in enormous duties on the necessaries
of life. . . . The next step we should take is to do away
with the £5OO exemption, and with the revenue thus pro-
vided take a step or two in the direction of a free break-
fast table. To gather some idea as to the amount of
revenue that would be provided were the £5OO exemption
removed, 1 have been through the only available returns,
those of 1802, and, taking the holdings up to £lOOO in
value, I find that the exemptions, with the percentage of
increase in value which has taken place added, would
amount to about thirteen and a half millions. This, at
the penny in the £ land-tax, would yield something over
£56,000. Then, of course, to this must be added the fax
on the deductions between £lOOO, and £2OOO and £2500,
the sum of which I could not ascertain ; also the value of
the numerous small subdivisions of properties which have
taken place since 1891. Altogether, I should think the
value of the land now exempted would not yield much
less than £BO,OOO.
* * * »
And yet, after all, there is no special demo-
cratic virtue in direct taxation simply because
it is direct. And the land-tax, simply as a
land-tax, isn’t one whit more democratic than a
tax on imported wheat and boots and calico.
The land-tax shouldn’t be an end—only a
means to an end. The trouble with the class
which proudly describes itself as the land-tax
parly is that it regards its tax as a particularly
blessed object to attain—not simply as a means
to the attainment of an object. It is in the
position of the sun-worshipper who started by
reverencing the sun as a symbol of its pre-
sumed creator, and presently degenerated into
reverencing the sun itself and forgetting both
the creator and the symbolism. In itself, the
land-tax is only a cumbrous but necessary
expedient, and a most difficult and expensive
means of raising revenue.
• * * *
The curse of private land-ownership is the
tendency towards the accumulation of large
estates and the division of the community into
a small land-owning aristocracy and a huge
mass of landless and more or less servile tenan-
try. But if the land can be brought into a
state of equal or comparatively equal division
if it can be shared out on a reasonably fair
principle among the adult community—then it
doesn’t matter a straw whether there is State
landlordism or private landlordism. When
there are a thousand adults in the community
and £500,000 worth of land, State ownership
means that every adult will own a thousandth
part of the whole; in other words, his un-
divided share will be worth £5OO. In the same
circumstances, under a system of fair division
and private ownership, his share will also be
worth £5OO. The only difference will be that
he will be able to point to a particular spot and
say : “ This is my £5OO worth of the country,”
while the other way his £5OO worth will be no
one spot in particular. If a reasonably fair
division can be arrived at under the system of
private ownership, then the SLate is saved the
trouble of keeping an enormous set of books and
records, and much other worry and labor.
Therefore, unless the State proposes to go in
for the tremendous responsibility of wholesale
and complete resumption, which isn’t a parti-
cularly desirable thing in any case, its object
should be to promote the equitable distribution
of the country’s surface among the people. It
should estimate, first, the value of that surface
and the amount which would go to each adult’s
share under a system of equitable distribution,
and that amount should be wholly exempt.
But every one who owns more than his share
should be heavily taxed on the surplus, and
the larger the surplus the more he should be
taxed, until it becomes to his interest to sell
off his surplus and be content with owning his
fair proportion of the country and no more.
And as it is to the interest of the community
that it should possess its own country—that
the country should be owned by the people who
live upon it, and have an interest in its im-
provement, and who are responsible for
its defence, and that the people should
have homes, and not be merely lodgers, the
absentee should be especially taxed, as a
public danger and a public evil. Maoriland
has kept closer to this ideal than most other
countries. The 77,000 small landowners who
pay no tax are something to be proud of; they
show that the country is getting closer to that
ideal state where every adult owns his fair
share of the soil—may these 77,000 non tax-
paying landowners increase and multiply !
Also, the decrease in the receipts from land-tax
is a source of congratulation to every true
democrat—may these receipts further decrease !
In Maoriland, with its absentee-tax and its
scientifically graduated land-tax, the decline
shows that the race of huge landowners is
steadily diminishing, and that the democratic
object and purpose of the tax is getting nearer
attainment.
* • • •
If that object ever reaches its complete
attainment then there will be no land-tax
revenue at all, for everybody will be at the
exemption limit. The land-tax law will still
remain on the statute-book to prevent any
reversion to the old system of large estates
and stupendous earth-grabbers, but it will be a
precautionary measure only. And then, so far
as the land-tax is concerned, it won’t matter
one lonesome copper whether Maoriland raises
its revenue directly or indirectly—except that
the indirect process by means of customs-duties
is very much easier and cheaper. For, despite
all the shibboleths about the land being the sole
source of wealth, and therefore being in all fair-
ness the main source of revenue, it isn’t the
land that pays the tax, but the owner. And
when once the land is divided on fairly equal
principles among the people, the burden is
exactly the same if the owner pays .£1
a-year and calls it land-tax or 20s. a-year and
calls it customs-duties. Only there is this dif-
ference : In the case of customs-duties, between
2 and 3 per cent, of the amount taken from the
people goes in the cost of collection ; in the
case of land-tax, from 6 to 10 per cent. ; there-
fore the burden on the people is less in the case
of customs-taxation. Also, by raising revenue
through the customs, local industries are
encouraged and work is furnished for the
people ; the land-tax, after it has achieved its
object, or what should be its object, by break-
ing up big estates, has no very great advantage
in this respect.
* * * *
The Bulletin has always advocated a gi adu-
ated land-tax which will grow so heavy in its
upper storeys as to make the holding of bloated
estates practically impossible ; also a specially
heavy tax on the absentee landlord. But it
also believes in leaving the small holder, who
owns no more than his fair share of the country’s
surface, absolutely exempt, and it will be glad
to see the receipts from such a land-tax taper
away to nothing, for then it will know that the
worst evil this country is likely to be threatened
with—the evil of huge land monopolies—has
been practically extinguished. If a ,£IO,OOO
estate is loaded with a heavy tax burden and
a ,£SOO estate carries none, then it is obvious
that the latter will be worth more, acre
for acre, than the former, and mere self-
interest will cause the land to be cut up
into the form in which it is most valuable to
the owner—the form of small holdings. But if
the land is taxed on the same all-round plan,
simply because it is land, then the man with
£IIOO,OOO worth of land, provided he works it
as well as the man with £SOO worth works his
allotment, will have no inducement to cut it up
and sell it. It will be worth no more in small
holdings than in large ones. If he can’t work
it as well, he will have no more inducement to
sell it than to let it, and the letting process,
which creates a race of rack-rented tenants in
place of a nation of small proprietors, is an un-
mitigated evil. To abolish exemptions and
tax the land heavily all round doesn’t neces-
sarily touch the evil of big estates. It may
compel the big landlord whose property is
lying idle to hire a lot of men at low wages to
cultivate it for 14 hours a day, or it may make
him let it to a hard-driven tenantry, but it
doesn’t of necessity compel him to go out of
the land monopoly business. It certainly
doesn’t in England; there the local taxation
makes the land-burdens very heavy, but there
is no exemption to the small holder, so land-
lordism remains just about where it was. And
it is a significant fact that every Tory believes
(if a land-tax is inevitable) in a land-tax with-
out exemptions.
* * * *
The trouble is that so many people who once
advocated the land-tax as a means to a vir-
tuous end, have forgotten the end and regard
the land-tax as a virtue in itself. And it isn’t
one. There is no special virtue in taxing our
own wheat —for when a tax is laid on wheat-
growing land it must needs be paid out of the
wheat grown thereon, and it is really an excise
of so much a hushel—so that we may be able to
let the foreigner’s wheat come in free. And
taxing our own wheat isn’t a step in the direc-
tion of any free breakfast-table. There is no
merit, either, in talking of land as if it was a
curse and an evil; it is a blessing, and a most
essential thing to stand upon, and the source of
all scenery. There is no more merit in State
ownership of land than in private ownership
provided the private ownership is fairly divided;
if 1000 men own £SOO worth of land each it is


just the same in the end as if the State, c °' , j
posed of these 1000 men, owned the who e
£500,000 worth-exoept that where no man
can identify his particular woith he 1 J
have less incentive to improve it. ■
above all, a tax on land, unless it » so
adjusted as to promote its equal dist
bution and to discourage the large lai
grabber out of existence, isn t necessan y
a whit more democratic than a tax on lmpoi e
boots. Indeed, it may be a great deal ess so.
A tax that fell equally on all land would be a
mere excise on the products thereof ; it i wa
coupled with Freetrade it w'ould be merely
taxing our own potatoes while the foreigner s
imported potatoes came in untaxed, and it
would tend to starve the local potato-grower
out of employment. And a tax on ini pot ec
boots would at least tend to give the local man
employment at bootmaking.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Way Out.
Melbourne Labor organ, the Tocsin, calls upon
the people in large type and tones of bitter con-
demnation to remember that the Turner
Government “ abandoned One Man One V ote
at (he dictation of the Legislative Council”—
which, so far as the past session is concerned,
is a true bill, and not disputed by anybody.
But the Tocsin doesn’t say what the Turner
Government ought to have done instead ot the
aforesaid abandonment. It pushed the One
Man One Vote Bill through the Assembly, but
the Council flatly refused to pass it except
with alterations which utterly destroyed its
purport and defeated the object in view. 1 he
Turner Government couldn’t dissolve the
Council because it isn’t dissolvable—it is a per-
petual body. It couldn’t swamp it by appoint-
ing new members, as the Reid Government
could in dST.S. YVV, for the Victorian M’s.L.C.
are elected, not nominated. It couldn’t slop
the Council’s salary, for it hasn’t any. It can t
reform the Council unless tbe Council passes
the Reform Bill, which it won’t do, unless some-
one can invent a strong inducement or a,
method of absolute compulsion. It can’t
make the people elect more democratic
Councillors ; even the Labor-party never lakes
the trouble to put up a democratic Council-
can didate in its own stronghold—Melbourne.
It there is any place and any organisation
which could propel a few decent democrats into
the House of 48 Rich Landlords, Melbourne is
the place and the Labor-party is the organisa-
tion. Yet it never makes tbe attempt possibly
because there is no salary attached to the billet
of M.L.C. —and Job Ham and Robert Reid,
and tbe rest of the old, dreary cattle go back,
election after election, unopposed. The Tocsin
says as distinctly as possible that 1 URNER
shouldn’t have abandoned the One Man-One-
Vote Bill at the dictation of the Council.
Well, what should he have done ? What would
the Tocsin have done if it had been Turner?
It is no good saying vaguely that it would have
fought the matter out ; the question is exactly
how it would have fought the matter out.
And it is no earthly use saying vaguely
that Turner should fight his Upper House
as Kingston is doing in S.A. In S.A. the
Councillors are paid, and there is no property
qualification for members, so Kingston can
find abundance of democratic candidates to run
against the present set of fossils when once lie
has a rousing battle-cry to go to the country
with. Also, the S.A. Labor-party always does
its best to storm the Legislative Council. If the
Tocsin knows exactly how Turner should have
brought the awful Vic. House of Obstruction
to reason it should explain tbe modus operandi
for the good of the country at large. Victoria
is groaning for some information as to what
should he done with its 48 Snags, and valuable
knowledge like that shouldn’t be bidden. It it
doesn’t know, then it is a mean thing to blame
Turner for not knowing either. The Bulge-
tin can see three possible ways of making the
Council reform itself. One is to pass a Bill
through the Assembly making the Council a paid
body with no property qualification for either
members or electors ; to send it up to the
Council ; and to start a first-class iusuiiac-
tion and intimate that unless the Bill
passes all its stages in one day the Coun-
cil’s 48 beads will go down the street on long
poles. But it is 1000 chances to 1 that the
people wouldn’t insurreot worth a straw, and
Turner probably doesn’t want to be hanged
just yet. Another idea is to raise a great
Democratic Association and a campaign fund of
at least .£lOO,OOO, and find a candidate willing
to vote for the Reform Bill for every Council
seat, and get him in by sheer force of organisa-
tion, and keep him square after he is in by pay-
ing him a handsome salary till the object is
accomplished. But tbe IoCSIN party makes
not a semblance of a move to provide either the
fund or tbe association. A third way—pro-
bably tbe cheapest in the end—would be to
send up the Reform Bill with a proviso that
the present M’s.L.C. would receive, on going
out, a life pension of .£lOOO a year each from
their grateful but exasperated country. Id
other words, tbe cheapest way would probably
be to pay the prosenL Council to abolish itself.
There is no short and easy way out of the great
permanent and political deadlock by which
Victoria is afflicted. But it is always easy to
be that kind of cheap democrat who curses the
other fellow for not finding a convenient way
out.
♦
Tlie Austrian Influx.
The sudden resolve of the Maoriland Govern-
ment to shut down ou the influx of Austrian
gum-diggers led—naturally—to a vigorous
raising of Cain, he being the weary person who
is generally raised at such moments. Gum-
digging i s a peculiar industry. Ou certain
dreary flats of the northern part of the North
Island the old men, and wrecks, and drunks,
and scum, and remittance-men, and other
strange derelicts, potter about jabbing pikes
into the earth in search of kauri gum, and (Hid-
ing it occasionally. In addition to the wrecks
and the scum a considerable number of healthy
and reasonably moral people make their pre-
carious crust and cheese at this same indu try.
A few years ago some Stray Austrians—mostly
from the southern part of the great mongrel
Holy Roman Empire—drifted that way and
found gum, and wrote to their relatives
as to the advantages of the gurn-faelds
as a place where a big healthy citizen
with a pike could make a living—as much
of a living as an Austrian peasant wants. And
as a consequence the Austrian influx became
a steady invasion. The new aliens, as a
rule, were good hunidii raw niateiial; as
law-abiding as other people ; clean in moder-
ation ; sober in ditto ; as honest as anybody
else ; industrious : and the sort of men who, it
Maoriland is ever invaded, will probably make
as good a show with a bayonet as any other
citizens. But there were too many of them,
and they were too sudden ; they were all poor,
and mostly ignorant, and the necessity for so
many men getting immediate work at any
wages lowered the wage-rate and tilled the
labor-market with unemployed. It was a vio-
lent inrush of employes with no corresponding
inrush of employers, and Maoriland naturally
began to kick. Then the Government did the
right thing in the wrong way—it made the
foolish mistake of shutting its ports without
notice and refusing to let the latest consign-
ment of Austrians come ashore, and, as a result,
these belated citizens of the Holy Roman Em-
pire are being carried about from port to
port and know not what to do next.
Also, there are furious appeals _ by Aus-
trian Consuls for the British Em pile to
come out and squash Maoriland, and for the
Austrian empire to prod the British empire
from behind and keep it up to the nuuk. As
to the legal aspect of the question, there is
hardly any doubt that the Maoriland Govern-
ment is in the right. There is no law which
exactly fits the case, but the right of any stale
to prohibit the entrance of any persons whom
it regards as undesirable rests on such very old
custom that there is uo absolute need for a law.
Yet the situation is a grievous muddle all the
same. Cheap Austrian, or cheap alien 01 any
kind, is certainly undesirable, hut instead or
shutting the door in a sensational fashion with-
out notice the Maoriland Government should
have sent along an intimation three months
ago that the front portal was going to bang on
a certain date. It knew of the influx thou just
as much as it does now, and it has known of it
for two or three years past; there is no sudden
emergency just now which has to be met on the
instant. By giving notice it would have shut
out the present cargo just the same, and made
less fuss and less international row. As it is,
the present crowd has a genuine grievance. It
thought the door was open because it had
always been open and no notice of closure bad
been issued. And now it is a crowd of vagrants
on the high seas and doesn’t know what to do
next.
Che Sanclgroper’s Late Repentance.
The Westralien press, which mostly crowed
itself hoarse about the glorious influx of foreign
capital while the boom was on, now begins to
agree with The Bulletin in its contention that
foreign capital is, in the end, a delusion and a
curse. The “ influx” is all right provided the
owners of the money come with it and settle in
the country, for, in that case, the capital ceases
to lie foreign ; but the investment of absentees
cash is only an influx of debt and the
importation of liabilities. In Westralia the
importation of foreign capital has piactically
ceased, and the principal has vanished out of
Westralia as completely as if it had never been,
but the interest goetli on for ever. So the
Boulder Star talks in this fashion :
When the gold-production of Western Australia was
little more than 200,0000 z. a year there was infinitely
more prosperity than now, when it is over a million
ounces. It is paradoxical, hut true, much truer perhaps
than even the surface shows. The reason is not far to
seek All the mines are owned by foreign people, who
are careless of the welfare of the place whence they draw
their dividends.
And the Coolgardie Miner
The substantial and rapidly increasing production of
gold in this colony is conferring, and will confer, no
benefit whatever upon the State other than that directly
derived from the wages of the men engaged in mining it.
The protection afforded to the propel ty of the companies
owning such valuable sources of wealth as the Lake \ lew
Consols, Ivan hoe, and other mines is granted without the
slightest acknowledgment on the part of those to whom
the service is rendered, and instead of the countiy
receiving any practical good from the raising of the gold,
by the circulation of its value in the community, the
Whole of the metal, except the moiety required to cover
the cost of producing it, goes to pay dividends to share-
holders who are residing in Great Britain, America, and
elsewhere, and to swell revenues of those countries.
And even the painfully-respectable and ortho-
dox Western Mail (Perth) breaks out in this
awful manner :—•
West Australians will not be satisfied to be shut out of
all the profitable ventures in the colony. While the pre-
sent system of having no local branch-office obtains, the
distance of local shareholders from headquarters will
make their wishes go practically unconsidered, while it
will effectually block local purchases to any extent. Yet
the latter should be fostered in every way possible. The
history of other Australian goldfields shows how superior
are locally-owned ventures, both in their effect on the
fields and on individuals, over those in which the owners
and their lease are a hemisphere apart, and united only by
the thin stream of dividend gold.
Pity is that Westralia didn’t think of this
earlier. The “influx of foreign capital” was
a fraud from the beginning. As a rule, a
stranger came to Westralia and found a mine.
He went to London and sold it for ,£150,000 —
which was the alleged influx in question—and
he went away somewhere else with the money.
The only foreign capital which really came
to Westralia was the imported machinery
which was put on the claim, and a few
thousands for current expenses; and the gold
won from the mine goes to England for ever
afterwards. Six years ago W.A. should have
put on an absentee tax big enough to quash the
influx of foreign capital in the bud, and now
even W.A. begins to realise tlie fact.
♦
The City Railway.
“Engineer,” on the Sydney city-railway
question :
D ar Bulletin. — It is to be hoped that Premier Reid,
wobbled he there or not, will maintain his pre.-.it atti-
tude of antagonism to the scheme for grabbing Lyle Park
for a railway-station. So far, no other seems tolu '• re-
ceived even decent consideration ; that only at the hands
of a party of gentlemen obviously incompetent to form an
opinion of any value thereon. Hence the continuous all-
r.vind barracking ffir ir is curious, at least-not to say
sinister. Yet, puu.ug aside the sentimental aspect,
which has its due value, and the hygienic, which is all-
important, the scheme is, bluntly, an abortion on purely
en ,r inefcrinsf grounds. Wlioin would it benefit ! Appar-
em'lv only" a small section of the suburban passenger
traffic, whose occupation is located within coo-ee of the
Park, and the encircling property-owners—country pas-
sengers must tram,’bus, or cab it to their hnal destina-
tion. Goods at the Park seem an absurdity. The great
mass of the present city seems almost as close to Redfern
as to Hyde Park—what about the city of the future l
Surely Redfern is its inevitable central nucleus. Apart
from cliques, Sydney wants a line railway, not a butler-
stop. It wants a frequent service of fast running trains,
and a dead-end under these conditions is full of fatal
defects. The cost of safety alone would be enormous.
It wants, ai'ain, its circulation to reach all its vital parts,
not be congested at any one spot. The H.P. scheme is
simply shifting the Redfern death-trap one mile further
north and removing a few fangs. A glance at the fre-
quently-published maps fails to reveal any considerable
increase to platform accommodation. Their length is
somewhat greater, but the number remains the same.
The gradual absorption of the whole park would be in-
evitable. No amount of explanation can shift that fact,
How, then, is Sydney to get what it wants' u liter
merely suggests. Take a loop, roughly pear-shaped,
apex at Redfern, axis along Pitt-street, head at Circular
Quay, sides at Sussex-street about, and College-street
about. System underground as far as possible,
giving free scope for curves and gradients, and
minimising resumptions. Two tracks, trains travel-
ling in reverse directions to suburban terminals—
wayside stations, small but frequent, say half-a-mile
apart. Motive power—electricity, avoiding the disagree-
able contingencies of steam, supplying light to cars and
stations, manipulating all signalling and safety appli-
ances. (Some points : Electricity is now displacing steam
in all departments of industry. The time is inevitable, it
is not even remote, when the whole Suburban traffic must
he electrically driven. The Public Works Committee
hardly considered this question at all.) To conclude, no
scheme, in the final settlement, can cost less than a mil-
lion. For £20,000. the best expert in the world in city-
railway engineering should be available for, say, six
months -one man’s head is better than a dozen. Would
it not be a good investment? Meanwhile, let us barrack
against the H.P. scheme, at least uutil the next Redfern
accident.
The Land-Grant Railway Woe.
Thk eternal Midland land-gntnt railway trouble
in Maori land is as fresh as ever, even now. It
lias been settled several times, and breaks out
in a fresh place every time. According to tho
original agreement an Kuglish syndicate was to
build and own tho Midland railway, and to re-
ceive a stupendous land-grant. It never built
more than a fraction of the railway for various
reasons. The shareholders put up very little
capital to begin with, and what they did put
up was almost wholly spent in pomp and
official magnificence in London. Their little hit
of railway was built with borrowed money, and
when they defaulted on their interest payments,
and refused flatly to put up any more capital to
meet their creditors’ claims, their credit natu-
rally gave out, and they couldn’t borrow any
more. Then the Midland railway stopped
short, and, when the term of the concession ex-
pired, the Government took possession, as pro-
vided for in the agreement. It ilidu t get much
of a bargain even then, having already paid in
land as much as the unfinished hit of railway
was worth ; and now it begins to he doubtful
if the Government has really got its Midland
railway, after all. The agreement which the
STOOT-VoGEf. Ministry made with the shindy-
kit at the beginning of the disastrous specula-
tion provided that, if tho eo. didn t finish the
railway in a certain period, the Stale could
take possession and finish it at the eo. s
expense, and, if the eo. didn t meet the
said expense, the line was absolutely forfeited
to the State. The same clumsy agreement
provided that the eo.’s debenture-holders had a
first charge on the line. If they have a first
charge then their right to the line comes hefote
the State’s right of forfeiture and the State
can’t forfeit the line. If the State can forfeit
the line then the debenture-holders haven’t a
first charge on it. As matters stand it seems
that the State, having already paid the full
value of the railway in land, may have to pay
its full value over again by settling up with the
debenture-holders ; in other words, that after a
dozen years of worry it will get its Midland
railway at about twice what it could have built
it for in the first place. Or, perhaps, if the
debenture people establish -their claim at law,
it may he cheaper to give them the sorrowful
hit of railway and start a new one.
*
Last year the N.S.YV. coal exports were 53,900
tons more than in 1807- Y icioria alone took
28,000 tons more than it did in 1897, so it
accounts for more than half the increase. Y ic-
toria is the biggest coal customer N.S.YV. has
got ; it took 650,000 tons last year—more than
a quarter of the whole export and nearly twice
as much as was taken by the next biggest cus-
tomer. The N.S.YV. coal export to places out-
side Australasia is steadily diminishing ; the
other provinces, and Victoria above all of them,
keep Newcastle and the other N.S.YV. coal
centres from such a slump as would shake the
province to its foundations. And this is just
where the moral comes in. Queensland and
Tasmania have already put a heavy duty on
N.S.YV. coal and these two markets are practi-
cally lost. The only way they can be recovered
is by Federation, which will abolish the duty.
Victoria has just discovered that it has
abundance of coal of its own, and unless
N.S.YV. hustles along with Federation, which
will abolish interprovincial duties, it will some
day put a duty on N.S.YV. coal also, and shut
it out, and by that means so develop its own
mines that that market will be lost just as
Queensland has been. Westralia, too, is
beginning to open up coal-mines in the Collie
district, and it is also liable to put on a duty,
and thus destroy another market, unless Fede-
ration is moved along a good deal faster than it
has been. A huge N.S.YV. industry hangs by
a precarious hair, and is liable to be very neatly
wrecked unless Federation is at tained. Though
Victoria has never taxed imported coal up to
date, it is liable to do so at any moment while
the provincial system lasts. And if a quarter
of the export trade vanished in one act, what
kind of a struggle would there he for the trade
thao was left, and what kind of a drop in prices
and wages as a consequence of that struggle?
The condition of affairs at Norfolk Island
makes it the duty of N.S.YV . Parliament either
to cut the island adrift or, without delay to
determine and define its style and method of
government. Col. Spalding, who now notifies
his retirement, went to Norfolk Island as
Resident Magistrate without the authority,
direct or indirect, of N.S.YV. Government or
Parliament. The appointment was an Imperial
one, through the N.S.YV. Governor, and,
though the Reid Govt, may have been cogni-
sant of it, it was not asked for its <dh ial
approval. The Imperial authorities appointed
the Resident Magistrate one day, and on the
next handed over the island to the stepmotherly
care of N.S.VV. This bad beg.uning, so far as
intelligible control by N.S. W. is concerned, has
made itself worse by go ugon, until the question
of holding the island properly or culling its
moorings from N. 8. Wales has become
importunate. Two and a-half years ago,
on the occasion of Railway-Commissioner
Oliver’s official visit there, an ex-magis-
trute proposed “That it be represented lo the
Governor that it is not desirable for Norfolk
Island to be annexed to N.S. W.” Mr. Oliver
declined to accept the proposition, but found
as the result of his inquiries that maladminis-
tration of justice was rampant and crime of all
sorts in excess. Under the best of circum-
stances N.S. W. would find the proper control
and guidance of these islituders more thciu ditii*
cult” The uncertainty of the islanders at pre-
sent as to the due limits of N.S.W. authority
over them and the repugnance of many to
acknowledge that authority at all, as well as the
unenlightened view N.S.W. Parliament takes
of its duties and responsibilities in the matter,
make the current attempt at Government a
sham and a shame.
>
S.F. Argonaut incidentally suggests the Suf-
FIELD case :
In Southern California, not long ago, ono Eubanks was
haii"r<l for the murder of his daughter. It would seem
us if he Imd killed the wrong daughter, for now the re-
maining daughter shows in the plainest manner that she
is unfitted for this vale of tears—she ought to be an angel
or something. Since the father murdered her sister she
lias been living with a female relative, and was visited at
this relative’s house by an acquaintance—a man—whom
she charged with having assaulted her. On her testimony
tiie unfortunate man was sentenced to 12 years m tne
penitentiary at San Quentin, where lie now is. These
facts have been brought-to light because Miss Eubanks
iias just threatened to send another man to the peniten-
tiary on a similar charge unless he paid her a certain
amount of blaokinail money. Miss Eubanks would cer-
tainly adorn the inside of a reformatory or a prison rather
more than she does the outside. But, in the meantime,
the unfortunate whom she landed in San Quentin ought
to he allowed to come out. And while she is still out
and not vet in, it behoves all persons who unfortunately
are males carefully to eschew Miss Eubanks' society. A
profound student of criminology once remarked that
whenever a girl chargod a man with bang the author 0/
her rain the told the truth about her rum, but told a lie
about the man. If she swore he was the ewlpnt, that
settled it—it was certainly some other man. 1 his Eubanks
case seems to confirm this theory. When the Prophet
wrote “The heart of man is deceitful above ail things
and desperately wicked,” he showed a certain ignorance
of the sexes. For when a woman’s heart inclines her to
bo deceitful and desperately wicked, no man can hold a
candle to her.
“ Jack Siiay ” on au industrial scandal: —
In Sydney, during last live years, about 20 men in the
painting trade alone have been killed or hopelessly injured
through scaffold accidents. In this trade competitive
nriees forbid the use of any but the most make-shift scaf-
fold appliances, and that accidents are not even com-
moner is more due to the care of the m.en than the fore-
thought of the masters. A visit to the yards of most
Sydney master-painters would show some scaffolding that
ought to procure its owners six months “ hard.” trestles
rotten and loose in all the joints ; steps with a mass ot
bits of additional wood nailed on to keep them together ;
planks full of splits, knots and saw cuts. While, as for run-
ning tackle-blocks worn out and fallout asunder ; ropes
the hearts of which are ground to powder with long and
heavy usage. Then the scaffold is as often as no* a
played-out ladder with a few boards on it ; and when it
breaks, as it did in two lamentable recent instances—
well “ it’s the man’s own fault for getting on it. the
man however, has the*choice between that and knocking
off to starve. Badl.v-needed is a scaffolding-inspector
with power to smash-up any faulty gear ; and, until such
is appointed, sensation-mongers can always rely on a
periodical “ Serious Scaffolding Accident. One Sydney
linn (A Dkan and Sons) tests all its scaffolding before
use and vet even its shop lias not been free of accidents.
Let me here protest, by-the-way, against the fire-
brigades notion that sailors are the fittest men for scaffold
and ladder work. Personal experience has shown me the
error of this. Painters more especially have to hang out
higher than the mast of any ship, not for short spells with
soft-falling places underneath, but for days on end, over
flagstones and roofs.
“Banshee” to The Bulletin:—
Why are not lawyers obliged to study Medical Juris-
prudence? Surprising, in view of frequent miscarriages
of justice in criminal cases involving questions of forensic
medicine, that the matter hasn’t attracted more atten-
tion A medical practitioner lias to pass in Legal Medi-
cine • why should it he otherwise with the lawyer. Ido
not mean to assert that he ought to know, for instance
the tests for poisons, but why should he not know in that
connection what is expected of medical men in cases of
poisoning? Such lawyers as lam personally acquainted
with are of opinion that Forensic Medicine should be a
part of the legal curriculum. Look at the pitfalls, e.g.,
that await a lawyer defending a man for his life on a
charge (say) of rape ? Picture a Crown Prosecutor striv-
ing to get “life” for a prisoner vvhose innocence might
be easily established by defending counsel vvith a
smattering of legal medicine assisted by a medical
witness who has previously coached his examiner?
In Reg v. Kelly, tried in Dublin in the CO’s, Butt
succeeded in snatching a verdict for prisoner in face
of most damaging evidence, much of which, though
quite inadmissible from a medico-legal point of view,
was accepted owing to forensic medical ignorance of
prosecutin'' counsel. Butt knew his work, hut he did
not rest at that,. He had himself coached in anatomy
and surgery till lie was able in another case to worst W.
Stokes (now Sir \V. Stokes, Surgeon to the Queen in
Ireland). Butt to Stokes : “ Will you kindly tell the jury,
Mr Stokes, where runs the arteria princeps cervicis f ”
Stokes :“I am afraid I forget.” Butt to jury : “Gentle-
men here is a great surgeon who admits that he does not
know where runs the principal neck artery. (Said
artery is only a superficial branch of a larger t rijnk, and
cot its name through some ancient anatomical tom-
foolery. But the jury didn’t know that.) Also, in Butt-
nbr’s case at Sydney the medical evidence would have
been burst up by counsel possessed of medico-legal know-
ledge Mt Rennie case, ditto Suppiei.d case, ditto Dean
case:’ no committal, even, should have taken place,
because the material tested by Govt, analyst was not
properly sealed up when delivered to him. Lisson s case,
again, should never have gone to a jury before experts in
insanity had given an opinion about his mental state.
But that is English, not Botany Bay law.
Outside the cities the management; of most
Australian fire brigades is partly a farce and
most of the other~part a scandal. It is the
same in all the Australias ; the only one that
has made any sober attempt to put tilings right
is Victoria, and the effort there is a doubtful
success. In N.S.W. a local Edre Brigades Board
is supposed to rule its local concerns, hut the
three parties represented—Govt., local muni-
cipal council, and insurance co.’s —continually
squabble over contributions. In Broken Hill,
where nine-tenths of the premises seem to have
been designed and built with the special object
of being burnt, the insurance co.’s struck, and
the board cheerfully replied with a notice (now
three months old, and still in force) that the
brigades were not to turn out to any insured
premises which might he blazing. Also, in
South Australia, at Mt. Gambier, ructions of a
similar kind have been followed by the locking-
up of the fire-station. And now there is trouble
at Newcastle.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £49,349,231
Increase in Assets during 1897 ... ... ••• 4,187,992
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... 10,508,995
Increase in Surplus during 1897 .. ••• ••• ••• 1,513,749
ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. ... ... ••• 198,159,549
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 ... ••• 7,513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & C >.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
ill
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Compiling a musical Magazine must be rather a difficult
task, but Allan's, Collins-st., Melbourne, evidently know
the secret. Their 189!) Annual, No. 3, contains songs,
including the evergreen “ Miner’s Dream of Home,” Ada
Reeve’s “Simple Maiden,” Geo. Beauchamp's “Special
Scotchman,” “Barney O’Hen,” “Cockles and Mussels,”
the beautiful ballad “ Answer,” and others. The price for
the lot is Is., or posted Is. 2d.*
Simplest—Most Durable —Best
Ticht^
running
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
• 'V
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Forty Thieves.”
Lyceum “ The Bohemian Girl.”
Criterion “ His Natural Life.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Jubilee Singers.
Alhambra “ The Strategist.”
Town Hall Newbury Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Geisha.”
Bijou “ Madame Sans Gene."
Theatre Royal “New Babylon.”
Oi'era House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Flinders st. & Spring st. Corner—Fitzgeralds' Circus.
“ Maritana ” was the second production of
the opera season at Sydney Lyceum, and in most
respects the tale of that gentle Spanish beggar-
maid was a very fine production all through. The
present writer didn’t go to see it on the opening
night, being mindful of the way “Carmen,” on its
first appearance, jolted in a springless fashion over
the rough roads of old Spain ; but on Saturday he
discovered “Maritana” to be a show which it
would have been a pleasure to meet anywhere.
An interested party of the most unreliable charac-
ter also assured him that it had been quite as good
all along. Farley, with old age coming upon him,
can still make Up to look 25 with ease —lie could
look 20 if he wanted to, for Farley in his war-
paint defies the progress of years ; and his Don
Jose is a very fine piece of work. He is a hand-
some and gorgeously-clothed Spaniard, and his
deep voice rolls almost as impressively as it did a
dozen years ago. Leumane, as Don Caesar, is a
pleasant off-hand swashbuckler, a good actor, and
looks like what any Spanish nobleman might be
when he had been sleeping out in the Domain. A
certain break in his top-note also suggested on
Saturday that Don Caesar had been exposed to the
inclemency of the weather. As for Miss Lilian
Tree, she sings the part of Maritana very artistic-
ally, and acts it exceedingly well, and looks it a
little—just a little. Her stoutness is against her
for one thing, and her persistent wearing of a
gorgeous up-to-date frock in the first act, instead
of the cheap orthodox gipsy costume, is incon-
gruous. Still, the three principals are all artists,
and so is Bert Bailey in his little part; and even
though King Charles 111. is a trifle weak and
Lazarillo is shadowy, they don’t matter very
much. It is a finely-mounted and brightly-
painted opera which goes smoothly all through,
and the chorus and orchestra don’t fall needlessly
over their music ; and, taking one or more con-
siderations with another, it is the bast version of
“Maritana” that Sydney has seen for some
time. If The Bulletin were asked to point out
with a gun the person who is most responsible
for the success it fancies it would fire that weapon
immediately at Leumane.
* s* -;K- *
The forty gentlemen who came into un-
lawful possession of property at Bagdad, away in
the back blocks of history, tramp in their dazzling
procession every night at Her Majesty’s, just as
they did when last reported upon. As the nights
go by Little Gulliver asserts himself more and
more as the genuine funny man of the show. He
isn’t the boss professional funny man ; in a panto-
mime that individual is mostly got u p laboriously
in woman’s clothes, and the end of his bony nose
has a bloom upon it, and he wears a short, crumpled
skirt, and stockings that are down at heel. The
man in woman’s clothes is apt to he a labored
piece of mirth, and his constant resemblance
to himself grows a trifle wearisome. But
Gulliver looks like a bright, fresh spontaneous
speck ; he always suggests that his two brief legs
have run away with him spontaneously, and that
he is an unpremeditated sera]) of the wildest des-
cription. Next to Gulliver and the donkey, the
least stereotyped thing in the panto, is the “ series
of patriotic tableaux, ” in which Williamson whoops
in great pictorial style about the greatness of the
Anglo-Saxon race. Few things appeal to an Aus-
tralian so much as a few remarks about the great-
ness of the Anglo-Saxon race. It always reminds
him of the time when he went to the Soudan on
borrowed money, and came back as soon as pos-
sible bringing a goat.
** * *
On Friday night Alfred Dumpier does
“Hamlet” at the Criterion for one consecutive
night, and “His Natural Life ” goes up on Satur-
day. In the old days, Dampier’s Shakespearean
Friday nights were one of the institutions of
Sydney, and were a boon to people who liked their
Bard in small quantities. Presumably the pre-
sent revival is an experiment, and if it proves that
there are still enough people who like a little
Bard now and then the old practice will be
resumed. And if, on the other hand, the Bard
has slumped, there will be no particular harm
done.
** * *
The business at Sydney Royal seems to
get still better as the hot, insect-laden nights drift
by, so it is probable that Charles Holloway will
keep the present effort going for a considerable
time yet. Charles is undoubtedly an able stage-
manager, and his tale of painted Sin goes
smoothly, like the work of a true artist. Why it
should be called “ When London Sleeps ” no. man
really knows, for nobody except pretty Eugenie
Duggan seriously attempts even to go to bed in it,
and she doesn’t go there to any great extent lest
the beautiful night dress with the frills on it
should get crumpled ; she mostly stands at the
window with the limelight on her, until Charles
Holloway comes in and sets fire to the house by
way of forcing her to return his affection. But
presumably the title is meant to imply that Lon-
don goes to bed indifferently every night with its
midnight lobster on its chest, and cares nothing
though wicked oaptings like C. Holloway are
leading innocent girls astray in the gloom-
some hours. And if London wakes now
and then, and puts its tasselled night-cap
out of the window, and sees Amy Gour-
lay looking for the rich and chirpy youth in the
streets below, it doesn’t take much notice. This
Eaper’s feelings towards the policeman who gives
eavy fatherly advice to the girls that are out late
is still unfrjendly, but that weighty cop has a very
E leasing billet all the same. For he “ moves on ”
liss Gourlay in a severe Christian tone of voice,
and that little midnight pirate looks so pleasing
in her red hat and her red gamp that to move her
on is a privilege and to run her in would be a great
joy. Miss Gourlay, of course, is understood to he
Lost, and so are a dozen or more other girls in the
glittersome hall of vice, but none of them lose
themselves in public, or do anything worse than
have a little light refreshment at the expense of
the fleeting Johnny, and laugh a good deal, and
wave their jewelled arms in the atmosphere. The
halls of vice on the stage are very harmless, as a
rule. In fact, the opprobrium is so carefully kept
out of sight in a back room that it is difficult at
times to feel quite sure that there is any oppro-
brium at all.
** * *
Ajax, the gentleman who has pawned his
bones and mislaid the ticket, and the other people
alluded to last week, are piling up many shekels
for Harry Rickards at the Tivoli. At the Palace
the soft, persuasive coon melody wails gently in the
evening air, and the Jubilee Singers call on the
Lord to deliver Daniel—which is needless, for
Daniel was delivered before the first coon song was
invented, and ask irrelevant questions in song such
as “ Did not old Pharaoh get lost ? ” —just as if the
whole race of Pharaohs wasn’t lost 2500 years ago.
“ The Strategist ” hasn’t been removed out of the
Alhambra bill so far, and the Royal Standard co.
is taking a turn at “ My Partner.”
** * *
The Newbnry-Spada co, commences a fare-
well series of shilling pops at Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday. Pop begins at 8 o’clock.
There are young and lissome angels tripping,
trippy on the tan,
Or standing on the shoulders of an envied fellow-
man ;
There’s a haute ecole equestrienne apparelled like
a dream,
And a darkie lad, whose eyeballs light proceedings
with their gleam,
And the clowns are often funny in a hearty circus-
way,
With jokes which tickled children who are
wrinkled now and gray.
For, if Time, applied to humor, is the only certain
test,
Little jokes that live for ever are undoubtedly the
best.
(The modern “gags ” invented by new gagsters of
renown,
Rarely come to be adopted by a future circus-
clown. )
There are boys in natty knickers, and a monkey
on a goat,
And a Count who plays the cornet till you tremble
for his throat;
There’s the somersaulting rider on a bounding
bare-back steed,
And a final queer sensation, quite remarkable
indeed—
“ Wait for the Elephant and Lion ! ”
The Lion he leaps from his landing stage
To the AYephant’s back in a roomy cage,
A nd nobody ever has seen the like
Of this animal pair on a safety Trike.
The Lion he gobbles a meaty snack
While Lizzie is pedalling round the track,
And the women are watching in gladsome dread
For the Lion to gobble the keeper’s head —
Oh ! the jingling Joys
Of a Cir cus prime,
In the ri-ti-tivity,
gay festivity,
young activity
Holiday time.
The prime joke of the Sampson fiasco, at
Melb. Opera House, was in the fact that 14 able-
bodied stevedores could seriously believe the
“ Strong (show) Man ” capable of attempting to
beat them in a tug of-war. They might have ex-
pected that the “challenger” would change his
tune when cornered. Instead of a tug-of-war
Sampson proposed to do with a couple of iron
pipes something very like what the “ Georgia
Magnet ” does with a billiard-cue. The 14 burly
stevedores were to push or pull at the pipes on
either side with a view to shifting Sampson, the
while that he worked the “ force-direction ” trick,
one supposes. Nothing came of his proposal, so
the true inwardness of the Sainpsonian scheme re-
mains shrouded in mystery.
* * * *
Sampson shows himself unwise in his
revolving - platform business —• so obviously a
“ fake ” that it irritates the audience. The break-
ing of two chains with his fist is another preten-
tious display, which weakens on acquaintance.
He doesn’t take up a strong position for dealing a
mighty blow, and his careful manner of taking
aim at two particular links in the chains suggests
that they are especially vulnerable. The best of
Sampson’s work is the duinb-bell-lifting. Cynics
may take a discount off the alleged weight of the
implement, and they may also assume that the
length of the steel bar gives the lifter a better
chance than he would have with a more orthodox
bell, but there remains the dead certainty that
some of Sampson’s muscles are quite out of the
common even among athletes.
it- * * *■
It is more or less decided that the Brough
co. will play a season at Melb. Princess’s after
“ The Geisha ” has served its turn.
** # #
Bland Holt hopes to get a run of 12 weeks
out of “The White Heather ”at Melb. Royal. It
is a large expectation, but the “Heather” is a
mighty show, and the Royal has the biggest stage
in Australia, and when Bland Holt says “ Let
there be Boom, ” there is Boom as a rule.
The bardlet proud has blown a cloud of pipe-
smoke grey and curly, O !
And now, here goes for Melbourne Shows in metre
Geisha-Girly, O.
“ The Geisha’s ” rot
In words and plot,
But yet you’ve got
To take your plaoes early, O,
So early, O.
For it’s sugary music and dresses
Are serving to fill the Princess’s,
And advertisements say
It is likely to stay
Quite as long as more brainy successes.
O ! how pleasant for Pauli,
Who is blest above all
In the matter of tender caresses :
He ought to be happy-hap-happy,
That baritone chappy-chap-chappy !
These verses, though vile,
Are true to the style
Of the opera Jappy-Jap-Jappy.
You think they seem pappy-pap-pappy,
And not at all snappy-snap-snappy ;
These verses, though vile,
Are true to the style
Of the opera Jappy-Jap-Jappy.
(Encore.)
“ Sans-Gene ” catchy-on, doee pretty well;
Bijou, please you, Bulletiny tell;
Up-stair, down-stair, knock’em allee night,
Oomee-see comedee, all litee, lite.
An old shirt swam in a big wash-tub,
And Sans-Gene loved it dearly,
But it wasn’t the shirt of her future hub
She washed and starched so clearly.
One day each month that rag she wrang
With a smile most bright and winnin’,
Whilst the clothes-line winked as she gaily sang,
Alas ! for his lin-lin-linnin.
She tried on the shirts, being anxious to know
If the garment would fit-fit-fit her,
But Napoleon Buonaparte wasn’t the beau
Of that amorous cnt-crit-critter.
When the old shirt bravely met its fate
The laundress kept the tatters.
Napoleon guided the helm of state,
And Sans-Gene thought—“ What matters ! ”
His sister dropped on the dame serene
With the air that chills and freezes—
“ Suds ! ” cried Sans-Gene to the upstart Queen,
“You were formerly sans chemises.”
Then Napoleon sought to drive her from Court,
Such insolence quash-quash-quashing,
But she cut his imperial Greatness short
With a bill for his wash-wash-washing.
If you go to spend an evening with Holt
You will see the heavy villain in revolt,
Whilst the giddy Floral Feters,
And the incidental waiters,
Leave the gentleman at liberty to bolt.
The ’tective gets Ramirez by the wig,
But no one cares a button or a fig.
If a capture were intended,
Why, the drama would be ended
Ere the coming of the costermonger’s jig.
So Ramirez gives his capturer the slip,
And keeps a stiff and stubborn upper lip,
Till the ’tec, so keen and able,
Pins his tummy with a table,
And the Law has got him fairly on the hip.
Thea- tre Royal! Thea-tre Royal!
Bing-bong, “Babylon!” (continued in our next)
The Circue boom is booming—see the Aegus, Age
and ’Erald ;
There’s Commodore, the pony, making fun of Dan
Fitzgerald,
And horses by the dozen doing everything but
speak ;
For, if they spoke, they’d grumble at two matinees
a week.
At the Opera House the latest turn
Is nightly viewed with grave concern
For folks are half afraid
Of a miss-mischance
In the frisky dance
Of a fresh-froin-Sydney lady.
She bounces, she flounces,
She twists as on a swivel.
(The bardlet’s verse is getting worse
So now to stop the drivel.)
Have a care, Caselli Cora !
Cora, whom we do adore-a
Ere you flop upon the floor-a
In a line, O goddess fair !
Ere you drop with limbs extended
(Least that’s said the soonest mended)
Let the stage he swept and tended
Lest you find a tin-tack there,
Tiny shiny tin-tack there—
Cora, Cora have a care !
At Poverty Point.
Jep : Talk about strong man Sampson ! In an out-west
town I dropped in to see a visiting circus, and in a small
side tent found sundry bush-whackers turnaboutly de-
livering with a board terrific strokes upon a prominent
part of an extremely stout lady’s proportions, at what
time an urchin at the door yelled, “ Who’ll have another
hit at me mother for a sprat? Who’ll try their strength
on me ma for sixpence?”
A recent St. Paul’s has a fine portrait of Daisy Holly,
now dancing with much success in India. Daisy is the
much-photographed woman of Australia. Nearly- every
photographer in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide’has hail
her before the camera, and English and American publi-
cations frequently reproduce her pretty face. She is a
native of Victoria, nearly 20 years of age, and distinctly
one of Australia’s beauties. Miss Holly, about the
cleverest danseuse produced by Australia, has scored
heavily in India, where she was taken by Tommy
Hudson with his latest company. Calcutta Critic speaks
of her as “ A perfect dream, both as a woman and a
dancer,” and other notices are equally glowing. Another
instance of an Australian finding abroad the appre-
ciation denied at home.
Hear Bulletin. —A mummer “ Admirer” says “ Wilson
Barrett is sft. Bin. Anyone who calls him sft. 4in. has
the jaundice. The profession recognises that his stage
figure lias been the model of symmetry.” Well, it was a
London costumier who spoke of Wilson Barrett to a
newspaper interview-er as “an undersized man of about
sft. 4in.” Can’t say whether the costumier was jaun-
diced, never having seen Barrett out of his delusive
stage-boots. As for the profession’s recognition of the
actor's symmetrical figure in the past, I would like to
know whether a man’s head is included in his figure, and,
if so, whether the almighty profession doesn’t think Bar-
rett's head and ueck a little too big for his body ? Also,
can the profession kindly enlighten ignorant playgoers
as to whether Barrett was a model of symmetry in his
stockings, for, in that case, one would suppose that the
artificial lengthening of his legs tended to spoil the
model. Anyway, Australia cares nothing about the
figure of Barrett as it appeared—hoots or no boots—long
time before he came to this country. The Bulletin's
par. in “Pov. Point” dealt with the Barrett of last year,
whose stage proportions were manifestly “out of draw-
ing.”—Non-Admirer.
Amy Roselle would have been an unrivalled Madame
Sans-Gdne. No scraggy actress, however clever, could he
as satisfactory as Mrs. Brough in the part. She is good
enough. But think of Amy Roselle Daere's qualifications
—buxom, magnetic, powerful, jolly when so disposed,
and a head-mistress of her art.
A pretty little silent effect is introduced into “The
Geisha” every evening by Miss Beatrice Perry. Two
Perry sisters were imported—Miss Florence for the name-
part, and the charming 18-year-old Beatrice, who was
presumably a family stipulation in the contract. On the
stage they are much the same-looking girl, by the way.
When the Geisha sister is about to make her first, appear-
ance, Miss Beatrice has to toddle on with a cushion which
she places in readiness for Miss Florence, and her drop-
ping of the cushion is always the signal for some applause,
whereat she modestly shakes her head to disclaim the
distinction of being the more important Miss Perry.
There’s pathos in that head-shake. It seems to say,
“ Please don't take any notice of me. I’m nobody.”
The joke in “ Madame Sans-GCne ” that goes down best
with the audience is that when the ennobled washer-
woman is retorting on those who taunt her with her
laundry antecedents. “It is true that I washed
chemises,” says she ; “but that was in the days when
the Emperor’s sisters had no chemises to wash.” The
joke is a new version of one that is told concerning a
wealthy soap-boiler’s grand daughter in England. “ Her
grandfather made his money out of soap,” sneered a
peer’s daughter. “ When yours had not learned the use
of it,” was the quick reply of the girl, who overheard the
remark.
“T.D.”: lean almost foreshadow that a sweet singer
recently in Sydney will die as Patey died. Heart wrong
—it is evident from her difficult breathing and inability
to let herself loose as of yore amid the prolonged runs and
trills of Ilandelian airs.
Isaac Watts, who praised the little busy
bee for improving' the shining hour, would love
Brisbane Observer, which announces a special
issue containing—
Large pictures of the scene of the terrible tragedy at
Gatton . . . portraits of the unfortunate victims and
other members of the Murphy family . . . connected
account of the discovery Of the crime and of the subse-
quent developments. . . . This will make the issue par-
ticularly suitable for those who wish to send to friends at
a distance a complete report of the terrible tragedy.
It is the Observer’s idea of a nice, seasonable
souvenir, in fact—“ The Gatton murder—wishing
you a happy New Year apd many of them ! ”
Dear Bulletin. — l witnessed “Face’s”
s.s. Brighton incident. The girl was too impatient
to take the gangway. She climbed the wharf
rails, jumped for the top of the paddle-box, and
caught the hands of a man who failed to hold her,
so down she fell. An elderly man instantly
jumped in “all standing,” and was promptly
followed by a straw-hatted young fellow. Then
the crowd made a mad rush for that side of the
vessel and canted her over so that if any more
rescuers were wanted they would have had to
shove a mass of gaping women and young male
females into the water to get there.- Manly.
The precocious Australian female has already
got in her fine work regarding the Gatton tragedy.
This time, the imaginative lady was only nine
years old, and lived at Greenmount, Q. She
rushed home and told her flabbergasted parents
that she had barely escaped from a ferocious
maniac, who made strange noises, and desired to
do at Greenmount as he had done at Gatton.
And she gave full details from the depth of her
nine-year-old imagination. The man was old,
with a long grey beard ; he w'as covered with
blood and bruises, and carried a very long knife;
he was dressed in so-and-so, and said such-and-
such horrible things that the shud-
dered to repeat them. The Clifton Mounted In-
fantry was immediately called out and scoured
the country; three policemen were quartered at
the farmhouse ; and the neighborhood was put in
a state of siege. When the district had been
searched without results, it occurred to somebody
to ask whether the nine-year-old hadn’t invented
the whole yarn ; and the nine-year-old ultimately
admitted she had—she wanted to be a heroine of
“a tragedy.” Then the Mounted Infantry were
solemnly disbanded ; the police force cursed and
rode home ; and the show burst-up. But it did
the nine-year-old great credit while it lasted.


E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Finanoial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
jHques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, ana treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry orushod. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.* » » *
South Australia just now is suffering from
copper booms. As a result of the advance in prices all
the old familiar silver bounders have turned up in King
William-street with splendid specimens of bine carbonates
and green oxides taken from some wonderful show * up
North,” and all the shop-windows are full of beautiful
lumps’ of ore certitled as having assayed 60 per cent,
copper, balance consisting of gold and silver. Lots of old
abandoned silver-mines arc being resuscitated as copper-
shows, under new names, ready for exploitation.
» • • *
Gilfillan and MoCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists arid nssayers, 404 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.
* * • *
Queensland’s total gold output for Deo., ’9B,
was 94,0980 z., an increase of 37280 z. on the yield for Dec.,
’97 Total vield for ’9B, 918,1060 z., against 807,0280 z. for
’97 ; increase, 110,1780/. The Towers, of course, comes
easily first, but it owes much to the huge, stored-up
heap's of tailings that have loomed up so largely in the
monthly returns. Total Towers output for year, 729,000
tons for 458,0000 z. Total value of gold won, £1,160,000,
or £130,000 in excess of any previous year. Gympie bos
crushed for the year 101,132 tons for 105,4720 z. Calls,
£124,670 ; divs. £141,826.
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinders
17” and 38" by 60" stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 151 b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably the
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &0., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall's patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
6cwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonio anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in any sums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
1.1 all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent,
Sydney Agen.^y:
135 PITT STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mininjf. Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/0 S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Fisit any Gem, Field.
“Tbc R€AL MAC KAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch. Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
& Attwood. Sole Proprietori
arrison
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
GUARANTEED
98/100%
CYANIDE
Bone Ash, Zine Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street*
Mblbourne ;
llPitt-st., Sydney; 6S Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lanibton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
f
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.
merchants,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Up to 31st Dec., 1898, the revenue of the six
Australian provinces showed as follows :
Increase over cor-
responding period
of 1897.
New South Wales (G months) .. £'264,662
Victoria ( „ ) .. 147,515
Queensland ( ~ ) .. 123,616
Tasmania (12 months) .. 62,986
South Australia (6 months) .. 46,107
Decrease as com-
pared with cor-
responding period
of 1897.
Westralia (6 months) .. £149,803
The N.S.W. revenue for the six months was
£4,676,981, and the expenditure £4,909,650, so the deficit
thus far is £232,669. This is better titan the situation on
31st Dec., ’97, when the deficit was £430,801, still it isn’t a
very cheering situation. And the expenditure of loan
money is growing to he an awful item. During the half-
year N.S.W. got tit rough £953,841 of borrowed cash, as
compared with £767,821 in the corresponding half of 1807
— an increase of £186,0201 And as about 1400,000 of this
went to pay for ordinary expenses, which should be
chargeable to revenue, the half-year’s deficit under a
decently honest system of book-keeping would be over
£600,000. So long as a Treasurer is allowed to charge any-
thing he pleases to loans no Treasurer need wind up the
year with a shortage—if only he is unscrupulous enough.
And since the Reid Govt, came into otlice he generally has
been unscrupulous enough.
Victoria went back considerably during Decem-
ber, 1898, the revenue for that month being 1.90,148 less
than for Dec., 1897. But Dec., 1897, was a tremendous
occasion, when a sudden inrush of probate duty through
the judicious and commendable death of many rich
citizens made the revenue take an unexpected rise of
£139,000. And that pleasing accident could hardly hap-
pen two Decembers running. Still the half-year’s receij Is
are £68,048 above Turner’s estimate, so tilings look well.
South Australia lias started to improve suddenly
and rather unexpectedly. The .1 uly-Soptember quarter of
1898 was only £4035 better than the corresponding quarter
of 1897. But the October-Docember quarter is £42,072
better than the October-December quarter of the previous
year.
Tasmania closed its financial year on December
31 with a net revenue of £908,006. Treasurer Fysh’S
estimate was £913,275, but Parliament knocked off £12,000
of taxation, so Fysh comes out wonderuilly close to bis
expectations. This is the best year’s revenue Tasmania
ever had, being £62,936 better than last, year, and £24,807
better than the next best year, 1891. If Fysh has managed
to keep his expenditure down to the estimate (which is
doubtful) he will have £109,000 surplus to reduce the old
deficit with.
Westralia’s revenue for December, 1898, was
£211,178, being £27,766 less than for December, 1807.
The six months’ revenue (£1,200,672) is £260,000 below
Premier Forrest’s estimate.
• * » *
Queensland finance can show one good feature,
anyhow—though it is a very lonesome feature indeed—
about as lonesome as George Washington in heaven.
Under the Audit Amendment Act of ’95, when the
Treasurer announces that he has a surplus he lias to hand
it over in actual cash to the trustees of the Public Debt
Reduction Fund, who use it to extinguish some of the
public liabilities. If there is a delcit, however, the
Treasurer keeps that. In N.S.W., under the Reid regime,
they do things differently—the Treasurer hands over bis
deficit and keeps the surplus. For instance, in the first
half of '95 Reid had a shortage of nearly £460,000, and
he handed that over to the nation as a present, and it is
part of the public debt to this day, and then he started
fair with his alleged Gash Bas s. Next year he claimed to
have a surplus of some j. 330,000, hut lie didn’t hand that
over by any means.
* * * *
South Australia has passed a new Loan Bill for
£1,733,000, which isn’t bad for the country with the
Second Biggest Debt on Earth, and with a population
which, all put together, wouldn’t make a second-class
city. The Kingston Ministry lias many good points, but
its finance is a disgrace to any honest community—if
there ever was any honest community.
* * * * *
Last year Sydney Municipal Council contrived
to cut down its deficit to £l3OO, whereas, in 1897, the
shortage reached the magnificent figure of £36,520. And
the vigorous barracking 1 of Alderman John Norton is
mainly responsible for the improvement.
* * • •
Why are not wharfage-dues imposed at New-
castle and Wollongong, as at other N.S.W. ports? Vast
sums have been spent on these ports to facilitate the coal-
trade, and everywhere else the interest on such expendi-
ture is charged against the port and covered, in part at
least, by wharfage-dues. But in these two cases alone
the interest is charged against the community at large,
and thus the N.S.W. coal-trade is subsidised and pro-
tected by a bounty equal to 6d. per ton. In other words,
the people of N.S.W. are taxed to “coddle” an export
industry which, seemingly, can’t stand on its own feet.
And as the “coddling” of industries by bounties or
duties is directly opposed to the boasted Freetrade policy
of N.S.W., when does the Reid Government propose
putting this matter right ? #
111 1895 £lOO,OOO in gold was shipped from Syd-
ney by the San Francisco mail-boats ; in 1896, £1,677,742 ;
in 1897, £2,075,476 ; in 1898, '5,015,000. The policy of
jolly and fat is steadily incre is ng the drain of gold, and
t he stock in the hanks has now got down lower than it was
in March, 1893, when the famous run commenced, and
there wasn’t enough coin to meet the demand.
» • • *
St. Joseph’s Building Society (Sydney) has made
a still further re-arrangement with its depositors. These
individuals agreed in 1895 to temporarily accept 3 per
cent, interest, and thev now agree to extend the 3 per
cent, arrangement for five years longer. Also any
attempt at fixing a definite date for repayment is to be
abandoned, but the depositors are to get instalments of
Is. in the £ as the money becomes available. The St.
Joseph’s cheerfully acknowledged in its last balance-sheet
that all its assets’wouldn’t fetch enough just now to pay
the depositors, so probably this is about the best they
can do.
Despite pessimistic prophecies, S.A. farmers
will reap a good harvest this season. The State Statistician
reckons that of 2,150,000 acres sown, 300,000 were cut for
hay. The other 1,850,000 he expects to yield 6 bushels to
the acre, or 11,100,000 bushels, worth, at 2s. 9d.,
£l 526 250. Food requirements will be 1,800,000 bus., and
seed next season will take 1,500,000 bus., and thus
7 800,000 bus. (worth, at 2s. 9d., £1,072,500) will
be available for export. But for the Sept, and Oct.
drought quite 20 million bushels would have been gar-
nered.
« * * *
Fraser’s mine, which was the John-the-Baptist
of the VV.A. boom, being not only the first to be taken
over by a company but also the first to start crushing,
has gone back £2039 during the year—chiefly through the
heavy cost of developing the Fraser’s South lease.
£33,940 worth of gold has been won in the 12 months ;
the cost per ton of ore was £1 10s. 10d., the earnings £1
10s. 6d. The position is, therefore, not regarded as past
redemption ; and there is more hope than usual for a
company which as carefully itemises its accounts as the
Fraser’s does.
* * * •
L. R. Menzies, who gave his name to a W.A.
field and a S.A. mine which, despite early promise, have
so far brought little grist to his or anybody else's mill, is
said to have got hold of a moderately good thing, at far-
out Mt. Ida. Anyhow, he is himself working the leases
he has taken up, and that is a good sign.
* • • •
N.S.W. Mines Minister Cook, who was once a
miner, said there is no such thing as luck. And yet
The Lady .Margaret, out Menzies way, struck a body of
fresh water early in its career ; hut, as tin* liuid wasn’t
wanted and gold was, the former was hauled up and
tipped on to the surface. Presently they struck a reef —
pretty poor, but good enough to mill, seeing they had
“whips of water.” They bought a tn.ll then, and had
just about put it up when the water gave out. The shaft
was sunk another 7l)ft. ; hut the water wouldn’t come,
and drives put in east ami west were equally resultless.
And now there is another battery hung up indefinitely.
Tito Kalgoorlie Goldfields Electromotive Power
Co., to establish a central power station for the Cool .cardie
fields, is incubating. Capital. £500,000, of which the
mines subscribe half, and the London public the balance.
The co. will be the biggest of its sort in the world, and
promises to reduce the cost of working the mines by 25
per cent.
• • * •
Ivanhoe, W. A., for month, 75430 z. Interesting
to know how long it will take to pay another ss. div. at
this rate of gold production. Golden Horseshoe, two
weeks, 43200 z. Great Boulder, ditto, 31920 z.
* * • •
Dear Bulletin. —Your par. (18/11/’9B) re Golden
Horseshoe is in error : the lease was pegged in Oct., '93,
by Alec Macgregor, Bruce Headers >n, and myself, all of
Adelai lc, for the Lefroy-Coolgurdie syndicate, also of
Adelaide. \V. G. Brockman's Lon t<m statement that, had
the surveyors pugged out the Boulder us he intended, it
would have included the llorsosnoe ground, was charac-
teristic : he knew where the Horseshoe ground lay, as it
was lie who showed us the Boulder lines, us pegged by
himself and Pearce ; and actually the surveyed line of the
B. came further west into our ground than >V. G. thought
it would. By-the-hy, it is about time the old idea about
the Boulder being‘a swindle from the jump was finally
scotched. Brookman and Pearce dollied Kioz. In a fort-
night in Sept., '93, from the cap of the pres.ml Boulder
lode, and 1 saw as good stone in th it lode on the surface
a week after its discovery as 1 have seen from it since. ■
Yours, t>. L. Doolkttk, North Ooolgardie.
« • • *
They don’t lose as much time tackling the
telluride and other complex-ore problems in the West as
they did the sulphide ditto in Broken Hill. Already no
less'than live oxidising furnaces are being erected or are
planned—Brown’s straight-line (Consuls), ltopp (Aus-
tralia), Shaft (Main Reef), Konemami (Boulder), and
Angall (Perseverance). But, then, the greatest mistake
the Broken Hill go's— Day Dream, Pinnacles, South
British, and others - made was in building furnaces
almost simultaneously without waiting to see how the
thing would pan out at the very few mines that really
could stand the heavy racket.
Despite t’othorside pooh-poohs, VVestralians
have some strong argument ) in support of I ie law mak-
ing local share-registers compulsory. For instance,
White Feather Main Reef scrip, sent along for the collec-
tion of clivs. nine months ago, is still away. And so are
the divs.
* * * *
Peak Hill Goldfields, Ltd.: 721 tons, 22010 z. ;
and for the year, 3978 tons for 14,0160 z. In the Murchi-
son gold district, but a long way from Cue, consisting of
a number of claims bought by one Simpson last year for
a London co. ou tbe basis of about £100,009. home
thousands of ounces were turned out by means of a small
battery on the camp before the various owners sold.
Three divs. were paid this year—two of a shilling and one
of 8d ; probably another has just been declared in Lon-
don. Area, 157 acres; share capital, £250,000; shares
issued, 230,000, and last month they were selling in Lon-
don at £3.
* * * *
Princess Royal promises to make people look a
little more confidently towards Norseman this year.
Last year’s work : Costs, just under £lO,OOO ; gold won,
£18,321 ; profit, £8423. And a new manager- W. Trel-
var, a Ba.laratman —goes in charge with instructions to
“ make things hum.’' Several low-grade claims in the
district are Leirig worked with a little profit on tribute ;
the owners take 25 per cent.
♦ • * *
Homeward Bound, N.S.W., 1347 tons, L34oz.
Two dwts. to the ton—nothing in it at that —and this
after fighting three years to get the mine hack !
Another move in Lake George shares, which
doubled in value in two days last week and then went
back a bit. Production since end of Nov., when smelting
was resumed, reported to be 92 tons of copper, 5730 z.
gold and 15,9030 z. silver from 6351 tons of crude ore—a
little better average than when the mine closed down.
Everything said to be running well, and total cost, cover-
ing mining, smelting, development and general expenses
at the mine, declared by the management to be a shade
under 14s. per ton of crude ore. This, if correct, is sub-
stantially lower than the previous manager’s records.
The realisation charges altogether should not make total
cost more than £1 a ton of crude ore, and with that, even
with the low-grade ore represented by this production,
the mine should give a profit of 6s. or 7s. a ton, which is
something ou a big output. In the last report issued
from London by the directors serious charges are made
against the man who managed this mine up to some six
months ago, and his friends have been waiting to know
what action he intends taking in he matter.^
As matters stand, the public had better leave
Lake George Mines shares severely alone. These scrip
are the subject of constant mysterious rumors and
market-rigs. The information vouchsafed from the com-
pany’s office is so scant as to warn off all but the blindest
gamblers. . , . .
Cobar Notes : Cobar sadly lacks water; rainfall
for ’9B smallest for years—not loin. Even the Great
Cobar Copper mine is none too well off this year.
Cobar Gold Mines (Fort Bourke) making good
arrangements, but only slowly. Company reconstructed
last April, getting over £40,000 new capital, but next
April will not see it much more than half-ready lor the
start. Hoped that when crushing does begin more
activity will be shown. _ ,
The Great Western, with its dreadful past, has
a hideous future ahead failing a change of management.
Stopped dead the other day with shaft down _oUft., not a
man working on the place. Little money.no pay ore in
sight or to be opened up without great expenditure.
With the few hundreds to be gained from the 3d. call,
it might as well attempt to buy up Mount Morgan as try
to right itself.
Chesney, as good-looking as ever, but still search-
ing for iron to flux its ore. Plenty of good, treatable ore,
but the big step ahead is to decide on the inode of treat-
ment.
Occidental has opened up and had a splendid
crushing from its lower levels. Cyanide-plant been in
full swing, with good results. So far, all goes to prove
truth of prediction here made weeks back. At present,
out of water, like most other local shows, but directorate
wisely devoting money to further developing in mine,
and a better scheme of water-conservation.
Rumored that the Great Cobar Copper Syf*di‘
cate is anxious to get hold of everything on the field.
Certain it is that it is quietly acquiring interests in
most of the mines.
The Overflow preserves a deathly silence after
all the commotion about “ the nice lot of amalgam and
“87 per cent, extraction ” by cyanidation. If the
management doesn’t soon show a bar of gold, it will be best
for its leading lights to mind their sheep and let a compe-
tent manager have a free hand.
• • • •
Broken Hill mining co. divs. last year, 15.
Broken Hill fatal mining accidents last year, 20. Previous
years since ’94 inclusive —9, 18, 13, 15.
* * * • •
Still another system of mining at Broken Hill.
Manager Patton brought over from the Comstock the
square-set timbering. The B.H. lodes were too heavy,
ami solid bulkheads of Oregon superseded the sets. Then
fires came as well as creeps ; and mullock was packed in
all spaces available. Still there were creeps. The
quarries (open-cuts) were started by manager Howell to
relieve the pressure—which it did, nut also increased the
danger of tire. Ilalf-a-dozen other methods have been
tried underground, especially in the big sulphide work-
ings. Nothing which involves much timbering close up
to the face is economical, because the heavy blasting
smashes the beams to splinters. Finally Inclined slopes
are being largely adopted—apparently an entirely new
idea, and one of whioh the present manager, Stewart, has
great hopes. _ .
The Working Jewellers’ Society of Melbourne
talks of agitating for a Government assay office, to guar-
iintee the stamping of Jewellery gold, lhe president, of
the W.J.B. states that a largo percentage of the trade
sales are fraudulent transactions, “ 18 carat” rings and
trinkets being frequently 9 carat with a surface wash on
them. •• It is a well-known fact that shopkeepers order
their work to bo stamped far above its quality, ancl the
manufacturer who refuses to do it loses the order. Ange-
lina in general will ho grieved to hear that her 255. wed-
ding-ring is probably not worth more than about four
“ bob ” for pawning purposes when Edwin holts to Wes-
tralia, leaving her with nothing in the house except a
baby. A Melb. vendor of “18 carat” marriage tokens is
even less scrupulous than the immortal Hebrew silvcij
smith who, on finding that he couldn’t get the lion brand
on some electro plated forks and spoons, besought the
manufacturer to work In a leedle dawg which would
answer the purpose of a leedle lion for any customer who
didn’t know much about animals.
♦ • * *
Bendigo keeps a splendid set of loon.l mining
statistics going; after crediting several Queensland centres
with the good work they do in the same direction, Ben-
digo’s is still, on tlie whole, the most complete in Austra-
lia" ’»8 pans out this way : Gold, 217,728°*. ; calls,
£151,588: divs., £228,429. The gold-yield is the best
since the well-remembered ’B2-3-4 spurt. Curiously, the
second, third, and fourth years of each decade have
almost invariably been the most prolific. It was in .>3
that the output reached 661,7490 z. ; in 72 it was
34(1,9920z., which stands a record since the bonanza
days ; in ’B3 it went to 220,1580 z., the best for the last 20
years : and in ’93 it passed 210,0000 z. for the first time for
a decade. It isn’t safe to theorise on this sort of thing ;
but, anyhow, these figures of production are encouraging
—’94 171 6700 z. ; ’95, 180,9210 z. ; ’9O, 202,1270 z. ; 97,
208 311 oz. ; ’93, 217,7230 z. Of the ’9B total, 115,9940 z. was
won in the second half. Total from Bendigo to date
C5l to ’9B), 12,435,5710 z., worth at present rates
£19,742,284; this is independent of a little taken away
unrecorded.
Bendigo’s best producer in’9B was the Great
Southern. 15,248nz. from 11,502 tons ; it also led in 97.
15ut. it has dropped bock now, and the ancient Garden
Gullv has come up with a rush with 15,1430 z. from 8100
tons’. This company heads the dividend list with £Ai,iol,
equal to £1 Bs. Od. per share, all paifl in the last half.
New Chum Railway, which was the ’96 premier, is second
for ’9B with £36,087 as against £5533 in ’97. Kochs
Pioneer, which got(is22oz. gold from 19,302 tons,paid £B/50;
and, for another illustration of successful low-grade ore
mining, the New Moon, which won 8800 oz. from 23,145
tons, paid .116,800.
Of the Bendigo mines owned wholly by Mr.
George Lansell, the 180 and No. 2 treated 9594 tons for
30010 Z., returning about £4500 ; and the Comet crushed
12,730 tons for 36910 z.
Bendigo puts up another record for ’9B, too—in
the number of mine accidents, which have increased most
alarmingly. t ( ,
Shamrock, Bendigo, last week’s return, 3230 z.
from 65 loads—soz. per load, even better than previous
week Deckled to sink main shaft to work lode to better
advantage. Face and stopes looking remarkably well.
Good for those who got into it a few weeks back at 4s.
and ss. a share.
* * * •
Mt. Mercer, Vic., an alluvial mine which has
received £l5OO Govt, money to help it along, had its first
clean-up the other .lay. The return, 470 z., said to repre-
sent IJoz. per fathom. Averred that less than half the
amount will pay. Regular divs. regarded as a certainty.
Foster spoke of the big things done in Vic. alluvial min-
j,,„ i,y English co’s., whose directors in London were ex-
cessively paid while local men were under-paid.
Long Tunnel, Vio., for month, 1931 tons,
16780 z • div., 255. a share. The 276th and many more
sure to ’come. In a few Vic. mines divs. are as certain as
calls are in a great many. South Long Tunnel, 850 tons,
78oz More calls. A ease of put up or shut up, and they
seldom do the latter in Vic. if there is any show of ever
getting anything. Many mines have made upwards of
100 ca iis, and many will make 100 more before the sponge
is finally thrown up. Often when the old man drops out
the son steps in to the call-paying breach, and so it will
probably go on to the third and fourth generation—a
feature of mining never understood in N.S.W., where most
mines are regarded as swindles after the third or fourth
c* ll ’ ...»
Leading Tas. battery returns for Dec. : Tas.
mania, 4085 tons for 44170 z. ; value, £16,860 ; New Golden
Gate, 2350 tons for 22530 z., £9OOO ; (by the way Brock,
the latelv-deceased chief scripper of this raine, left
£230,000); Kingarooma, 203 tons for 1860 z., £/44 ,
Pinafore, 1050 z., £420 ; E. lolunteer, 62 tons for 660 z.,
£23l ‘ .....
During December Mt. Lyell’s output of blister
copper was 467£ tons. , ,
Western (Tas.) output for Dec., 610 tons, realis-
ing £8235. The record so far for this mine. A tew
months at this rate should enable the directors to put in
the much-needed new pumping plant. Montana comes
next with 325 tons, worth £4550.
* * •
Tas mineral returns for ’9B fall .£40,000 behind
’97 For ’97, £919,414 ; '9B, £878,700. The revival in the
tin market and the completion of several promising plants
is expected to make up the deficiency m a few months.
“ Hope springs eternal,” etc.
The Tasmania, Tassy’s G.0.M., cleaned up the
other day for a Xmas cake, worth £5227 7s. 6d. Average,
loz. Sdwt. 13gr. per ton, is better than has happened tor
a long time. Tasmania mine’s figures to date, 443,1670 z.
16Adwt. from 376,995 tons crushed, an average of loz.
3dwt. 12jgr. to the ton—value, £1,608,881155. 7d. Divs.
paid, £679,071155. 7d. Ounces talk.
If ever a country should be sick of syndicates
and their shuffling, that country is certainly Tasmania.
But the calmness with which the cheerful Tassy suffers
the backing and filling of the Great Western Gridiron
Co., and the readiness with which he finds excuses for
the delav in the flotation of that magnificent grab, is too
astonishing for mere words. Unless, indeed (and it seems
the only explanation possible), the Tassies have them-
selves ho faith in the alleged enormous value of their
West Coast mineral fields. In the absence of any vigorous
local demand for the immediate construction of the line,
is it to be wondered at that Bull looks askance at the
BymlU-Baker crowd's tempting offer?
In the matter of gold-production Queensland
fortes steadily ahead, not bounding forward at an alarm-
ing rate or suffering a serious relapse now and again. In
’56, Victoria produced nearly 3,000,0000 z. ; in '77, only
809 6530 z. Maoriland has varied from a yearly output of
200,0000 z. to 800,0000 z., and back again to 250,0000 a.
Queensland started with about lOOOoz.—two years after
Separation. In *Bl, she produced 270,9480 z. ; in ’9l,
673,4390 z. ; in ’95, 626,2990 z. ; in '97, 807,9280 z. ; in ’9B,
918,1060 z. And there are huge areas patiently awaiting
the arrival of capital and scientific operations.
, • • •
Maoriland mines : Waihi, 7684 tons for bullion
valued at £25,285 ; Waitekauri, 2403 tons for £7071. The
Thames Hauraki Co. has spent to date over £lOO,OOO on
plant, the object being to test the deep ground of the
Thames gold-field, for which heavy pumping machinery
is necessary. The 00. intends to prove that the rich gold
of the upper levels goes down or go down itself.
The old - established Westralian district of
Northampton, outside Geraldton, is busy saying nasty
things about the Westralian Smelting Co., the latter
having declared that the district is quite unable to supply
the lead needed in treating gold tellurides, &c. For years
past vague stories have been told of the immense quanti-
ties of lead which, in former times, were taken to Europe
as stiffening for wool-ships. The co. now affirms that the
“ immense quantities,” so far as it can make out, did not
exceed 4000 tons; worse still, the deposits are patchy and
uncertain. This, after general-manager Kohler had in-
spected. ( ( ,
“ K.” : Re recent Bulletin query as to reason
for different shapes of picks on various goldfields. Miners
here (W.A.) say the shape depends generally on the
blacksmiths’ fancy, though sometimes individual, miners
have fads on the point. Also, in some localities, the
nature of the country operated on controls the shape—
notably the alluvial. A Hungarian tells ine that, in
Europe, the shape of the pick is as diverse as the nation-
ality of the users. On the question of handles, an old
Thames man says that manuka is there preferred to
hickory, because of the ill effect of the loeal mineralised
water bn the latter. In the South Island of Maoriland,
hickory is preferred. At Clunes (Vic.), years ago, only
handles of locally-grown woods would satisfy the miners.


DAVID
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12 6 per Day,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
A few of
“THE AUSTRALIA'S ”
attractive features
Fireproof
Telegraph Office inside
Elegant Drawing Rooms
Handsome Dining Room
Splendid Table and Table
Service
Healthful Position
Hot and Cold Water in
every room
Perfect attendance
You touch a button, and
the whole hotel ma-
chinery is in motion, if
need be, to fulfil your
wishes.
“ Once a guest always a guest.”
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydirej T .
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Comments in Melb. papers represent the
appointment of cx-Gov. Hopetoun to the post of
Lord Chamberlain, as a “promotion,” and a
stepping-stone from the provincial Governorship.
Could any idea be more degrading? The Lord
Chamberlain is purely a Court flunkey. His
functions are to walk backwards on State occasions
with a white stick in his hand, and to act as a kind
of official Master of the Ceremonies. No sort of
ability is required for the office ; all the real work
is done by permanent officials at St. James’
Palace. A mere fool could be a good Lord -Cham-
berlain ; and most Lord Chamberlains have been
mere fools, for the simple reason that a man of
genuuie ability would hardly demean himself by
taking such an office. Yet, so low is the idea of a
colonial Governor that it is regarded as a “ pro-
motion ” to be made Lord Chamberlain after
having been a Governor 1
* * m *
W.A. Governor “ Jerry ” Smith has a holy
horror of Coolgardie society. The reason is said
to be that at a Coolgardie ball a well-known
“leading” lady seized H.E. by the waist, and,
twisting him round the room, said, “You dear
old giraffe, I do so love to waltz with you.”
Whereupon the ball was at once deprived of
gubernatorial presence and patronage.
* ♦ * *•
When Excellency Brassey landed suddenly
the other day .at Stanley, Tas., the local folk
hadn’t time to draw up.and deliver an address of
welcome and protestation of loyalty, and the
warden and his council have been kicking them-
selves ever since. The only Stanleyite satisfied
with himself is the local correspondent of Laun-
ceston Telegraph, who had the chance of a life-
time and made the most of it. Thus :
From the landing-stage the party proceeded direct to
the post-and-telegraph offices, after inspecting which his
Excellency was pleased to express his highest approval of
the buildings and efficient arrangements for the trans-
action of business. For some time Lord Brassey con-
versed most affably with the officials, making minute in-
quiries concerning the resources and productions of the
district, lie seemed much pleased with the verdant
appearance of the green hills, and expressed the genuine
pleasure experienced in finding one spot on earth which
apparently enjoyed an immunity from irrosquitoes and
other insect pests.
It almost recalls S.M. Herald’s immortal
“ splurge” over the great monkey-soap wedding.
Is there any valid reason why, in the in-
evitable interregnum between the resignation of
Gov. Hampden and the appointment of bis suc-
cessor, the N.S.W. Chief Justice should be paid,
as on similar occasions, at the rate of £10,500 a
A NATURAL SEQUENCE.
TOM: “Harry Ms fallen out with his wife already.”
DICK: “ Quite likely! Last time I saw him he said he’d fallen in.”
year? South Australia increased Chief Justice
Wav’s salary to .£2500 in like circumstances, in
effect making a considerable saving while the
interregnum there lasted. No one in that pro-
vince advocated, either on the score of dignity or
business, that Mr. Way should receive full salary
as Chief Justice and full Governor’s salary at the
same time, yet the principle is not alone advo-
cated but practised time after time in N.b.W.
Unfortunately N.S.W. Parliament may not meet
until the contract is entered on, but the Premier
should be made feel that Parliament wdl stand by
him if he use the knife on this recurring excess.
* * * *
Waxellency Madden has at last got his
little bit of blue and red ribbon with an enamelled
star at the end of it. He is now a K.C.M.G. He
lias certainly waited long for the showy
decoration without which a knighthood is
like a highland costume sans a philabeg. It
was known to some in Melbourne a month
ago that “the. Michael an dSt. George”
would be given to Madden as a New Year’s
honor. Ind eed, the insignia came out from
the Colonial Office then, and are in Brassey’s
possession.
The Victorian police are taking heroic
measures to identify the lady of the boot-box
mystery. All the Melb. police are now required
to go and look hard at the head (preserved in
spirits) and see if they can locate it. Country
police are to be brought down in batches to have
the head shown to them. (Postmen are being
brought in by relays to study the gruesome dead
bottled countenance on the off-chance that some
of them may remember delivering letters to it when
it was attached to a clothed human body. Also it
is proposed to send photos, of the relic to house-
agents, railway and steamboat officials, hash-
houses— where the morning letter-carrier will
deliver it just in time for breakfast; and to
scatter it over Australia generally.
One great difficulty, hitherto, has arisen out of
the cussedness of girls supposed to be missing.
When the police heard that some Mary Ann had
disappeared from her usual haunts they would
start advertising and investigating, but in several
instances Mary Ann, having some reason for
lying low, refused to answer, and let them waste
days pursuing blank side tracks that led nowhere.
But the police have got mad and aggravated now
over their weary boot-box mystery and are stand-
ing no nonsense. The last lot of missing girls
who refused to show up were brought to light
promptly by a simple little advt. which implied
that a large fortune had been left to each of them.
This worked so well that they all turned up at a
run the very same week. And when they found
that the promised “ news of something to their
advantage ” was simply the glad intelligence that
none of them was the dead woman in the boot-
box—which they knew already—they were so
wild that they were almost ready to smash the
gla<ss jar with the head in it with their umbrellas.
One in particular grew so angry that she spoke
quite disrespectfully about the head.
• • * *
Blackmailing has of late been ca-rried on
with much success in Albert Park, Melb., but the
other night two men who tried to bounce a couple
on a secluded seat made a grievous error. They
said they were police, and talked of outrageous
charges if cash was not forthcoming. The
young woman on the seat pleaded for a time in a
thin, small voice, and wept bitter tears, but,
tiring suddenly, jumped up, threw off her bonnet,
and smote the leading blackmailer a demoralising
blow on the jaw. At the same moment her com-
panion started to “deal it out” to the other
stranger. The young woman vvas all over the
enemy in a brace of shakes, and in the second
round picked his weakness, and left him tucked
up on the grass, counting the stars, while she
helped her mate to knock skin and corners off the
second man. Then the two battered prowlers
were towed to the lagoon, and pitched in where
the mud was deepest. The supposed female then
kicked off the skirt, and went home rejoicing,
having got even over a deal with the foxers on a
previous evening.
Broken Hill is get-
ting ready to detach
itself from N.S.W. in
the ecclesiastical sense.
Bishop Harmer, of Ade-
laide, has been pulling
ropes in that direction for
over a year and has now
conquered almost all the
objections originally en-
countered. He has con-
verted, or almost con-
verted, to the idea Bishop
Anderson, of whose Rive-
rina diocese Broken Hill
is a part. Bishop Ander-
son admits he cannot
attend to Broken Hill
for want of railway con-
veyance, whereas the dis-
trict could be readily
served from S. Australia.
Indeed, the Bishop’s
opinion is that politi-
cally and socially, as well
as religiously, Broken Hillites are now under a
foreign Govt.
• * » •
You can’t impose on the Jap. Up North
way a certain Jap. inspector was entrusted
with the transmission of the men’s wages to Japan.
His countrymen, on receipt of certain letters from
Japan, accused him of having detained some <£lso
of the wages which should have been sent home.
A strike was declared, and the inspector found it
prudent to hide himself till the money matter
was put straight. Not a man would work till
things were square, and as to “ scabbing ” —such
a thought never struck a solitary alien. No, the
Jap is not an ideal serf, by any means.
NEW YEAR’S DAY ITEM.
“ Say , Joe , where’s his pants?"
“ Dunno —looks as if she wears ’em."
A wash-
er worn a n
in a N.Q.
town is the
owner o f
three illegi-
mate chil-
dren b y
three dif-
ferent sires.
When i n
trouble
with the
last babe
she ap-
proached
the local
benevolent
society for
assistance.
“Don’t you
think,”
snorted
Mrs. Grun-
dy, “ that
a woman in
your poor
circum-
stances
should be
the last to
give birth
to children
of sin?”
The mother
of three vigorously stamped the floor and re-
torted : “ What the divil has poverty got to do
with me private feelings?”
Seven Salvationists were sent to prison
the other day at Bairnsdale (Vie) for failing to
pay fines inflicted for parading the streets without
the local council’s permission. This is, no doubt,
all for the glory of the Lord and the good of the
Booth cause, but it looks tolerably mean for tho
Salvation authorities to allow the rank-and-file to
go to gaol for doing what they themselves coun-
tenance and support, and practically order the
underlings to do.
* ♦ * *
A tale of mean streets. A respectable
but unmarried chimney-sweep in a Southern
city, noted for his good humor and bow-legs,
recently woke up in his bachelor quarters to
find a strange and month-old infant sleeping
peacefully on his dining-table. A korcro of
neighbors was called, and a weather-beaten
chum of the astonished and protesting sweep
was elected Solomon for the occasion. His
judgment was to the effect that if, on exami-
nation, the infant proved to be bow-legged
it should be allowed to remain as an honored
guest ; if not, it must be at once handed over
to the police. The judgment was approved
of by all present, except the proprietor of the
cottage ; but, rather than have any dispute
about the matter, he accepted the unanimous
ruling of the neighbors, and the police were
not sent for. The Solomon, being a family
man, was, of course, considered a reliable
authority on the shape of month-old babies’
legs.
Bill was a shift-boss in a Broken Hill
mine, and the insurance drummer had
been talking eloquently and persua-
sively to him for half-an-hour. Then
Jim came up from his bachelor’s
camp and chipped in : “ What’s t’
doing?” “Aw, tbinkin’ of in-
surin’.” “Dawn’t be blamed fool,
you ! Goin’ to give t’*old ooman sum-
mut to chuck to nawther man, are
ee?” “Aw! Say, boss, how much
fer two-fifty ? . . . An’ how much
for five honderd? Aw! then fill ’er up
for five honderd. If t’ old ooman have
five honderd she’ll look round bit; if she
haven’t, with five kids squealin’ on t’ her,
she’ll be takin’ any bloomin’ ijut, like Jim here,
ev a stone com’ down on me. See!” And the
five honderd was booked.
On its Proclamation Day, South Australia
still goes down in a body and broils itself on the
white sand at Glenelg, near which place the pro-
vince was first officially established. The old
arched gum-tree beneath which the proclamation
was read keeps as erect as an average gum-tree
can, though long since it became lifeless. Some
years ago a fence was put round it, else by this
time it would have been chipped away—not so
much by people wanting “ relics ” (for it is visited
by few indeed, especially on Proclamation Day) as
by people wanting to boil the billy. By the way,
S.A. might as well decide definitely what to call
its day-out. At present it is printed Proclama-
tion, Foundation, Commemoration, and Anni-
versary Day; the crowd just calls it “ ther
twenty-aith ” every time.
This year, at S.A.’s Proclamation Day shivoo,
the chair was backed by the flags of Austi-alia,
Britain and the States entwined ; at which
several speakers rejoiced. Afterwards the ’Mur-
kan Consul was formally begged to let M'Kinley
know of the “most enthusiastic manner ” in which
the “ influential and representative assembly ”
showed its “ attachment to your flag and
country.” And the consular agent—which his
name is Murphy—replied that it would afford
him the greatest honor ever conferred on
him as the representative of the U-nited States to
convey the sentiments to M'Kinley before-men-
tioned. Wonder if the White House will answer
that.
A comedy ending in a tragedy was enacted
near an Australian city during December. A
young man, of good birth and education, but
addicted to drink, fell in love with the daughter
of a buxom widow. The mother, however,
frowned on his suit and ukased that he must keep
sober for at least six months before he even spoke
about marriage. By a great effort he complied
with this condition, and at last got reluctant
maternal consent to the union. On the day before
that fixed for the wedding the bridegroom went to
the residence of his lady-love, and was so hospit-
ably entertained that he lost all consciousness.
When he came to his senses he found him-
self alongside—the widow. She had carried him
off and made him her husband while be was dis-
guised in drink and oblivious to her identity. The
spouse, on grasping the situation, arose, left the
house and committed suicide.
Many Melb. tradesmen this year blossomed
into verse and reaped therefrom most substantial
reward. A poetic dustman in West Melbourne
cleared £3B in Xmas-boxes, and all the newsboys
seem to have made a good thing of it. Below are
original “ verses ” by a Melb. suburban paper-boy
“ out after dollars ” :
The Melbourne spielers have dropped the
“ rich old uncle in Fiji ” in favor of “ My friend,
Mr. Tyson,” and when the prospective victim
jocularly asks if it is any relative of “ .Timmy,” he
is gravely told—“ Yes, a nephew.” After which
the game proceeds on the lines of tho deceased
millionaire’s having bequeathed .£5OO to every
honest man who can produce *£so in gold, as an
evidence of thrift.
* • * *
Auckland (M.L.) Eveninci Star once sent
its Jenkins to write up a 11. C. church -bazaar.
A STITCH IN TIME.
HE (to barmaid): “Hull , Flossie, back ayain)
Just had a bit of luck — I’ve sold your boss a
cash-rcyistcr.”
FLOSSIE: " Gracious! how lucky for me that I got
a new dress made last week! ”
Wrote he—“ On entering, a magnificent coup
d’ceil was presented by the tasteful Spanish cos-
tumes of the ladies. At a stall on the right we
observed Mrs. O’Rafferty, Miss M'Guinness, Miss
Mulcahy, and various other Andalusians and Cas-
tilians.”
CHRISTMAS CHEETINGS.
Ninety Eight is rolling by,
And your greeted by your paper-boy;
The winter’s flown and summer’s here,
May Xmas bring you right good cheer.
News I’ve brought of the latest kind,
Of battles fierce and sports sublime j
Of Federation “ in the air,”
Altho’ Syd.'s Premier dosent care.
Yankee with his doodle do,
Beat the Spaniards through and through ;
May Russia’s aims it proudly strives at,
Cease deadly war and mighty combat.
And France lay low beyond the seas,
Whilst the British Lion enjoys the breeze.
And as its now all mirth and joy,
Pray dont forget the Paper Boy.


i
m
JZ
m
UC
m
nOA 3Av[l“
&
J
firflSS
HEALTH and HAPPINESS
ARB IN
SYDNEY LAGER BIER
It’s a Delicious, Refreshing Brew that gives you strength.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.,
Moore Park, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps/
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
OS', of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
178 William-st., Melbourne
11 Pitt-stroet, Sydney;
68 durrie-st., Adelaide; 27 Easiest., Brisbane; Lambton
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Hy. Maikwald,
SoftCaf)v/aS Sbirts
Made to MEASUfeK.
Post free SO - per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Qr sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
*
Very Strong', Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn, f'//C li HHOl'tlHJ{B,
Gentlemen s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Ciwnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
A Big Scrub teach-
used to get poor marks
for the dictation of his
classes, but for the
punctuation (that weird
and wonderful
mystery to many
pupils) he ob-
tained excellent
reports. This
was his modus .
A month or so
before the an-
nual inspection
he would as-
semble his own
classes in the
class-room and
say, “Now,
childer, whin
yez see wan
finger at th’ back
ov me book, that
manes a com-
mer ; two fingers
is a simmi-colon;
three fingers is a
colon ; an’ four
fingers is a fnll-
shtop—d’ye moind
me now?” As the
intelleet-d e veloper
always read the pas-
sage selected by the
inspector, this dodge
answered splendidly.
The salvers
used on special oc-
casions to collect the
offertory in St. An-
drew’s Cathedral,
Sydney, are one of silver
and the other of gold—both of
historic value. The gold one was the gift
of Sir Charles Wentworth, and the silver one wa9
donated by King William IV.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : Strolling up Bourke-stroet last
evening, 1 was accosted by a venerable, wh.ite-
xnoustaclied, aquiline-featured stranger, • who
effusively shook hands. He looked like a broken-
down Hibernian nob'eman, and was palpably the
worse for liquor. “My dear fellow, it’s a thou-
sand pities 1 didn’t meet ye foive min-utes ago.
A friend who knew me in betther days gave me a
bottle of claret. I didn’t know what to do with
it. There it was bulging under ino waistcoat. I
have a good wife at home, with a horror of liquor.
So I went up the lane there, knocked off the top
wid a shtone, and drunk the lot. But what is
claret without company? ” Then (sadly) “Good-
bye ! good-bye ! ”
Two Cornish John Langdons in Adelaide,
though not now related, are to be made family con-
nections shortly. The charming daughter of editor
John Lungdon Bonython, of S. A. Advertiser, is
about to marry the eldest son of John Larigdon
Parsons, ex-Govt. Resident of the Northern Terri-
tory. The bridegroom-elect is a law partner of
Federal Conventionist Paddy Glynn and a great
grandson of George Fife Angas, founder of S.A.,
from whose daughter he has inherited .£30,000.-
“ Another Dominie ” to The Bulletin :
Re “school-ma’am's” letter, 24,12/’9B. Undoubtedly
the dominie (as “Schoolma'ani ” avers) would he perfectly
safe with 99 girls out of a hundred in a bush-school. But
it's just that one female leper who does the mischief, and
there’s always one in the crowd—and sometimes more.
“.Schoolma’ani ” is apparently of opinion that the 99 pure
maidens can rehabilitate the hapless pedagogue’s reputa-
tion if it has come a cropper over the wild statements of
some budding Messalina. As far as writer’s experience
and observation are concerned, “Dominie” is right-
right up to the hilt when he advises his brethren of the
ferule to avoid being alone with any female pupil.
Further, “ Schoolma’ani” would only appoint girl-teachers
to mixed schools where but one teacher is required.
A pretty prospect for the girl-teachers ! Why, there are
districts in the West where a girl-teacher could only live
in a disreputable bush-pub, half-shanty, half-brothel.
There are many localities where the unfortunate woman
would always lie compelled to lodge with some wretched
cockatoo family whose ideas of partitions and bed-rooms
never got beyond a few old sacks and scraps of canvas.
Writer knows extensive tracks of country, dotted with
little schools, where Japs., Kanakas, Syrians, Chinamen,
and Hindoo hawkers run riot, and—well, God help the
hapless lone woman they come across.
Dr. Wig gf
health - officer o
TJnley, one of
Adelaide’s biggest
suburban munici-
palities, chiefly
known in the East
THE PARABLE OF TALENTS.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TKACHER (reading) : "'Then he
that had received the tire talents went and
traded with, the same, and made with, them
other five talents... . But he that had
received one went and digged in the earth
and hid his Lord's money.' Now , what
could he have done better with his talent? ”
YOUNG AUSTRALIAN: “Put it on Grafter,miss!"
through its tomato-sauce, complained in a recent
report of the decreasing local birth-rate. And
promptly a lady there held up hor end of the
log with a brood of four, divided equally into
two sorts.
“Bargo”: Last Sun-
day evening saw a George-
street undertaker proudly
showing to three little chil-
dren a blue-lined baby’s
coffin which he had just
completed. He even al
lowed the admiring young-
sters to feel the soft-
padded interior. The day
should be near at hand
when, in the interests of
womankind, the coffin -
makers will all be rele-
gated by law to one back-
street, and there compelled
to pursue their ghastly
trade without display.
“Another way” would
be to utterly squelch the
private undertaker and in-
stitute in Australia the
Parisian Pompes Funebres
(municipal) system, under
which the rich have
funerals of whatever degree
of glory they like to pay
for, the very poor being
buried for nothing.
♦ • *
Melb. police-inspec-
tor, examining a constable
as to why a hotel land-
lady had not had her
license opposed in previous
years—“ VVas her conduct
since known then ? "
Again that 16-year-old Melbourne damsel
sings for The Bulletin
Rc the Gatton tragedy, Harry Stockdale
writes i
As vou will remember, previous to the fact beiiur made
public, I suggested that. Murphy had been shot. My sug-
gestion proved correct, My further impressions are that
Michael Murphy was killed before he reached the slip-
rails and that in all probability there never was any
struggle on the ground that would leave tracks of dis-
turbance. Probably Murphy was accosted on the road by
a man on foot or ‘on horseback. If on foot the man
would ask or perhaps be offered a lift, would get up from
behind, then, standing behind or partially alongside,
would shoot Murphv, and being higher than the sitting
man the bullet would take a downward course. Hie
sisters would naturally scream, and the man would im-
mediately stun both in the cart. Or, telling them that no
harm would come to them, would bind and gag them,
then drive on to the rails where the other man let them
in. During the after horrors I take it that the brother
moved or gave some sign of life, and was then smashed
about the head to make doubly sure.
Further, I believe whoever perpetrated this outrage was
naked. The sound heard by a neighbor of splashing or of
someone washing clothes was the criminal cleansing nun-
self in the water. Thus there would be no stained
clothing to afford a clue. I believe also that the P i tr P ] e "
trators had considerable bush knowledge, and probably
some knowledge of aboriginals, because they used fire-
arms as little as possible, preferring to smash the heads
with wooden weapons. I think that next these men re-
turned through the rails and along the road to the town,
judging soundly that as soon as the news spread all
tracks would be destroyed by the crowd trooping to the
spot. If this is not so the tracks should have been picked
up a little outside of the scene of the tragedy, always
supposing the much-lauded trackers are worth their salt,
or are handled effectively. The perpetrators evidently
anticipated little or no resistance, and one of the most
remarkable features in the whole affair is the fact that no
attempt appears to have been made either to hide or
destroy the bodies. All the care seems to have been
devoted to leaving no connecting link between the perpe-
trators and their victims, and this points to a well-con-
sidered and thoroughly matured plan of procedure.
• • * *
The fool-suggestors who are abroad over
the Gatton business, as over every other
“ tragedy,” don’t seem aware that for any distinct
photographic image strong light is required,
whereas the Murphys wero done to death in the
dark. Seems, in any case, to bo nothing in the
eye-photograph notion, beyond the fact that tho
retina of a rabbit, promptly killed after staring at
a brightly-lightefl window, will retain, for a very
short time, the image thereof.
• * • *
Ah to talk about the Gatton murders being
the worst perpetrated by a single hand on the
assumption that those wero the work of one p®r-
son : thirty years ago William Monday killed live
persons in one night at Conroy’s Gap, near Yass.
He started with his axe on a shepherd ; ho next
killed a hut-mate ; the noise brought up Mr. and
Mrs. Conroy, both of whom lie killed ; and ho
finished off with another shepherd. Triple miir-
ders were quite common in tho early days. And
look at the awful series of assassinations done by
Lynch, whose case is set forth in Judge r I herry s
“ Reminiscences of N.S. W. and Victoria.’ As
any reasonable person will see who reads Judge
Therry’s account, Lynch was mad ; but that made
no difference in his doom, any more than it does
in such oases to-day. For Deeming was mad as a
WHEN A LADY IS NOT A LADY.
BUNG: “ We don't serve ladies."
LADY (with a leer): "Shure, now, sir, yez
wouldn't he afther callin' me a lydy!”
March hare—an epileptic maniac. He had several
unmistakeable epileptic seizures on his way in
custody from Westralia, but somehow or other
little or nothing was said about them.
• » * *
“ H.” : The Gatton affair recalls Poe’s
ape. Can a madman have done it? While the
thing looks unfeasible as a one-man job, it is hard
to imagine how two can ever have been brought to
such a concatenation. Were the girls, or either
of them, about to be married ? The crime is
unique.
• • * *
Sydney Centenary Hall was crowded to
suffocation last Sunday when Parson Taylor held
forth on a fascinating subject—the double rape
and treble midnight murder at Gatton. The good
shepherd was particularly strong on the necessity
for immediately raising the “age of consent.”
How the raising of the age of consent would have
helped poor Nora Murphy (aged 27) and her sister,
when they were clubbed at midnight on a lonely
road, the Lord only knows, but the average parson
somehow loves to mouth over that useless and
unsavory subject. Also the Centenary preacher
wanted to know “why our young men didnt
marry in the proportion that they should marry,'
and he said that the answer to this conundrum
was a very painful one. So it is. The precarious*
ness of a young man’s billet in a hoot-factory now-
adays is painful. Still with all that, in 1897, 274
men in N.S. W. married before they were 21, which
looks as if they were doing their duty pretty well.
And in that year far more young men married
before they were 21 than were ever married at
that early age in N.S. W. before—not only more in
actual numbers, but more in proportion to the
total number of marriages—so the young man
seems to be rushing into matrimony as wildly as
can be expected. The good old reverend says the
Australian young man isn’t doing his duty in
this respect now, because “around us of late
years there has been a loosening of the tone of
moral restraint,” which only shows that tho
reverend knows nothing about it. The “ tone of
moral restraint ” may have loosened, hut, the
young man is marrying more recklessly and idioti-
cally than ever, and on a smaller salary.
* • • •
By committing suicide, detected criminals
make the only atonement in their power to
society—by saving society from the expense, of
prosecuting and formally killing them. By standing
trial, they add incalculably to tho loss their crime
has already caused. There is no moral lesson in tho
trial and conviction. Tho only gainers are tho
lawyers and a few newspapers. 1 n the early days of
Sydney, coach-owners came in for a trifle. Addi-
tional coaches started three times a. day for
Woolloomooloo court-house, now Dnrlinglinrst.
during the days of John Knatchbull’s trial, and
half-fares extra were charged.
• * • «
Rc a Sydney magistrate’s recent remarks
about females’ presenco in court during an in-
decent-assault case. A Judge presiding in Dublin
Divorce Court once observed to a servant girl who
displayed great natural reluctance to describe cer-
tain transactions she had witnessed, “My good
girl, why should you hesitate ? Look around you ;
the court is filled with 1 Indies ’ who have coin©
here specially to revel in such prurient details. See,
they don’t blush. Why, then, should you?’’
Sequel—no “ ladies ” next day,
* • • •
That sprightly and dapper attorney, Mr.
Baxter-Bruoo, long the idol of the women and the
envy of the men in North and South, has re-
entered matrimony, the lady being Miss Mary
Joyce, of Claremont College, Randwiok, “than
whom,” says a daily paper, “ it would be hard to
find a more dainty, beautiful bride.” Also, it will
be universally conceded that it would be hard to
find a more cheerful and beautiful bridegroom
than Mr. Baxter Bruce.
* * * »
On New Year’s Eve last, a suburban mid-
night service was interrupted by a wandering
drunk, who happened in casually, attired in a
dilapidated tablecloth, wearing on his head a tea-
cosy, and carrying a bottle of “stringy.” Stalk-
ing up the aisle, he announced himself to he “a
blanky Russian chief: ” and promptly subsided,
diffusing through the sacred atmosphere a sooth-
ing aroma of stale tanglefoot.
* * * •
A flippant S.M. Herald reporter gravely
asserted in his report on the Salvation Army camp
at Manly that the up-to-date salutation of the
Salvationist is, “ Hosanna ! How-de-do-dee,” to
which the accosted one replies, “ Hallelujah !
Fancy meeting you!”—and the grave Curnow
passed it. Or did the journalistic instinct triumph
over the Methody teaching ?
* • « •
Melb. people do want a Sydney harbor,
badly, but they have the advantage of illimitable
beach for holiday use. Last Boxing Day, tho
whole foreshore from Frankston to WiHiamstown
was literally lined with people—about 30 miles of
solid men, women and children paddling their
hoofs in the briny.
* * * *
One J. H. Giddons, a Melb. weather pro-
phet, rushed into print, the other day, with an
offer to expose the awful ignorance of Govt,
meteorologists. Giddons, it seemed, had a system,
of his own by which he could map out the state of
the weather for at least two years in advance.
Having airily predicted how things would go
during next autumn, winter, and spring, Giddons
condescended to deal with the immediate future,
and stated that Melbourne would get a nice, cool
change two days later, on Dec. 30. Unfortunately
the 30th was another blazing-hot day, and poor
Giddons went out into the garden and perspired
■ bitterly. The shock to his system was almost
more than he could bear.
• * • »
1 “A.S.”: Fremantle (W.A.) <mol was re-
* cently in mutiny, and no wonder. Prayers every
1 morning—twice on Wednesday, and three times
> on Sunday. At dinner, the prisoners stand in the
f main corridor, and their food, coarse and vile, is
placed at their feet. Officers range up. Chaplain
enters. “ Attention ! ” and every head is bowed
as the chaplain snuffles out thanks “ for this food
Then hast given to nourish our bodies.” Then,
“Right about face! To your cells!” The
prisoners retire to devour tough mutton and rotten
spuds, and thank “ Gawd.”
DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Silent, silent, when the dawn
Through the ashen room is drawn ;
And it lingers on thy face,
Counterfeits a vanished grace
As the shadows slip away
To the meadow of the day
Does not thy persistent heart
Yearn to all its wonted part?
All the fond, vibrating bars
From the flame of viewless stars
Will not ope the fretted lid
Where thy lovely soul was hid.
Now thou liest there so still,
God has shown thee all His will,
And His universe is whole
Unto thy expanding soul.
Thou hast fled from love and moan ;
I.ittle children here alone
Stumble for the lamp of love
Thou didst bring them from above.
HUBERT CHURCH.
WHERE ART THOU, ROMEO?
In dreary ages past, Fellow Spirit, you and I
Doubtless hovered close together, in Sympathy’s sweet tie,
Maybe we were as Moths, or the echoes of a sigh,
Yet drawn by force magnetic, to live, to love, to die.
I called thee, Fellow Spirit, thy loved form I fain would
see,
A longing seized upon my Soul, to meet, to live with thee.
I care not what, invisibly, our Spirits used to be,
If flame in air, or brute in lair, it matters not to me.
I lost thee, Fellow Spirit, nor have I found thee yet.
Thou promised in lost Ages that when again we met
Your kindred Soul would search me out, your Sympathy
abet,
So come 1 thou long-lost Romeo and claim thy Juliet!
E.I.W.


Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
AT
REDUCED PRICES !
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks, 3/11^
“ Dent’s” Austrain Lan b Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Fownes Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
“ Dent’s” Chevertte Kid Gloves, any color and black, 3/6
“ Dent’s” Chevretie Washing Suede, in white, 111
„ „ special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
Fownes best Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 211
The “Merlier” Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broidered backs, 3 11
Superior Chevrette Suede Gloves, in all shades, 3/11
“Dent’s” Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; worth 3/11
Long Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
While, new stitching, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompt. and special attention.
W. T. WATERS & CO.
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
H The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
25.; Soprano Song, 2s. ; postage 2d. extra. W.
11. Paling and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane.*
The Manhattan Luncheon and Tea Rooms.
The coolest, largest and best-lighted room in
Sydney. A speciality is the dinner of three
courses, Is. Gd.—from G to 7.30 p.rn.
“ I have been married thrice. First for
Money, second for Rank, third for Love- the only
unhappy one.” — Lady.
There was at least one good point about
this New Year’s Day : it happened on Sunday,
and so the straw-hatted stupids, who paraded the
streets blowing trumpets, had perforce to cease
their idiocy at midnight for fear of being run-in
for Sunday desecration.
The man who seems to have committed an
unnatural offence upon the boy Hill before mur-
dering him, at Goodna, Q., will, despite all the
press clatter, be found to have had nothing to do
with the Gatton outrage. Crimes so different in
character are never committed by the same person.
On Christmas Day certain allowances are
made in N.S.W, gaols—prisoners are allowed to
mingle; in fact, pay each other visits. Vocal
music is permitted at Darlinghurst. Last Christ-
mas Day some wag started “ There’s no place like
home,” and the song was taken up by all the
yards.
Edmund Barton, Q.C., will complete his
first half-century on Jan. 18. Every Federa-
tionist in Australia hopes that before his next
birthday comes the wish of his heart will be
accomplished and that the Constitution will have
been generally adopted. Treas. Holder (S.A.)
prophesies that Union Day will be Ist Jan., 1900).
Hanging for rape is in Australia the law
of the land. It is a law which signs the death-
warrant of every ravished woman. “As well hang
for a sheep as for a lamb ” ; and “ dead women tell
no tales.” The prospect of hanging deters no
ravisher ; the sort of man who can commit deli-
berate rape is never deterred by anything.
"What doth it profit a man to be a Roths-
child, a “ Wales,” or even a John Hancock, with
all the Apollo like graces to captivate the fair,
unless the possessor of that serene self-confidence
which our tip-top tailoring bestows ? To achieve
this beautiful feeling, and thus extract the best
from life that life can give, write for particulars of
our stylish tailoring, head, neck, and foot-wear,
etc. Note address, London and American Supply
Stores, Bourke-street, Melbourne. Prices moder-
ate, satisfaction immoderate.*
In the approaching Q. elections the Pro-
gressive party stands a fair chance of increasing
its representation, but very little chance of cap-
turing the country. In favor of the Opposition
there stands the Govt.’s loss of popular Premier
Byrnes ; also the occupancy of the Premiership
by Dawdling Jimmy Dickson ; the absence of
popular men (Philp excluded) on the Ministerial
benches ; and the damnosa heredilas of cronk
finance and cronker legislation that sits on
Ministerial shoulders. On the other hand, the
Progressives are heavily handicapped by the
divisions between the Drakeites and the Labor
men, and the absence of any prospect of alliance
between them. Further, the Labor Opposition,
like the Government, lacks a man of pronounced
character, ability, and individuality to give it
political tone. What is worse, the public at large
believes that the party is badly managed and
badly led—when it is led. The old “Socialism in
our time ” bogie is about played out, but Q. elec-
tors at large have not yet come to the conclusion
that a pure, undiluted Labor Administration will
be a pure, undiluted blessing—and, therefore, the
allotment-pegs, kanakophiles, land-alienators, and
alien-eoddlers will probably rule the roast a little
longer. From six to ten seats will probably be
the utmost gain of Liberalism in the ’99 elections.
Book Arcadian Cole, after much wrestling
with the Federal capital question, has produced a
book called “ Greater Melbourne and the Federal
Capital.” The book throws new, if not dazzling,
light upon the subject, and brings out sundry
edifying and humorous points of difference be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne.
GbOSE
TEDS have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS-White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MO UN 1 -AS l LE Si SONS, Sole Manufaetm <- rs
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ Sydney, January 9, 1899.
My Dear Myee—
The Honorable Jack Want and his bride were
passengers by the Orotava for Ismailia on Saturday.
The marriage came off five months ago, but the
passenger-list was the first public information, and
Sydney spent Sunday at the telephone trying to
ring up details. The new Mrs. Jack is tall, fair-
haired, and attractive—she was previously a
widow. Another testimony for the always-wanted
widow.
It was rather a cold water douche to the com-
mittee of the Consumptive Home bazaar when
Lady Hampden timidly announced that she would
not be here for the fair. As the preliminary meet-
ings were all held at Govt. House under Her Ex.’s
immediate scrutiny, the blow fell heavily. Put-
ting two and two together on the quiet, it was
deduced that Govt. House had known all along
that it couldn’t be here for the bazaar. Collapse
threatened until Lady Hampden very sweetly and
meekly remarked that she did feel that she had
been “acting” a little in the matter, but really
couldn’t help it. A few particular people wanted
to sidle out with vice-regality, but the committee
got its muscle up and pluekily determined to face
the possibility of a bazaar without the Y.R. pat-
ronage. The latest development is the proposed
Press Bazaar, to be run in with the rest of the
Fair. All the papers are invited to express ideas
on this point by Mrs. Thring, lion. sec.
Everyone sympathises deeply with Mr. Dan
O Connor on the death of his son, a young civil
servant with a promising future before him, and
a brilliant college past. Another sad bereave-
ment was the death of young Mr. Funckh, the
only son of the well - known foreign wool mer-
chant. While diving at Balmoral he struck his
head against a snag, and died the same night.
Whether the account of the heat-waves in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide has convinced Sydney folk
that down south is no place for them, or whether
it is just a craving for a new sensation, is not cer-
tain, but with the exception of Sutton Forest and
other parts in the Hampden vicinity;, the northern
line is being more largely patronised than the
other this summer. Quite a number of regular
holiday-makers have pitched their tents at Beecroft
and write in glowing terms of the charms of the
spot. The Hawkesbury, too, has been the scene
of many encampments, and house-boat parties are
well to the fore.
Wedding-goers were rather disappointed last
Wednesday. (There are many girls in Sydney
who go to every fashionable wedding as lookers-on,
just as religiously as to comic opera and cricket-
matches.) It was understood that Miss Holds-
worth’s wedding was to be a naval one, as she was
to be married to the surgeon of H.M.S. Dart, and
crowds of interested women assembled at St.
John’s, expecting to see the carriage drawn by
seamen, the bridal path over arched with anchors,
and various other uncommon sights. As a matter
of fact, only two full-dress uniforms were in evi-
dence—those of the bridegroom and his best man,
and only one floral anchor figured in the decora-
tions. Dr. Bobardt (a native of Melbourne) is
very tall and well-proportioned, with a fine,
soldierly (or sailorly) carriage, and, as in the case
of cricketer Maclaren, quite robbed his bride of
the position of central figure in the show.. To the
bridesmaids, two of whom were dainty little Kate
Greenaway figures, Dr. Bobardt gave gold life-
buoy bangles, and the same to the bride.
It is becoming fashionable for bridesmaids’
presents to follow the bride’s, and if you want to
acquire a handsome piece of jewellery without
going in for the wear-and-tear of an engagement
you might as well take up the bridesmaid line as
any other. At a recent wedding the bridegroom, a
gilded widower, presented three bridesmaids, two
of whom were mere children, with gold necklets,
set with diamonds and sapphires. The bride re-
ceived a similar present, the only difference being
that her necklet had also a pearl pendant.
. One of the prettiest weddings on record was that
celebrated between Prof. Wood and Miss Whit-
field on Dec. 27 th. The bride’s parents are opposed
to anything in the form of hollow show, and the
ceremony was fixed to take place in the house—so
quietly that you could almost hear a pin drop.
The little girl who was to have been bridesmaid
contracted typhoid fever, so that the wedding was
even less ostentatious than had been intended.
The bashful young curate will have to look to
his laurels. Judging by recent events he does not
seem to be “in it ” compared with his elders and
betters. No less than three widowed C. of E.
parsons annexed three sweet young things as life
partners during the past month. The first to take
the plunge (for the second time) was a beardless
youth of 40, the second was a well-set-up young
man of 60, while the third was in the prime of life
—that is to say between 70 and 80. In each case
the bride was a youthful spinster. Rev. Cecil
Wilson is not very old, nor is he a widower, still it
is as a Bishop that he will enter into matrimony
next month : therefore look to it, ye curates.
Some time back there was a reference here to a
man-milliner who had opened trade at Grenfell,
N.S.W. Ever since the beginning of business,
this tradesman has been the piece de resistance of
the district. “ Figure to yourself, ” then, the ex-
citement attendant upon this Bunthorne’s nup-
tials, which were celebrated last week at the same
bush town. When a wedding is a man’s wedding
it causes even more ado than when it is a woman’s,
and on this occasion red carpet was laid down for
the hero to tread, every flower was collected from
the parched district to adorn the church, and
no one for miles around could think of anything
but the wedding. Quite a secondary excitement
was the arrival of the new Sydney doctor with his
pretty and popular bride, though this event, too,
gave great satisfaction.
Most people count their words out like pearls
when they send a cable. But an ex-Sydney
beauty who wedded a gilded Englishman, and
now lives in tip-top style in fashionable London,
sent out an enormous message to her family the
other day. She began by announcing the birth
of the heir, and ended up with the statement that
the proud father had presented her that morning
with a diamond necklace.
One can be “ chic ” or dowdy in a bathing-gown
as well as in a ball or tailor-made gown, and, at
present, cotton is “in” for bathing-gowns. Be-
ginning with the humble garibaldi, and working
upwards through turkey-red and other striped
prints, fashion finds its culmination in the white
zephyrous garments lately forwarded by a Parisian
firm to its haughty Sydney customers. The gowns
are cream-color with dark-blue designs—starfish,
anchors, and flags—covering them at regular in-
tervals. They are close-fitting, and of scanty pro-
portions, and bathers who have not imported their
gowns from Paris assure the wearers of these
creations that they, from a short distance, merely
look like tattooed human beings.
The star of the wash-lady is high up in the
firmament this year. A terrific rage for white has
set its mark across the summer, and, as every one
knows, one white dress needs at least two others.
On Saturday, the stands at the Cricket Match
stretched out like sheets in places where twenty or
thirty stiffened white robes sat next to each other.
I stopped counting after the first thousand, and
took to studying all the different shades one
laundress can evolve from this so-called absence
of all color. _ Grey-white, yellow-white, blue-
white, dead-white, dirty-white, brown-white, until
it requires a little imagination to know when a
dress is white.
An artless little laundry bill for a family of two
daughters and a mother was shown to me the
other day. It told the legend of—
GO colers - - - 5/-
20 shert - - -' 10/-
10 whit dresis - - 15/-
And still the Family Herald clothes the Penniless
Heroine in spotless white without a crease, fresh
from the hands of the laundress.
How to live and look as if you liked it on seven-
pence-halfpenny a day, has cropped up again with
variations. First of all, Miss May Manning
sees that there will be very slight need for divorce
courts when her potato-peel system is brought into
force. (Here the ladies at the lecture laughed,
says the D.T. male reporter). If only women
could realise the sublime sacredness of potting all
water that has ever boiled anything, and stowing
all the carrot-tops and fish-bones, men would
never want to part with their wives ! A neat
argument, for the rattle-boned husband brought
up on sevenpence-halfpenny a day, including soap
and candles, would hardly have the strength to
drag his weary framework up the King-street hill
to the Divorce Court.
And now the Sunday Times has appealed to the
country with a variation of martyrdom that guaran-
tees to house the vital spark in any frail tenement
for fourpence-halfpenny a day. I notice that
Mrs. Kirby, the lady undertaker, who is the inevi-
table corollary of such an item as one shilling a
week fish-bill for seven people, is not included in
the expenditure, and doctors’ bills are also cun-
ningly kept out of sight. “Holly Berry,” who
feeds, clothes, and furnishes for eight people on
thirty-three shillings a week, puts down a ivell-
sounding item. She allots Mr. Holly Berry half-
a-crown a week for tobacco, and allows three
shillings for meat for him and herself and her six
children. The paper that can set forth such plea-
sant reading as two-and-sixpence per week for
hubby’s tobacco, and three shillings for a big
family’s meat-bill, would flourish greenly as a
matrimonial-agent, from a man’s point of view.
The things that are left out and can’t be done
without are the most striking features of these
little dissertations. For instance, no mention is
made of brooms, scrubbing-brushes, crockery, and
the little things that will wear out. And what
about the doctor’s bills for those who don’t belong
to the Lodge? All goes well until Sissy gets
croup, and mother has varicose veins, and the
three younger children indulge in measles, and
somebody dies of diphtheria. A bill of twenty
pounds hanging over the family of eight with an
income of two pounds five is quite as black a
nightmare as the two thousand hanging over a
“comfortable ” citizen.
According to their promise to provide open-air
amusement for this sunburnt city, the committee
of the electric-light carnivals let off a few packets
of Pain’s fireworks last week at the Association
Ground. It seems that Sydney really yearns for
a night out (of doors) now and then, and the
patronage ran into many thousands. The visitors
came chiefly from the suburbs where the few
couldn’t possibly live, don’t you know. Still, the
crowd felt itself licensed to be jolly, and clapped
genially when the coruscations came out with a
strong family likeness to Tommy’s boneless birth-
day crackers. So far, the bicycle sports have been
the best entertainment of these evenings, for the
fireworks had a melancholy way of turning back
as soon as they started. The set pieces made the
most ambitious attempts at illumination, and next
to the fiery ships and the light in Reid’s eyeglass
was the glittering buckle worn by the heroine of a
cause cdlebrc. This was made of cut-steel, a good
half-yard long, and quarter wide, and covered the
back of the lady from right ribs to left. To air it
when the night was full of dazzle was a highly
ingenious idea, as it reflected rockets like a set of
mirrors.
At the Art Gallery there has been an extra at-
tendance of country folk lately, doing pictures in
their own subtle, silently-admiring way, which is
a great improvement on’the metropolitan “Isn’t
it lovely ? ” That old Dutch fruit-and-flower pic-
ture that nobody ever looks at nowadays has been
gazed on long and lovingly by big and little
bushies, who know real roses when they see them
in a picture. Lady Godiva and Savonarola,
whom Sydney used to be taken to see in its school-
days, and now passes aggressively, have also re-
vived under bursts of admiration from way-backers.
But in vain do you try to discover somebody look-
ing twice at the Australian artists’ pictures. At
the same time, nobody takes any notice whatever
of the Frame and Queen of Sheba, which may be
some alleviation to local talent. One day lately,
I watched six little bush children and their mother
and father hanging round that adorable water-
color, “Snowdrop and the Seven Little Men.” I
wanted to get there myself, and loitered about
for half-an-hour, but finally gave up, and left
them to the joy of seeing a fairy - tale
realised so perfectly. Anyone who ever cared for
Grimm ought to have a look at this charming bit
of interior, painted in Rossetti reds and browns
and blues, with a beautiful pallid Snowdrop in a
dull green frock lying asleep on the goblins’ little
beds. The goblins swarming round her are de-
lightful things in bright red suits,- with crooked
mouths and noses ; entirely hideous, and yet in-
fested with an .artful suggestion of harmlessness
that goes straight to any child’s senses.
The next world has not been asserting itself
publicly in this city for some time, but I hear that
a wonderful book of “experiences,” by a well-
known Sydney penlady, is coming out soon and
strong. Apropos of which, the daughter of a
lately-deceased Hebrew saw her father standing
by her bedside, the other night, looking the image
of his last photograph. Next day she told her
mother positively that she had been visited by her
father’s spook. Her mother declared she had
dreamt it. “ No,” said the daughter, “he was as
plain as life, and was wearing that black-and-gray
suit that he wore in his photograph.” “ That
proves it,” cried the mother ; “didn’t I say it was
only a dream ? I sold that suit to Sol. Isaacs a
month ago.” Oh, shade of Aristotle!
Lilian Tree is singing and acting so delightfully
m “ Maritana ” that you can even forgive her for
dressing a gipsy in a nineteenth-century yellow
satin evening dress, cut off at the knees. She
advances a long way sartorially when she gets
into a blue silk with a long train, made with
sleeves that start half-way down the arm, and end
at the wrist in the most modish manner. The
opera goes briskly, and is holding good houses,
that thrill nightly whenever there is a hint that
“Let Me Like a Soldier Fall,” or “Sainted
Mother,” or “Scenes that are Brightest” is
coming round the corner. Farley is a little
hardened at the knee, perhaps, but sings robustly,
and wears a handsome suit of tawny velvet toned
up with turquoise-blue tabs. Leumane wears his
fair hair cut straight across his forehead, and
speaks like Cecil Ward playing a “drunk.” The
pretty page of Miss Lena Morton appeals directly
to the gods, who applaud all her utterances with
that wicked, ragged cross between a syren and a
shriek and a whistle. And Rivers Allpress, with
his lank hair tossing in the air, works harder than
anyone with his much-improved little orchestra.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Sassiety journalism loves to dwell upon the
happiness of those households where hubby and
wife seldom gather together. If one or other
wanderer returns to the nest after several months’
absence in distant places, it is beautiful to read of
the family rejoicings. A few weeks of bliss, and
then the two leading performers in the comedy
agree to go on loving apart as before. Very likely,
theirs is a happy union. ‘ Lord and Lady Algy, ’
for instance, were regular turtle-doves as long as
they kept up separate establishments ; so the fact
that certain people in real life do get along pretty
smoothly is nothing to brag about considering
that they make it a point of religion to inhabit
different latitudes. The Kilkenny cats themselves
might have been on good terms to this day if only
they could have kept lots of space between their
respective goings-on.
“ Two Melb. girls dropped into a furniture-shop
to hire chairs for a mission treat. When they got
inside they found it was a coffin mart too, and
before they could escape they were pounced upon by
the proprietor, with eyes cast down and face
clouded in sickening semblance of sympathy,
though he evidently sorrowed in earnest when
disappointed of a funeral. As for the chairs, the
girls wanted stuffed upholstery, as more hospitable
of aspect than bentwood. However, the lender
explainedJ;hat better-class furniture was never let
out for fear of damage. He was an oily foreigner,
by the way, and grew quite facetious when he’d
recovered from his disappointment re the ‘remains.’
‘Yes, my dear young ladies,’ he simpered, in
answer to persuasions, ‘ but ven you and de young
mans begins to play cat and mouses, vat vill
pecome of my poor plush suite ? ’
_ “ The same ghoul, in the course of a professional
visit, said, consolingly, to the daughter of deceased :
‘ You are not so dick (thick) as ven I came last
time ’ (former bereavement), ‘butnefer mind, de
fat live not always longest. ’ . Then, turning to a
sympathetic old lady neighbor who stood by, the
bird of ill-omen scanned her up and down in a
slow, appraising sort of way and remarked, ‘ Now,
dis good lady might live eight or nine years yet,
she looks so quide und beaceful.’
“Mark Twain, extolling Zulu complexions, pro-
nounces black skin more ornamental than all but a
few of the choicest samples of white. So far as
black babies are concerned, Mark is not singular
in his preference. Whether Australian piccanin-
nies, kanakas or niggers, dusky midgets are twice
as pretty as colorless European coevals. Davy, in
his ‘ Cuba Past and Present, ’ praises tiny niggers
as ‘the sweetest little rascals on earth,’ and sym-
pathises with an enthusiastic lady who exclaimed,
‘Oh, why can’t we have black babies, who turn
white when they grow up?’ When blacks lie
dead in decent surroundings, as on the mission-
stations, you’d swear they were asleep. None of
the waxen ghastliness so depressing to beholders
of white-skinned corpses.
“All this is apropos of that chubby Javanese
urchin who rides a pert pony in Fitzgerald’s
Circus. Such a brown satin skin as he’s got, flat
nose and ‘ smile that is childlike and bland.’ His
proprietors know how to set off his points, too.
Sometimes he looks like a jewelled toad in
shimmering green, slashed all over to show
spangled glimpses of underlying gay colors, here
and there and everywhere. On melting afternoons,
his sleek bronziness is shown up by cool butter-
color, with sash and shoulder-knots of sheeny
orange satin.
“In ‘New Babylon,’ Frances Ross’s stage
plumage provokes heart-felt praise. The material
of her house-frock follows the design of the newest
muslins—realistic roses, pale pink and blue respec-
tively, closely covering its groundwork. A plastron
inserted right down the frock-front carries alter-
nate pink and blue frills of non-flowered silk. At
Goodwood, the Queen wouldn’t be ashamed to
call the dressy heiress * cousin, ’ so elegant does the
latter look in faint grey silk, plentifully appliqued
with cream and black baby-ribbon, artistic lisse
sash, filmy cream and black millinery, with
ostrich-feather drooping over the rear brim, and
just enough brightness supplied by a twist of vivid
rose at the waist and knot of the same on the
handle of the belle’s white parasol. Then there’s
that white flower of a blameless its
pointed over-skirt all fairy-white frills, with black
elfin edges.
“ Elizabeth Watson, in her r6le of unauthorised
man-catcher, wears stereotyped adventuress uni-
form—black gown sloping off her shoulders. She
reforms in the end : the criminal conspirators "et
off with life-sentences, while the only culprit
who dies hard, instead of being more-or-less
happy ever afterwards, is the disqualified jockey
(Harry Norman) —the best of the bunch.
“ By the way, this dying dupe’s repentant un-
doer constantly smooths her own raven bandeaux
with both hands as she bends over her victim’s
death-bed. An experienced nurse testifies that
distracted friends seldom finger their own thatch
at such times, though apt, if not forbidden, to
stroke back the moribund’s hair from his damn
forehead. P
“In that picture at the Gallery, * The Crisis,’
the solitary watcher holds one hand tightly over
his mouth to deaden the sound of breathing. Hos-
pital nurses ‘doing’ the Gallery generally find
fault audibly with this picture, because, they say,
in an illness where there is a ‘crisis,’ the patient
is not propped high up in bed. In lung and
breathing troubles they scout the possibility of a
definite ‘ crisis. ’
The Geisha still goes on her way rejoicing.
Dorothy Vane never looked such a winsome little
creature as in her final .Tap frock of white satin
heavily embroidered with golden storks. Her
short hair, parted innocently, flies back as she
dances—not like a fuzzy mop, but in a shower of
flaxen fluff. Pauli, too, fast gains ground in
feminine favor. At first, like “ Pretty Ja-ha-ane, ”
admirers recognised his need for the request “ Pray
do not be so shy.” Now he extends his arm's
yearningly to spots in the dress circle, where
skirts are thickest, at the end of every verse of
“Mollie Mine,” and girls in those favored regions
compare notes on the thrillsome effects of his
glances.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


WUVrOTTT!
THREE CASTLES
Came?
□
CIGARETTES.
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which will he sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cococi, Limited, Sydney.
Tlxe Famous French
Chocolate.
CHBCOEIIT (ilElilEg
Obtainable from all (irocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 Qeorye-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Of the N.S.W. Legislature of 1843—12
nominated and 24 elected—only one member now
lives —Dr. Nicholson, Bart.
Melb. papers on Jan. 3 obituarised James
Williams, journalist, and on Jan. 4 James Wil-
liams, hospital secretary. Old acquaintances.
A recent little Union Club dinner is inter-
preted by some over-suspicious people as pointing
to the selection of G. Republican Dibbsas N.S.W.
Agent-General.
N.S.W. has but one surviving ex-Premier
—Chicago Dibbs. Victoria boasts seven—Berry,
Gillies, Munro, O’Loghlen, Shiels, Service, and
Gavan Duffy.
Joseph Russell, the first finder of tin at
Stanthorpe, is now farming at Pine Mountain (Q.)
in his 85th year. His tin-days are still his golden
ones. He has been 82 years in Queensland.
Gov. Buxton never—ah-um—liked racing,
but he enjoys immensely a “ big shoot.” So says a
London correspondent. 700 pheasants in six
hours is the death bill of this W.C.T.U. magnate,
who never—ah-hum.
The sale of Will Ogilvie’s book of verses,
“ Fair Girls and Gray Horses,” issued by The
Bulletin in November, has been so rapid that
another edition, of 2000 copies, is now in the
press and will be published in a week or two.
REMARKS IN THE CROWD.
“What's the row here?"
“Dunno! But there’s a woman at the bottom of it.”
“Poor dear! Why don't they take her to the
hospital?”
Over 31) years ago W. J. Lyne, leader of
N.S.W. Opposition, owned a cattle-station in the
Gulf country. He was among the first white men
who made a track from the Gulf to Bowen —
over 1000 miles - through practically unexplored
country.
Gov. Brassey is keeping up the “ falling-
off ” tradition. Having fallen off his bike, his
horse and his yacht, there was little left in that
line, so he has (he says) “ fallen off in weight,”
owing to the hot weather. He has, as it were,
fallen off himself.
N.S.W.’s five Chief-Justices were all born
outside’ Australia. Martin, whose parents came
here in the employ of Gov. Brisbane, arrived in
Sydney when but a year old. The rest—Forbes,
Dowling, Stephen and Darley—achieved man’s
estate before touching Australian soil.
One constable at Russell-street (Melb.)
police-barracks was, prior to joining the force, a
p.uson in a Melb. suburban tabernacle. As a set-
off, Moonee Ponds (Vic.) possesses a cleric in the
shape of Rev. Jack Good, who was formerly a
Melb. constable, and did duty in Bourke-street.
Died, Dec. 18, at Deloraine, Tas., James
Bennet, aged 84, who arrived in the island 1835.
Currier, constable, bom face, merchant, and ulti-
mately one of Tasmania’s largest property-holders.
He was the last of the firm of Block, Bennet
and Barber, known as the “three B’s.,” and was
thrice married.
Premier Turner has gone on tour in E.
Gippsland “ incog.” as he did not wish to be
deputationised. There was no need for elaborate
precautions. Turner may be seen strolling on
the crowded St. Kilda pier any Sunday, and not
six people turn to look at him. His normal ap-
pearance is an incog.
Young Dan. O’Connor (son of the N.S.W.
ex-P. M.G.), who died last week at the early age
of 2.’ bade fair in his school days to outshine his
father’s Demosthenic outbreaks —with the super-
latives clipped a little, of course. By the way,
the Sydney Jesuits now have in hand two youth-
ful Gavan Duffys, both far ahead of their fellows
in college oratory.
W. S. Fleming, the Scotch Adelaidean
lately killed while missionising in China, was not
quite well-educated enouuh or backed by enough
influence to get taken on in the regular saloon and
easy deck-chair position. He had to work his
passage across—which, however, wasn’t so very
rough an experience, as in his unregenerate days
he had roved much.
The well-advertised Father Long has been
transferred from Kanowna to Perth; and the
Sacred Nugget will, it is hoped, be now forgotten.
His reverence was shifted, too, just on the eve of
the opening of the new church, towards the build-
ing of which that bazaar was held to which the
whole district flocked in anticipation of seeing the
sacred myth on view.
Australia is threatened with a visit from
that princess of poseuses, Lady Florence Dixie, who
has been explorer and war-correspondent, is athlete
and Woman-suffragist, but will be best remem-
bered as a romancist, in connection with the
alleged assault upon her by three Fenians (in
buckram) of whom no trace was ever discovered.
The Bulletin (31/12/’9B) announced the
death of Mesmerist Kennedy in the States, of
• Bright’s disease. A Melbourne paper of same date
had his picture above a patent-medicine advt., in
which was contained a testimonial of his cure by
the nostrum eulogised. Life’s little ironies.
Dailey, by the way, gave somebody a testimonial
of his complete cure just before he died.
Victoria hasfourex-Speakersliving— Berry,
Davies, Bent, and Duffy ; and N.S.W. has three
—Cooper, Barton, and Young—without mention-
ing that grand old man, the nonagenarian Dr.
Charles Nicholson, who was Speaker of the first
Australian Parliament under Responsible Govt.
As things look, Abbott may almost be added to
the list, his health unfortunately being most pre-
carious.
The great Ebenezer Ward, M.L.C., of Ade-
laide, is the son of a Baptist parson. He first
struck the Holy City as a member of G. V.
Brooke’s dramatic co., having previously been
associated with Collins Levey on Melb. Herald.
The Muoh-Travelled Smythe, who was then sub-
editor of Adelaide Advertiser, persuaded Ebby
to take his place as he (Smythe) desired to return
to Melbourne, so Ebenezer became a S.A. institu-
tion.
Thus a correspondent—
Victorian Premier Turner feels keenly the stories that
he is personally a mean man, consequent upon the re-
trenchment policy he has had to carry out. Those who
have known him for many years say that he is neither
particularly mean nor particularly generous, but just an
ordinary careful person, good-natured enough, but with
an ingrained habit of living within his income. It is easy
to be generous with other people’s money; and it ought
to be remembered that Turner’s reputation for meanness
depends, not upon his spending of his own earnings but
upon his administration of publio funds, wherein to be
“ mean ” is to strike “ the golden mean.”
Captain Gother Kerr Mann, R.A., who
died lately at North Sydney in his 91st year, was
present at the first hoisting of the British flag at
what is now Auckland. He was schoolfellow with
Lord Napier of Magdala, and was himself all
through his life a bit of a roarer. He raised a
battery of artillery for the Crimean War and
talked military tactics to no end. It was in the
peaceful solitude of Cockatoo Island, however, lie
did his best work—the construction of the dry dock
there. The veteran celebrated, about a year ago,
his diamond wedding amidst a patriarchal as-
semblage of descendants to the fourth generation.
Capt. Mann had lived through 12 years of George
11 l.’s reign, the whole of those of George IV. and
William IV., and 02 of Victoria’s.
Dr. John Logan Campbell, the pioneer
merchant of Auckland, M.L., has been in business
there since the early forties. About 30 years ago,
having acquired a colossal fortune, he visited Scot-
land with the intention of settling down thereasa
laird, and would no doubt have filled the bill
creditably, as he is a near relative to the ducal head
of (-lan Campbell. But a few months’experience of
Caledonia satisfied him that it was much too
“stern and wild ” for a climate-pampered Maori-
lander, and he returned to M.L. and devoted him-
self to the expansion of his business and the en-
couragement of art. Twelve years ago the late
W. J. Hurst, M.H.R., told the present writer
he had reason to believe that Dr. Campbell's will
devised a quarter-of-a-million sterling for the en-
couragement of art and other public purposes in
Auckland.
“ Ham -
let” Downs,
a West
Queensland
station, was
christened
“ Hamlet ”
by its first
founder,
William
Shake-
speare.
Shake-
speare was
for years a
publican ou
the Centr; I
Railway
line, moving
with th e
line as each
section was completed, and claimed to be able to
prove a blood relationship with Avon s bard.
Bishop Cecil Wilson, whose proposed close
season for kanakas attracted notice a little while
ago, and who is now on his way to Maoriland to
espouse a daughter of Bishop Julius, will make
Norfolk Island his headquarters. But, as Dr.
Wilson claims that his episcopal authority over his
subjects continues, even when they have settled
on Queensland sugar-plantations, his life is bound
to be a roving one.
A week or so before the New Fear
“ honors ” came out, Queen Victoria sent a letter
congratulating Henniker Heaton upon the partial
accomplishment of Imperial penny-postage. Hen-
niker seemed a cocksure certainty for a baronetcy
at least, but it didn’t eventuate, and there is, pre-
sumably, weeping in the house of Bennett. A
bauble and an autograph at the same time would
be unwonted generosity for Her Gracious, anyway.
ON THE BOGAN.—OVERHEARD IN
MEN’S HUT.
1ST BOY ( reading aloud newspaper headings to 2nd
ditto): “ War—big fire —tram -accident—
federation— murder of missionaries ”
2ND DITTO (interrupting) : “ Good! Read that!"
Letter received by a would-be contributor
to an alleged Australian weekly :
Memorandum from business manager, Tki.korai’H
Newspaper Company, Limited. Offices: Queen-street,
Brisbane. November 18, 1898. Dear Sir, —Replying to
your memo., we do not accept Australian stories for pub-
lication in either the Tki,*ohapii or the Wkkk. Wo
obtain our supply of story-matter direct from England,
and only publish stories by the best and most popular
authors. We have our stock of Christinas story-matter
already in type.—Yours faithfully, E. L. M'Oonkky,
Manager.
“Guy Boothby has just suffered a shock-
ing bereavement. Not many weeks ago lie bought
the famous bull dog, Black Watch, for .£3OO, thus
giving the highest price ever paid for any speci-
men of that breed in England. Black Watch was
entered for the National Show at Birmingham,
but fell ill, and, in spite of veterinary attention,
gave up the ghost after lingering a couple of
days.” The bull-dog, though truculent-looking,
is a sensitive animal. Black Watch probably
found out what sort of books were written by the
man who had bought him. To be owned by Guy
Boothby was too much for the amour propre of
any well-bred pup.
Mr. John Rive, one of those rare, smiling,
placid men whose pink cheeks privilege them to
wear red neckties in their old age, had hundreds
of congratulations on celebrating his BGth birthday
last Saturday. Mr. Rao, who hails from Scotland,
was the first town-clerk of Sydney, where he
arrived in 1839, and, in 1858, on the town council
being abolished, he was appointed one of the three
commissioners for administering its affairs. In
1857 Mr. Rao became “ secretary to the Railway ”
and in 1881 was appointed Commissioner, and
was Under-secretary for Public Works until his
retirement from the service. Mr. Rae’s vigorous
Aberdeen constitution and his keen artistic and
literary interests make him happy in the winter
of his age. Fortunate is the man who when near-
ing ninety can enjoy his pipe and bury himself in
Horace or Cicero.
THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN CRICKET TEAM.
Of the three members of N.S.W. Public
Service Board, two (Barling and Coghlan) are
members of no club, and the third (Wilson) an
irregular member of one. A good deal of wrath
has been wasted over alleged club-influences in
the management of the civil-service in N.S.W.
What if the vials, when next filled, be emptied on
the heads of departments who, whether clubmen
or not, are pillars of Masonic and other secret
societies ?
Melbourne Age’s epitaph for millionaire
Tyson :
He died the owner of vast opulence, which he never
attempted to enjoy in any other sense than that of pos-
session. His name is unassociated with any great act of
philanthropy, for which his constant excuse was that he
never had time. And now that he has gone there remains
not a man or woman or child in the whole world to say
they feel his loss ; and he leaves scores of people whom
he cared not one jot about scrambling for the wealth
which he had not a heart big enough to distribute even
by a will.
“ Charley ” Tyson, now deceased, when
managing his millionaire uncle’s Hey-
field estate, in Gippsland, usually
kept a racehorse in training. Old
man Tyson had a horror of the
racecourse and its belongings.
One day he arrived, as
usual unexpectedly, at
Heyfield, asked where
Charley was, and was
told that he had gone
into town. The ancient
prowled around, and, to
the horror of the groom,
looked into the box where
the racer (with a feed
muzzle on) was located.
“ What in the name of for-
tune have you got there ?”
asked the gilded veteran.
“ He’s a bit wild, sir,” was
the i-eply, “and we always
muzzle him in case he should
bite somebody.” “Well,”
said Tyson, “it seems strange
that he can’t get a quiet horse
to ride out of the lot we’ve gob
here.” Had the old man known
enough to recognise a racehorse when he
saw it Charles would probably have been pur-
sued off the place that night by his dreary relative.
John Higginson, who visited Sydney the
other day, and confesses himself deeply interested
in the questionable Illawarra Harbor scheme,
settled in Noumea over 50 years ago. Although
an Englishman born he is French by naturalisa-
tion. On his visits to Australia, and he has
been dropping in off and on for nearly 40 years, he
invariably intimates that he is getting ready to
abandon convict labor in his mining operations,
in favor of Australian free labor.
What prico Henniker Heaton ? If he
live he may beoome a baronet; nay, set a coronet
upon his narrow but noble brow. All this shows
wnat an easy game it is to play; and that it needs
not brains, nor great merit, nor heroic deed to
walk up the ladder. Hooley was a fool, indeed,
who failed with such splendid opportunities.
Grooer Lipton will rise. But Henniker, whom
we ere now saw scudding for safety into the
Liverpool Arms before the vengeance of Walter
Cooper ; Henniker. who could not please even old
Ruin-and-Onions of the Western Post— he mixeth
with the high and the mighty, and hath doubtless
framed and glazed that missive from Her
Gracious, which shall hereafter be the cherished
heirloom of a race of nobles. Yes, it is coming—
Henniker Heaton will yet be made a peer “as a
compliment to Australia.”
Aid. Lowry, of Townsville (Q-), who died
the other week, was a character in his way. When
in Brisbane, representing the Seamen’s Union, he
one day drifted along to the entrance of Govern-
ment House and grounds. He wanted to go in
and have a look round, but the sentinel at the
gate refused him admission, and an altercation
ensued. Anyway, “ Ned ” Lowry didn’t get in,
but he wrote a long letter to the Governor de-
manding as a free’n’ndependent citizen his right
of access to Her Majesty’s representative at any
reasonable time. The Gov. replied in an evasive
way—not as Carington “ Smith ” would.
“ Smith ” would have invited him to come as
often as he liked and bring his pals, too —with the
result, perhaps, that after all the aggressive
Lowry would have been “nobbled.”
At the recent Sydney Highland Gathering
feed Gov. Hampden drew attention to the fact
that his “seat” on a horse had been adversely
oriticised in a Sydney paper, and made mention of
the new style introduced by Sloan, whereupon
Premier Reid said Sloan’s was a style he had dis-
covered many years ago, as he never felt so abso-
lutely safe as when he held a horse by the neck.
George was never much of a horseman, bub this
scribe can answer for his pluck. Over a quarter-
of-a-century ago writer formed with the present
N.S.W. Premier portion of a riding party to
Bungarribee, on Penrith road. They put George
on a brute of a horse, which gave him about six
spills on the road up. One of the party, a good
horseman, tried to persuade G.H.R. to change
mounts, but the same old George declined. “ I’ll
finish the trip on him if he breaks my neck,” said
George; ‘I wouldn’t give the beast the satisfac-
tion of thinking he’d bested me.”
Amusing to hear angular, dry-as-dust theo-
logian Professor Rentoul remarking that “ the
verses and other writings of Mr. Marshall-Hall
ate, in literary quality, contemptible.” Where
are Rentoul’s pretensions to do anything so grace-
ful and readable as “On the Long-beach, Mor-
dialloc ” ?
As from lips of a child softly sleeping,
’Mid dreams of the morrow’s deliirht,
The light-rippled laughter pomes leaping
As leaps some glad star through the night—
So happy, so free, and so guileless, the tinkle of waves
and the sight.
No wreath here, no wreath for the dreamer,
No chaplet of sea-scented air,
No meadow-sweet, flower-kissed streamer
Entwined about temples and hair,
But stillness that is as a Presence, unearthly, and awful,
and fair.
Hall’s conventional Swinburnian verse can hold
its own against Rentoul’s conventional lectures.


Brewed from the finest English grain, and bottled in England.
Holbrook’S Vii)€gar.
Mr. WILL A. DIXON, F.1.C., F.C.S., SYDNEY, ANALYST UNDER THE
PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, WRITES AS FOLLOWS:
“ I find that it is a ‘ Pure Malt Vinegar ’ of the highest quality and strength, being quite
free from Mineral Acids or other Deleterious Matters.”
Holbrook’S Vii)€gar. '
Beware of Common and Low-Priced Vinegars—they are most injurious.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strife
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33i- per Half-dozen, free by poet throughout
A astral ia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOTJNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
“Alpha”: In a New England farming-
district were two half-time schools. As a rule,
the Department of Public Instruction sends
small teachers, fresh from the training-room, to
gain experience at such places. One of the
schools adjoined a house, where lived the parents
of two girl-pupils, and whenever the teacher
caned or attempted to cane either of them, she
would lift her voice in an anguished shriek for
“ pa.” Then the warlike progenitor would rush in
and “go for” the teacher. This went on very well
for two or three years, until the department senff
along a boxer and a man of brawn. The very
first day of his regime the elder girl rose in violent
insurrection, and was officially swished, and, as
usual, she filled the atmosphere with shrieks of
WHOLESALE ONLY.
TRAVELLING PEDLAR: "Any glassware, crockery ware or
china to mend, sir? A new kind of cement-
repairs equal to new.”
MICK THE ROUSEABOUT: “ Arrah, the divil a bit of glass.
Shurc, the crockery here is made of tin—not a hit
of Shina hut the owld cook himself.”
“pa.” A minute later the usual apparition burst
in and cast himself bodily on the teacher. The
teacher cast him off again, and he fell headlong
into the middle of class I. Then the air was filled
with a steady rain of tables, chairs, forms, etc.,
and all the scholars fled save the two girls, who
waited to see pa do devastation, and cheered him
on. In about two minutes a battered and discon-
solate parent made a dart for the door. But the
teacher intercepted the movement, and led him
back to the table, where the bleeding father had
to sit down and make the following entry in the
visitors’-book: —
I. ' , do hereby declare that, on the 16th
instant, I forcibly entered the half-time school at
— for the purpose of violently assaulting the teacher
of said school. 1 also declare that said teacher gave me
what I richly deserved—that is, a severe thrashing.
Dated this 16 tli day of August, 189-.
In the presence of, and at the instance of,
Teacher.
Then, by way of rubbing it in, the two girls were
called up and both caned in the presence of their
fallen parent for loud and unseemly language used
in the course of the fight, and at the teacher’s
earnest request the old man expressed in writing
his complete and cordial approval of the proceed-
ing.
“ Yarrum ” : Some years ago, when school-
mastering way back, had occasion to call on Mrs.
Casey to see why her Bridget (pet-name, “Bride”)
hadn’t been to school for a few days. Knocked at
the door, which was opened by a tidy-looking female
with a lot of smiles and no teeth. “ Book agent ? ”
said she. Told her gently that I was the new
teacher. Then she smiled some more, and asked
me to “come in.” She excused herself for a
moment, went out at the back door and had a loud
and animated conversation with somebody in a
detached kitchen. Casey then entered ; and,
without a word, reached for my throat, which he
got. We rolled over a lot of times on the mud
floor, and I verily believe that, had I not known a
“ holt ”or two, I’d have been cold meat; he had
murder in his eye. With my knee in his stomach,
I demanded an explanation. He told me that he
had been a “ Men of Mark ” victim, and that he
had vowed to thrash the first book-fellow that
called. When I had satisfied him of his mistake,
he said, “ Well, you look like a bookman, and will
have to be mighty careful getting about.” Mrs.
Casey, the lady with the toothless smile, was as
deaf as a beetle; hence the trouble. Left the
place shortly afterwards with a sort of a piebald
present: to wit, a silver watch aud gold albert.
Casey headed the list of subscribers. I made him
do it under threat of prosecution for attempted
butchery of a pedagogue.
* * * *
“ H.S.” : I know an aboriginal who has
been hamstrung and travels on all fours like a
horse or dog. He can cover a great distance in a
day and keep pace with any ordinary walker.
His action is remarkable, though not pleasant to
look at. This man occasionally travels 30 miles
in one day.
“Boomerang” is a term unknown in
South W.A. The local name is “kylie,” and the
implement is manufactured from the jam-tree,
which also furnishes the wood for the “ womera ”
or throwing-stick. Black-boy resin contributes
the knob fora hand-grip on the “ womera.”
* * * *
A favorite bird in the golden West is a
little songster known as the “shepherd’s friend.”
Dark back, breast white, and longish comically-
tilted tail. Travels for miles with sheep, flitting
from back to back and getting his living on
“tick.” His tune is peculiarly cheering at day-
break. Two prolonged notes, in a minor key,
followed by six sharp notes in a hail-fellow-well-
met-style, the whole conveying a suggestion of
“ O-o, O-o, why don’t you be cheer ful, why don’t
you be cheerinl ? ”
“ Yarrum ” : Was standing, the
other evening, in the bails of a milk-
ing-yard, when a man engaged at the
place as pig-feeder and generally useful
came along and stuck his head into a
bucket of milk to have a drink. Then
somebody threw a junk of “masti-
cated grass ” and knocked his hat in.
Now, it might not have mattered
much to the milk had the man been
fairly clean. He was one of the
dirtiest-looking individuals ever I set
eyes on, and had something wrong
with his nose into the bargain. There
was scarcely a tooth in his head, and
he had other drawbacks. His hat was
dirty, and began to move away after
it came from the bucket. Watched
this milk being put into the regular
can, and it was afterwards “ cooled ”
and sent aw'ay by train. Dairy-
men’s wives and daughters never
use milk in any form they see
too much of it. Like the Chow’s cab-
bage, it is good enough for others. The
farmers complain that the health-
inspectors are too exacting, and put
them to unnecessary expense. Just
now they are having those unsightly
rags, which were formerly used under
the lids of cans to stop the milk from
splashing out, done away with, and it
is about time. Some of the old women
will tear up any discarded article of
clothing for “milk rags.” Once had
a good look into a separator after about
80 gallons of cow-juice had passed
through, and I haven’t taken my juice
(neat) since. It is right enough with
rum, but let the rum predominate.
The “pig-feeder” says “it’s a foine
thing for a cowld, as it puts a coating
in the shtomach.”
* * *
“C.H.R.”: One way to warm
your toes whilst riding not yet men-
tioned. Take your feet out of the irons
and let them hang. Never fails.
*■ * *
The Pastures Board, Balranald (N.S.W.),
offers a bonus of 3d. a dozen for eggs of crows, and
Is. a dozen for eggs of eagle-hawks. If theP.B.
hopes to check the increase of crows and eagles
by this means, it will be disappointed. All col-
lectors of birds’ eggs, with personal experience,
know that when a nest is robbed the despoiled
birds simply build again and lay another clutch.
Small birds, except the very shy ones, build at
once in a tree adjacent to the one from which
HORSE PHILOSOPHY.
THE LADY'S HACK : “ That
boss of yours wouldn’t
say so many sweet things
to my mistress if he had
to carry her, and had the
sore back I’ve got.”
THE GENTLEMANIA HACK: “Never
mind wait till he marries her.”
their nest was robbed. If only the eggs are
taken, many birds will use the old nest material
in building the new one. Writer has known one
pair of birds (rhipidura albiscapa) to be robbed 11
times in one season, all the nests being taken
within a radius of 200 yards. Cruelty? School-
boys don’t think so ! Hawk-tribe frequently lay
in same nest from which eggs are removed.
Writer has taken five pairs of eggs in eight weeks
from same nest of common brown hawk (hiera-
cidea orientalis), and then the pair laid in a crow’s
nest near at hand, and reared their young. Crows,
if nest is stolen, take to a hawk’s or magpie’s nest
to lay in. Probably too lazy or knowing to build
again. Eagle-hawks go away miles when robbed,
but lay again for a certainty. Common chooky
bears out point. Remove her egg from day to
day, and she may lay 100. Otherwise she sits on
the first 15 or so. It is no use Pastures Board
buying eggs—only an inducement to wary seller
to let eagles and crows live. A smart hand might
work up quite a nice connection by keeping a keen
eye on each pair of crows located.
» * •
“Tomahawk” on ancient Clarence River
aboriginal wooing :
When a young gin thought she was old enough, she
wound a piece of kurrajong fibre tightly round the little
finger of her right hand, at the second joint, and started
out a-sweethearting. An admirer would, after due pre-
liminaries, yabber, “My word you bin makit budgery
feller milkie. You yan longa me ?” (Milkie is Clarence
River for wife.) If his offer was accepted they would flit
at nightfall, and, when caught, the dusky Romeo would
have to enter into single-handed combat with his Juliet’s
brother or other champion. If the husband retained the
prize, the kurrajong ring was kept on until the finger
dropped off. Not the case, as has been supposed, that
the finger was chopped off. Another custom fast becom-
ing obsolete is the self-mutilation of the gins after death
of a man. The wailing, also, which used to be kept up
while the moon lasted is rarely practised now.
• * » •
“ Long-Un ” : He was the sorriest of raw-
boned crooks when we got him, but plenty of feed
soon developed his kicking abilities. Ordinary
swingles, fool’s play—iron ditto he bent double at
first go. As a hack, apparently knocked out aft 20
miles, and a boss groaner. Yet, shifting camp
across sandy desert in terrific heat, he put in a
mild 75 miles (5 a.m. until 3 next morning) with-
out feed or water, and with 22 stone on his back
(two men) for 10 miles of the distance. Another
time, cantering over sandhills with him. Rabbit-
burrow, horse ploughing up sand with nose, rider
slips off near side, dragging off-side stirrup. Hob-
nailed boots; usual result: Kicking, tugging and
swearing - match. Rider’s shoulder in sand ;
gripping rein both hands; right toe stuck in
stirrup on top of saddle. Shoeless hoofs land
him on chest and arms. Tears sole off left boot—
no time for prayers; then horse standing few
yards off shivering. Two days later, driving
through burnt scrub—whizz go hind legs, land
mallee root in driver’s eye. That’s years ago.
Horse-sale in city, t’other day; recognised my
dear old friend dragging tired legs out of yard in
milk-cart. Cost milkman £3 inside 2min. Frag-
ments of cart here, battered milk-tins there,
alleged milk everywhere, and badly-damaged
milkman looking round for the earthquake.
• • • »
Chinaman crossing Manning River in
vehicle-punt worked by native boy, who keeps
“poking borak ”at John. River very wide and tide
running out strong. John says nothing till punt
arrives at wharf ; then blandly observes, “ Me
likee water —you jus’ pullee me back! ” The
nigger had to do it, too, and as the fare is only Id.
return, the Chow kept him at it for two mortal
hours, with the temperature llOdeg. in shade.
Then Ah Lun drove off smiling, and a tame nigger,
too collapsed to poke borak even at a worm,
dropped in a heap under a tree.
* * * *
“Rake”: Be tree-grubs. Have eaten
them with relish often ; would like to find a good
patch now and spend Xmas among ’em. When a
certain racing-man of olden times stayed at the
Hamilton Hotel, outside Brisbane, he frequently
breakfasted, dined, supped, and banqueted upon
them, much to the disgust of Jack Walsh, the
publican. An old gum-tree just outside the house
yielded a plentiful harvest at all times.
♦ • * *
Q. cockroaches are aggressive. Six years
ago the printed notice, “ Hang up your
boots,” in a fashionable Brisbane hotel
quite amused me. I didn’t know
then that cockroaches ate all the
un-hung boots. Left a nobbier
of whisky by my bed one night,
and next morning found about 20
giant cockroaches on the chair, brawling and push-
ing each other. Old chap, evidently leader, kept
backing, his eyes fixed straight ahead, till he
backed off the chair. Put it down to D.T.’s, and
possibly the sight of a snake. Anyway, the fall
sobered him.
• * • *
A New South Wales statesman when tour-
ing north remarked to Perry, M.P., that he had
never, up to then, been asked to lay a founda-
tion-stone. Perry rose to the occasion, and told
him that a splendid opportunity offered, as an
important brick building in the rising town of
Ballina was about to be erected, and it would
afford him great pleasure if he would perform the
THE BEST RECOMMENDATION.
HUSBAND (whose wife “ does the cooking”) ; “ I’ve
bought you a new cookery-book.”
WIFE: “ Whatever is that portrait of a man on
the cover for?”
HUSBAND (impressively) : “ That, my dear, is the
husband of the author of the book!"
inauguration oeremony, and break his duck, as it
were. A pleased assent was accorded. (The
building was intended as a necessary adjunct to a
hotel.) A huge block of stone was swung up on
an improvised shear-legs, and about 20 people who
were in the joke gathered for the fun. It was not
until the legislator had declared the corner-stone
well and truly laid, and had hoped, in flowery lan-
guage, that the structure would be a noble orna-
ment to the town, that he “dropped.”
•* • » •
In reply to a rebuke from his teacher,
little Johnny Riverrum, of the Big Scrub, said
he hadn’t had time to learn his lessons this week.
“Oh! that’s always a lazy boy’s excuse. You
can’t be much like your father,” said the intellect-
developer—meaning that Riverrum p6re always
found time to do his work. Johnny repeated the
remark at home, whereupon the teacher received
this (verbatim): —
dear Sir,—l like to know what you Merit by saying in
font of the whol schole rny johnnie isn’t lik is Father, if
He isnt lik His father who is he like ? [Seven lines of
vicious and unprintable abuse omitted.] anyow if he was
as ugley and under sizd and thickeaded and frekkled as
You are I would cut his (blanky) hed off.—Yours truly,
Janb Rivbrrum. P.S.—He has not got pidgen tose and
bandey-leg'd for one thing.
• » » *
“ H.M.T.” : Though corroborrees are not,
as a rule, musical, the writer met an exception in
W.A. The crowd, which hailed from the Black-
wood, was composed of bucks and gins in fair
proportion. Affair began with ordinary inhar-
monious chant with a saltatory background, each
theme concluding with the weird whoop that is
usually the climax of the entertainment. Then,
to the surprise of the civilised audience, came a
finale in the shape of a minor chant in perfect
harmony, concluding with a kind of invocation to
the four quarters of the heavens with arms up-
raised and then gradually brought to the horizon-
tal. The final chord would have done credit to a
Liedertafel.
• * * •
Tamar-shooting is popular in W.A. The
t.amar is a sort of nephew of the kangaroo, slightly
larger than the wallaby, and frequents brushwood
thickets which are perfectly impassible to anything
but himself and his smaller relatives. Blacks are
the beaters, and the marksmen place themselves at
suitable breaks and pick off the animals as they
travel along the races which traverse the under-
growth in all directions.
* * * *
A lady’s letter recently received by a
staggered resident of N.S. W. backblocks town :
Quirindi, December 19, 1898. Mr. Sir,—
I hereby Causin you if you ever repeat the Word to my
son that he has been in Gale Again as you
make it a practices I shall prosicute you to the full 'ex-
stent of Law or any othe person from'this day allso if you
dare hit any off my Children again I will do so you must
bee verry Igrient or you wood not dare do such a thing
my Child did his punishment and it is more than you or
any other person dare throw it up to him he did 2 houers
and it is no disgrace on my Child you and no dought, the
person who put him theire have committed a lot grater
Crime in your life so I shall put a stop to you and all
other skums and Larractons off Quirindi which clearer
shows you are one or you would not be so Igrient as to
repeat the word even once to him & I promise you when
his father arrives home next week you must think he as a
mother that do care for them so you rent her well if ever
you or anyone Else repeats the Word or dare hit one of
them again I will make things hot for you or them and
then it may bee the bitter bite you may do a little longer
than him if I am short of money I am not short off sence
or Brain which I fear you are verry lack of Both I remain
yours Obident Servant
* » • *
When drinks were reduced from Is. to fid.
at Burketown, on the Gulf of Carpentaria, an old
Gulf hand w ent on an unusual burst—he was a
man of many bursts, but this one was of such
royal dimensions that a friend asked the reason.
The tanked one looked up in surprise. “They’ve
redooced drinks to fid.,”he said. “Well?” “Well,
they mayn’t keep redooced. An’ if they went up
to Is. again and a cove remembered that he hadn’t
been drunk when they was redooced, w’y he’d go
and scrag hisself, wouldn’t he? ”


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
lias conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
holies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of tne head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
.‘5/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.
ILLUMINATION
IS THE
ORDER
Of the day, and Candlesticks the present fashion.
We are, therefore, producing the best art designs at the
lowest prices that permit of best qualities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
JEWELLERS^
The Fx. i R. Candlestick.
6 in. high, 15 - each.
12Jin. high, 27 6 each.
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Melbourne has a Chinese Quaker.
“ Heaven is a remote colony of the Church
of England.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 17”>
Eli/.abeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest bi yet-
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they w ill
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME JUICE^^-
AND
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshhuj Sutamer
Bcvera'tc. Obtainable from oil Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Aust ml ion
colonies.
Sole Agents \
or Sydney:l
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL 4. CO.,
91 Pitt Strf.kt.
ON TOP!
WHITE LABEL LAGER
GEO. ADAMS,
Sole Agent.
The present “good season ” in Victoria
has been mainly due to the mildness of the sun-
shine, thusfar. The rainfall for ’1)8 didn’t equal
the record for the three previous years, hut 1895-0-7
were warmer and drouthier when the crops were
coming on. There is no rule for good seasons. The
“ necessary ” amount is a very variable (juantity,
and the country that looks drought-stricken on
paper may be pretty green in fact.
* * • •
When Jack Billson, then boss middle-
weight of Goulburn district, was working on the
Goulburn-Peelwood road, he and his mates had
a loud, aggressive way about them, and used to
court-martial passing swaggies. Once a swaggie
appeared, tumbled under the shade, and kept up
a pitch till Bupper-tiilie. After meal, swaggie
tried before Billson, seated on the camp-bucket,
charged with loitering on H.M. thoroughfare, and
with devouring the hard-earned grub of the camp.
Found guilty, and sentenced to shout for party
at roadside pub., or take six rounds out of Billson.
Swaggie liked daylight to fight in, and was allowed
to camp till morning. Morning came, with result
that swaggie, Billson’s Sunday boots, and Mick
Hogan’s best pants were missing. After that, the
camp took no risks, and offenders were duly
sentenced and executed at the shortest notice. It
went on all right till, one day, Billson shattered
the pub., and then the pub.-keeper readied up a
special swagman. “ I’ll try a grain of ye’r tay,
mates,” remarked a stranger, as he threw down
his Matilda at our camp one day, and proceeded
to help himself generously to tea, damper and
beef. Billson whispered to Paddy Ryan, “ I’m
shiverin’ to be at him,” and went on with his
munching. Usual trial and usual sentence.
Stranger explained “he hadn’t the possible for
beer, and didn’t care about fightin’, as his
mother had always said fightin' was most de-
gradin’.” The camp was determined on beer or
blood. “ Wouldn’t you chaps wait till niornin’ ? ”
“No fear ; inornin’ business off since last
bloke,” and the champion rose to prepare fu"
the fray. “Well, if you chaps must have it to
night, I s’poso yer must.” They fought two
rounds without anyone being hit, owing to the
stranger’s artistic dodging. Third round : furious
onslaught, much lashing at place where stranger
ought to be, and much loss of wind. Suddenly
something heavy dropped on the camp judge’s
nose, and a flash of sparks fled from one eye. The
champion reeled, looked up with his sound eye
full of astonishment and once more rushed at the
foe; another crash, and the air was full of Bill-
son’s teeth. There were no fourth, fifth, or sixth
rounds. The stranger stayed in our camp and ate
our provisions all Sunday, and we put up the beer-
money ourselves on Monday morning. And when
lie was gone Billson briefly reported: “ Look
here, mates, if you’re havin’ any more of this trial
and sentence business, you’re goin’ to carry out the
sentence of the jumpin’ court on your own.”
PESSIMIST AND OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The world ain’t worth a damn,” he tiredly said,
And felt his food-ban's greasy emptiness.
“ No house to cadge at—sun a fiery red,
And hell and flames for one long day ahead.
A cove might just as blanky well be dead
As poking on in this infernal mess.”
Then clear and thrilling came a magpie’s call,
A rush and ripple swelled to joyous sound :
“ Grand world and glorious sunlight! Greetings all.
Dry air ! Cool shadows, where the far faint fall
Of waters whispers Hope to souls in thrall 1
Hear! hear the music as the world spins round."
The man gaped at the magpie then a smite
Convulsed his face and made the wrinkles squirm.
“ The world's alright to yon there ain’t no guile,
And all God's wonders buzz along in sty le.
But—just you hump this bluey twenty mile—
And pass me down that blanky alright worm.”
Vic.
L.M.D.
Workers and Wasters.
Norah Murphy, aged 27.
THE GATTON (Q.) TRAGEDY.
Ellen Murphy, aged 18,
Michael Murphy, aged 29.
“ C.C.” writes on a well-worn subject:—
Ask any old shepherd who has been forced by the
spread of civilisation into “ travelling for Riley Brothers,”
why “ things are only middlin’,” and he will answer, with
a wicked glare in his rheumy eyes, that “ wire-fencin’
ruined the lurid country "—and he believes it. l’ut the
tame query to a bullock-puncher, and he will lavish the
choicest and most complicated curses lie was saving for a
“ bit o’ black soil ahead ” in his efforts to convince you
that the railways have sent the country to perdition—and
he certainly believes it. Enquire from a bush-worker
looking for a job, and he will reply briefly, yet forcibly,
“ blanky cockles’’ and, from the expression in his face,
you may fancy he lias no doubt about it. Ask the cockv
himself, and lie will straighten his buck a moment, and,
after wiping his head and consulting the lining of his old
hat, he'll say : “ Well, I dunno, mister. Some ses it’s all
on account o’ these er bloomin'squatters ; tint 1 dunno
as the country’s changed much since I fust knowed it.
Plenty o’ 'ard graft an’ little for it, arter the storekeeper’s
’ad ’is cut out o’ the crop.” That is the old cocky’s
opinion. His son, who passes his time flashing about on
Hie colt the old man saved five guineas for tho “get of,”
scorns the insinuation that anything is wrong with his
world. “ Things ain’t too had,” tie'll tell you. “ 1 took the
‘ ten-mile' push down in a half-mile flutter for a couple o’
notes last week at the pub. Plenty o' sport an’ darnoin',
wot more does a cove want ?” lie smokes cigarettes, this
degenerate son of the soil (he is too tired to smoke a
pipe), and as he leans against the rails at the annual
jockey-club meeting, his pure ambition is to he mistaken
for one of the “ cunning " push from Sydney. But the
talent size-him up as a “ fly-fiat,” and their easiest victim
in a little game of nont.e. According to “6x8,” this is
the man who cuts down wages, hut the present writer’s
“DRIFTING."—A BARCOO RIVER SKETCH .
opinion is that the young cocky would scorn to run even
a blackfellow out of a job, much less “ 6xB’s ” hard-work-
ing hero with the beery halo. The “ semi-drunk-but-
anti-hosh ” scribe gets nearer to the spot when he shifts
the charge of wage-cutting on to the man with the halo,
who, when offered a job at a low wage, hasn’t a fiver in
his pocket to shout “ No ” for him.
* * * *
A lot of twaddle has been written about the noble
instincts of the bush dipsomaniac presumably by
writers who have had few opportunities of ob-
serving his eccentricities. Here is one of the
present scribe's experiences out of a bundle. Boozer
took a contract for ring-barking ; low price, of course.
Engaged a passing swaggie to heip him. Swaggie walked
16 miles to the camp. Boozer hadn’t a spare axe, so
swaggie, eager for the job, tramped back to town and got
one. Boozer had mate at work for six weeks literally
running from tree to tree. Time, midsummer.
Contract finished and passed. Boozer told his
mate that he had taken another block to ring
and would have to go in for more stores. Went
to the head station, drew his cheque, and struck a
crow-line for the nearest pub. Swaggie waited
patiently at the camp until the tucker gave out, and then
went to the station to enquire for his boss. Manager told
him that there was no other work. Couldn’t recognise
swaggie’s interest in the cheque paid over; man a
drunkard; ought to have come with him to draw the
money. Very sorry; hard case ; might get something if
he hurried into town ; but feared it was too late. Swaggie
did the journey in record time only to learn that his late
employer was already “ stiff ” and doing a fortnight in
the local jug for “ drunk and obscene.” Then the store-
keeper added the last straw to swaggie’s bundle by stick-
ing him up with a bill for the axe he had left at the camp,
and a pair of boots he had worn out on the job. Swaggie’s
language unprintable, culminating in a violent assault.
Result—“ Twenty-one days.” (The storekeeper was a
J.P.). Swaggie entered the lock-up with blood in his eye
and begged to be put in the “ same cell as his mate—just
for company like ; ” hut the man with the beery halo of
improvidence objected vociferously to such thrifty com-
pany and thanked his gods that he would have a
week’s start of such a mean wage-cutler. A month
later the writer met the beery one earnestly seek-
ing a job, for his swag consisted solely of two corn-sacks
and a jam-tin.
* • * •
But with all his ingenuity the bush-boozer is not
quite such a wage-wrooker as the individual who
grafts like a working bullock and prides himself
upon being a “ ringer "—either in the shearing-shed
or at any other bush labor. Take, for instance,
the man who shears 800 odd sheep per diem—
the man we read of but seldom meet in a shed. Tho
record appears all over Hie province. “ Oh, oh !" ex-
claims the ready-reckoning manager of a big pastoral co.
—absentees mostly—“ 800 a day means t‘lB u week earned
by a common working man at. what is practically unskilled
labor.” Then, either Ignorant of or ignoring the very
favorable conditions necessary for such a feat, he stands
agitating for a combination to reduce shearing rates.
The fools who cut such startling tallies ure blinded by
their vanity to the obvious fact that they are being used
for the special purpose of drawing attention to tho
abnormal wages it is possible for a shearer to earn, ho that
when a reduction of the standard 20s. per 100 forces a
strike, the public sympathy will bo with the squatters.
These record ringers know very well that the “ lioss over
the hoard ” is not too particular in havinga close, level cut
when a record tally is being attempted for publication,
and they are also well aware that the man who cuts lot)
for a reoord doesn’t get much chance of repeat-
ing the performance. When he has to catch and
carry his own sheep out of the pen, and when they
happen to be hip, hard-cutting wethers instead of
soft, record-breaking ewes brought to his hand, he is
a good man if he puts out a hundred a day and doesn’t
have to spend the next day in the hut with a “ knocked-
up hand.”
* • • *
In all contract work the tendency is to fix the
price by the earnings of a few exceptional bullockers who,
inspired by vanity and greed, are beguiled into extra-
ordinary exertions which cannot be maintained for any
lengthy period, and by falling into the trap laid for them
the average workers are deprived of a living wage, while
the men who set the pace can only gain it under a strain
that must end in break-down. The same wage-cutting
influence is at work in other trades than bush work, and
it is worth noting in this connection that the introduc-
tion of the linotype-machines into the composing-room of
the plutocratic “People’s Paper” was quickly followed
by the publication of a record performance of a comp,
with the new type-setter. Has that performance been
equalled by the majority of comps. ? I don’t- know ; but
I do know the result of a record in post-boring which
bears out. my argument,. A man took a contract to bore
posts for a seven-wire fence at 10s. per 100. This man,
who may be described as a dumpy Hercules with a cast-
iron back, bored 200 iron-bark posts in a “day” of 14
hours in very rough country, and, of course, adjoining
squatters heard of the “ good money ’’ he earned at it.
The next applicant for boring was offered 6s. per 100, and
tried it for a day or two ; but as he couldn’t stick at it
from jackass to jackass and swamped the little he earned
by leaving the business ends of two 2s. 6d. bits in yellow-
jacket posts, he threw up the job with a curse upon the
man who put up the record and brought down the price.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice tcitt be taken or communications insufficiently
stamped. Name arid address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post oi
handed in, and in no case trill MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
“ Riding Work ” : Will the author of verses so
entitled please send in another copy, the original (illus-
trated) having been lost by artist Meoro: (l) When
this paper gave in its Xmas numbers plenty blood lots of
people liked the blood aforesaid and lots growled ; now
that it has given at Xmas plenty love and no murder it
hears loud yells for more gore. (2) As Tire Billetin' isn't
a competitive liar it does not state its circulation. If Tire.
B. set down its circulation at 750,0(10, other weeklies
would at once swear affidavits that they printed 2,821,000
quite regularly. Enough for you (and the proprietors of
this paper) that it circulates more widely and numerously
than any other Australian weekly. If you don't believe
this, travel and see—or ask your travelling friends what
they see .I.J.O’M. : “Nessie” to hand, Don’t think
the reference was to your yarn. Will look up other
J.R.M. : Received .... W.L. (M.L.) : Not far short of mark.
Metre rheumatic in places .... G. Dudley : No special pro-
mise ; and, anyhow, the bushranger is severely “off.”
Gym I’. : Too slender; the yarn—not the lady .... Tin Lip:
“ Episode,” too thin ; “ Epitaph,” too thick .... A. de M.:
Will consider .... A.M. : Not too bad, but situation often
been used before Pat: Blood-curdling shriek about
nothing-discoverable ... A.P. : Needless horror .... Nulla:
Same old dead mate wail Toby Grey : Nothing of any
consequence .... A.H.T. : Point so fine as to be invisible.
B.A.S. : “ But, to our story ! "—and then there isn’t any
story Sidney C. : Natural and pathetic, but otherwise
off Bulletin track Franklin H. : Hardly spirit enough
in the telling Phoebus : Very funny. ‘ Try something
longer. Toni: It would never do.. Aevido: Unusable.. .
Merle M.: “‘George, forgive mel’ she moaned. ‘No,
woman,’ I can never forgive you I’ ” Then wo suddenly
lost interest in George .... M.J.F. : Returned . K.W.
(Syd.): As the warships were only rusting in Sydney,
there’s no reason why they shouldn't rust in Melbourne
—at the Cup . Whitman :It needs to lie either intrin-
sically better or a better parody . Memo.: Youthful and
dull. Memo. :If you're (lull when you’re young, what'll
you be when you're old ?.... Trouvdre : Commonplace ...
Ilelen B.: Vague, feeble... .Ah Fly : Laugh at yourself, but
take your work seriously (1x8: Nobody monopolises
this paper. We hear all sides, and try to give fair play
allround. If anybody honestly thinks a Bulletin idol
has nlay feet, lie’s welcome to come and try and prove it
as long as he’s interesting ... P.A.L.: Innocent drivel
A.B.J. : Too brilliant. (14.17 bush-bards would die of
jealousy, if printed, and wo only want to kill about half
that number. ... K.A.D. : Yes ; anything will do on ship-
hoard Alice: And you are a 8.A., too! Barkis:
Child’s father unusable A.M.T. : Some power—not
skill enough. A.l’.K.: No value K.O. (Vic.): Illegi-
ble Werrimee : “Love Song” no distinction of
thought or expression. When the universe serves tip an
absolutely fresh day every 24 hours, why should you he
stale? . ,’O.G. : Repeats R. L. Stevenson's epitaph incom-
petently. Clifton: Bounding mediocrity. Fancy
Free : Idea wants lot belter telling Kink : Point lost
in language. Bar. : Just study up what a sonnet is
and ought to he. You can get Sharp's collection for Is.
... L.K.C. : Exactly like 20,(MM) other such yarns. Dying
youth, faithful Hill, and the woman who comes too late.
Got, more possibilities in the woman who comes too soon,
...Cass Andra: Not enough in it , .Nifca B. : Very
juvenile Dot: Just a dot of humor Van Tromp :
“A nl Bulletin, aut W.P.8.” Alas ! even your modesty
couldn't keep it out-of latter Coolnh : Nothing in any
of them. Even “ Aboriginalities ” mustn’t be banalities.
Valhalla: Good material, too stiffly manipulated. Get
more steam on Oxyinel: Has merit; will consider
W.11.F. : Has some grace and lyrical quality, but the
thoughts run in well-worn ruts and the metre is “ taken
had ” at intervals Jean M. : Only one “ bit’’ received,
besides short story... Y. Creba : Yarn too full-flavored.
Other items “fair to middling.” C.L.R : Sporting-
yarn hardly up. “ Idol,” idea been used before in
Bulletin story. .. Dargo: Nicely written, but laeks
dramatic force., Frank K. : “Jim” claptrappy and
conventional. F. Oroson : Melodramatic and unori-
ginal .. Will. M’W. : No power or distinctive quality ...
Imray : Can’t well talk much about our own family, as it
were Kink : N.Q. nigger-wake story too unsavory.
Bulletin not mealy-mouthed, but there is a line Sty-
lus : Long-Woolloomooloo legend too laborious
Swanky : As the statements in your letter, whether true
or not,, are grossly libellous, we don’t propose to publish
it. You had better personally tell Mr. Rickards all about
the matter A.L.O. : But, then, it is said that Mr. R.
FI. O’Connor will not consent to stay on N.S.W. Supreme
Court, bench after the end of his six-months’ term
Brenta : Sanb.y too slight .... Ulick : Faint pencil scrawl
on black paper. And we are all nearly blind—not a man
amongst us all but wears some weird kind of goggles
Query : That big Kanowna nugget was evidently a fig-
ment of someone’s imagination Crendo : Poor fellow,
he was earning his dinner by painting the park-railings—
whitening the sepulchre of some of his bleeding country’s
loan-money Sedley F. : Don’t remember “Border.”
Canyon let us see it again ? P.S.H. : Old American-
nigger joke... Slab : Unavailable Illustra : Useless
Subscriber (Townsville): Old Percival O’B. : Over-
local and lacks pith M‘G. : Printing “ Dull S.T.”
Burton P. : A pinch for stale news. Also, your verses
would ruin any paper .... Swiv : “ Dripping ” will do ...
Peter Single : Will print .... Dendrobium : Glad if you’ll
call H. : “ This century has not produced any man in
the first line. Goethe and Napoleon belong to the list.”
How about Jawbone Neild and Frank Madden ?
X 42 : Six fcp. pp. of introduction to a few short essays,
which, you say, “ will not be found uninteresting to the
Sydney people.” Sydney, you wisely remark, “ like every
other city, has its peculiarities.” One peculiarity of
Sydney is that its inhabitants would club Tire. Bi i.lktin
publisher if he printed that introduction. There is grit
in your matter, but it is unsuited to these c 015.... Boh
Ridley : MS. practically illegible. We cotild read it in
three hours, hut the three opening pages don’t encourage
us to the task A.M.D. : Tired of “blasted” and
“blariky.” Most stories can be told as well with-
out them Hugh V.: “Man from Bam.” un-
savory—also unscientific Camiro : Those smart-
nesses weren’t over-wonderful H. : Australia cannot
long subsist by breathing over again the air from Eng-
land .... Rob flap : None available .... J.H.G. : Will print
“ Point,.”. Cassyl (B.) : No space.... W.J.I). : Non-
sense; mustard and wine would be emetic E.C.M. : To
hand.


THAT MEETING OF PREMIERS.
“ FANCY MEETING YOU!”


HOLIDAY JOYS.
FEDERATION : “No good trying to engage his attention just now. I’ll look in again presently."


The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.
Advt. from a recent Goulburn (N.S.W.)
paper:— '
T\ r ANTED, Good General Servant, ss. or 6s week •
, also Lady’s Help, 2s. 6d. week; comfortable
home for steady persons ; open three days.
The once-affluent slavey appears to be growing
cheap in the land of Jolly and Fat.
Prevention of Seasickness.— The new
remedy, “Seajoi,” is responsible for another re-
markable letter, as follows : “ I have been, I sup-
pose, at least 30 trips between colonies, and have
never been free from sickness, or taken a meal;
but on my last trip, Sydney to Perth and back, by
the aid of ‘ Seajoi ’ I enjoyed myself immensely,
having complete immunity from sickness and being
able to eat heartily.”—(Signed) E. Miller, 402
Pitt-st. “Seajoi ”is sold by ALBERT SHARP,
257 George-st., Sydney. Posted to any colony,
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.; post, Bd. extra.*
From a Maoriland paper :
SADLER. —On October, 1898, George Sadler, aged
82, formerly shipmaster, Brightlingsea, Eastern
Essex, near Great Clacton, brother of W. E. Sadler,
of New Zealand, and intimate friend of the cen-
tenarian Summersum, who recently gave a memo-
rial grand banquet and fine speech,' reported in the
newspapers.
“ APENTA,”
The Best Natural Purgative Water
as a safe, ordinary and gentle aperient. Sole
exporters: The Apollinaris Company, Limited,
London, W.
Bishop Grimes (R.C.), of Maoriland, which
is supposed to be a riclt and prosperous country,
has gone to beg and pass the miserable, shameless
hat round in poor old Ireland, and decent, self-
respecting M.L. Catholics feel pretty bad when
they read about the cleric’s crawl for foreign
coppers. One of the strongest grievances of this
paper against the R.C. and Anglican church's
is the way their begging representatives wander
periodically to Britain to drag the independence
of this country in the dirt by weeping, in the name
of Australia, for foreign charity. When it con-
siders Bishops Grimes and Stonebroke-Wigg and
the fraternity of mendicant bishops generally it
feels half-persuaded to be a Wesleyan. Grimes,
by the way, is telling some very steep yarns about
the way Holy Church has to toil and hustle in
Moaland. For instance: —
He would mention one or two instances in his own dio-
cese, to which he was appointed ten years ago. One of
his priests was obliged to go 17 miles every Sunday be-
tween two Masses. To visit the whole of his vast parish
he should be six days on horseback and he should bo
absent a whole month from his presbytery. During that
month even the devoted Sisters of Mercy in that district
were obliged to forego the privilege of assisting at the
adorable sacrifice of the Mass even on Sunday. One of
his missionaries went on one occasion nearly four hundred
miles to give the last sacraments to a man who bad not
seen a priest for 40 years.
Just seriously figure out the inwardness of that
yarn ! The first known European settlers in
Maoriland arrived there in 1814—and they were
missionaries. Forty years without the comfort of
seeing a priest would bring even the earliest
colonist up to 1854. In 1854 there were settle-
ments at Wellington, Auckland, Taranaki; Nel-
son, Otago, Canterbury, Hawke’s Bay, and many
other places. The most remote individual in the
whole province could hardly be 300 miles from a
settlement if he tried, even in 1854, let alone 400.
Where did that dying man hang out?
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
CURE PERMANENTLY. LIVING WITNESSES SPEAK.
A Woman’s Message.
CONVEYING WORDS OF HOPE TO THE
AFFLICTED. BETWEEN LIFE AND
DEATH. BUT NOW CURED.
Truth, it is said, is sometimes stranger than
fiction, and in no way has this phrase been better
exemplified than in the plain, unvarnished state-
ment given a reporter by Mrs. E. Morey, a lady
who resides at 125 Jones-street, Ultimo, N.S.W.
The story she related is here given in her own
words. She said: “I had not been well for
several weeks, suffering terribly from severe pains
in my right side, in fact, the pains at times vvere
so severe I could neither sleep or rest on my light
side, and drawing my breath was accompanied by
a sharp pain in the side and back. My liver was
in a very bad condition, food I could take but
very little of, because of the distress it caused after
eating. I tried many treatments and medicines,
but all failed, and my condition was so bad I fully
made up my mind death was the only release from
my illness. A few weeks ago I beard of the re-
markable cures being effected by the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I was persuaded to
try them. The first few doses gave me immediate
relief, the pains leaving like magic. I continued
using them for a time, and to-day am entirely
cured. I firmly believe Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have been the means of saving my life. I
have recommended them to many of my friends,
and it gives me great pleasure to make this stale
ment public, as my faith in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills is very strong. If persons reading my
words are sufferers, a remedy is at hand that will
cure them, viz., Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.”
■ +
Slipping up Death.
AN ACCOUNT OF HOW A MAN
WRESTLED WITH DEATH AND
SECURED FIRST FALL.
We do not know if Mr. W. J. O’Brien, Junee
Reefs is an athlete, but we do know that he
has performed a phenomenal feat with a little
assistance—assistance we might say, small enough
to swallow. He writes: “I have much pleasure
in testifying to the quality of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. I was working in the mines and got
leaded, and went to the doctor, who could give
me no relief. I also tried many patent remedies
which also failed, and made sure my time to go
would soon come, and gave myself up as com-
pletely done for. At last a mate of mine said,
‘ Here is something that will cure you, and if they
don’t, nothing will do you any good.’ He gave
me a bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I
took one dose that night and one next day, and
the result was wonderful. I am happy to say
that I am now quite well and able to work again,
thanks to Indian Root Pills, only for which I do
not think I’d be alive to-day.”
What He Lost,
AND WAS GLAD TO GET RID OP.
There was no need for Mr. S. G. Coulson, tailor,
of Muswellbrook, to scratch his head and look
round for what he had lost, or make inquiries
about the neighbors. He just took his pen in
hand and wrote to us. He says: “It is with
pleasure that I acknowledge the wonderful efficacy
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills in curing indi-
gestion. They are, indeed, in my estimation, the
best pill in the market. I have tried a good many
patent medicines, but yours I shall always recom-
mend to my friends as a reliable medicine for indi-
gestion, biliousness, pains in the back and stomach.
They are unsurpassed.” Many of you who read
this yearn for such a disappearance which Mr.
Coulson has experienced, so now you know how
to make it. 1
A Brisbane Marvel.
A WELL-KNOWN LADY SUFFERED
TORTURES FOR 15 YEARS, APPAR-
ENTLY NIGH UNTO DEATH, BUT
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOTS PILLS
EFFECT A COMPLETE CURE.
Mrs. Elizabeth Smith, whose home is in Surrey-
street, Red Hill, Brisbane, Q., has every reason
to be a thankful woman, as she has been actually
rescued at the brink of the grave. Having heard
such reports, it was decided to fully investigate, so
a reporter was sent to obtain the facts, which are
given in Mrs. Smith’s words : “ For the past 14
or 15 years I have suffered severely from my liver
and indigestion, and two months ago I had a very
bad turn ; the sensation was as though there had
been an iron band around my stomach, and I had
great trouble in breathing. In fact, I thought I
was going to die, and was about to make my will.
It was about this time that I read about Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, but having tried so
many medicines without any good result, I hardly-
thought they were worth trying, but thinking if
they did not cure they would do no harm, I decided
to give the Pills a trial. I was too ill to go for them
myself, but sent one of my neighbors to Mr.
Vaughan, the chemist, where they were purchased,
and I can truthfully say that they have made a
new woman of me, and I feel better than I have
been for years. I never miss an opportunity to
recommend them to everyone suffering from any
complaint, for they have done more for me than
all the medicines I have ever tried. Since I have
been cured, my daughter and son-in-law have dis-
carded all other medicines, and swear by Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. While the reporter
was interviewing Mrs. Smith, her married daugh-
ter, Mrs. Brierly, came in, and she not only fully
corroborated her mother’s statement, but spoke
in the highest praise of the Pills. She said that
after seeing the marvellous result in her mother’s
case, both she and her husband feel quite certain
that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been the
means of saving her mother’s life.”
Suffered Since Girlhood.
MEDICAL MEN FAILED BUT DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
FAILED NOT.
Mrs. A. Everingham, living on the Nana-road,
Grafton, N.S.W., tells her story in a few words.
“Since girlhood I have been a victim to severe in-
digestion and pains in the back, chest and sides,
which at times was almost unendurable, and
caused me to think I could not live an hour. I
tried many remedies and consulted several medical
men, but they did not cure ine. lam now forty -
nine years of age, and suffered for many years. A
few weeks ago I started to use Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. The first bottle-caused me to feel in
good health. I continued their use for a short time,
and can now say they are the best remedy I have
taken. I recommend them to my friends, and
they appear to do good to all.”
A Timely Rescue-
MEDICAL SKILL AVAILED HIM NOT.
Mr. Abel White, of Olinda, Rylstone, writes
“ I have been suffering from an enlarged liver and
indigestion for five or six years. I was treated by
several doctors, but only obtained relief for the
time, and had to be continually taking medicine.
I commenced the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and, since taking a few bottles of them, the
pain I used to feel in my right side has disap-
peared. I can now eat my food without suffering,
and I cheerfully recommend these Pills to anyone
suffering from the liver or indigestion, as they
have cured me. You are at liberty to use this
letter if you wish to do so.”
Scratched for Ten Years.
TERRIBLE ECZEMA CURED.
Job had patience, we are told, but there is no
need to go back four thousand years to exemplify
patience, for there is a storekeeper named Mr. W.
J. May, at Tabulam, N.S. W., who has had eczema
for ten years, and who has probably out-Jobed Job
for patience. He writes:—“lt is with great
pleasure that I testify to the excellent quality of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I have suffered
for ten years from a skin disease called eczema,
and have tried doctors, herbalists, and chemists,
without deriving the least benefit. I was under
the treatment of one herbalist for twenty months,
and another for eighteen months. I tried every
remedy that I could hear of, but only met with
disappointment. I can assure you my complaint
was a most troublesome one,. so troublesome that
at night I bound the parts up to prevent scratch-
ing when asleep, and I used to take the bandages
off in my sleep, and would scratch until it was
quite raw. I saw several testimonials of cures
effected by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and
though there were none that would apply to my
case, I decided to give the Pills a trial. After
half-a-dozen doses all the itch and irritation had
gone, and though after taking about a bottle of
the Pills my skin was just the same, I persevered
with the remedy, and after a few more doses could
plainly see an improvement; awl now, after taking
five bottles, I am glad to say that I am completely
cured, and my skin whole. You are at liberty to
publish this letter. It is the truth, and the most
respectable and reliable people in this district can
certify to the same.”
+
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
have Cured Thousands, and
Will Cure You.
One of the roots from which these Pills are
made is a Sudorific, which opens the pores of the
skin, and assists nature in throwing out the finer
parts of the corruption within. The second is a
plant which is an Expectorant, that opens and
unclogs the passage to the lungs, and thus, in a
soothing manner, i>erforms its duty by throwing
off the phlegm and other humors from the lungs
by copious spitting. The third is a Diuretic,
which gives ease and double strength to the kid-
neys ; thus encouraged, they draw large amounts
of impurity from the blood, which is then thrown
out bountifully by the urinary or water passage,
and which could not have been discharged in any
other way. The fourth is a Cathartic, and accom-
panies the other properties of the Pills while
engaged in purifying the blood ; the coarser par-
ticles of impurities, which cannot pass by other
outlets, are thus taken up and conveyed off in
great quantities by the bowels.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a Perfect
BLOOD PURIFIER, CURING BOILS,
BLOTCHES, PIMPLES, SALLOW COM-
PLEXION, JAUNDICE, ECZEMA, and all
SKIN DISEASES, and a positive cure for SICK
HEADACHE, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGES-
TION, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION,
SHORTNESS OF BREATH, FLATU-
LENCY, LIVER COMPLAINT, KIDNEY
and FEMALE TROUBLES. Sold by all
CHEMISTS and STOREKEEPERS, PRICE
Is. l|d. per bottle, or six bottles 6s.
If not obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keeper, same will be forwarded upon receipt of
price.
Sole Proprietors—
THE W. H. COMSTOCK CO., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—sB PITT-ST.. SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Trebless”: Six weeks out. Travelled hun-
dreds of miles. Not a life written. Letter from our life
insurance co. Why no business?” The doctor—new-
chum —desperate. Said he : “ They will stop our advance
next week for a certainty. We will insure ablanky tree !’
Selecting a box sapling, we got to work. Name, John
Tree ; age last birthday, 42, &c., &c. Filled in the pro-
posal for £250 policy, and forwarded it, with a quarter’s
premium, to Sydney. That “ life ” kept our advance
going fer three weeks more.
“A.A.A.”: Curious to note signs by which
veteran stock-buyers indicate a bid at auction. At a
Hunter River saleyard recently I noted following : Nod,
backward jerk of head, wink, turning-up of eyes, lift of
forefinger, twitch of mouth, and crossing of two fingers.
A certain Melb. mine-boomer is so tired of
being upbraided by victims that, to save the victims
a lot of useless talk and himself a lot of time, he has had
a glossary of abusive words printed in small type on
large cards, as, for example—
1. You are an arrant thief.
2. ~ „ a blasted thief.
3. ~ ~ a confounded thief.
4. ~ ~ a damned thief.
And so on, with 500 other epithets alphabetically arranged.
When victim comes in and starts to upbraid, the financier
simply presents him with one of these cards, adding :
“ I’m very busy to-day, my dear sir. Kindly pick out the
expression you think fits the case, mention the number
of your observation, and my clerk will turn up the index.”
* » * *
“Diomus’': N.S.W. should reform the Pawn-
brokers' Act. One way in which the screw is turned on
the poor (I illustrate by an actual incident) : A poverty-
stricken woman pawned some portions of her clothing
for 2s. fid., and lost the ticket. She had to go to the
pawnbroker for particulars of the pledge, prior to getting
the signature of a J.P. so as to obtain a duplicate ticket.
Shy lock charged her Is. 6d. Think what that Is. 6d. must
have meant to her! This is not an isolated case, for
thousands of pawn-tickets are lost yearly. Some pawn-
brokers are, I believe, merciful, and let their clients off
With a charge of fid., but many, as in this case, grind out
as much as Is. fid. Others may go higher, for all I know —
there is, in fact, no reason why they shouldn’t charge £1
or £lOO as the Act says nothing about payment; so Shy-
lock is given a free hand. His customers must go to him
to get the duplicate, and the only alternative appears to
be to let the pledge go. Seems to me that a uniform
charge of 3d. would amply repay the loan-monger for his
trouble.
* * * •
This letter, from the representative of a wealthy
Sydney house, is the latest thing in debt-collecting
“ Dear Madam,—l noticed you at mass on Sunday last,
and I could not help thinking of your good departed hus-
band ; poor fellow, I often think of him. May the Lord
be merciful to him. I was nearly going up to speak to
you, as I wanted to let you know your late husband owed
my firm a few pounds.’ As you know, according to the
teaching of holy Church, no soul can enter heaven until
the person has paid the last shilling he owes. I feel
certain it must have escaped your memory, or it would
have been settled before, and that is why I now mention
It; not that we are greedy after money, but 1 feel sure
you will agree with me that it is impossible for his soul to
gain rest while the amount is owing. Therefore, in order
to remove the obstacle, you will kindly remit the amount,
£3 7s. 9d.—Yours sincerely, —~
* * * •
The multitudes of reaper and binder agencies
which lately exploited the Vic. mallee district are now
mostly busy finding either the buyers or the machines.
In the absence of roads the agents have now to
depend for guidance on the position of the scores of
abandoned machines. Something like this: “ Want
Smith, eh ? Well, go ’long straight ahead for 300 yards,
and you’ll come across a red binder ; then turn to the
right, and 200 yards farther you’ll see a yellow reaper.
After passing that hill keep to the right till you see what
looks like a small mountain (it’s really a heap of reapers
and binders ready for a bonfire) and you’ll find Smith’s
place a mile further on.” One canvasser told writer
lately that it was dangerous to go out anywhere in the
mallee after dark, as you were almost sure to break your
neck over one abandoned machine or another. He added
that there was such a derned lot of these implements
about that the wheat-crop couldn’t be big—the machines-
left it no room to grow.
* * * *
Notes of the defunct Provincial and Suburban
Bank of Melbourne are now worth 2s. 6d. each, in Aus-
tralian criminal circles, for, having been genuine in their
day, they possess a finish and crispness which not even
the most skilful forger can impart to the “flash
article. The notes got loose through the carelessness of
the bank liquidator, who for many years strong-roomed
them, till, by and by, they began to take up too much
space, and, the estate being quite done with, the boxes
containing the notes were shifted to a shed in the office-
yard. There they lay forgotten, until the boxes more or
less fell to bits, and Fate directed an old, worn-out
vagrant to the yard. Happening across the notes, the
Yarra-banker realised that the tide had come to him
which led to fortune, and, stealthily taking away the
pile by degrees, he “planted” them, and has been
living happily on the proceeds of their sale. For pur-
poses of confidence-tricking and “spieling” these notes-
are invaluable; even experienced tradesmen are occa-
sionally deceived by them. Also, some enterprising person
with a jar of acid has recently taken to altering the name
of the bank to that of a living concern, and many such
notes are in circulation in the West. The trouble is that
the notes are all fives and tens; had that vag. found
where the ones were stowed, he might by now be posing
in London as a representative Australian.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin.— Be “widow’s coup” (8.,
10/12/’9B), how’s this for a banker’s coup ? Farmer dies,
leaving property to wife, and making her sole executrix,
in which capacity she instructs an auctioneer (widower)
to sell the land. He sells, and places proceeds to credit
of his overdrawn account, but when he wants to pay the
widow the banker hangs on to the money. Auctioneer
asks banker what he is to do—how he is to pay ? Banker
says, “ Don't pay ! Marry the woman.” And he did.—
W.A.
* * » *
Hooley, Bottomley, Whittaker Wright and
others of whom the public has signified that it has had a
little too much, were not in it as company-mongers with a
man in the same line of business 20 years ago, who re-
cently came out of gaol and.died. In ’79 he issued a
“ private and confidential ” prospectus of a co. “ to re-
cover the enormous wealth of gold lost in the Red Sea,
when the waters engulphed I’haraoh and his hosts.” It
was beautifully worded and so cunningly devised that
even now it is Used as an ideal specimen by boomsters.
It attempted to prove the exact spot where the Egyptians
waded in, and that- by some upheaval the depth was
much less than at the time of the catastrophe—in fact,
that on a clear day the bottom could be seen. It was
intended to lift out with a derrick the chariots covered
with gems and having wheels of beaten gold. He only
asked for £lO,OOO, and he collected £7400. Then he went
to gaol for 15 years. No wonder he died when he saw
what a hash others had made of the business.
* • * •
The plans of Sydney city (writes a Bulletin
correspondent) show certain right-of-way lanes between
George and Pitt streets. Some of them exist only on
paper. If there be any built over, does the corpora-
tion get the rents? If it doesn’t, who does and why
does he?
• * * *
How is this for good business ? A man had 40
acres of cleared land which he wanted ploughed ; local
price £1 per acre. Did he pay it? No. He offered
prizes for a ploughing-mateh —lst prize, £6 ;2nd, £3 ; 3rd
£2. All the best talent rolled up with teams and ploughs
and wives and families. Judges appointed, the 40 acres
ploughed, the families had a good picnic, and the whole
thing cost Mr. Smarty (say) £l2 for prizes and refresh-
ments.
* * * *
“Matchbox ” : They’ve syndicated the Westra-
lian timber industry. The men at one big mill (this from
three of them interviewed separately) get Bs. a day, and
are paid in paper—in cash when they’re off on a jam-
boree—once in six months or so. They buy all provisions
at the employing co.’s store at prices ranging from 10 to
20 per cent, above those paid at nearest township. Buy
anywhere else and you’re the proud creator of a vacancy
for a mill-hand, duly advertised in the West Australian.
Beckon up the tax —interest for money held in co.’s
possession, profit on the stores, necessity for attending all
local shivoos got up by manager and friends, church col-
lection, &c. —and you can guess who makes the money—
not king working-man. Add to this that the timber-
leases range up to 100,000 acres, and reckon the chances
•of prosperity ahead of the misbegotten deformity that
•defaces the map of Australia.
* * * *
“Yambo’ : When I was a young fellow, and
thinking of getting married, I bought a piece of land in
a part of Melbourne called Hotham Hill. This land had
been bought from the Crown at so much an acre and re-
tailed at so much a foot. Among my neighbors was one
MacToole (his name wasn't MacToole), a laborer on the
railways, and an arrant thief. Another neighbor was a
cabman, one O’Callaghan (that wasn’t his name). O’Cal-
laghan was often late (or early) in getting home ; and one
early morning he was stabling his horse when he heard a
sound near MacToole’s place like w T ood thrown down. He
went out quietly to investigate, and saw some one sneak-
ing away, presently returning with a piece of timber
which he had annexed from a building in course of erec-
tion near by. It was very quietly dropped alongside of
other pieces at the back of MacToole's fence. As soon
as Mac had gone away for more (he was in a wholesale
way of business apparently) O’C. slipped along and picked
up as many pieces as he could carry. As fast as Mac-
Toole brought the wood O’Callaghan annexed it and
heaved it over his own fence. After 13 journeys Mac T.
felt about, apparently to see how his stack was growing,
and found only the pieces he had carried last trip. This
seemed to puzzle him, and he felt around some time.
Then he stood up and scratched his head—couldn’t find
any timber there —and remarked (s otto voce) : “ Well I’m
blowed ’’(he didn’t say “blowed”), gave it up as a bad
job, and cleared away inside to bed. MacToole is still
alive ; he is an ancient pick-and-shovel man and an impe-
cunious thief to this day. O’Callaghan is a prosperous
•cab-owner. The man who knows enough to make another
man steal wood for him in the night generally prospers.
He has learned the great secret of success, which is to let
the other fellow take the dead lift and the responsibility
and annex the wood yourself.
♦ * * »
Not long ago a seeker after work, on the repre-
sentation that there was something that would suit him,
was induced to deposit £1 with a Sydney “ registry
office ” shark ; which money, nothing having been forth-
coming during several weeks, he demanded the return of.
His shark then told him that he required a clerk, and
offered to take him on at 15s. per week and live on
premises. But as there was no bed, no food, and no
salary forthcoming, the victim took out a summons, and
got a judgment by default. That was all he did get, for
another shark in the same line of business held a friendly
bill-of-sale over every stick in the establishment. The
concern has since been sold-up by the faithful mortgagee,
and the late owner has departed in search of fresh prey-
ing-grounds, leaving a flock of shorn sheep to besiege his
vacant premises.


A HEALTHY NEW YEAR
CAN NOW BE ASSURED BECAUSE
Bile Beans for Biliousness
TONE UP THE SYSTEM,
INVIGORATE THE LIVER,
PURIEY THE BLOOD, and
INCREASE THE APPETITE.
A Voice from Queensland-
AN IPSWICH LADY CURED OF SEVERE
INDIGESTION AND HEADACHES.
A STERLING VICTORY FOR BILE
BEANS.
A. remarkable case, in which Bilk Bkans had
again proved their officacy, having been reported
from Ipswich, Queensland, a representative was
despatched to get all particulars. The lady who
has been cured by “the remedy of the age” is
Mrs. T. Wooley, of East-street, Ipswich. She is
53 years old, and has resided in Ipswich for the
last 26 years, being pretty well known in the dis-
trict. After a few preparatory remarks, the re-
presentative just asked Mrs. Wooley if she had
any objection to the facts of her case being made
public. “ I have no objection whatever,” replied
the lady, “as I consider it is for the sake of
humanity, and will also show my gratitude to the
proprietors of Bilk Bkans. The facts of the case
are as follows : —Eight years ago I commenced
to suffer severely from continual headaches and
pains in the chest. These pains were espe-
cially severe after meals, and were often of a
most acute nature. I have since concluded that
they were caused by some form of indigestion,
although at the time I did not know what was the
matter with me. Well, sir, these pains and the
headache never left me for the whole eight years
up to a short time ago. As time went on, and [
continued to suffer, I consulted numerous doctors.
Although they attended mo at different times
they all agreed that the headache was oaused by
worry, and that I needed a change of air. I acted
on their advice, and went awav for a length of
time, quite sufficient to prove that ‘ change of air ’
was not the remedy that would cure me. Having
given the doctors what I considered a fair trial, [
decided to see what patent medicines would do
for me. To this end L tried successively all the
much-advertised nostrums. The many courses
which I indulged in occupied several years, and at
the end of that time I found myself worse instead
of better. I was thoroughly disgusted by this
time, and had concluded that I would have to
keep on suffering. Both the headaches and
pains were at this time so severe that
they caused me great inconvenience. I also
found that my appetite was disappearing,
and my sleep becoming very poor. Naturally,
as this wenc on I became run down, and I com-
menced to look very poorly. This brings me to
the turning point in my story, and also to the
wonderful cure that has been effected by Biij
Bkans for Biliousness. This remedy was first
brought under my notice by a pamphlet which
was left at my home. In this I read of a case
somewhat similar to mine that had been cured.
I thought I would give them a trial, having little
faith, however, as I was pretty tired of medicines
generally. To my great surprise, however, I
found, after a few doses, that the pains were less
severe and trying; I kept on at them, and con-
tinue:! to improve. Gradually my health came
baca to me, and I began to feel as I had eight
years before. It is now slightly over three months
since I began to take Bile Beans, and I have not
since had even a slight return of my former com-
plaints. My neighbors, who have known me for
many years, say they never saw me looking so
well, and as I feel as well as I look I cannot say
too much in praise of Bile Beans. It will cer-
tainly be a hard day for me when I have not a
box of 8.8. on that shelf for emergencies.”
Woman’s Weakness.
The woman of to-day is usually ailing ; there is
always something the matter with her. The
world’s doctor-bills for women is over double what
they are for men and children. Of course, the
organism of a woman is much more complex and
delicate, and requires a great deal of attention,
but to suppose that it was originally intended that
women generally should suffer for the greater part
of her life is ridiculous on the face of it. The
great trouble iu this case lies with the woman her-
self ; she disobeys the natural law, fails to observe
regular habits, and seldom takes proper care
of herself, or gives enough attention to her own
bodily welfare. Tight-lacing is one of the many
causes of the alarming predominance of weak
women to-day. The abdomen is compressed into
half its original size, and the digestive organs not
given sufficient room in which to perform their
various duties ; they, in their turn, crowd the
heart and female organs, and the result is palpita-
tion of the heart, irregular function, and a general
weakness of the whole system. It is absolutely
necessary, furthermore, that the waste matter
of the body should be carried out of the system
regularly and systematically, and this can only
be done by keeping the whole digestive organism
in perfect condition.
A woman in an unhealthy condition is entirely
unable to perform her duties as a wife and mother,
and instead of .being a help and blessing to her
husband she will prove a fretful, grumbling bur-
den, whose very existence is a ourse to herself, her
family, and her friends.
Cleanse the system, then, and in future give
more attention to the mechanism whioh forms
your womanhood. Take a few moments from the
perusal of fashion-papers and bargain-advertise-
ments, and spend the time in finding what rules
of nature you are disobeying, and what you can
do to improve your health and make those around
you happy; and remember that Bile Beans will
oleanse the whole body of waste matter, tone up
the system, and give you renewed energy and
vigor, thus enabling you to make a fresh start,
with a clear road to a healthy and happy exist-
ence.
in some oases. Gas or wind on the stomach, also
heartburn, and at times a dry cough, may ull bo
attributed to tho same cause. Ghronio indigestion
is an ailment that requires a great deal of care to
effect a oure. Caro should bo taken to eat neither
too much nor too little. Under-feeding is just as
injurious as excess. Many people make the mis-
take of rushing from one extreme to another,
sometimes with most harmful results. Diet is
another important thing, and in this tho patient
must study his own case, as individuals differ
greatly in this particular. Light meats may be
taken, such as beef, mutton, turkey, and chicken.
Young vegetables are good ; tea and coffee are
best avoided, as is new broad ; claret and other
CURE
HH3
Indigestion.
Indigestion and dyspepsia are very similar, and
in many cases the same treatment will apply to
both. Indigestion is the inability of the stomach
to pass the food given to it, and many are the
reasons thereof. Over-eating causes dyspepsia,
but this is not, as is popularly supposed, the most
common cause ; indeed, there are so many causes
of this common complaint that it is sometimes
hard to conclude what is the real reason. In-
sufficient mastication, or “ bolting ” the food, is
one of the principal, while among others are lack
of exercise, abuse of spirits, which causes inflam-
mation, insufficient food, bad air, worry, or brain-
work, and sedentary habits. The symptoms are
almost as numerous as the causes : distress after
eating, and a heavy feeling on the chest are the
most noticeable ; bad taste in the mouth in the
morning, accompanied by a dull pain in the head,
loss of appetite, general indisposition for work,
and a pale and sallow complexion, are all signs
of, more or less, indigestion. The general ten-
dency is towards constipation, and bringing sour
liquids up into the mouth is a frequent occurrence
light wines may be taken in small quantities. A
regular amount of exercise will be found very
beneficial, but must not be of a violent character.
Bile Beans for Biliousness, taken as directed, will
clear all waste and impure matter from the
system, and entirely do away with any constipa-
tion that may have been contracted. They will
also insure the cure being permanent.
Costiveness-
The most effectual way of overcoming a costive
habit is to take at bedtime half to three Bile
Beans for Biliousness, or enough (o operate
once, and not more than twice, the next
morning. Pursue this course for eight or ten
days, and then omit taking the Beans for
a single night, but, nevertheless, the next morn-
ing make an effort, whether there is any desire
or not, at the same time in the morning that the
Beans operated the day before. If successful, so
again the next morning, and ever after regularly
at the same time of day. It must not be put off
for a single moment beyond the usual time, as the
old habit will return again.
Another Bile Bean Miraole.
MR. A. J. FORDER, GENERAL DEALER,
DUBBO, CURED OF SEVERE LIVER
COMPLAINT AND INDIGESTION.
Mr. A. J. Forder, a well-known general dealer,
of Dubbo, N.S.W., having written to the Bile
Bean Manufacturing Co, apprising them of his
'k
m.
having been
cured by Bile
Beans, and
offering to
to have the
matter made
publio, a re-
porter was
despatched
from the
Dubbo Li-
beral to in-
terview the
gentleman.
Mr. Border
commenced
by stating
that he volun-
tarily came
forward to
give particu-
lars of the
wonder f u 1
result of Bile
Beans for
Biliousness in
his case. He then proceeded : —“ I contracted
my illness at tho diamond-fields, Kimberly, South
Africa, in 1880, when I was overseer for the Oda-
manta Diamond Mining Co. I suffered so from liver
complaint that I had to resign m,y position,
being quite unfit for work. The medical man I
was under, a first-class physician, strongly ad-
vised me to leave the work and the colony, for if I
remained there was nothing but death before me.
I came to this country in 1884, but felt no better.
I must tell you the doctor had described my
disease as congestion of the lungs and liver, aris-
ing from indigestion. Since I have been in Aus-
tralia my health has not improved up to lately.
I always had a severe pain in my stomach after
eating, and a terrible feeling in the head, with
pains in the right side and between the shoulders.
I also was subject to a languid, tired feeling, and
felt extremely quarrelsome. My appetite was
quite gone, and I could not eat the most tempting
dishes, while my rest was always disturbed and
irregular. About two years ago I completely
broke down, and had to attend the hospital as an
out-patient. My body was covered with blotches,
which the doctor described as ‘hives.’ I got no
relief while in the hospital, and gave up in despair.
I tried every patent-medicine I could hear of, and
none of them had any effect on my complaint.
As a last resource, I was advised by a friend at Old
Dubbo to try Bile Beans, and he presented me with
a box in May last, but I had no faith in them, having
tried so many medicines. I commenced to take
them, however, to satisfy my friend, following the
instructions given on the leaflet in which they
were enclosed. Before I had finished the first
box I began to feel relief in the stomach, the pains
being less violent, and my appetite improved
slightly. I felt so much encouraged by this that
I purchased five large boxes, and took the Beans
regularly. My health and strength steadily re-
turned, the spots left my body, and my weight
also increased. To make a long story short, I
completely recovered. I am now enjoying far
better health than at any time since I was 24
years of age, and am now 42. In following my
occupation of wood-buyer and general dealer I
am exposed to all weathers, and never feel the
slightest ill effects. When I think of the long
years of suffering I have undergone I can only
describe my cure as miraculous.” “ You certainly
look in the best of health ? ” said the reporter. “ I
am indeed, and feel quite happy. My wife and
friends in Dubbo can hardly realise the great
change in mo since I commenced taking the Bile
Beans. I attribute my cure entirely to their use,
and shall be glad to recommend them to anyone.
I honestly believe that but for the Bile Beans I
should not have lasted another six months after
leaving the hospital.”
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick
and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls,
Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches,
Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dys-
pepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side,
Fulness after Eating. Lack of Physical Tone,
Heartburn, and that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and
Storekeepers generally, or direct from the AUS-
TRALIAN DEPOT OF THE BILE BEAN
MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 30 Pitt
Street. Sydney. Victorian Branch, Fiinders-street,
Melbourne. S.A. Branch, King William-street,
Adelaide. W.A. Branch, Murray-street, Perth.
Queensland Branch, Charlotte-street, Brisbane.
Price 1/lj per box ; six boxes, 6/-.


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TEA
Cures cark and oare, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasmes bent,
When friend would meet with friend.
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather ” Blend.
JAMES INOrLIS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE;
Agents/or *' White Heather ” Whisky,
Granuma and Fodaih Porridge Meals.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
The Mayor’s Proclamation.
“Glen Innes, N.S.W., Oct. 11, ’9B.
H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —1 have often thought it my duty
for the sake of others to write you. It will be five
years next month since my wife was given up by
two doctors, as a patient who could not live the
night through.
She had been treated for heart complaint; but
we afterwards found that it was kidney disease.
On Sunday when the doctors told me that she
would not live another day—the dropsical swelling
had then extended from her legs into the body—
a friend said to me: “ Try Warner’s Safe Cure.”
At half past ten that night I procured a bottle
and gave her one dose, then in about an hour
another. She said soon after, “ Jim, I feel a little
easier.” I continued with Warner’s Safe Cure,
giving up the doctor’s medicine, and today she is
a living monument to its efficacy. The doctors
and everyone who knew her were astonished.
I have recommended this medicine scores of
times since, and we always keep it in the house.
If my liver is sluggish I take it as a tonic and
invigorator.
After five years I consider the trial is a fair one
and that it is consistent to call my wife’s cure
permanent. I am well-known in Glen Innes,
having lived here sixteen years, been fourteen
years alderman, and twice elected mayor of the
municipality, and 1 am not afraid to sign my name
as a guarantee that Warner’s Safe Cure is what it
is represented to be.—Yours faith ully, JAMES
HEALEY, Mayor.
Important Announcetnent to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
tS” Sales Held at the A uction, liootns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Ministerial records : Robertson’s
longest, two years, thirteen days; Parkes, four
years, fifteen days ; Dibbs, Stuart, and Cowper,
each two years, nine months ; Reid, four years
and five months, and still going apparently strong.
S.A. Tories, recognising that their conduct
in connection with the present crisis makes a good
election cry for the Kingston Govt., are all for
compromise when the Council meets on Jan. 17,
and it is intended to promptly pass the Appro-
priation Bill.
The cabled determination of Portugal to
preserve her colonies intact means that she is un-
willing to give up Delagoa Bay. If Britain
could get hold of Delagoa Bay then the Boers
would be finally blocked in their endeavors to get
a direct sea-outlet from the Transvaal.
The issue before S.A. electors at the ap-
proaching Assembly election is certain to be Leg.
Council reform. As the result of the rejection by
K.A. Tory chambt-r of household suffrage, Premier
Kingston now pledges himself to have adult suf-
frage for both Houses and nothing else.
An impressive spectacle in itself, besides
being a grim commentary on Premier Reid’s
“jolly and fat” whoop, was the recent congrega-
tion at a Sydney church of about 1000 workless
men. The assemblage was due to an endeavor by
Revs. Buchanan and Zillman to show the unfor-
tunates “ that all followers of Christianity do not
scorn the weak and buffeted and helpless.”
N.S.W. is still waiting to hear what com-
pensation the Government has paid to that
brother and sister who were lately convicted and
imprisoned at Bathurst on a charge of stealing
a bullock, and quietly released when the missing
bullock turned up alive and well ; also if any
inquiry has been made into the conduct of the
jiolice who worked up the case, and vvhether the
judge has been called on for a report about his
own conduct in this remarkable matter.
Premier Kingston’s old colleague, J. H.
Gordon —who resigned the Chief Secretaryship
owing to the Hospital squabbles—threatens to
stump the country against the Premier at next
election on the question of Council reform. The
clever little lawyer even threatened to contest
Kingston’s own West Adelaide dunghill, but he
has had a Xmas dinner since then. Gordon is a
bright debater and a splendid after-dinner speaker,
with a Democratic heart but a Tory stomach, and
is such an indolent politician that when election
time comes he wi’l probably be too tired to climb
on to the platform.
Popular Govern-
ment is popular power
cut up into electors’
rights ; but the trouble
is that the great bulk
of the population is too
tired to get its right,
or use it when it has
got it. One of the
worst features of Pro-
vincialism in Australia
is that it deprives each
province of the collec-
tive services of the few
good politicians Aus-
tralia possesses. I n
the Federal Parliament
every province will
have the use of every
brainy man on the con-
tinent.
Yes, it is N.S.
Wales which has de-
layed Federation.
Even at the very be-
ginning N. S. Wales
was the stumbling -
block. The Federal
Council could have
done a little to pro-
mote joint action in
matters of Federal con-
cern, but N.S. Wales
allowed the vain and
ambitious Parkes t o
flout the Council—
which he detested on) v
because he did not originate it.
The tendency of Sydney softgoods firms
to form their businesses into limited liability co’s.
is a straw that shows that York-street believes the
]K)litical wind to be blowing Federation-ward.
Australian unity also means Protection, a good
round tariff, and smaller profits. The merchants
and middlemen have grabbed most of the Free-
trade oyster. In Maoriland, despite a tariff of 15
or 20 per cent., the retail selling-price of dozens of
big lines, especially in flannelettes and floorcloths,
is not more than 24 per cent, dearer than in Free-
trade N.S.W.
The gradings of N.S.W. Public Service,
under the annual-increment regulations, have not
given general satisfaction. The feelings of an
officer who, after waiting perhaps for years for
promotion, suddenly finds his salary increased
from £156 to £l6O are deep indeed. The regula-
tions as promised before the general elections are
being evaded wholesale, much to the disgust of
the rank and file, especially among the juniors.
And at least one large division of the service got
no rises at all, on the ground that the Board
hadn’t time to consider it.
In the last seven years Queensland has
auctioned 1,282,049 acres of land, of which
865,494 acres were in the Central District. It
realised £680,062, of which the Central District
contributed' £440,826. The policy of the Bris-
bane Government is to make hay while the sun
shines. The Central District may get Separation
some day, therefore the Southern Government
wants to turn into prompt cash every acre of
Central land that it can find a buyer for, and grab
tne money.
S.A. National Ass. is spending much money
in view of the approaching general election, and a
special attempt is to be made to capture Labor
seats. Of the 14 members representing the seven
metropolitan districts, eight are direct Labor re-
presentatives, four are staunch Ministerialists
(including Kingston and Works Minister Jenkins),
and the remaining two, Darling and Glynn, are
Oppositionists. In some cases the contest will go
hard with the Laborites, who are not so well
organised as they were in M‘Pherson’s time.
The population of Westralia, where the
late lamented boom hangs out, increased last year
by 6226, the smallest increase since ’92. For the
first nine months the increase was over 10,800,
but the back-rush eastward was so violent in the
last three months that the final quarter showed an
actual loss of 4598. Probably things will improve
again, but the big influx towards the sunset is
evidently over for the present. In ’96, Westralia,
then on the summit of its glory, had a population
increase of 36,711, but it is not likely to get there
again in the memory of this generation.
S.A. Upper House is probably beginning
to feel that it made a grievous mistake in laying
aside the Appropriation Bill because its little per-
sonal corn was trodden on, and when it meets
again in a few days the Bill will almost certainly
be passed in great haste. If it isn’t, S.A. will
stop payment about the beginning of February,
and if the Council stops everybody’s salary, as a
protest against the proposal to gi ve the people a
wider vote at Council elections, the people will
grow more interested in Council reform than they
ever were before. To placard the story of its own
Tory arrogance on everybody’s pocket is a foolish
kind of advt.
It is seriously proposed in Westralia to
levy a tax of 24 per cent, on all gold obtained
from mines that are being worked at a profit. A
shorter way would probably be to levy a tax of 2|
per cent, on all gold exported. Plenty of Wes-
tralian mines ought to be worked at a profit but
are not, through the awful expense of mismanage-
ment by Hooleys in London, and there is noreaspu
why the State should lose revenue on that account.
A tax on exported gold is a rough-and-ready way
of getting at the perennial absentee. Also, it
would yield about £lOO,OOO a year, which Forrest
needs badly; and gold is about the only thing left
to tax in W.A.
Premier J. R. Dickson was elected to Q.
Parliament two years ago on the Independent
ticket. He professed himself unable to see how
any honest freeman could tolerate a continuous
Ministry like that which oppressed the land. He
is now head of that continuous Ministry, and,
speaking about the forthcoming election, he
prayed the country, the other day, not to return
any Independent members. “Politics on the
British plan should never have more than two
THE DUTIES OF AN ATTORNEY -GENERAL.—(From an Ancient Egyptian wall-painting).
parties,” quoth the oily, pious rent - collector.
But in Queensland there must be three parties—
r°hbers, the robbed, and the party that comes
between them.
Lord Kitchener, it is cabled, denies the
statement by the war correspondent of the West-
minister Gazette that after the battle of Omdur-
man t'he wounded Dervishes were killed. The
Bulletin predicts that Lord Kitchener will have
much trouble in maintaining his denial. No
secret was made of the slaughter in question,
which was defended on the ground that the
wounded Dervishes had a nasty, un-British habit
°[ shamming dead and suddenly getting up to
? or ™ eir victorious enemies. Also, the
tie wounded was detailed at great
. ln J^ al ?y letters v [r u 6l ?. by soldiers to
f rien 4s in England and published in the press,
Progress, a new Sydney monthly, issued
by the Christian Social Union, publishes a grue-
some tale about the sweated Sydney tailoresses
who work for l|d. per hour under the regime of
Jolly and Fat. It also contains an article by W.
M. Hughes, of the Labor-party, upon the useless-
ness of the barren N.S.W. Shops and Factories
Act, passed' by the God-fearing Government and
emasculated by the Upper House, which the God-
fearing Government refuses to reform. Likewise,
a plaint by the same Mr. Hughes on the utter inep-
titudeof the God-fearing Govt.’s late Early-closing
Bill and the way it and all other democratic legis-
lation was finally thrown overboard and aban-
doned. But there is no mention of the fact tbat
the Labor-party, to which Mr. Hughes belongs,
keeps the God-fearing Government in office, and
AT SYDNEY HIGHLAND GATHERING.— The Humorous Race which takes itself
seriously as above.
that if it liked to demand a radically-reformed
Upper House which wouldn’t destroy all demo-
cratic measures, and a workable Early-Closing
Bill, as the lowest price of its continued sup-
port, it could probably get them. It is a
pitiable thing that an alleged democratic party
absolutely holds the balance of power in N.S.W.,
and yet democratic legislation makes no progress
and the alleged democratic party makes no sign.
All it does is to draw its salary, and look after its
share of the roads and bridges and billets on the
Public Works Committee, and vote steadily for
the God-fearing Ministry which drops all its
alleged cherished principles among the waste-
paper.
The latest annual report of N.S.W. Post-
master-General Cook is very misleading. For in-
stance, it sets forth that the number of articles liable
to postage (letters, post-cards, packets, and news-
papers not on the free-list) posted in N.S.W. in
1897 was over 85,000,000. And all the stamps
sold, including those impressed in the office, barely
amounted to 80,000,000. Considering the number
of stamps used on telegrams, the number of cases
when two, three, or more stamps go on one letter
or paper, the number (estimated by the depart-
ment at .£24,000 worth) used as receipt-stamps,
and considering that about 200,000 stamps were
repurchased by the department, and didn t go into
circulation at all, it is probable that the number
of letters, &c., said to be posted in N.S.W. is
overstated by about 20 or 25 millions. Evidently
they are not counted —only guessed at.
The Federal conference of Premiers is ex-
pected to meet at Melbourne about the end of
this month. Both in Victoria and S.A. the
elected Federal delegates have been called toge-
ther to advise as to the policy which these pro-
vinces will adopt. But in N.S.W. Premier Reid
takes no notice whatever of the other nine repre-
sentatives into whose hands the matter was placed
by the vote of the nation, and whose work was
accepted and endorsed by the vote of a popular
majority on June 3. Of these delegates, Walker,
Richard O’Connor, and M‘Millan are out of Par-
liament, and Abbott is in a state of chronic
absence, so four of the people’s ten Federal repre-
sentatives have not even the semblance of a voice
in directing the new Federal policy. And about 18
individuals whom the country flatly refused to
trust with the work at any price have been doing
it vigorously.
Hen picnics are becoming quite common
in Melbourne since the bike came between the
maid and her mash. A score or so of girls, and a
couple of matrons club together, hire a turn-out,
and are driven into the wilderness, where they
spend the day eating pastry and having a great
time on tea, according to feminine ideas of festive
devilment. A. couple of weeks back a party of
this kind went out into the dim distance and
camped there, and began to frivol beneath the
gum - boughs, when suddenly a damp blanket
was thrown over their innocent gaiety by the
discovery that the driver—who went with the
vehicle and four—had appropriated the . demi-
john containing the picnic’s wine-supply, and was
having a riot “on his own” under a clump of
gum saplings. A matron advanced to expostulate,
but the driver’s drunk had already carried him
beyond the reach of argument, and he called the
lady “dearold girl,” and invited her to “ come-
’n’aveadrink,” whereat she fled precipitately. For
the rest of the afternoon the picnic sat apart, and
watched the progress of the driver’s wild jamboree
in great terror, and commented with whispering
humbleness. Towards nightfall the man fell
asleep, and a deputation seized the demijohn, and
poured the little wine that remained into the creek.
Then there was an indefinite and spiritless sug-
gestion about seeking assistance ; but they
were buried in the bush, and nobody knew
where to go in quest of aid, so the
picnic continued to sit huddled up in
a condition of unspeakable misery all through the
long night. Once the aforesaid matron attempted
to wake the driver, but he snorted and cursed, and
called her “M’rier,” so she desisted. She next
tried to get volunteers to help her to harness the
horses into the vehicle, but this, too, was a dismal
failure, because the girls were not sure which end
of the animals went in first. The driver awoke
shortly after daylight, a wretched, arid man with
a great head and an air of abject contrition. He
fixed the horses, and the picnic returned in that
perished condition which comes to every woman
who sleeps in the grass with her clothes and hat
on. The girls found their suburb in a state of
violent disruption in consequence of the mysteri-
ous disappearance of 28 ladies, and the hen picnic
is off.
During the month of last Sept, the New
South Wales Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.
supplied the German warship Falke with '6OOO
quart bottles of Sydney Lager Bier for use On the
voyage to Samoa and Apia. During the vessel’s
stay in our harbor 600 gallons of bulk Sydney
Lager were supplied her. Another tribute "to the
excellence of the local lager comes from the Ger-
man warship Buzzard, which ordered 5500 quart
bottles of Sydney Lager for the return voyage to
Kiel. During this vessel’s stay with us she
received 50 gallons of Sydney bulk Lager daily.
Both ships’ crews cannot speak too highly of the
excellence of Sydney Lager. As the firemen,
officers and crews come from the country that has
always been famous for lager production, it is
clear that the Sydney Lager Bier Brewing Co.
deserves all that has been said by every con-
noisseur in favor of its lager.*
Amongst interesting documents in the
possession of a collector at Brown’s River,
near Hobart, are long screeds in Governor
Macquarie’s own hand, relating to the most
paltry and insignificant store-details. In this
collection (which The Bulletin hopes the
Australian Museum will make some effort
to secure) are also records which bring one
grimly face to face with the bloodthirsty old con-
vict days. A death-warrant, for instance, of 60
years ago—lB37 -written and signed on a half-
sheet of foolscap by Chief Justice Sir John Lewis
Pedder, and setting forth that one Brown or
Smith “having at the Session of Oyer and
Terminer, held before me at Hobart Town, been
con'icted of being illegally present on certain
premises,” wa3 sentenced to be hanged by the
neck until he was dead. Upon this cheerful docu-
ment the Sheriff one “ J. 8.” (Burgess) records
with ghastly terseness that “ this day execution
was duly had and done upon the body of the said
Brown.” The.collector has in his possession other
death-warrants which are throughout in the
beastly precise little fist of the cold-blooded little
Chief Justice Pedder aforesaid.


Liver* Kidneys Wrong.
H/EPATIC INDURATION!
Clements Tonic Called In.
IT CURED EVERY CASE.
The Case of Mr. JAS. SMITH.
(From the “ Liverpool Herald ,” July SO.)
(by our special reporter.)
Reports continually coming to hand from
different quarters as to the most exceptional
recovery of Mr. Jas. Smith, of High-street,
Liverpool, from a complication of disorders
which would prove fatal to a man of an
o! dinary constitution, we put inquiries
on foot to get the truth.
A representative cf this paper found Mr.
Smith in his shop in High-street, and asked
him if the current reports of his case were
true.
“Yes,” replied Mr. Smith, “and as I
think
© tVfy Remarkable Case
should have full publicity in the cause of
humanity I will give you an hour. My
complaint crept upon me in a slow, insidious
manner, like a thief in the night; it must
have pr gressed for many months before I
suspected anything was the matter, till
IViost Alarming Symptoms
Set In."
“ What were tin y ? ”
“ A strange dizziness and palpitation of
the heart. Even then I thought there was
nothing seriously wrong with me but a
touch of indigestion, which I expected
would pass off in a day or two. I found out
later, however, that my
Liver and Kidneys Were
Diseased.
In a morning the taste in my mouth was as
bitter as gall, and my food, instead of digest-
ing, used to go sour, can ing me to have a
disagreeab e breath, and he bitter taste to
rise almost all day. After eating I had ex-
treme oppressit n in the stomach, w ith fits
of intense pain. Then the undigested food
would generate a sour gas, which would
gradually distend my body till
The Agony Was Unbearable.
Mv heart would palpitate frightfully, and I
came to the conclusion that I had heart
disease. However, I found out later the
wind in my stomach was causing a pressure
on my heart that resulted in palpitation.
On another occasion I could have sworn that
a tumour was growing within me, as I could
feel a
9 Hard, Painful Lump
in my side.” (This was hardening of the
Liver — Ed.).
“ Did you suffer from any marked liver or
kidney symptoms ? ”
“Yes; a dull, aching, dragging pain
across the loins and in the small of my back
became continual. It felt exactly like a
56 Pound Weight
hanging on my backbone ; at night the pain
was woise. It then felt red hot as I rolled
from side to side vainly trying to get relief,
and there were piercing
Pains Across The Shoulders,
and the muscles got contracted.”
“ In what way, Mr. Smith ? ”
“ One morning I found my head all drawn
to one side, and my neck was fixed in this
position. When 1 wanted to turn my bead
to look at anything or to speak to anyone I
was forced to turn my whole body.”
“ You called in a doctor then, I sup-
pose ? ”
“ Yes ; don’t talk of doctors to me. I
must have taken
Bucketfuls of Their Physic,
but with no result. I went slowly from bad
to worse. Sometimes I was so giddy that I
had <o cling to something to keep on my
feet. *5 Teu ible headaches afflicted me. I
had long since lost my appetite. I ate as
little as po-sible, because of the pain and
distension that always followed.
My Long Continued illness
altered my disposition very much. I be-
came morose and dispirited. I grew
nervous, and I couldn’t bear anyone to
eve« speak to me. I lost greatly in weight,
and it you had seen me then you could
hetrejv have been persuaded that I was the
same man yon now see before yon. I was
thin and emaciated, with the deathly
pallor of
Confirmed Liver Disease.
The peculiar dusky, leaden look which
liver disease produces was unmistakably
seen in my face. My eyes had sunk into
my head. My form was bent, and my
head twisted, and I looked just like a
withered old man of eighty with one foot
in the grave. And
Now Look At Me?”
Our reporter took a careful survey of
Mr. Smith, and said : “ I should take you
for about 35, and for an exceptionally
strong and healthy man.”
“Well,” replied Mr. Smith, “that’s the
age I feel like, but I am just 50.”
Our reporter expressed surprise.
“ Yes, scores of people have 'aken me for
much under 40 years ; but I am getting
ahead of my tale. Time went on and I got
no better. My vitality w r as completely run
out. I felt I could no longer struggle
against
The Deadly Disease
that held me in its grip. One day I got
hold of a Clements Tonic book. I read it
through carefully, and made up my mind.
I sent for some bottles of Clements Tonic.
I started on it, being fully determined to
give it a fair trial. From what the book
said I thought
It Would Fit My Case.”
“ Ah ! that’s what I want to hear about;
with what result?”
“This result 1” said Mr. Smith, standing
up and displaying a tall and well-formed
muscular figure. “ With this result!” said
Mr. Smith, striking himself emphatically on
the chest. “ I was a wreck, worn and
wasted by disease, and Clements Tonic
made a man of me. I felt a change after
taking about half a large bottle. My
stiffened muscles seemed to be easier. I had
a faint appetite, better digestion, and the
pains were lessened sufficiently to enable me
to get some natural sleep, livery morning
I awoke decidedly better than I was the
previous night. 1 began to get more cheer-
ful. Improvement continued day by day,
till at last the time arrived when I could
stand up straight and
Feel No Pain Anywhere.
I was free. I had thrown off the thraldom
of the disease which had clung to me for
years. I was weak and thin, of course, but
I continued Clements Tonic till I was
Completely Restored to Health
and strength, and in a short time, consider-
ing how ill I had been, Clements Tonic
completely eradicated all disease from my
system. It was a bad case, so took some
time. Its effect on my liver and kidneys
w r as miraculous. I have recommended
Clements Tonic to many. It
Has Cured Every Case.
I did that with the same motive which in-
fluences me in giving you this history of
my case—out of pure gratitude for saving
my life—being recalled to health and happi-
ness from a condition worse than death. I
should like the whole story to be related to
the public just as I’ve told it to you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Jamus Smith, of High-street, Liverpool, in the
Colony of New South Wales,do solemnly and sincerely
declaie that I have Carefully read the annexed docu-
ment, consisting of eleven folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to eleven, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and
cure by C lements T< nic, and also contains my full
permicsion to publish the same in any way ; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be tine, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affimiations taken and made in the various Lepart-
ments of the Government of New South Wales, and
to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the
suppression of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and
Affidavits.”
S
Declared at Liverpool this 11th day of July,
before me, FRED. CHAPMAN, J.£.
Pianos
Organs
Violins
Banjos
Mandolins
Accordeons
Anto-Harps
Cornets
Flntes, etc.
Strings
and
Fittings
for
ALL
Sorts
Of
Musical
Instruments
Every known
Musical Instru-
ment Stocked
and Sold on Easy
Time-Payments.
paling’s t“
FOB
Best
Quality
AT
Lowest
Prices.
a
Send
for
Catalogued
FREE.
W. H. PALING & CO. L™
340 GEORGE STREET,
Brisbane & Newcastle. SYDNEY.
■r.
DunlsrTyres
Remember that
inferior tyres will
make a high-grade
Bicycle almost use-
less, and that
make
Cycling a pleasure
RetQCtyber
JDurUgPTYRES
PUNI^PIYREsI
DuniopTVres
put the world on wheels.
for Speed and Durability. ,
for Path and Road.
are only Genuine when they
they bear this
TRADE
MARK-
%up
First in 18S8. Foremost Ever Since.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [imited,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
AND;AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.).
A noteworthy move in journalism is Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph s issue (followed by
S.M. Herald), for the benefit of remote
country readers, of a late edition of its
morning issue containing new- right op to dis-
patch of evening rnads. This will be a nasty
knock for the Sydney evening papers, which have
liitherto left the city on their way to a lot of out-
side districts in company with the morning papers
of same day, whose news they supplemented by
many hours.
Sands’ Sydney Directory for 1899 comes
out in all the gorgeousness of its gilt and red
binding, and is bloated out this year to 1318 pp.
the biggest dimensions it has attained up to date.
It contains everything that any reasoning being
would exiiect to'find in a directory (including 13
cols, of Smith’s and nearly eight of Browns),
which is the strongest recommendation that could
be given. But there isn’t in it one single indi-
vidmdn.med Borndrnnh, very lament.
p )orndruri ] c ; n t he London Directory (he may be
tbere yet> and be may have married and led to
more Borndrunks being in- the directory, for all
th»othelwi*
gerio^s vo]unip A]s()) t be writer desires to
ment ( on incidentally that Sands’ Sydney Diree-
fcory car efully omitted his name for three years
and then spelled it wrongly ever afterwards, in
and | ds land-tax paper hasn’t arrived. He men-
tions this in commendation—not in sorrow or
at" pre^fnt! 1 The
existing arrangement suits him very well,
•r-r'QT to tTTF CHEAPEST
IHL BEbl lb iti
Drink the best only, no matter how expensive,
“D.0.L.” Whisky is the best product of Scotland
and is bottled in Scotland under the supervision ot
Her Majesty’s excise officers.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
n. 5.11). Blont <le piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
HV CASTLEREAGH ST.,
/ “X SYDNEY M
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Paw nbvo A' hi f/ I > ranch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MIOiaTII.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
\U4\ssmm
u
H £ A O O F F ICC
Inters ecti on Honte r , B u g h a*»
Castlereagh Streets
•SYDNEY*
Jr.. Establish*!} l379.
f ;^/, 8£ . iROORt^
Office in
Annual Income a n d In vested
Funds Exceed J200.000f/er/ing.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. -.. £500,000
Capital Paid-up £38,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. . ■ £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000
£350,000
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7 10s ;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ E . TalkiQS MacbiOS D € P ot -
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematotjraphes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
" an unequalled specific for
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is- Made only by
NEWMAN
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
TJIBJSLL’S Fluid Disinfectant clears out Bu-s,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Banking, Puillio Companies, &o;
Trustees* €*€ctitorsi
AND
AgsiKV Con>paov Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP ±60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L, I. Barker registered
trustee.
F R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. •• £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C,, Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Eso., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon. N, Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager.- Henry Gyles Turner, J.P,
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
InslßctoßS: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
ahd Arthur Walker,
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
ManagELs : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 BisUppiffate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
RankßrE: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW/ SOUTH WALES :
SIDNEY 573 George smiuuT.
Manager: t/ohii M'Nall:
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accocntan4: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with asrency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-t HR-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robkrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,400.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo adoTt.
Fidelity Guarantees. Knip. liiaoilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/5 each.
PLAITS 'and TAILS,
20in. long, ft/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/Q per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Ilajr.
W. H-VfigzgN,
110 William Street,
rorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List-
Prompt attention given to Country Order*
Rem ember it-s
a
Which means ,
It'S the pure article
Ifs the best mild
laxative Knoy/n
Ifs recommended by
yourfamil\/Doct or.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
id
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Port&
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Perejjritfe, Silt.-, Jan. 14, I‘,
-Barrabool, Tues., January
Leura, Saturday, Jan, 21,-1
Noon.
17, 5 p.rri.
Noort.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Jan. 24, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
• Gabo, Tuesday, Jan. 24, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 14, 2
Burwah, Tuesday, Jan. 17, 5
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 21
p.m.
p.m.
, 2 p.tn.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 14, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 21, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
1,0 WEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm, Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.— ___,
171 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
J by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fram
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
8
8
8
Tickets ate available until Used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane. .
Special Trip
CHina
undue $
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on or about the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will he afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Kates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to -
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Stru.it, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. y. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE. 52 Market-street ;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
I\J ATIONAL TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man); W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and “lion. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address—lllEMSioir.. Telephone No. li'.in.
Code— Moheing & Neal, etc. Box No. :U7, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
A D E LAID E,
—AND—
KALGOOItLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks alwajs
available. , , , . _ ,
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE" invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
MAHK
TRADE
BRA
GIRL
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MM Pf ED.
fexpreSs Mssotiu'ev Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
For Melbourne
Adelaide
POUT PI HIE
And GtjLF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S,S. Rockton, Friday, January 13.
'S/S. Adelaide (.from Melbourne)
Saturday, January 14.
ALBANt,
Fremantle,
'transhipping at Fremahtle
to
vasse, dongarra,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Rocktofi, Friday,
January 13.
S.S. Adelaide, (from Melb.)
Saturday, January 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVIBLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Buliniba, Saturday,
January 14.
Jiest <1; Cheapest Iloufe to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. VUILI, and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company Will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, A'6s to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & Go’s Cine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6600 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows j—
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney'.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(D‘|luiraith, & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-sibreet.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOIIMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S- IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
■ Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN— Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenr/er A cconunodation, Attendance and,
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE - B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street,
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


/
~>A
S//T
V
V.
!
ss-c
SSS
C
K
s
U
'i
7
7
'
Sfc
msf
y
/
A
'3
V
h
A
%
hi
/M
•-7
S'"
Z
1
jS&'
aS^
* JfcA.
CI,H
iIW 433
ZJ
-J/ ->
When you’re OUT OF SORTS, you can’t GO for anything that will
SET YOU UP so well as
& COMPANY’S
(Registered)
(Original)
]V[IG“HTTr ALOK
(THE MIGHTIEST TONIC ON EARTH)
or their
FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC
(Palatable
Tonic)
(Bitter)
Freshly prepared from the celebrated African Kola Nuts (Cola Acuminata). Gold Medal at the Royal Agricultural Show,
Sydney, First Frize Medals at all other Exhibitions.
MIGHTY “ALOK” CONTAINS ALL THE VIRTUES and PROPERTIES of our FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC, THE ONLY DIFFERENCE being that it is MORE PALATABLE.
IN THE MORNlNG-
before taking
Eisher and Go’s
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Madame ALI>A XI,
THE QUEEN OF SONG, AND
THE FRIEND OE HER
MAJESTY THE QUEEN
OF GREAT BRITAIN,
WRITES UNSOLICITED
THE FOLLOWING TESTI-
MONY :
The “Australia” (Hotel),
Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Dear Sirs.—l shall be much obliged
if you will send me two bottles of
your preparation “ALOK.” I am
very glad to tell you that this Tonic
was of great service to me on the
sea, and in helping me to recover
from the effects of my long voyage.
IT IS OF GREAT BENEFIT
1 X STOPPING SEASICKNESS,
AND OF GREAT ASSISTANCE
TO ANYONE WHO HAS FATI-
GUING WORK TO DO.
I am, yours very truly,
E. ALBANI GYE.
There is no greater believer in
Mighty “ALOK” than Madame
Albani. It is her constant com-
panion.
UNINTOXICATING !
The Great Morning Drink
When your Head is heavy and your Liver
sluggish, “ Mighty Alok ” will set you up and
prepare you for further indulgence during
the day. It is “TH E ” Pick-me-up of the
World. The King of Blood Builders. It
makes you eat and makes you strong. The
Drink of the Season. The Talk of Town.
Thousands of Ladies Drink It!
m
vr„
CrU.
“ MIGHTY ALOK ”
LEAVES A GOOD IMPRESSION.
Scientific
Examination of
Mighty “Aloft.”
By the most Eminent Authority in
Australia, and for many years of
Sydney University, Dr. HELMS,
M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and
Analytical Chemist.
6 Bridge-street, Sydney,
February 1, 1898.
Messrs. Fisher & Co,
Gentlemen. I have examined
your preparation, Mighty ‘ ‘ ALOK, ”
and find that it contains, besides
Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs,
having well-known Tonic properties.
—Yours faithfully,
A. HELMS.
GUARANTEED NOT TO CON-
TAIN QUININE OR IRON,
OR ANY .INJURIOUS IN-
GREDIENT.
IN THE AFTERNOON
after taking
Fisher and Co’s
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Mr * a ciSe f fa?«?welS IdS Uhavf proved' dose before commencing enables me to endure the arduous stmnof^mateh-pky
with little fabgue. ladder it a boon to brain workers, and heartily recommend it to all Gh« pn „ _____ n „
(COPY) WHAT HENRY BRACY, Esq., SAYS ABOUT |™ s^G S° s | AND COMIC OPERA SYDNEY.
Messrs. FISHER AND CO.
RFoftt
rs. FISHER AND CO. , T f t mPr its of vonr Mighty ALOIv. In my professional vocation lam very often tired and fatigued after long and worrying rehearsals, and I find
£2 y Sh»Sly h».moat A* and X have got quite fond of it-Yonr. fa.thfolly, H. BRACY.
SPECIAL WARNING TO COUNTRY RESIDENTS
, _ w , U rn.™ Up q , irp f.n a t von receive FISHER & CO’S. Some merchants buy up cheap imitations at a very low price,
ordering through Spirit J^ I f “s^ ric they are just as good as the original. Beware of these unprincipled men, and insist upon receiving FISHER & CO’S - not
and send tliese to then country clients, cna& _ rrLTT? onrl Oricnnal when vou nav for it? ■ ■ . . . . T .
Fisher’s or any other colorable imitation. Why not have J . . „ ” with cold Sodawater, is a most refreshing and beneficial drink in the morning— Cleansing' the Palate, Clearing the
It is the greatest Appetiser and Pick-me-up m the worm, miginy _ :
B™"' A LITTLE SODAWATER, AND YOU WILL ALWAYS BE HEALTHY AND LIVE AS LONG AGAIN.
To he obtained at all Hotels throughout Australia, with Sodawater, 6d per glass. 2/6 and 4/6 per bottle. All Chemists.
When the bottle i, placed before yo„, be .ore that' the name FISHER A CO. i. on the .an*. ABSOLUTELY REFUSE any other, for the, are base imitation, of .he genuine article.
Pharmacy: 387 George-street
nearly opposite
G.P.O
Sydney.


The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
There will be no Anglo-French war. The
Parisians are so busy over their 1900 Exhibition
that the present is Britain’s time to bully France.
Johnny Crapaud is now a shopkeeper, and will
“ take it lying down ” for fear of spoiling his
“ Jubbert.”
If Bard Henerie had calculated upon being
taken with such astounding seriousness over his
humorous exaggeration about the number of beery
persons he recently counted in Oxford-street,
Sydney, he would probably have raised his figures
to 450 men, 390 women, and 16 parsons being
taken home in 27 cabs. And even then there
would have been wiseacres found to protest that
there must be a mistake somewhere !
S.M. Herald fell in badly last week, when
it criticised a story by Arthur Henry Paterson, a
fourth-rate English novelist, as if it was written
by Andrew Barton Paterson, of Australia—other-
wise “The Banjo.” The other Paterson’s tame
fiction —a story of the American civil war —was
described at length, and he was gravely adjured to
try an Australian subject next time. The
Herald’s blunder probably started in the fact
that the yarn in question—“The' Gospel Writ in
Steel,” pub. Macmillan, Lond., 1898—purports on
the title-page to be written by “Arthur Paterson,
author of * A Son of the Plains,’ ‘ The Man from
Snowy River,’&c.” Arthur Paterson wrote “A
Son of the Plains ” ; Andrew Barton Paterson —oor
Andrew, ye ken—wrote “The Man from Snowy
River.” The publishers will have Some difficulty
in explaining.
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c., &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
B
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
i
y> y> y
%
tk
%
“Bed Bird Special 7 ’
“Red Bird No. 1” and
“Black Bird ” cycles’"
Are sold by the only direct branch of an exclusive bicycle factory repre-
sented in Australia.
Therefore, we can guarantee our “Black Bird ” at £l6 10s. to be as
good a cycle, and cost as much to build, as any £2B or £3O bicycle sold
by other firms.
The Goold Bicyle Co. Limited,
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES
64 King-street, Sydney;
245 Colhns-street, Melbourne, Yic.;
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.;
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.;
Bundle-street, Adelaide-street, S.A.
Agents in Town and Country.
USE THE
Sunliglit in Your Homes.
New Sunlight Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, (is , (id.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Undoubtedly the weakest province* as one
prominent cricketing authority tersely put it, again holds
the Sheffield shield. Since the inception of this trophy
Six vears ago, Vic. has won it four times, S.A. once, and
N.S.W. once. Facts speak for themselves. The Vic-
torians have a very strong and even batting side ; the
only man riot fit to open the innings is Johns, and he is
showing.marvellous form behind the sticks. One reason
of their success is that they don’t drop many catches.
In the first. Adelaide match there were three batsmen,
Stuckey, Giller and Worrall, who had not scored centuries
in local club cricket, but they promptly got even by
making 130, 116 and 104 respectively against Jones and
no. Against Sydney the dark blues fairly revelled in the
mud, and their p.vramid-like score after a bad start won
the second Adelaide match when tile tenth man, Trumble,
hiade 70 by perhaps the most elegant and soundest cricket
of the match.
The individual scores as the men got out ran in
this remarkahle pyramid fashion : 6,0, 13, 22, 25, 43, 52,
63, 70, 137, 11. .Trumble is in better bowling form than
ever, as his peculiar and remarkable record of 8 wickets
in one innings and 3 in the other in each of the interpro-
vincial matches shows. At present, as an all-round
player, he stands unrivalled in this hemisphere, possibly
in the world. Even last year the Vic. bowling was
severely and adversely criticised. The province had at
command : Trumble, one of the very best bowlers in the
world on all wickets ; Trott, possibly the best slow bowler
in the world ; Roche, one of the most brilliant bowlers in
Australia, and 6. M’Leod, who has started trundling for
his side in more than one internat., not to mention Giller,
Laver, Worrall and Bruce.
* * * #
Trumble’s bowling to date in the three Sheffield
Shield matches .-—Against N.S.W., 3 for 45 and 8 for 58 J
against S.A. in Adelaide, 8 for 129 and 3 for 36, and in
Melbourne, 3 for 57 and 8 for 39. Average, 11 runs per
wicket. Where would Victoria have been without
Trumble ?
* * • •
L>'g: Victoria owes her Sheffield Shield win
this season to Worrall’s luck with the toss and Trumhle’s
wonderful bowling on- “ dicky ” as well as good wickets.
He has taken 33 wickets in the three matches for 364
runs, a truly wonderful average for Australia. The long
M.C.C. player has easily supplanted Geo. Giffen as Aus-
tralia’s all-round cricketer. Trumble is in his 32nd year.
• * * «
“ The best man in Australia if he gits going—
bar Graham,” was Young Victoria’s opinion of Billy
Bruce when that, slender solicitor was scoring 52 runs in
his first innings against S.A. The difference between
Bruce’s confident hitting and “glancing” of the ball, and
big Laver’s awkward push strokes was very marked.
Later on Laver opened his shoulders and played an
attractive game.
Judged by Hugh Trumble’s order of going-in—
ninth man—the Victorians have a stronger batting “tail”
than a representative Australian Eleven could carry.
Victoria, on its own, would stand an even-money chance
of beating a team selected from N.S.W. and S.A., and
that’s a fact. Yet the next All-Australia Eleven will not
put more than four Victorians into the field for a test-
match, anyhow.
• * * *
The S.A. v. N.S.W. interprovineial match, last
week, was robbed of a lot of interest by the fact that
Victoria’s win of three matches had secured the shield
for this year.
* * ♦ *
The S.A. team, until getting the morning
papers at Moss Vale, N.S.W., was under the impression
that the match was to si art on Saturday, for which day
S.A. Cricketing Association had it down on its list of
fixtures. A curious mistake certainly.
* » * *
Gregory’s management of the respective bowling
of M’Kibbin and Howell in the S.A. match was rather
curious. Some partisans thought it almost looked as if
the bowling was worked so as to give M’Kibbin every
chance of getting a good average at the expense of the
other trundlers. Howell and Noble opened, and the
former made a start by dismissing the two champions—
Darling and Hill—for 16 and 12 runs respectively. Then,
when “on the spot ” and with two wickets for 28, he
was, to the surprise of all, taken off, and M’Kibbin
was put on to “go through the tail.” Noble at the
time had only one wicket for 31, but he was kept
on 1 M’Kibbin succeeded in capturing five tail-end
wickets for 54, which, despite “ Noss Iredale’s Chatty
Notes,” is only a very moderate performance, and
if on it he is picked for ’Ome before Billowel—whose
two wickets were worth Mac’s. 5 several times over —then
Billowel will certainly have a big grievance. Again, on
the afternoon of the second day, while Darling, Hack
and Hill in turn bashed the ball about, M’Kibbin, who,
on his bowling in the first innings should have been at
least first change, was kept off until about lOmin. before
stumps were drawn, when the light was none too good
and batsmen had steadied down to play out time.
• • • *
Trumper and Gregory were dismissed in m ch
the same manner in the N.S.W. first innings againsi*S.A.
Trumper took the first ball of the match from Jones—a
lightning delivery, which rose shoulder high, struck
Trumper on the fingers, and lodged safely in Jarvis’
hands. Gregory tried to get out of the road of his ball,
but was not quick enough, the ball touched his bat and
Darling caught him out. Another of Jones’bumpy ones
missed Donnan's jaw by a hair’s-breadth. Had it got
home Donnan would, probably, have left for pastures
new.
• • • •
M'Kibbin’s catching of Darling in the first
Innings of N.S.W. v. S.A. was perhaps the most sensa-
tional event of the match, for the hit had all Darling’s
power at its back in a direction where he is particularly
strong, pddly enough, Darling gave Howell a similar
chance in the same spot soon after commencing his
second innings, but such catches are only made once in a
way, and it was declined.
Scores up to time of going to press are : N.5.W.,.
Ist, 379 ; S.A., 164. S.A. followed on, and miraculously
reversed the prospect, putting up 469 before dismissal.
Hill’s 159 was the featured the innings. That left N.S.W.
with 255 to get to win, and it was anybody’s game. The
three first local wickets, however, fell for 127, and Noble
and Iredale were left going strong when copy was shut
off.
* * * *
Harry Donnan, one of the most consistent
N. “ Pennant ” scorers, led off with 160 (not out) in
the first interprovincial this season. He has played five
other interprovincial innings since then, resulting in 0,2,
O, 6 and 1. Victor Trumper, whose club-performances
are second to none, led off with 68 at Adelaide, and has
followed up with 0,4, if), 0 and 15. Both seemed to have
strong claims for England, but their run of bad play—or
luck—makes their show, at time of writing, anything but
rosy.
* * * *
Kensington, Sydney, had its first day under the
new regime last Wednesday, when the absence of the
“ horse ” officials was riot made conspicuous by any falling
off in the quality of the starting. Mr. Fleming sent his
fields away with the regularity of a line of cavalry. Pony
racing will continue about Sydney as of yore at well-
managed Kensington and the Soup Plates, and the only
difference will be felt by the “ horse ” officials who have
been mulct of a portion of their income by the action of
the mighty A. J.C. in debarring them from assisting at
the “ little ” meetings.
* * * •
The law never showed itself a greater “ hass ”
than last week at Rosebery Park, Sydney, when it fined
bookmakers for standing on candle-boxes to do their
betting. The ridiculous distinction between betting on
foot, and on a box, would have been better winked at by
the authorities.
* • • *
Number 5 had a day out at Brighton (Sydney)
pony club meeting last Thursday afternoon. The name
of the winner of the first four out of five races was oppo-
site that numeral, which fact, coupled with that of the
date being the fifth, set the large section of the noble
army of punters present talking about “ the office.”
Several took it and planked their cash on nnmber five in
the last race (“ Yellow Mantle ”) but the spell had petered
out, for 1, 2 and 3 finished in the order named.
* • » *
“J. E. Brewer and R. Lewis, who leave for
England in a few days, were associated with Lochaber’s
win in the Bagot Handicap yesterday, Brewer training
and Lewis riding the son of Lochiel, whose win would no
doubt have been more popular had he showed better form
at Caulfield on Boxing Day. He had previously run in
the Standish Handicap, and the stewards wanted to
know after that race why he did not shape better there.
Brewer convinced them that the chestnut did his best.
He brought evidence to prove that the stable had more
money on him for the short than for the long race. He
got. away badly in the Standish Handicap. There is no
doubt that Lochaber is a smart horse.”— The mildly
apologetic Argus.
And there is no doubt that the ’Ome-going J,.
E. Brewer is a smart owner, though the fact that Loch-
aber started at a short price for the Standish Handicap is
a point in favor of Brewer’s explanation. Assuming,
I'ien, that smart horse Lochaber did his best in the
s,x-furlongs’ race, and was ignominiously beaten as the
result of getting away badly (although he was not “left
at the post ”), the Glorious Uncertainty of the Turf would
seem to be ruled in a great measure by the starting-
machine. Punters who take 5 to 1 about a “good
thing” for a sprint-race are reckoning without the
machine, which almost invariably despatches the
field at the first .attempt, arid is becoming
notorious for its unsatisfactory work. In pre-
sent writer’s opinion, the alleged excellence of the
machine is an Australian delusion. Starts nowadays are
not worse (they may be somewhat better) than in the
days when irascible Geo. Watson and other unsuitable
officials had the management of affairs at the post.
Starts in those days were preposterously bad, as a rule.
The machine work is only a little less deplorable, and
people who deride the conservatism of Hinglish racing
authorities in sticking to the old flag system have riever
seen big fields of horses started by a competent man on
Newmarket Heath. American sports, who are not open
to the charge of conservatism, can see no virtue in the
machine. Yankee jockey Tod Sloan ridicules the idea of
it ever being adopted in England or the States.
Lochaber’s apparent inconsistency of form at
Flemington on New Year’s Day was entirely due to the
bad starting machine, we will say. The owner backed
him heavily to win the six furlongs Standish Handicap,
wherein he ran nowhere. Two hours later he backed
him to win the Bagot Handicap (1J mile) and this time
he won his money. “The victory,” says the Argus,
“ would have been more popular had Lochaber shown
better form at Caulfield on Boxing Day.” Well, the
stable didn't fancy Lochaber for the nine furlongs Hope-
toun Cup on December 26. It fancied him for a six
furlongs and a 12 furlongs race on January 2, but not for
the nine furlongs event on Boxing Day.
* * * •
That very in-and-out performer, The Provost,
had bad luck in getting beaten by Mystery for the Hurdles
at Flemington, Jan. 2. With list 71b. up The Provost
was backed down to 7 to 1, the victorious Mystery being
aloto 1 chance this time. At Caulfield on Boxing Day
the same two jumpers had run over the same distance
(two miles) carrying a trifle more weight apiece, and
neither of them showed prominently. On that occasion
Mystery was first favorite (4 to 1), whilst The Provost
went out unbacked.
• * * *
Lord Richmond, a handsome eight-year-old son
of Richmond and Gratitude, who was backed for one or
two M'elb. Cups in his younger days, seems to have re-
turned to “form.” Eli Jellett’s horse won the. mile
Welter Handicap at the recent V.R.C. meeting, and may
cut an important figure presently if he stands training.
• « » •
The disappointed person who drew Le Var in
the local “ Tatt.” sweep on Perth Cup doesn’t deserve
any public sympathy. It is understood that Le Var was
scratched (an hour before the race) because the owner
had not succeeded in levying on the ticket-holder. After
the scratching the owner received an offer, by wire, of
half the sweep-money in the event of his horse running
into a place. So the too-hasty “ squeezer ” tore his hair
and wept inwardly, whilst ..the man who plucklessly
offered to relinquish 50 per cent, of his rights had the
mortification of learning that he might just as well have
earned the respect of the publio by telling the owner of
Le Var to go to Jamberoo.
* * * *
Such is luck. The drawer of Stand Off in Tatt’s
Carrington sweep made the usual offer to the owner, but it
never reached him owing to some muddle over the
number of the P.O. box to which it was addressed, which
little mistake no doubt accounted for the 'stable deciding
upon Vivian as its representative.
* * * *
Dreamland, the prettiest gee-gee of them all, has
been sold to Rupert Clarke, who will, it is said, probably
run him at Adelaide in the autumn, and afterwards use
him as a station sire. Judged by his constitutional
failures in five successive Melb. Cups, and about twenty
other events, Dreamland is not likely to get sturdy stock,
1 !*- e m -Y '^ n a race or two ' f allovvec * to run a k ic 0,1
e lg side. , . , *
In Maoriland, the other day, Fritz,. Australasia’s
champion (and it may be said only) trotter, brought the
record down to 2min. 13sec.—lsec. off his previous best,
Fritz started in a handicap and stood dancing on his
mark until his field, had gone fully 100yds., when he made
chase and ran third. At Bathurst show a couple of years
ago Fritz showed temper and played Mr. Buckland a
similar trick. A dangerous horse to put much money on
in a race.
* * •' *
“ Over-worked and badly-treated Merman
fizzled out both the legitimate and bastard seasons,”
writes Tiie Bulletin s London correspondent. “In the
to SrSßtft 7S&
favorite, without plates. Bst. 111 b. and the mud brought
him in absolutely last, while Ohaleureux’s victory was
another dig of the spur to owners Cooper and Jones,
Not content, the stable pulled him out for the Cheveley
Cup a few days later, list. 41b. up including J. Watts
in place of Morny Cannon. Four others in, ranging from
31b. less to W. T. Jones’ Tornado 11., lost. 21b. Soft-going
and want of sleep left Merman, at 5-to-4 against, but a
feeble third.”
* * * *
Re suicide of bookmaker Billy M'Cormack, a
Sydney daily says that what made the occurrence even
more sad was the fact that, at the time, several of Billy’s
brother metalhcians were looking for him to help him out
of his difficulties. “Looking for him” is good. It is safe
betting that the poor devil did a lot of “looking” him-
self before he gave up hope and plunged into the Pacific,
The leather-lunged fraternity are not quite so liberal as
they would have the public believe. M'Corrhack’s
troubles were brought about by a certain person giving
the bookie a horse in which he was interested as a sure
“stiff,” and then getting a punter in to back it. The
horse won. Bookie had laid him “ till the cows came
home,” was hopelessly involved, and followed in the
wake of poor Teddy Sampson—for whom, by-the-way,
certainly profusely-charitable brother books were also
“ looking. * , *
Mick Dnolpv IT list hn havinsr a ?sv time with
sSSSSS
mess Michael must make of them ! The Dooley was, in
his day, one of the most punishing fighters that ever
appeared upon the Sydney boards, and unless opposed to
such cattle as Jackson, Goddard or Slavin, invariably cut
bis opponent’s face to ribbons with straight left jabs.
Bicycle racing for small stakes can’t draw the
Melb. multitude this season. The M.B.C. had twopopu-
lar holiday dates for their meet at St. Kilda ground, and
the prizes amounted to not more than £250 in all, hut
the balance-sheet showed a loss of £lOO or so.
*** * .
Platt-Betts expects to be on the racing track
again in Feb If he shows nerve again after his terrible
smash, he will be wonder in that direction as in
the matter of his phenomenal speed.
* * * *
Strong man Sampson has challenged old-time
Prof. Miller to a trial of strength. Failing Miller, Samp-
son might throw out an offer to George Thornton. Capt.
Cook is dead. * * *
. *, -\t ~ -r-r * , - , . , ,
The recent annual North Kent ploughmg-match
took place near Dartford, and was taken part in by 170
teams comprising 500 horses valued at £25,000, and all
these ploughs were at work in the one field ! The old-
fashioned Kentish gallows wood plough could he seen at
work alongside the modern steel balance plough, and the
chiefrinterest appeared to centre in the ploughing in the
champion balance plough class, where several “ old
hands” were competing. The judges awarded the first
prize to Mr. John Russell's man, Richard Mitchell. This
prize has now been won five years in succession with
ploughs made by Messrs. Howard, of Bedford.*
... *
“ A. E. Trott with nothing to do,” writes an
occasional contributor from London, “hut draw his
winter pay of £3 a week from Middlesex 0.0., live in the
house it is buying for him, and accept the multi-
tudinous tokens of good spirit from English admirers,
was bound to be bowled ail over his wicket sooner or
later. The trundler was a P.M. who, hearing Albeit had
both legs and his hands not only in front of the wicket
but before spectators not in the game decided A.E. was
out of his crease considerably, but hoped he was not
‘stumped’and unable to lodge 20s. as a guarantee of
better form during the next six months.”
* * * *
F. T. Hack, the lanky junior in the S.A.
cricket-teams, has cotne into interprovincial matches
with a bound. Last season the Sturt executive did not
consider him worthy of a place In their club-team in Ade-
laide cricket, but this year he has an average of 170 odd.
He is a batsman of the Alick Bannerman order.
Suffield’s Dubious Defenders.
Mb. Griffith, M.L.A., complains that Theßulle-
tin’s comments on his Parliamentary action, and on
the inaction of the N.S.W. Labor-party, in connec-
tion with the Suffield case, are unfair. He says—
(l) The Labor Party never demanded an inquiry
for Suffield ; (2) that Premier Reid never pro-
mised a night for debating the question ; (3) that
no doubt or question as to Suffield’s guilt has
arisen since his conviction—seeing it arose before
his conviction; and (4) that The Bulletin’s
advocacy of Suffield’s claims has a nasty
flavor of party trickery, because it reserved “the
whole of its bother and ceaseless denuncia-
tion” for Preetrade Gould, and had “hardly
a word of censure to bestow ” on his Pro-
tectionist predecessors, O’Connor and Slattery.
To which this paper replies (1) that if the Labor-
party, which professes to exist to see justice done
to manual workers—and any other workers—did
not take the pains, being nobbled by Reid, to give
Suffield a chance to get justice, then it is so much
more to the discredit of the Labor-party. And
(2) that if Premier Reid never promised to give
Suffield’s case the fullest opportunity to be
inquired into, it is so much the worse for
Premier Reid. And (3) that, in the case of
the vast majority of people, the doubt or question
as to Suffield’s guilt (which the C.L. A. Act gives
as a legal reason for enquiry) must have arisen
since his conviction, because prior to his conviction
the vast majority of people knew nothing what-
ever about the case. By raising this quibble Mr.
Griffith shows himself even more unintelligent
than appeared from his blundering advocacy of
Suffield’s cause. And (4) The Bulletin edi-
torially commented on the Suffield case on Dec.
12, ’9l, and invited Protectionist Justice-Minister
O’Connor to look into it. On May 14, ’92, it
commented at length on O’Connor’s comments,
and pointed out —as in the case of Gould —that
Minister O’Connor believes in his inmost heart that the
prisoner is innocent, but that he must stay in gaol as a
sacrifice to certain legal precedents unless some new facts
come to light.
And this paper, during the intervening years, has
made numerous other references to the iniquitous
manner in which Suffield was convicted. Lately,
on receipt of a pathetic appeal from Suffield in
prison which no one of common humanity could
disregard, it has taken more pains to make itself
acquainted with the facts, with the result that its
conviction that Suffield was unfairly tried and
convicted against the weight of evidence has been
strengthened—and its advocacy of Suffield has
been strengthened. And, lastly and generally,
Mr. Griffith might be better occupied in combating
the suspicion that he has been trying to run with
the hare and hunt with the hounds —that he has
been defending Suffield only so far as was not in-
compatible with currying favor with the Ministry
—than in making loud noises when his vanity is
wounded by plain-speaking. Suffield has been a
victim to legal clannishness and Government by
Contradiction.


WHAT WE SAY THEY’LL DO
THEY DO DO . • •
In the final of the £4OO Austral
Wheel Race, the greatest of all Cycling
events, for which 187 of the world's finest riders
accepted, the 16 winners of heats started on
Saturday last. Of these 16, 7 were mounted on
English-made machines, 5 on Colonial-made
machines, 2 on American machines, and 2 on the
Easy- Running Canadian Massey - Harris. In
the 11 heats, bi-
every kind made
country in the
The result of this j
perfection in
ness of propul-
the 2 Mas-
Bicycles
Ist and 2nd.
Meeting, Massey
won not only the
Wheel Race, but
oftheClassic
cycles of almost
in almost every
world were used.
| exacting test of
(quality and easi-
sion resulted in
sey-Harris
finishing
At the Austral
- Harris riders
Great Austral
3 out Of S
Austral
International Scratch Races,
including' the Austral Derby, in all of
which they secured world’s records,
and earned £472 lOs. prize money,
more by £lO3 10s. than half of all offered.
We have all along claimed for Massey-Harris
Bicycles that “ They Run Easy and Keep Run-
ning Easy.” What we say they’ll do they do do.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA
Australasian Hfad Quarters : William street. Melbourne
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Here - o-day!
Tes fees relay!
and To -ori-o w !
WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
un-to-date.
BENNETT &. BAR KELL,
Estab. 18S4. Pitt-street. SYUISTKY.
A<’’ent for “ Naumann and Clyde Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLO METERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank firimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-205 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
171 OH the person who is not a millionaire, there are
J ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THU ITtliSI ISiST,” situated 631
GEOKGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ loll>h’ Kin" -si reel I otce Talace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Genuine
Greener G u rifle?
Can now be obtained through all respectable Australian
dealers, and hear the W. W. GREENER name and marks
—proofs positive of Quality and Workmanship. Prices
from 10 to 80 guineas. Special attention to individual
requirements. Address your enquiries to —
W. W. GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney; or to
C. W. BUCKLAND, Yic. Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elstern-
wick, Melbourne.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH ... RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Jf. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
Terms on
Application.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
‘Garden City’
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value*
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimleyl
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovk.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING!
Will be Repeated
ghe §eisha: <A (Story of a sea @ouse.
Book by Owen Hall.
Lyrics by Henry Greenbank. Music by Sydney Jones,
pgr* PRICES AS USUAL. BOX PLAN AT ALLAN S.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
TREMENDOUS ACCLAIM EVERY EVENING
at that Remarkable Compendium of
Sensation, Life, Fun, Frolic, and Human Interest,
IS lew Batoylon.
Full and Augmented Strength of BLAND HOLT’S
Grand Dramatic Organisation. ,
Prices-3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Plan at Allan s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSLNo.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... •••
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
and First Production in Australia ot
MADAME SANS SENE.
(by special arrangement with Sir Henry living and
Mons. Sardou). :
A comedy in a Prologue and 3 Acts, by Victonen ..ardou
and Entile Moreau, adapted by J. Comyns Uarr. -
PRICES AS USUAL. . ■ Box Plan at Glen s.
XHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM !
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission —ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
iE RECOGNISED AMUSEMENT RESORT
OF THE SEASON.
. . Fitzgerald’s . .
NeW CorpbiQgd SI)OWS»
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGISTER
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location).
Watch the Lion-Elephant Tricycle Act.
mHE GAIETY THEATRE, ZEEHAN.
Seats up to 1000. Beautiful building; large stage, 38 x
48 ; electric lighting; usual stock scenery ; all modern
accessories. Equals any provincial theatre in Australasia.
In a rauidlv rising district, with an amusement-loving
public. Terms from proprietor, EDWARD MULCAHY,
Hobart; or S-. F. Hickom, Zeehan, agent.
The grand hotel, zeehan.
This fine new brick building is NOW OPEN for
BUSINESS. Splendidly furnished, and up-to-date in
everything, it offers visitors all the comforts of a first-
class metropolitan hotel, at reasonable rates. Address
letters and wires to Manager, Grand Hotel, Zeehan.
THE LAST OF SIX.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Matinees every Saturday and Wednesday at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Will be presented the Gorgeous, Humorous and Spec-
tacular Pantomime, entitled
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES-ss„ 35., 25., and Is.
G
RITE It lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
ffee pred Qecnpler Season.
p
TO-NIGHT “ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.’’
FRIDAY, Jan. 13th —“ HAMLET.”
SATURDAY, January 14th,
‘For the Term of His Natural Life.”
ALACK THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. O. M. McADOO.
Mr. O. M. McADOO’S Original
JUBIL€€ : SIN6CRS
and Virginia Concert Company.
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT
An Entirely New and Jirllllant Programme.
—INCLUDING
Choice Jubilee Melodies and Plantation Songs.
Specialities by JERRY MILLS (the Prince of Laugh-
makers), THE ONLY JALVAN (the King of Jugglers),
followed by
Thirty Minutes of Grand Opera
Selections from the “ Bohemian Girl” and
“ II Trovatore,” in Costume and with Scenic Effects.
POPULAR PRICES, 35., 25., and Is. Special Matinee
Saturday Afternoon, 2.30.
Touring Manager ... FRED DAWSON.
Business Manager R. H. COLLINS.
T
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
Enormously Successful, New and Novel Attraction,
When London. Sleeps.
A MEMORABLE PRODUCTION.
IT HAS TAKEN THE TOWN BY STORM.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
I V O LI T HEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss PEGGY PRYDE.
]yr r . FRED. EOELA-R
MONS. AJAX, THE FLEXIBLE MARVEL.
Sisters Phillips ...and... Bros- Lorenzi-
Miss KITTY WAGER, POPE and SAYLES,
Mr. WALLACE KING, FLORRIE RANGER, DELROY
and LYNNE, CHAS. COGILL, NITA CLARKE, and
our Grand Double Co. Matinees every Saturday.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Cora Caselli. Lieut- Frank Travis-
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
Mr. H. WHEATLEY. CONLEY & CAREW.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company,
pjy PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
a
VER
\
!UL
m
SS
, PRICE LIST—.
‘Swift’ No. 1 Lady’s - - £2B
Club ‘Swift’ Lady’s - - £25
Road Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Path Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Austral ‘Swift’ Roadster - £22
Austral ‘ Swift’ Road Racer £2O
SOLE AGENTS
CYCLES
Pitted with Bunlop Tyres.
Tbs Juslrai gycle Spncg [ti,
301 George Street, Sydney.
?mel tit
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Bendigo,
Warrnann'iool, Hamilton, lb bu t, Launceston,
Christchurch, etc.


GOOD
BLOOD
Your heart beats over one hundred thou-
sand times each day. One hundred thousand
supplies of good or bad blood to your brain.
Which is it ?
If bad, impure blood, then your brain aches.
You are troubled with drowsiness yet cannot
sleep; you are as tired in the morning as at
night; you have no nerve power; your food
does not seem to do you much good.
Stimulants, tonics, headache powders, can-
not cure you: but
AYERS
Sarsaparilla
will. It makes the liver, kidneys, skin and
bowels perform their proper work. It re-
moves all impurities from the blood. And it
makes the blood rich in its life-giving prop-
erties.
For biliousness take Ayer’s Piixs. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
“ Ocean Spray,”
Coogee.
Messrs. FREEMAN & SONS.
Gentlemen.
I have used your Flour, Self-
raising Flour, and Batho’s Baking Powder
for six months at my weekly lectures in con-
nection with the Australian Gas Light Co.,
and am very phased with all three. I con-
sider the Baking Powder better than any I
have previously used, and both the Flour
and Self-raising Flour cannot be better. I
shall have much pleasure in recommending
them all three at my weekly lectures, subur-
ban ones, private classes, and among my
own personal friends.
Trusting that you may meet with the
reward your excellent articles deserve,
I am, gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. MARGARET COOK.
Teacher Scientific Cookery,
Lecturess to Aus. Gas Light Co.
December 22, ’9B.
NEW YEAR’S GIFT.
The British (Hatch Co.
| 379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
p UARANTEES to present a Watch FREE of CHARGE
to any Person who correctly answers the following’
Puzzle :
~B*Y O*R W**C**S
Send with written answer Stamped ADDRESSED
Envelope for reply. Our only condition is that you
purchase one of our Solid Silver Chains, Price 27/6, to
wear with your WATCH.
Address— THE MANAGER,
British Watch Company,
379 George Street, Sydney.
Thousands of Testimonials.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n?brocatiop.
Tales of the convict system.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
The latest volume of ‘‘Nationalßiography ”
includes Banker Thellusson. He left his money
so entailed that an ultimate heir would come into
140 millions sterling. Circumstances burst it up.
An Act was passed in Britain to prevent such
wills in future. However, this one was held good.
The second vol. of “Spurgeon’s Life,”
just out, is replete with delicious twaddle by
widow Spurgeon on their courtship, seen through
the golden haze of 40 years. It is a unique re-
cord, comparable in its line to the Canticles ;
indeed, Mrs. S. always refers to the departed as
“My beloved.”
A thirsty sinner lately drank himself into.
D.T. in a M.L. pub., and then hung himself in
the stable. When the constable searched his
clothes, he found six shillings in the lining of his
vest. The licensee (a- woman) applied for the
money, alleging that the corpse still owed her for
a bottle of case-whisky when he died. She didn’t
get it, still the request was noteworthy in its own
small way.
A correspondent, who doesn’t give his
name, alleges that he saw a Respectable member
of the original N.S.W. God-fearing Ministry fore-
gathering with a nice barmaid in a Sydney city
street, the other Sunday night, and, after shaking
her most cordially by both hands, he went into
the adjacent hotel—presumably to have a drink.
The Bulletin views this tale with suspicion.
The original God-fearing Ministry only contained
three individuals, Reid, Suttor and Carruthers
(Want Wasn’t one of the original God-fearers)
who looked human enough to appreciate a nice
barmaid, or had enough Christian thirst to lead
them into a respectable hotel on Sunday. Most
of them were dry, bloodless ghouls who would have
been all the better for knowing some nice bar-
maids, and for having the run of the side door.
The humanising influence of girls and drink
mightn’t have made the ten God-fearers any more
politically honest or capable or democratic, or any
less clumsy or fuzzy-headed ; but it might at least
have prevented them being such dry, portentous
Bores. If old Sunday Brunker would abandon
his clean and holy' shave, and hug even one nice
girl in a public-house, and flatten out with a pint-
pot the man who wanted to dispute his claim to
her, and get home late with his hat covered with
cigar-ash, it would greatly mitigate his dreariness
and do a lot of good.
WHY PAY FOR
A WATCH?
CAN YOU READ THIS?
_A | S*L*D | _S_*LV*R | W*T*H_J_ I_ | G**N__
*F | I~| GU*SS | R*G*T |~& | B*Y [ A roil**N
In order to introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 10s. Solid Silver Keyless
Hunter Watches,
LADIES’ or GENTLEMEN’S, to every reader who sends
the Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS.—That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER SINGLE OR
DOUBLE CHAINS. Send Stamped Addressed Envelope
for reply. Money returned if not satisfied.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH COMPANY, Ltd.
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPYHE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWHC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
BRUSH’S Celebrated Harness and Saddlery.
m
i
W/
u.
W!
Brush’s Pair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Made witli Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Haines, Collar
Straps, Stout Traces, Simple Pads,
complete—No. 1, £5 10s.; No. 2,
£6 10s. ; No. 3, £7 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s. ; No. 2,
£8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.—A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2.—A superior
Harness, better finished, Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, £4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3.—A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.—The “Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
• 1- . , . , _, . .. „ . 7~~ Hame Harness, from 70s.
SADDLED V.—BRUSH’S Stock Saddles, knee-pads only, 42/-, 47/-, 52/6. BRUSH’S Stock Saddles, knee and
thigh pads, 52/6, 55/-, 60/-. Gent.’s All-over Hogskin Saddles, £3 55., £3 155., £4, £4 10s. Gent.’s English Pattern
Hunting Saddles, £3 55., £3 10s.,- £3 15s. Exercise Saddles, strong and light, 55/-, 65/-. 75/-, 85/-. Race Saddles, 60/-,
63/-, 67/9, 70/-, 80/-. Side Saddles, £3 7s. 6d., £3 155., £4, £4 55., £4 10s.
NOTE. —ALL SADDLES are supplied with FITTINGS in keeping with quality.
FOR THE HEAT OF SUMMER.—Sun-shades for Horses, in great variety, 1/-, 1/3,1/6, 2/-. Face Nets, 9d, 1/-,
1/3, 1/6. Fly Nets, 4/6, 7/6, 10/6, 15/-. Water Bags, 1/3, 1/6, 2/-, 3/-, 3/9, 4/6, 7/6. All kinds kept in stock.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales, all orders of the value of 55/- up.
Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies. Remittances can be sent by cheque oi
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to country cheques for exchange
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Go.,
_ _
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 George-street, Sydney.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
:v' THE MOST DEUCIOUS SAUCE IX THE WORED.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND,
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold in Bottles, 6d., x/-, and 2/> each.
Proprietors .* GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEOS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TlhhOCK & CO., KENT and J.IVERPOOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
T>OOK OF NATURE
“ —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated v : th more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ;by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday lang-uage in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR. UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private BOok for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is ; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Arbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About tiie Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of tub Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is Od.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s. .
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mawpin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is ; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing- all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 31-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free IS. TflE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nion. >« fh. 1
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamai t - illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor , ,s.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
Tiie Wife’s Handbook', illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB ROBERT BEAR
Cheap .53 oo It Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
by ROYAL WARRANT OF APFOIUTMEWT I*o “THE QXJEETJ.’
Ask for
Wbi&ky aod
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SO DA WATER, &c.
Ask for
Brafydy aijd
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING- HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
(LIMITED),
DA.FTO falsie Illawarral, near SYDIXTET.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
m
■
wmm
“
*<
•*: J
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAKRA”
J‘.j.
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
IUCIIEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES., PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
lor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbebq, Manager, The Smelling Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


H«rr RaSSn)(iSS€i)’S Alfalioc Herbal RenjcdicS
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever-
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
■ ♦
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies hajVe derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully A. HARRIS, J. P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Svdney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussf.n.— Dear
Sir,—l think it mv duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have reeorn-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, B. A. LUCKIIAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Eemedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr C. Eiehmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Eemedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Eemedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Eemedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Eemedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. -1 am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings Eiver, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
cult!' in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Eemedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a "blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully, v
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Eassmussen. .
Dear Sir, It affords me much gratification to testify to
the e.ticicncy of your Alfaline Eemedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HEEBEET DEUEY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To llerr Eassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfullv different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my eas ■. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that 1 have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to" recommend your Alfaline Remedies'to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To llerr Eassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pilis completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, 1 was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying vonr Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
oni n,y complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. T have recommended your Alfaline Ilerhal
Eemedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NEEYIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
Hie Alfaline Eemedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many' others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.—" Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing-
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—‘‘Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.— “Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide. —“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.— “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen. . .
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
1 suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you. I am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
inaaickl. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my ’P'sh'jnd can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
Mission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen s Alta-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing m
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration' the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some-of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •••
Patrons of Herr Bass-
Herbs anywhere.
r
r.
!
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Eemedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Lavei and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in A ustralia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOII ALL COMPLAINTS,
and
large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“ HIL, Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes* One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers andi
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,.
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35,, 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A\
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly,
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6 J .
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,.
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up.
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure andi
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts;,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l'owder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment—Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo 'derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6-s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparls Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectnally
■ -- _ T.TT.L s ~"/ Registere d) which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
aJS'SISSrtrS" for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Benin, Sharpening the Inteliect and Br.ghte.ing the
£°gh, freeing the WI TH hBX. ABVXOB SBBX
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Office: - 54*7 Georg*e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTAN T BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp- East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Haniian-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
KANOWNA ~ Issabelia-street (next Friedmans)
FREMANTLE ~Henry-street (near High-street)


Coolgardie Warden Finnerty holds the
record for the shortest charges to juries. Sample :
Gentlemen, you have paid great attention to the
evidence, and it is not, therefore, for me to read it
over to you again. That would imply that you had
been neglecting your duties. Please retire and
consider your verdict.”
* Thirst was brought before Melb. beaks,
on the morning after New Year, charged with
drunkenness. He said he would change his name
and take up Brown or Smith, or some other Good-
lemplar appellation. Thirst, he sadly observed,
rhymed to burst, and curst, and worst, and so
gave a show to the Herald reporters.
Meteorologist Wragge has been lecturing
through Bananaland. Lecture consists mainly of
meteorological commonplaces, allusions to Union
Jack, Stars and Stripes, Queen Vic., the brother-
hood of the eternal Anglo-Saxon, quaint scraps
about Wragge and the Wragge family—and huge
yawns of fearful import from the audience,
Eead Phil MayVWinter Number, 1898.
A Marvellous Shilling’s-worth.
_ Im,pot‘tnnt New Features. —7o full-page and small
illustrations, by Phil May and other artists. 15 stories
by the best leading authors of the day. Illustrated
Supplement, containing portraits of the contributors,
etc., etc. The cheapest and best number yet published.
Order at once of your bookseller or newsagent.
W. Thacker & Co., Publishers, London.
GRAPH OP HONE.
UP
LBE
qraES^
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPLIES, from
50s. up.
THE “ALBERT
GRAPHOPHONE”
Sings, Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talking Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&c., £6 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Representatives for Australia. Agents wanted where
we are not already represented. Send for Catalogues
of Graphophones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Musical Instruments and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
the world—“ The BOOMERANG,” 2s. 6d. Trade sup-
plied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdrae-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the beet
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to pleasels.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, Bs.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
[Continental Supply Agency,
‘ Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 66, Post Free.
CRAIG- & AITKEN,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 5U PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
HOW to PRESERVE tie EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
It tells of a remedy with 300 YEARS
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
R. GENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. G-eorges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free, securely packed.
. When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. Miss Dare, Waverley, writes :“ 1 was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips.”
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Ciiarel Street, Praiiran, Melbourne.
Medicine Sent Free
T° MEN L’NTIL CURED of all NERVE TROUBLES,
WEAKNESS, ATROPHY, DEBILITY, VARICO-
CELE, etc., etc., no matter how SEVERE the case may
he. THOUSANDS cured annually. Remedy sent by
mail in plain package. WHEN CURED we charge you
not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. Write
to-day. Address—
HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
P. 0., Box 347, SYDNEY.
MCE SIMMONS.
+
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
+
All Sporting Materials at Lowest CGt Prices.
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS
I NEW SHIPMENT
• JUST LANDED.
BAT?.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-,
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9,
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle ...
>, F. H. Ayres’ditto (International)
„ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
ST PM PS WIT H B AILS. —Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) ... ...
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod
~ Brass Tops, Revolving 1 , Brass-shod
~ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS.-Youths’ V.
~ Men’s
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS. —Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisd'en’s Match
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal e3’elets, spikes
complete (tkis is the best value in Sydney)...
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d,
„ With pegs, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s,
7s
9s 6d,
5s
6s, 7s 9d.
4/9,5/6
4/-, 4/6
11s 6d
16s 6d
13s Od
10s 6d
14s 6d
9s
12s
18s
5s
,7s
12s
12s
4s
6s
9s
10s
5s
6s
4s
80s
20s
60s
ggg SSggggggggg ggg
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
ii Feltham’s ditto q s
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) ... ios
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 16s
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12s'
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s
„ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s
~ Dark and Sons’Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s
„ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s
BATTING GLOVES ... 6s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s
~ Surrey Shields 6s
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7 8
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is6d, 2s
BALLS.—Wisden’s Special Crown 6s
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
„ Coinpo.—Nicholson’s, Ss 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ » Match, sJz>oz., Is; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, &Sl umps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-sho(J Stumps 16s Od
gggo-ogggogoggggggg
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT EOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
BOOKS YOU WANT!
Telephone 2216. '■ ■
WILL
ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER.
CHEAP BOOKS
WILL. ANDRADE:
ill
Wife’s Guide and Friend;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the right to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaugh, prose-
cuted work, Is; post free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mar-
riage Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
irravines and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post,l/9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Tokology, illustrated a book for every woman, 10s 6d ;
post- tree, 11s. How 10 Excel is Business. Post free, ls6d.’
Crisp Tales from tub Frkxcii, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is; post Is 3d. Australian Crime and Criminals,
300 pages, 6s post. Robbery Under Arms, new complete
edition, Is; post Is 3d. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is; post Is 3d. Australian
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, wage earners, etc., Is; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, Is 6d.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
Phallic, or Sex 'Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
G ustave and His Loves, by Paul de Kock ; post free
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, ls6d.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is Cd, post free. Tiie
Same for Girls, Is fid, post free.
Dr. Bkaney’s Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition, is;
post free, Is 2d.
Best Way to Get On : Guide to Money-making. Is 6d
post free. The AitT of Ventriloquism. Post free, Is. ’
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle; post free, Is6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated ; 2s Cd, post 3s. Prktiy Girl of the
Fauborq, from the French, Is 3d post.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere •
WILL ANDRADE/
uppusite Waxworks. 201 Bourke Street, MolbOUm©.
•t* •
' .
The Great Herbal Remedy
v s
VITADATIO
HAS SAVED HUNDREDS OF LIVES.
IT MAY SAVE YOURS.
Nolan-street.
Maryborough (Vic.).
October 26,1898.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Sole Australian Agent for
Webber’s Vitaclatio.
Dear Sir, When I
went to Melbourne in
February (of this year)
for a change, after a bad
attack of my old com-
plaint (the doctors called
it congested and enlarged
liver) my brother said
the best thing I could do
was to go and see you,
but I had been bad ss
long, and although my
doctor was very kind, it
seemed as if nothing
could be done to cure me,
[ bub, as I had known you
in New Zealand, I
thought, “ Well, if Vita-
datio has cured Mr.
Palmer, there must be
some good in it,” so I
decided to see you and
ask your advice about
my case. Of course, as
you are aware, I was
fersuaded to try it, and
am very thankful to
say it has been a great
blessing to me, as I have
passed the largest gall-
stone my doctor had ever
seen; the nearest thing I
can compare it to is a
pigeon-egg, and I think
when you see it you will
say I have not exag-
gerated it. One thing I
feel confident of, and
that is, that Vitadatio
has saved me a very pain- ||
ful and serious operatior
I am recommending Vitadatio to all my friends, several of whom have told me personally that it has
done them a wonderful amount of good. One old lady in particular, seventy-five years old, who has
been cured of piles. If you think this will be the means of getting any poor sufferer to try this won-
derful medicine, you have my full permission to use it. I will only be too glad to answer any inquiries
relative to my case if a stamped addressed en velope is enclosed for reply. Wishing you every success
m this great business, I remain, yours faithfully,
(Miss) E. tT. Mocking.
The price of this Medicine is—Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s 6d.
Ask your Grocer or Chemist. If not obtainable locally, send to Head Office—
S. A. PALMER, 45 & 47 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
I* « !
: ;
3
1
1
:
miMm
West Australian
International Mining
and Industrial
Exhibition
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
XMAS PRESENTS & NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
Thousands of Latest Novelties.
OUR LATEST “REGISTERED” NOVELTIES.
REGS
14s. tid.
Solid Gold,
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant,
16s. 6d.
BEGS
Without Pendant,
13a. 6d.
Solid
Gjld.
NEW BIRD
HEART AND
BELL
BROOCH.
Kemarkabla
Value,
15a. each.
REGB
14s.
VVV
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK
Very Pretty and
Useful,
2s. 6d. each.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope,and
Charity
PENDANT,
6s. each.
With Pin and
Chain, Bs. 6d.
Gold Xmas BELL BROOCH, 10s. 6d
Thousands of Other Patterns.
Full m *>l**mx WALLOW BROOCHES.
Full Size, London-made, 9c., 12s. 6d • 15c 17a Bd n.i,
Set with Pearls or Pearls and Turquote/lls. M P
9c., 13s. 6d. ; 15c., 275. 6d.
Silver, 3s.
100 DESIGNS.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, i's, £B.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £6.
5 lovely Opals, 455., 605., 60s.
18c. TWO HEART.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
* 2 fine Diamonds, 455.
150. Gold Star
PENDANTS,
Pure White Pearls,
725. od., 555., 355.
each.
With Diamond
Centre. £5 17s. 6d.
and £4 15s. each.
Pearl and Turquoise,
large size, £5 10s.
18c. MARQUISE,
set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald,
or Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
POST FREE.
Please Send for Our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
New Gold
HORSE AND STIRRUP
PENDANT, 13s. 6d.
Any NAME or MOTTO.
9c., 12s. 6d., 155., 20s.
15c., 205., 225. Cki , 275. 6d.
18c., 218., 255., 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
ss. extra.
Horn—Our ONLY Australian Address 9Q KING STREET, SYDNEY.


Christmas and New Year’s 1 rose ts.
TERMS
A. H. MOOKE & 00.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. 11. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- ~
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled,'per doz 7/6
Publications, etc.
Mrs. MACCLURCAIN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6 cl.
.To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
m
v
-gallet girl,
With 22 Racy I ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
theatrical and Domestic
Life
Post Free, IS,
Sydney
Confes-
sions
Of a
The Life,
A d V e n.
til res, and
Barmaid.
P&st Free, i/ft
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Bo* 913, G.P.O;,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post flee for one stamp.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
"tTAVING devoted special atteiition to the Second-hftnd
Hook trade, I have irt stock at presetlt nearly all the
Hooks Prescri!)ed for the Junior and Senior Matriculation
Hirst, Second artd Third year course examinations fot
1899 and 1900. Special attention is dravVn to students
and teachers that they can be purchased frotn me at
nearly ohe-haif of their published pricey namely—Abbott’s
Via Latina, 8/6 for 2 6 ; Ransome’e History, 3/6 for 2 6;
Geikie’s Physical Geography, 4/6 for SI- ; Hughes’ Class
Book Modern Geography, 3 6 for 2-; Geikie’s Class Book
of Geology, 4 6 for 3'-; Abbott’s How to Parse, 3/6 for
2/-; Todhunter’s Algebra, 2 6 for 1/6 ; Htll and Knight’s
Algebra, 4 6 for 3 ; Hall and Stevens’Euclid, 4 6 for 3/-;
Todhunter’s Euclid, 3 6 for 2/- ; Lock’s Arithmetic, 4/6
for 3/-; Lock’s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3/-; Oliver’s Botany,
4/6 for 3'-; Oman’s History of Greece, 4/6 for 3'-; Hor-
ton’s History of the Romans, 3 6 for 2 6; Balfour Stewart's
Physics, 4/6 for 3-; Otto’s German Grammar, 5 - for 3/-;
Lodge’s Modern Europe, 7/6 for 6 0; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra,
P AAT STTTMTJPP Second-hand Book Arcade,
J.I" ** * btiAAIM in 105 Castlereagh-st,, Sydney,
Telephone, 3043,
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOP/EDIA.
If nature has not gifted vou with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia w 11 supply the al*t*
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
6tep in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
tneet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets. He productions of curious love
letters and FI FTEEN HUNDKEI) tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, ana incidentally
happiness with oneyou love. Anglo-Amkutcan Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing.
The Editor
The loyal [jjagazine
Henrietta Street, London, W.C,, England,
Invites AMATEUR or PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHS.
... Good Prices Paid .. .
Also TALES of TRAVEL and ADVENTURE.
Anything of Interest Accepted will be
Promptly and Well Paid for.
“X Only Live for Thee.”
Words by Edward Oxenford ; Music by E. J. Emmerton.
Sung by over 20 Eminent Vocalists ; in three keys, E flat,
F and G. Published at 2/-. Intermetzo, “ Federation,”
composed by Henri Laski (composer of “My Polly
Waltz”), the favorite composition of this favorite com-
poser, 2-. Also Chimes of Normandy, Songs of Other
Years, Rose of the Mo n Waltz, and many others. Of all
music dealers. Wholesale of the Publishers. W.
PAXTON &. CO., London and Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Catalogues of over 1000 Songs, Dances, etc.,
at 6d. and 3d. each, post free on application.
HENR/Y FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2*. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
arid 203 Swanston Street, MET,BOURNE.
WRAGGE’S
Australasian
and WeatTier Guide
for
ALMANAC
LAND & SEA
WILL BE READY EARLY in JANUARY, 1899. No
' ' traveller should be without a copy.
Invaluable to captains and all seafaring men, Merchants,
Squatters, Farmers, Miners, Scientists, Mechanics,
Laborers, and Bushmen.
A COPY SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
Order at once from your BookstlLr.
Wholesale Agents for Neic South Wales:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co. Ltd.,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
SAPSFORD & CO., Publishers and Printers,
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, Q.
Drunkenness Cured . ..
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizaheth-street, SYDNEY.
“ Snell”: We were camped on the side of
a heather-clad Gippsland gorge. It was Christmas
time, and financial depression kept us from town.
Ernberg volunteered to cook the Christmas
pudding, and set about the terrible task. He
boiled the composite in a kerosene-tin boiler, and
it swelled like a “ Khrishmiss ” head. That,
Ernberg said, was the beauty of it. But when he
attemped to get the large, round duff out, he lost
his temper and scalded himself in divers places,
and finally he turned the tin upside down and
jerked fiercely with a fluent accompaniment of
curses. Suddenly out shot the duff, and started
down the hill side. Ernberg fetched a yell and
started after it. But the duff increased its lead
with every bound, until the man caught his foot
in a root, and finished the rest of the descent in
two skids, three revolutions, and a wild slide. It
was a dead heat, but Ernberg had to be carted to
the township on a litter, and the duff did not turn
a currant. This was 14 years ago. I believe the
duff is there yet, although I have been told it
occupies a position of honor in a provincial
museum labelled as a new thing in meteorites.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR-
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Missing friends advts. from a recent issue
of Syd ney Telegraph :
R' EG EH (John William), who left England about
1 1853, was heard from atCaversham, Otago, N.Z.,
may be in N.S.W. Sister Eliza seeks you or relations.
TXORRY (Douglas D.), who left London in 1831 for
JX Australia. Brother Charles would like to hear
from you or relations.
"A/TcMAHON (John), who left Six-mile Bridge, Ire-
land, in 1847 for Australia, is sought for by his
sister Bridget.
A/T iTCHELL (Stephen William), last wrote home
from Christchurch, N.Z., 18 years ago; Step-
sister Nell Hastings seeks you.
"pEMELL (James), who left home for Australia about
x 50 years ago, and Was last heard of in Sydney, is
inquired for by his nephew, James.
TJ OGERS (\V. H.), who left the Isle of Wight for
X,J Australia many years ago, and was last heard of
in 1850 at Barber’s Creek ; Uncle Thomas seeks him
(if living) or relations.
T?OSS (Joshua), went to Australia about 25 years
ago; may be in N.S.W. at present time; brother
Benjamin seeks you.
rpITLEY (John), of Tetterton, Salop, was last heard
from in N.Z., 25 years ago, may now be in one of
the Eastern colonies in Australia; is sought, for by
brother William.
Apathetic series of invitations to the eight old
ruins to gather up their creaking bones and come
back home. They seem to have long memories in
the Old Countree. Brother Charles, in particular,
who wants to hear of the relative who has been
unaccounted for during 67 years, is a fine example
of patience. Probably all of them will be heard
from more of less; Australasia is full of aged per-
sons who ate longing to be found by their brother,
Or by anybody else’s brother—most of them don’t
cate whose brother finds them so long as he has
the price of a sandwich about him.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend oh a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending yoti the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakerg
should send to Us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
ivhen they send for an article, \Ve know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG- & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
zn
mm®
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is Gd; 12 Russia, Gd ; 12 Roumama,
(id ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, Gd ; 60, Is ;
100, 2s Gd ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s Gd; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N,, or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
- s
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
moutii & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) 6s.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
't'
e>
IP
OLD
RMS
SUNBU.
FINg
r»r,
</?
HA
<s*
N
&.C
tT
y
s
H
Y
.
HARMLESS
. TO ALL ,
X.DOMESTIC
IM ALS/^fl
1
r
'uESTROYSv
All
NOXICUS
INSECTS
V
HARMLESS
TO ALL
s. Domestic /
1
'DESTROYS'
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
V TO ALL
A
■^ANIMALS/fl
*
'DESTROYS'
ALL
HOXICUS
INSECTS
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
Wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should he Without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W, G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. ' At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
hie, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which- was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
ON€ HON€ST MAN.
"PvEAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, l am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
SYDNEY’S MODERN PHARMACY.
MAIL
ORDER
Respectfully
Solicited.
Shots that
Reach the Spot
Clarke’s Blood
Mixture, 28;
Eno’s Fruit
Salts, 21; Fel-
lows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, 1/11; Pain Killer(Perry Davis’),
1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6. Everything in pro-
portion.
Dr, Clarkson’s
Re-Inviff orator
We still offer
£lOO Reward
for any case
we cannot
cure. This Remedy stops ail Ailments
in 24 hours; restores Vigor, cures
DEBILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER,
and all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed to any part of
the Colonies, 7/6 bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed to Cure.
Caution to Women!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY'S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box ; extra strong, 10s. ; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE HOUSE.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE. SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatesso quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. I ¥E HAVE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
ourSPECIAL BELWADIESk
REALLY a MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
— gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address *
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BEUfor •;
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDEB
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
DRROBERTS’
y’o/}
S/Orf MEAW
d?roberts
AND WOUAfDS
OF £. VER y
DESCR/PT/orE
Iterative piles
rv l - 1 . FOR SKIN DISEASES,
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/STS ///£ £ 2/9EACH
BEACH &B4RNICOTT L°. BRIDPO^T.
WEAK BACKS.
&
LAME BACK, -
RHEUMATIC BACK,
SORE BACK,
LUMBAGO,
PAIN in the BACK,
"whether the result of a
strain, cold, exposure,
weak kidneys, riding,
rheumatism, stooping,
hard work, or dissipa-
tion, are instantly re-
lieved and permanently
cured by
“ Dr. Pierce’s
Electric Belt.”
It sends a soothing,
warming, invigorating
current of electricity
into the body that goes RIGHT TO THE SPOT. More
penetrating than a linament, more potent than a plaster,
it never fails to relieve the pain and take out the stiffness
and soreness, and, unlike other remedies, it cures perma-
nently. It sends a vigorous circulation of blood through
the weakened muscles and cords that builds up the weak
parts and makes the cure complete. It is the one grand
remedy for weak hack. Read all about it in the little
“ Book No. 2,” which we send in plain,sealed envelope by
return of post, on receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Rupture. —lf ruptured, send also for “Pamphlet No.
l.” Address Magnetic Elastic Truss Co..
San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOtTIi & CO, 15S
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAR CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAXELT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
l’rice, 10s. (id.
"I'll Try It." Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken,6Bo-632 George-st„ Sydney
deaf
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Married Ladies.
Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
just issued, 108 pages, illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
Missing Friends.
a > QLDSWORTH & CO., 101 Swanston-street,
I7l_ Melbourne, Australia, trace missing persons
and make confidential inquiries of all descrip-
tions.
Unparai.let.ed Success.
HOLDSWORTH 'i
HOLDSWORTH I
HOLDSWORTH j
HOLDSWORTH J
The “Sherlock Holmes”
of real life.


TROPICAL HELMUT, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. N. Smith t Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
~ ~ Patent ~ 10/6
~ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
„ All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
„ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
w
MM
. . SEND FOR . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies% Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS .
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN AjLL SUBURBS.
■ ; _ r . }***,
* ALSO,
BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
REA* Oer.iw.an Hollow GROUND
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON- 17.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes ail hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & 00., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Hotels.
Pointers !
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortb. Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
** of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL
• MELBOXJR3\rE •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY AND COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
6s. to 12s. per Day ... }- Inclusive Terms -{ . . 255. to £3 10s. per Week.
ROOMS ONLY—at from 2s. to 10s. per Day; 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per Week.
Two Dining Rooms (2S. 6D. & Is.) and Cafe.
*53
1 ..
e/?
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
T\7 HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
” BAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in irreater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says :—“ Everywhere I go I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says : —“ By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair.”—P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20 9 97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. fid, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
&
&
52
E. HOLLAND
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., MeIbVICTORIA.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow ■ ■ - - Friday
Hides - Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trencbard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
Dr. TARRANT,
F.R.C.S.H., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.0.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
■
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing-.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positive^ 7
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
~ acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo IVTan or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced qheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over strained’
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore Sunken
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation' or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects Dreams
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger &o nV
TARRANT makes
Absolutely TNT o Cliarge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eve and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Trouble’s Coughs
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona Jides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be aecommo
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses ~n , w
the guidance of Dr. TARR ANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration and inmart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language. ’ 1
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED-
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
288 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 '-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 0. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c,. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Ilats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
m ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
.. Self-Measurement System ..
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
and Treatise
on the
Human Foot
Post Free.
BEWARE of
JEALOUS (
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS.
c
.-sm
\ >. —. jS C
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven daj's, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS,
Sydney.
635 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Our New Address.
A Silver Watcb
FOE NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD Who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
T E T*M* F R E*E*Y*Q*Y |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling' Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
haye won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir. —Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
.A_ Solid. Silver W atcli
Absolutely GIVEN AWAY. Can You Read This?
W* A*S | T* E | T* M *
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Hunter Watches (Ladies’ or
Gentlemen’s) to every reader who sends us the correct
reading- of the above rebus. Conditions—that your
answer be correct, and you undertake to purchase one of
our Solid Silver Chains. We make this offer solely with
the object of introducing our catalogue and advertising
our goods. Send at once, enclosing stamped-addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if correct. Address:
THE MANAGER—
The London Watch, <ic Jewellery Co.,
3 Central Arcade, George-st., SYDNEY.
•spjoo'
•onoo
Vsdumjo
. Cats, \
V Burns, '
\ Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"PainKiUer
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. NIOXHAM & CO..
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
A Price Warunff. Is. 3d.


Arnott’s Living Pictures.
:
■
a--
:
a
x*.
■ ■
F
0-.
m
TESTIMONIAL .
Mr. ARNOTT.
Dear Sir,
I am sending a photo, of my baby, Cecil
Roddam, aged 11 months. He has been fed on
your Arrowroot Biscuits since he was two months
old. When he was born he was too weak to
suckle, so we started with one, and gradually in-
creasing till now he has a large cupful three times
a day. You can see by his photo, what a healthy
child he looks now. We can thank you that he
has got on so well —he is also very strong with it.
I can with very much pleasure recommend them
to any parents who want their baby healthy, strong
and good-tempered.
I am, sincerely yours,
Mrs. H. RODDAM,
Pyrmont.
CECIL RODDAM, aged 11 months— Red since birth on
arnotts milk
The Children’s Food of Health.
Arrowroot Biscuits!
Always ash for Arnott’s when purchasing .
Tyson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A gaunt, grey figure; pepper-and-salt hair and
beard, peppery grey eyes and salt-white teeth,
pepper-and-salt clothes; holding in the long
acquisitive fingers of his hand a grey wide-awake
hat. Above the average in height, above the
average in intellect. Concentration of purpose
strongly marked in every feature—the broad fore-
head, the keen eye with the alert look rarely seen
except in native races, the high-bridged nose, the
firm chin, the hard mouth. It is a woman who
knew him well that gathers the gist of him for
The Bulletin.
* * * *
“ People say I’m a woman-hater,. do they ?
Then they do not know me. Reckon you’d want
to know women to hate them. I don’t know
women. I’ve never had time to give to women,
and I’ve never regretted it. When I was at an
age to marry I was too busy, and now I’m too old.
The women I’ve known well I’ve liked, but it’s
few I’ve known. I don’t hold with those town
women who put all their husbands’ earnings on
their backs—over the city walls with them to the
dogs ! say I. They wear top-knots like the cocka-
toos, and shriek as loud. I don’t hold with them ;
but a real good woman who is not too much for
starch, and frills, and top-knots, who sets her
mind to making a good man happy, I hold with
her —ooh! ooh ! She’s great, and the more say
she has in things the better for all ; but those sort
won’t say much.
“ Do I think women should have a vote ? That
I do. Anything to turn their minds to more
serious things, and the women with their hus-
bands and sons would put down the drinking-
shops. Woman’s got her brain all right ; for all
that some of them are for starch, frills and top-
knots, there’s many good sensible women with
good head-pieces.
“ Some men tricked me into travelling along a
railway-line with the lady as the Times sent out.
Ooh ! ooh ! But she’d a good head, she had, and
only a hand-bag for luggage —and she a woman.
And she could listen, too ; it’s not many men nor
women you find do that. I saw it was real first-
hand information she wanted, and I give it to her.
I told her about our forests, the value of them;
how the cedar alone that we have is worth thou-
sands ; how I went myself and picked timber-trees,
Jiants of the forest hardly trodden by men. Ooh !
lut our timber is a great asset—and some day
they’ll know it, and that, more than likely, when
it’s wasted —butchered for nothing. A new coun-
try is like a young man come into his money too
young—a prodigal, a spendthrift. Ooh ! ooh ! It
is not just wool and gold we must look to to pull
us up to a nation, it is timber that will help, and
butter and such like —think of the butter made
from the milk of saltbush and grand natural grass-
fed cows—the world can’t equal it.
“Ooh! ooh! We’ve a grand future, and we
must not forget who has helped to build it up—
the good hard-working Scotch colonists, they’re
the men ! First, I place an Australian that’s been
trained to use his eyes and hands, and to hold his
tongue ; then a Scotchman, who can make money
and keep it. They said I was going to sell out all
my Australian securities, did they ?—buy an island
in the Mediterranean and settle there. Well, I
thought of doing so when all the Governments
seemed going mad, the way they were harassing
the squatter. I thought just to clear out and
]eave > em to fighfc it out> ]ike those Irish cats as
had only the tails left—the members are mostly
tails, no headpieces. They’re poor men, and
they’re after the gold, and go all ways to get it—
££.*££££s 'taST-S* S feS?
m i xed) and the country messed up, and good
men are sacrificed. .1 meant to be off, and get an
island to myself just where the climate was tem-
perate, and I could grow melons. Id miss the
melons. Melons are good. I irst comes salt beef,
and & bifc ()f cabbage boiled with it . then melons!
F or dr i nk) tea, not too strong, made by a bush-
man in a billy. Women’s tea is washy.
“No, I never tasted spirits in my life, nor a
g i ass 0 f w ine nor beer. No, nor swore an oath,
no r kissed a strange woman, nor smoked ; but see 1
I carry tobacco. No, I don’t chew, but I like to
have a bit on me in case I meet an old man who
wants a smoke. It s no credit to me to have done
withoufc those things . 1 never had no taste for
them, and what a man hasn’t a taste for he never
misses.
“If I’d married, I’d have been an indulgent
husband-you’re laughing but it’s true; but I’d
have suffered in my work, and never have been
the man that j am ' There ’s many made money,
and wd j again, but none has made as much in one
line as me—none—nor ever will. Men are aye for
change, but I kept on. Cattle I knew, and sheep,
and country above ground. Those three I stuck
to; let them as like go into mining, but 1 keep
my securities above ground . About a future I
know nothing, and I reckon there’s none can tell
me. We’ll all know some day, but on what I can’t
prove I don’t waste my thoughts.
“ Yes, there was once when I had thought of
marriage. I thought I cared for a young girl once—
a fine, strapping, bright-eyed young woman, but I
had to go away to work, and, before I came back,
she had married the blacksmith. I gave no more
thought to marriage. It was all for the best ; I’d
never have been the man I am, married. Yes,
I’ve seen er since, and was able to do her a
good turn once ; things come round, things come
round. I’d no ill-feeling to her husband nor to
her ; why should I ? And I’m not against mar-
riage for others ; I reckon your husband is the
better for it ; you’re cheerful, and no topknots,
“ Starched collars ? No, I never wear ’em ;but
you see this collar, that’s celluloid ; that’s the
thing to wear when you want setting off with a
collar—you are not beholden to any woman then
to wash it for you : just wet the end of your towel
and rub it round, and there you are—good as new.
I’ll give your husband some ; they’ll set him off
when he goes out with you. Soap ? No, I never
use soap ; plain water’s good enough for me to
wash in ; and these cold baths men blow about
taking are just a bit of flash ness—no good to them
at all—just a new-fangled notion, a showing-off.
“Music? Yes, I’m fond of music—the old
Christy songs like ‘ Hard times, come again no
more’! and ‘The Old Folk at Home,’and the
old tunes like ‘ The Last Rose of Summer ’ and
‘ Home, Sweet Home.’ They’re good ; they’re the
music for me. Poetry ? Bobby Burns is my man.
Give me his book and I’ll pick out the good ones
for you. What, no book of his in the house ! But
I’m astonished, and you so fond of books ! * A
man’s a man for a’ that,’ and ‘ The Author’s Fare-
well to his Native Country,’ and ‘ To Mary in
Heaven’ those are good—ooh ! And ‘The
Cottar’s Saturday Night! ’ That’s how Scotland
built up her fine race of men—the good, homely
life ! A great man for the lasses, Burns ! and
that ruined him. A fine man ; but never one to
get on—too many petticoats about. But you must
read him. There’s a lot in him, all against the
shams —a great man ! and he but a poor bit o’ a
ploughman. And the great ladies got hold of
him, too, ooh ! They’re allalike ; once a man takes
their fancy he’s as good as lost to business.
“ Did I meet Lord Carrington ? Yes ; but not
at my own wish. I’m not much for Governors
and such like ; their ways are not my ways. I’m
a simple man, and too old to change. He said he
wanted to have a long talk to me and hear my
view of Australian subjects, and asked me to go
to Government House. But I told him I was a
busy man, but the newspapers were good in the
colonies, and if he read them carefully he’d get a
lot of information from them, and I said, ‘ Good
day, mister,’ and I came away. I’ve no time for
them sort. Then his wife wrote to me a kind
enough little letter saying that if I’d go to Govern-
ment House she’d see that only her husband and
children were there to meet me, and we could all
have a chat. No doubt she meant it kindly, but
I’m not for strangers, so I took no more notice
of it.
“Yes, it’s true enough I’d sooner camp out
than stay at a station any day. I come here ; yes,
I’ve known your husband many years, and now
you are a friend of mine too. Before I go you
must make me a list of books you want; 111 send
them to you ; you like books, and I’ll like to send
them to you. Look after your husband, don’t let
him talk too much. There’s a deal to be learnt
by listening. Don’t let him be too set on driving
four-in-hand ; two’s enough. The men that drive
four-in-hand go out and owls come in, yes ; the
owls hoot round where the four-in-hand men once
laughed. They go down—the men who drive
four-in-hand, wear starched shirts, and dress up
their bottles at the table in white rags. They go
down, that sort! ooh ! ooh ! they go down !
“You’ve made me very comfortable. There’s
things I’d alter on the station, but I can’t fault
the house, unless maybe you feed us too well.
I’d grow fat if I stayed here long, but I’ll come
again and see you, and you must come and see the
Downs country and stay with me. I’ll show you
my books ; I’ve some good ones. Not that I’ve
much time for reading; but some day, maybe,
I’ll take my rest and enjoy it that way. Enjoy
life ? Of course I do in my own way. Going to
theatres, breathing in an air foul with diseased
people’s breath ; balls with women baited to catch
men, and dinners of a bit o’ this to eat and a bit
o’ that, half an oyster here and a bit of messed-up
sweetbread there, and a something you don’t
know, and a something you don't like, and sick in
the morning and no head for figures—that’s no
pleasure to me. I like to make money, and let
that money make money. I don’t like it to lie
idle, not to be making more and more and show
what a grand country Australia is to make money
in if you go the right way to work.
“ Won’t I grow tired some day and want to
rest? I’m tired often, but never want to rest. I
want to see the other side of the world some day,
but I can’t find anyone I can trust to look after
things while I’m away ; I’ll have to die in harness
—keep going, keep going—poor feller me, poor
feller me ! .
“ People say I don’t care what becomes of it all
after I’m gone—the crowd can scramble for it —
do they? They don’t know me that say that.
Maybe I put people off so, saying that I owed
them no answers. It was none of their busi-
ness ; but you’ll see no man who races horses
or drinks will have the handling of my money. I'd
sooner throw the lot over Sydney Heads. Who
do I owe most to in life ? My mother first—a
good woman, a clean woman : a poor woman in a
wee cottage, but clean and honest, and a great
woman with her needle. Ooh ! ooh ! But we
were poor, and not much could she give us ; but,
as a wee laddie, somewhere I got an old gftn, and
then I was a proud boy. I’d shoot pigeons and
gill-birds. My mother was too poor to buy pow-
der and shot for me, so I used to sell birds to the
travelling dealers in exchange for it. Such a fancy
I had for guns that my mother thought to ’prentice
iiio to a gunsmith, but the Bush was calling, and
to the Bush I went. I was not very old when I
made up ray mind that I could save and save and
save until I could buy all I wanted, and I did.
And then the saving habit was on me, and 111
save always, turning my money over and over.
“There’s ways of doing things. When I was
travelling and the meat wanted to travel on its own
account, some men would have minded, but not
me. There’s no dirt in it; just put the meat on
the coals and they’ll out, and there you are—meat,
as good as ever. Many a meal I’ve had off beef
another man would throw away. Ooh ! ooh !
there’s ways of doing things. Before I’d be going
out to the dry blocks to muster, I’d drink my fill,
I’d drink again, and again, until I felt sick, and
I’d drink again, and spue it up, and then I could
go long times without water, retching at the very
thought of it. That’s how I did in those days.
“The blacks? Yes, I like the blacks. When
I was a struggling man they stuck to me ; many’s
the bit of overlanding I’ve done with blacks. No
hunting of blacks from my stations. They are a
great people if you take them right; I’m proud to
see you have them round you as you have. They
are a sensitive people. There’s many does not
understand them. There’s ways of working them.
They are a great people for a joke, and they ve
great memories; never break a promise to a black-
fellow, he’ll never forget it if-you do ; and crack a
joke with him sometimes ; and don’t forget he has
his feelings the same as yourself.
“ Where are your pretty flowers ? They make
the home bright and cheerful, and ay, it’s great
to make a man’s home bright and cheerful; it
helps along the moral sunshine —that’s what we
want to make life wholesome, moral sunshine ! I
never see you pulling a long lip ; always a smile
for an old man. Now, there’s one station I have
to go to sometimes, and there’s a woman there
looks so sour she sets my teeth on edge. What
good is that sort of woman at all ? What s the
good of a woman if she doesn’t help along the
moral sunshine ? ”
* * * *
Tyson never went away without tipping the
little aboriginal maids in my house a sovereign each,
and the oldest black man in the camp, too. It
gave him great pleasure to hear the little black
girls sing the Christy songs I had taught themj
he sent them many new books of songs. We had
another sympathy in common—a love of the wild
birds. I never kept a caged bird in my life, and
when I came to the station I stopped the aimless
shooting for shooting’s sake of the wild birds
around the homestead. I encouraged them to
come about by scattering in winter, when grass-
seed was scarce, crumbs about my garden paths,
and in summer placing stands of water along the
verandah, and there might be seen at times top-
knot pigeons, doves, minahs, magpies, butcher-


A AEW BACK FOR AN OLD OAE!
AND HOW TO GET IT.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
r
5
1 '>
**•
/
9^
\
The greatest enemy to the
enjoyment of hearty, comfort-
able, old age is—Backache,
An active, bustling life has
put too heavy a strain on the
kidneys. These delicate filters
of the blood were never in-
tended to do such hard work
—can’t do it very often with-
out help.
Backache is simply the cry
of over - worked kidneys for
help in throwing off the poisons
from the system.
If they do not get it, there
is serious trouble.
DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS strengthen
weak kidneys ; help them to
keep the blood pure and the
system strong and vigorous ;
help people to grow old slowly
and comfortably—are doing it
every day here in Sydney!
Here’s a Sydney man’s statement: —
Mr. Christian Cresby is a laborer living at 130 Glebe St., Glebe, this city. He has worked hard all
all his life. He is 64 years of age, and has this to say about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills: —“ The pains
have been so bad that they have broken me down, and prevented me from earning my living. This
was hard on me, as my wife is crippled and requires much attention. I felt I had kidney disease. I
knew it from the urinary weakness and the pain in the small of the back, and when I saw this great
medicine advertised —Doan’s Backa/ehe Kidneys Pills —for the kidneys, I felt that was the remedy for
my troubles. So I procured some, and I bless the day I did so. I was never more thankful in my life,
for I received immediate relief. Yon may use this as you see fit, for I can’t say too much for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.”
i i i )n rp ■
Symptoms of Kidney Disease.
Its symptoms are numerous and varied, and but little understood by the
majority of people. That “ Backache ”is a sure indication of weakness. That un-
usual desire to urinate, especially at night, indicates an irritation caused by
brickdust or other sediment. That hot, dry skin, that uncertain appetite, that sour
stomach, that scalding sensation, that abundant light-colored morning flow,
that heartburn and dyspepsia, those rheumatic pains accompanied by chills
and fever, that coated tongue, that loss of memory, that bad taste in the mouth, are
all evidence of the presence of some form of kidney disease.
It is honor enough for one remedy that it can cure well and absolutely one class
of diseases. Doan's Backache Kidney Pills do this with kidney disease, and that is
why they are gaining ground so fast here in these colonies. If now or at any time
the reader have any kidney trouble, remember the medicine that’s made for the
Kidneys—DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, and be sure you get Doan’s.
bear in mind one thing : DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are NOT PURGATIVE PILES. They have no action on the bowels. Their action
is on the kidney, and for their purpose are absolutely unrivalled.
DOAN b BACKACHE KIDNEY PILES may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers generally throughoQ'.t the colonies for 2s. 9d. per Box, or Six Boxes for
w-Tr be raailed , ( T of P rice an ? of our branches, as follows : Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, .Sydney (Main Office); 292 Elinders-st., Melbourne;
54 King V\ llliam-street, Adelaide; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-streeufc, Brisbane, care Elliott Brothers; St, Jolm-street, Launceston, care Fairthorne & Son.
birds, jackasses, peewees, and others, just as if they
were tame, some hopping about the verandah and
hardly stirring when one went out. When Tyson
saw these birds so tame he expressed immense
delight, and after breakfast always used to look
out to see which of my bird-friends, as he called
them, had come, and just as a child might have
done he would call back to me to hurry up—my
birds were waiting.
I can see him now—that tall, grey figure—as I
saw him last, saying good-bye to me on my veran-
dah, shaking me by one hand as he patted me
paternally on the shoulder with the other, and
with a twinkle in his eye saying, “ Your husband
is a good fellow, a good fellow ; but teach him to
listen.”
And now he has passed out of my life to remain
in my mind one of the most interesting personali-
ties who has ever come into it. A man of millions,
devoid of social ambition. A man of millions, as
simple as a child in some things : simple indeed
must be the man who treats a club-man past
middle age to a shilling’s-worth of peaches and a
packet of brandy-snaps, as he did more than once.
A man who has been over-praised and under-
praised. A man who meant well in as much as he
knew. A man who was so sensitive to rebuff, so
suspicious of hidden laughter over his social short-
comings, on the score of which he was deeply sen-
sitive, that he shrank within himself, neither
often knowing others nor letting himself be known
—so leaving the impression that he was a grey
man, in a grey setting, leading a grey life, with
the single purpose of reaching a golden goal.
But, behind it all, I see the privations of his
youth—the toiling mother, the pleasureless child,
the incipient love nipped in the bud, the life-de-
sire to reach the antithesis of his youth—from the
poorest child in Australia to become the richest
man. And of him it may be said, as of how few—
“ He attained ” though at the cost of living a
lonely life and dying a lonely death. May he
rest in peace—poor millionaire !
At Our Repeating Station.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man who is born and bred in the back-country
does many things for himself and his mates which
the city fellow leaves to the woman and the man-
specialist. Thus he will cut your hair, and
cut it passably. If you must be shaved, he will,
after some protests, shave you. Give a new-
chum those jobs though, and But did you
ever try a prentice hand at shaving another ?
Our township is a repeating telegraph-station,
with a blacksmith’s and a saddler’s shop, and five
pubs.—four or five. But its glory is the repeating-
station.
The line-repairer, who is naturally a person of
very much consequence, had come in with an in-
jured hand, and, for shaving, was at the mercy of
the operators. Now, the only available operators
were raw hands from Sydney. Denton is an old
hand in these parts ; but, then, Denton is S.M.—
signifying station-master—and that is only a little
lower than the angels : certainly not so much
lower as to allow him to shave anybody, except
always the Minister and the Public Service Board.
So Farquharson couldn’t approach him.
Rhodes—Rhodes is one of the operators—is an
obliging little fellow, though I don’t think he will
last long in our township, as the dust and heat
are playing upon his nerves. He was not very
confident of his powers to shave, bub he would
try. Rhodes is very obliging.
Luckily the lines were working well; and when
that happens, all one has to do is to keep an ear
on the familiar ticking of the instrument, and the
delicate mechanism does the rest. But when
storms sweep suddenly over those vast stretches
of rolling sand, and jangle the wires, and under-
mine poles, or when the rare rains fall, then the
repeating-operator guesses what is sent to him,
and wearily retransmits his reading of the puzzle.
And you wise men in the city take it without
salt every morning.
Rhodes spread his victim out upon a chair
beside the instrument, The lather was put on
without any mishap to speak of. It was good
soap, anyhow. Even the first few sweeps of the
razor were made successfully, and Rhodes was
encouraged ; though it is true that he had nob
noticed before how dark the evenings were at 5.30.
Sweep, and the razor rang again—
“ One moment.”
A “ press ” was going through; and somehow
the Sirdar and the Tsung-li-Yamen were bumping
one another. They were straightened out and
sent on their way in proper order.
And the razor rang once more to the accompani-
ment of the ticking instrument; but—
“ Hang it; off again.” It was a code quotation
that dragged.
A pimple. That, at least, was Rhodes’ explana-
tion. Heavens, how it did bleed !
“Look here, old man, better postpone it,”
Rhodes urged. “Hear it now. I oughtn’t to
have my hand off the key.”
“ Postpone it! And me show up at the pub.
with five days’ growth on one side and scraped on
the other—nob much ! ”
Now the lines refused to carry an enigmatic re-
ference to the Czar and Pobyedonosteff, Procu-
rator of the Holy Synod. Backwards and forwards
between face and instrument the distracted, ob-
liging Rhodles darted. Pimples—pimples seemed
to start upon that face like rabbits from a warren.
Started! up—and disappeared. And with every
blood-spurt that infernal line worked worse.
Heigh, what ? The man at the other end had
begun to pass remarks, as angry operators do.
And a thrilling hotchpotch which might be the
result of a race, or the death of a prince, or a
commons election, or the name of a new opera
bumped and spluttered along.
The man in the chair had also been making re-
marks for some time.
“All right, all right—here, put on some more
lather. Now ”
More pimples ! No ; half a chin this time.
“ Great Edison,” Rhodes gasped as he pressed
the pieces together and mopped at Farquharson’s
throat with the office-duster —“ I hadn’t any idea
a man’s chin went out so suddenly as that. Here,
you hold this rag there, while I get on to the
other side Oh, damn that instrument ! ”
Anyhow, the victim was subdued when that
hitch had been straightened. There was blood on
his shirt, blood on his pants, blood on the floor,
blood on the lamp-globe, blood even on the keys.
“Now, stretch your neck a bit —yes, that’s it.
Listen ! Curse those wires ! No, I’m hanged if I
do. He can swear and report if he likes ; I’in-
going to finish you, Farquharson.”
Rhodes handled the razor with the energy of
despair, and
The local telegraph-messenger stepped from be-
hind the screen at the door, stealthily. Hu
looked at the victim ; he saw the attitude ; he
saw the blood ; he saw the operator’s eye ; he
heard his words—“ I’m going to finish you, Far-
quharson ! ”
Three minutes afterwards our constable rushed
in to arrest the murderer. Half-a-minute after-
wards our doctor puffed up to see if life was quite
extinct. He had just had visions of countless fees.
Just then the line had begun to go smoothly
again. A fresh coat of lather had been put on the
places that weren’t too badly gashed—
And that was the nearest our township ever got
to a tragedy.
P.
Terse Verse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Snag”: Be broken country and
fissures. Was cross-cutting for a reef lately, and
discovered a large fissure—a very extensive mine,
minus the reef. Rolled a few rocks down it, and
went back to camp satisfied I had discovered the
place where the blooming country went broke.
Came back next day ; could hear the rocks still
going.
“B.” writes:—Here is a case I should
like “Steele Rudd” to give definite and know-
ledgeable opinion upon. I had better begin at
the beginning, so that your “ selection ” authority
and historiographer may be seized of all the facts.
lam well-nigh -10 years of age. I was born a
student —this often happens in old-world decadent
countries. I have read everything that I have
happened on, and dried up what soul I ever pos-
sessed with all sorts of economic speculation. But
still I did not achieve perfect happiness. The
discontented roar of the city and the fetid dust of
the streets are always in my soul. Now let
“Steele Rudd,” from the abundance of his ex-
perience, counsel me. Is content to be gained in
hewing trees, and ploughing root-reticulated bush-
lands, and delving and digging until the body
refuses to delve and hew and plough and dig any
longer ; and then to the slab humpy to eat Gar-
gantuan meals of pumpkin and corned beef, suc-
ceeded by such sleeps as the Seven Sleepers slept ?
And this day after day, and year after year, until
Death did the final digging and turned the last
furrow and buried his axe, as far as I was person-
ally concerned, for ever and a day ? In short, was
Old Dad happy on that selection of his, and, if so,
how much ? And if he was how can I become an
Old Dad also ?
To country visitors.—A duty you should
perform before returning home : Leave a record of
your measures with us, Hordern’s in Pitt-st. Our
dressmakers or tailors will register your measures
free. Come in and have a look around before you
return home. You will find our prices the cheap-
est in the city. We send parcels of drapery to
the remotest corner of this great colony post free.
Hordern Brothers, cash buyers and sellers, 203,
205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
LOVE.
Love is a fire, as we conceive,
One day we’re scorched by vivid flashes,
Then sit a year, and make believe
We find some warmth among the ashes.
PROHIBITION.
That prohibition up to now
Succeeds quite well
In one place only, you’ll allow—
And that is Hell!
WORLD MAKING.
God made the world in just six days—
So much the faithful parson says—
And through these many thousand years
Has man been busy on repairs.
FRIENDS.
With amiable conceit we boast
If we possess of friends a host,
Forgetting that it is from these
That we recruit our enemies.
EFFICACY.
His tiny troubles and his great
Paraded he at heaven’s gate.
So oft he knelt in prayer that he
Has now contracted housemaid’s-knee !
THE J.P.
A conscientious Judge is he,
A fact that he admits himself.
For proof attend his court and see
How often he commits himself !
ON GIVING.
If careless how you give, your load
Of obligations won’t be light.
A benefit that’s oft bestowed
Is next expected as a right!
LIKE FATHER LIKE SON.
Our little follies run in lines—
As the tree’s bent the twig inclines !
THE SLANDER CASE.
The simple fellow goes to law
To stop one venomed tongue from nagging,
And finds when in the box, with awe,
He’s only set a fcvorse one wagging.
THE ACCURSED DRINK.
My temperance friend is delighted to dub
“The route of all evil ” the road to the pub.
PARADOX.
Figures cannot lie, ’tis true,
And yet we know that numbers do.
WAYWARD WOMAN.
So contrary is her condition,
So void of frankness, so unfair,
That woman manifests contrition
Most when declaring “ I don’t care ! ’
FAT MAN'S EPITAPH.
A many greedy, drowsy years
He spent accumulating weight,
And now below the worms, his heirs,
Are dissipating the estate !
THE DOUR'T.
There must be doubt of Heaven’s space
So careful are the men of grace
From where the human torrent rolls
To save the very smallest souls.
ON A LADY.
Raise teeth she wears —I think perchance
To keep her tongue in countenance.
EDWARD DYSON.


In Bed for Months; Terrible Suffering;
Rheumatism Cured; A Limb Saved; Now Works Hard at 72.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
\
4l
m
m
r_
m
m
yi -
"While living at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies and put out a great many pounds trying to get
rid of my complaints, but to no good. .
*< As soon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pam, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
"One doctor told me I had the dropsy, and another told me I would have to
lose ray leg. ' ,
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
"I am now 72 years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every
day.”
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Wales, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
6uch testimonies have given to this remedy the name of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
blood must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Cl I fcsi t «# That ■Cures.
It Acts on the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar Coated, Easy to Take.
The Message of the Spear.
Away back in the year 54 8.0. —1948 years ago—
a little detatchment of Roman soldiers was
beseiged by a host of Gaols at Chaleroi, in the
north of what is now called France. Believing
that no help could possibly reach them, the
Romans expected to fight until they were all
striken down. One day a short spear came
whizzing over the ramparts and stuck in one of
the wooden towers. Nobody paid any attention
to it at first. They just went on slaughtering
Gauls and getting slaughtered themselves. At
length an officer saw something fluttering from
that spear. It proved to be a note from Julius
Caesar —written ip Greek. He said he was on his
way with an army to relieve the garrison. That
note had been there unheeded for several days.
In due time Czesar came and made short work of
the Gauls.
That people should suffer and struggle hope-
lessly when help is near at hand is sad to think of,
but they must know of the coming help before they
can draw courage from it. Take the torments and
dangers of disease for example. We fight them
with all the weapons we have. Sometimes we hit
on the right thing, and more often we don’t, even
when it is as dose as the spear in the tower was to
the exhausted garrison.
If Mr. Robert Lavis, postmaster at High Ham,
Langport, Somerset, could have found a remedy
for indigestion, dyspepsia and liver complaint, he
certainly would not have suffered from it, as he
did, for twenty years. Why, that is more than
half an average lifetime. A single day of illness
is always long enough, goodness knows. But
fancy such an experience stretching itself into
weeks, months, and years ! Common enough ?
Yes, dreadfully common. So is poverty ; but
does that fact reconcile anybody to either '! Mr.
Lavis is not a man to sit tamely down and brood
over a misfortune. Besides being postmaster lie
is a grocer, with work enough to keep him busy.
Under what difficulties this work was done he
tells us in a letter dated Nov. 8, 1893.
“ I had a bad. taste in the mouth,” he says,
“ particularly in the morning, and my mouth was
dry, and I spat up thick, tenacious phlegm. After
eating even the simplest food I had great pain in
the chest and around the heart. I suffered greatly
from sick headache and giddiness, and if I exer-
cised much I got out of breath.”
[This was asthma, caused by the stupefying
action of foiil blood upon the nerves that move the
lungs ; the impurities in the blood having come
from the festering mass of undigested food in the
stomach. The heart trouble, the sick headache,
and the giddiness were symptoms of the same
thing.] • „ T • «T
“As time went on, continues air. Lavis, 1
Oecame very low, weak, and mentally discouraged
and depressed. ”
[A doctor, writing about this case for a learned
medical journal, would use many tough Latin
word’s, but he would not make the facts as plain
as Mr. Lavis himself has made them. Naturally
a man who can eat but little—which little mostly
rots in his stomach—will lose flesh and strength
and come to be of small use to himself or to any-
one else. We can all see that even by candle-
light.]
“ I tried many medicines,” he says finally,
“ but they did me no real good. At last I heard
of Mother Seigel's Curative Syrup, and used it. I
am happy to tell you that it soon relieved and
oured me. Whenever I feel a sign of my old ail-
ment I resort to the Syrup at once, and the disease
gets no further hold upon me. Publish my state-
ment if you like, and believe me yours, &c. f
(Signed) Robert La vis. ”
The Roman soldiers left Cassar’s message unre-
garded for days. It was written on parchment and
fluttered from a spear, as I have said. But, see!
We live in the age of print. Are you ill and in
pain as Mr, La vis was? Every newspaper, every
magazine, almost every publication your eye falls
on, contains accounts of what Mother Seigel’s
Syrup has done, and daily does, for those who
suffer. Read the messages. This is one: and,
having read it, you know where to look for help.
y
TS;
NO END OF TROUBLE.
Farmer Pktbrs : “ No, Jim, I advise you not to buy that
land. You see, the title isn’t perfect, and it might
ldad to a vexatious legal complication, and a long
litigation.”
Jim Farmer : “ Yes, boss, and on top o’ that we’d pro-
bably hev a law-suit. Guess I won’t buy.”
GAS COOKERS.
The “gureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
Thje A UMtratian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until pa-id off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
tW Five yer Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IX THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY,' every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
s=
SPOTS ON THE SUN.
Northfield Obseratory, Eastbourne Mr- G. F.
Chambers recently observed a spot on the sun, the
diameter of which was about 30,000 miles.
Spots on the faces of men and women,
although only one-thirtieth of an inch in
diameter, cause more anxiety than the most
profound solar disturbances. Blotches on
the skin usually follow in the train of
Biliousness, Indigestion, or Constipation.
BEECH AM’S PILLS, a pleasant laxative,
remove the cause. Then the spots disappear.
There is no help to health on earth to
equal BEECH AM’S PILLS ; they are the
grandest liver regulators the world has ever
produced, and may be taken freely, for
nothing but good can follow their use.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS :
GEORGE STREET,
&
SYDNEY.
OCX
I
P Cures While Sleeping.
isisbldss
TESTIMONIAL.
Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & 00., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—-Being a sutterer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expeotoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, ana
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THIS
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION.
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, FLATU-
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.


sa
‘ I M LARGE
;
OF Farm Mia
FLAG
HIGH-CLASS
Established
1847.
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS GO. LIMITED
Head OJJlte and Faetoriet - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq'rt’rs, les-lfio IViUiam-st. Melb.
New Ssuth Wales Address 3
3S Broadway, George St. West, Sydltsy
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated. Catalogue I'ree, on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
and . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookxnan’s Building, Adelaide.
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Core.
ECZEMA
\
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
depots ;
Self Applied.
“OLEIC
Sydney—M. H. Horwttz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Harris A Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbourne—Frf.d. J E. Phillips, 817 Collins St,
A Golden Shanty.
*
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
£
o
o
UQ
O
O
3
3'
UQ
m
o
UQ.
S'
m
n
o
3
■a
01
Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brothers.
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTH I NGJCN
Sydney, 2s .S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ELD-RIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).'
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
a
£3*
*3^
%\&
Jupiter” Kerosene fias Stoves.
NO IS OISE IN EVENING.
Latest Improvements : ® u ™ B Kerosene without a wick, oonvert-
r mg into gas Without Noise or Fumes.
PRICE 12/6 ; post 1/5 extra. This Burner, fitted to our Ovens, will
Roast, Bake, and Boil for a family of 8 at a cost of 1/3 per week.
NOISELESS Burners fitted to any Stoves.
Primus Stoves, 9/6 each ; Price of Ovens, from 12/6 each.
BEOS
LAMP and STOVE WAREHOUSE.
236 Fitt-st. (opposite School of Arts), SYDNEY
THE LAST OP SIX
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
|First-class Accommodation, Tariff, 8/- day.
What is Jlealth?
T?h&umatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Ac.,
Completely cured by Mr. G. F.
PA UKKR, 146 Victoria Paradr,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
■these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
Kir- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a oountrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoo
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxkohd-BT., London., J 3B P ~ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & IGE GO., LTD.
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies) ; the Creamery System of Butter-making 1
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROTAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA* (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
135 KING STREET is ONE OR THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
it
S'X'DIN'E'X'-
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining 1 Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
. . . Sole Agents for . . .
The ‘New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Lfficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
-a-—Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition , every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Baiho s Baking
Powder
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co
Melbourne, 'Gunmakers, corner Kittle Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees olfer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OE THE STOCK 11 D.'B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price _
iB, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price ITO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barr 1 full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and clean.-rs complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price t. 21, reduced t'7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can he supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in anv size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Ordars, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
B.S.A.
-i~ H E LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PAN Y, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
» MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent'SpoKes tall Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10-- dpz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke's Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6 11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
% 3 gross. ZW~’ SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house- in Australia, PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date ’< 7,8, 4 '9, fell), £l2, guaranteed 12 , month~’,
TRADE SUPPLIED - GUARANTEED 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
J. A, Fay & Co’s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
FAY'S HAND-FEED PLANER.
IN STOCK :
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machine*
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
See., Sec.
