

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
USE
C3rTT_<ak.DE : t_A.T?iJ'ms3E!ll> OOOO.A. ./%. ivm
ED COCOA
EXTRACT OF MALT.
107 Kent Street, Syaney,
•9
—r oxv —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, iwiiring Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE &C?
m
-1 * \ Wwi 52
i. u*
t
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGE S T SYDNEY.
27 0
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Boarderg '' at '° n Viotoria - INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° •» pm street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & Co.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE.
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
ECCBBITR.IC IMC-A-OiaiirNriESS, S-A_"W BEKTCHES, & c ., &o.
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The favorite seaside resort, Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last A ■
Twenty (20) Years. BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating', Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toroato.
HOBART.
— zm, —
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
f*. r
oo 'tnv JUqJ.
oc/l
'lNtllll
PIONEER
ILEATHER
Belting
Ur
m, ■■ ~
116 Leading Belt of Australia.
for Durability and Cheapness.
C 1 e *«UBiv.:ly by theN.S.W. Government.
and Samples Free to any address.
J - C* LUOOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
Al 7 York Street,
CRAKonr, •r, • SYDNEY.
tralia • tj v- ns,3ane ’ Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
-- ’ H °oart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
Tales of the System,”
price
Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brand;
Parity Warranted. Recommended by Highest Medical Expert
for use in leading English and Colonial Hospitals.
A Sufficient Guarantee of its Wholesomeness.
Two Gold Medals, Brussels Exhibition 1897-
VAndyek
CIGARS
vcßr
S Wki
tfr
SM
m 8
P®K Js.
The Bulletin
Vo] 20.—N0. 991]
[Saturday, February 11, 1899.
Beg’siered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE RED PAGE.
"In Such a Night!”
—Merchant of Venice, v., 1.
Thou hast tiik most unsavoury similes. 1 Hen •
IF., i., 2.
IT has been lovely mosquito weather lately; and
when the dog who lives next door to aHE
i Bulletin office has lifted up his head and
howled he has stimulated the dog opposite,
and;the dog in the back-lane, and the dog in the
fish-jshop round the corner; and the moon has
occasionally had to hide her face as she did m
Mr. Moore’s verses, whan the lord of the valley
and Eveleen were commemorating vows regarded
by the local Y.W.C.A as highly improper. For
the purposes of the metaphor, a recent complainant
may be considered the next-door dog, who doesn t
look as if he got his tucker regular. Presumably
this is the voice of the fish-shop dog, with plates
to clean, replying cheerfully
I did not need to read Lawson’s suicidal autobiogiaphy
to learn that the writer was specially singled out for
punishment some years before the advent of the First
Germ Cell.
Unluckily—for many reasons—Lawson does not under-
stand why. He goes a Journey by Night in the Dark
Forest, and presently finds his leg between the jaws of a
Trap—and howls. It docs not occur to him to ask who
put the Trap there, and what for. It is a very old Tiap,
and i.t has sharp teeth, and hurts. Anjone can see how
it hurts by reading-Lawson's description of the Journey.
Lawson-on-himself is interesting from the psychological
aspect, but open to criticism when he proceeds as an
authority to deduce from a purely personal experience
axioms for the working out of all future Australian liteiary
problems. All writers understand from private experi-
ence how important the Literary Ego is to itself—but
some learn to believe that this importance is nothing
whatever in comparison with the importance of Litera-
ture. A man’s sense of his own injuries may be keen ,
but he will bear the inflictions more bravely when he
traces them to their correct pathogenic source ; lie may
even get to bear them with as much fortitude as if they
were those of his friends.
• * * *
The Higher Intelligence is nowhere evenly diffused :
there is a limited number of bodk-buyers and readers in
any population ; the population of this country is small
in comparison to that of England (Lawson s Literal y
Paradise) -consequently there is a smaller sale for locally-
published books ; result, a poorer remuneration for local
writers. This is a Fact —one of the Teeth in the Trap.
Other cold, automatio faots indicate that a great deal
not only of Literature, but of Art and Ethics— and Pro-
gress.—is the indirect product of a sense of personal in-
justice—the everlasting grievance against things in
general; but that really does not affect the-quality of the
result, from the general or critical point of view. This
appeal of writers to the personal sympathies of readers
is one of the most reprehensible things in literature. As
if the feelings of the reader are not of far greater bulk
and account than those of the writer!
It would be indecent on the part of the player who,
after suffering much mental and phj'sical injury, has been
cruelly killed off on the stage in the last act, to oome
before the curtain and beg the pity of the audienoe. The
audience went there purposely to see him suffer and die.
The more life-like the suffering and death, the better they
relish it. To paraphrase Lessing— “ Everything stoical is
untheatrioal ; the interest is always commensurate with
the amount of suffering displayed by the object of inter-
est.” And if the Tragedian does not like Tragedy, let
him take to Light Comedy ; his audiences can laugh as
well as weep—it is questionable if they will not draw a
greater amount of pleasure from laughter than from tears.
Tears have a certain consolation of their own; but it is of
a religious character, allied to the feelings of the mariied
man who comes back to a chaste wife after a trip to
Japan ; and, like all these religious joys, it is respectable
but not thoroughly satisfying.
* * * *
This outcry against Circumstances—which ante-date
Poetry—this irritation by Facts whioh are independent
of all Mankind and all Metres, this childlike sobbing for
special consideration, for undivided Love, is interesting
in poets. I have been affected by it myself earlier in life ;
and I know women of forty-particularly single women—
who suffer from a kindred feeling. It is classed by later
medical writers under the heading of hysteria. It is allied
to epilepsy and neurosis. The doctors prescribe bromides,
and sometimes chloral.
Of the Yelp we have had many peculiar examples.
Two instances occur. Poe’s last words —“ It’s all over !
Write, Eddie is no more.” How his voice must have
broken at the “ Eddie! ” Poe wa3 a man infinitely sorry
for himself (witness, “ The Dream within a Dream ’’), and
“ Eddie ” was his pet name! And Keats’ tearful request
to have scribed over him the familiar epitaph : “ Here
lies one whose name was writ in water.” It was an
appeal to the sympathies of the audience. These men
pursued literature, and found it hard—and neither of
them took sufficient physical exercise.
Lawson tells us in his auto-biog. how “ hard graft ”
agreed with him. After four or five months of it he was
“ too healthy to read or write or bother about it.” He
was so healthy that the importance of literary recogni-
tion was as nothing to the importance of frequent “ plum-
duff.” His grievance was transformed from the editor to
the cook. But he was still the Man with a Grievance.
Lawson.thinks he mtisf be unhealthy to write. I hold
that the literary output of unhealthy minds and bodies
is likely itself to be unhealthy; and I have a thousand
arguments to support the view. Lawson s best work will
probably be done when he is a whole man. I will admit
that the Pursuit of Literature in these provinces is hard.
It is perhaps harder in England—the literary Aidenn of
the tired Australian writer ; but it is no harder than the
pursuit of bricklaying, or stoking, or stevedoring, or the
pursuit of a mercantile clerkship at 30s. a week of 84
working hours; and the Pursuer in any of these pro-
fessions receives no press notices whatever.
By the fact that I am not already a millionaire I con-
clude that prices paid for contributions by Australian
journals are not princely ; but this is the fault of acci-
dent ; elsewhere newspapers are run by rajahs for the
sole purpose of enriching the contributors.
I may be considered old-fashioned and Pharisaical in
my ideas, but I contend that the first duty which every
man,'sound in mind and limb, owes to his community is
to make a living; and this to me is the only modern
heroism worth mentioning. And I am not speaking as
one absolutely unacquainted with the difficulties which
Lawson enumerates in his experiences when I assert that
it is easier to live on the continent of Australia, and
to live freely and well, than on any other civilised section
of this planet. <qp>
* * * *
The impecuniosity, er deception, of Labor newspapers
and Workers’ Unions appears to have galled Lawson as
much as anything. I understand that. I edited and
wrote the Australian Workman for some months at an
indifferent salary. My board of directors was composed
of a cabman, a stonemason, a compositor, a general
laborer, and a cabinetmaker; and the manager was a
ship’s steward.
Only good health and a hereditary sense of hungt?
saved me from chronic misanthropy. And this same sefcy
showed me ultimately that the enthusiast was a fellow
who fell in love with a girl in a book when he was young,
and would not have anything to say to the girls down the
street. But when he grew older he saw that he had the
earth, and wanted the moon; that a pink reality was
worth all the impossibilities; and he forsook his “ white
ideal” on the spot.
Lawson grieves that his enthusiasm, and the accidents
which kindled it, are extinguished ; but that has nothing
to do with Australian literature. Lawson no longer seeks
for an earthly Eldorado of Truth and Justice ; but that
has nothing to do with Australian Literature either.
These things are merely incidents in the evolution of an
individual ; and Lawson has no more right to blame the
Country for the imperfection of human affairs, or to ask
the world’s condolence in a quite juvenile bereavement —
the loss of his ideals—than to blame the inclination of
the planetary axis of rotation for the absence of perennial
summer. When ideals are dead they should be decently
buried. They make excellent fertilisers.
The Anglo-Australian literature—yet in swaddling-
clothes—will, like the literature of England, be the re-
sult of hard pursuit and laborious self-denial —and Time.
It will probably be, on the whole, a very cheerful litera-
ture, because Australia is struggling hard to be a cheer-
ful country, in spite of The Bulletin. Carlyle liked this
country, because here a man might have meat for his
labor. Shakespeare would have liked it, only for the in-
different quality of the local beer. Obviously the hale
singer of Stratford wrote on good ale, and his work is
highly impersonal . . . and he left a little less money
than Jay Gould to be divided among his heirs. Yet it is
not recorded that he complained that literature was hard.
Privateering paid belter, as his contemporaries, Francis
Drake and others, proved ; but Shakespeare stuck to
letters. No doubt he growled sometimes ; but he didn’t
let his grievance get into his work. He did not even
let it get so far as to reward virtue before the curtain at
the expense of art. He had a keen appreciation of the
difference between drama and melodrama, and he over-
came the temptation in the fifth act to spare Othello—
who was his personal friend, and kill Tago—who was a
publisher. It is melodrama that Australian literature has
chiefly to avoid.
* « » •
Lawson has suffered a great deal. I have reasons for
knowing that he has not over-stated his facts; and
admirers of his undoubted genius cannot fail to be abso-
lutely sorry for the picture he paints of his experiences in
the pursuit of literature. But when, drawing a moral
from his own misfortunes, he advises the young Austra-
lian writer to flee his native country as a land accursed —
“to seek London, Yankee-land. orTimbuctoo, rather than
stay in Australia till his genius turns to gall or beer, or,
failing this, to shoot himself carefully with the aid of a
looking-glass”—l am forced to rise as one young Austra-
lian writer, and announce that I am not taking any.
This our native country is good enough for some of us
still. There was a beautiful sunrise this morning—ltaly
never saw a fairer; and the vineyards of Central Cumber-
land are full of grape-blood this month —the mother of
good red hermitage and claret and sherry ; and the thorn
flowers in January.
The “ gaunt selector” next to me knocked off at four
o’clock this afternoon to go shooting, and the “gaunt
selector ” next to him went to a horse-race earlier in the
day.
We have r.o objection to invading London, some of us,
for purely commercial purposes—for the loot of Fleet-
street ; but we will not “ go steerage ” because it is dis-
agreeable ; and we will not “ stow away” because of the
penalties ; and we will not “ swim” because it is too wet;
and we prefer to go rather as conquerors than exiles, and
with some coherent claim for admission to the literary
company of the workers and thinkers of our language.
* • * *
The price of achievement in all things is effort. If
Australia is to have a distinot, characteristic literature, it
can only be given her by men who will be prepared to
labor patiently and consistently in a remote province
with a remote possibility of personal reward. Those
men who do not feel strong enough for the struggle are
at liberty to stand dcwn. Spinoza earned enough bread
to keep body and soul together by polishing lenses, and
thought and wrote. If a man has anything worth saying
he will ultimately be heard. Spinoza was heard. Colum-
bus knew the world was round : but he had to wait a
long time for the opportunity to prove it: when the thing
was proved people listened. Sometimes they only listen
after the man is dead. But this again does not affect the
quality of the result. Heine on his mattress-grave was
cheerful. He had a harder time than some Australian
writers, and I am afraid he wrote better than others.
There is no necessity to multiply examples.
My advice to young Australian writers is simply
“ Keep your bowels open and trust to the Lord.” No-
body starves in this country; but nearly everybody has
a chance of drawing a Cup winner. Lawson’s confessions
are candid; but they must be accepted in the light of a
personal example—the example of a man of unquestioned
ability who has worked so far under a considerable handi-
cap ; not the least of which is a generous, confiding
temperament.
This pessimistic Australian literature, this unlucky
melancholy of Kendall, and Gordon, and Clarke, will
later on be viewed in the light of these writers’ tempera-
ments and misfortunes, and judged accordingly ; and it
will be found then that the men, and not the country, are
responsible for the gloom and misery of the song. It will
be also admitted, of course, that there were great excuses
for the men. But the work will no longer be regarded
as typical or illustrative or descriptive of the country
in which these men lived and lamented. It will be
understood that they viewed Australia as eick people,
from a hospital window. — E. J. Brady.
* * * *
And here is a regular chorus (watch the
moon !) —
Be Henry Lawson’s auto-
biography and concluding
moral that £7OO is a poor re-
turn for the odd jottings of
12 years, and his general
growl at the local public that
has purchased 15,000 of his
rather scrappy volumes. If
it is a fact that he made a
bad publishing bargain,
threw away the banquet for
a mess of pottage, whose
the fault? Doubtless no
one does enquire if a local
writer leaves us with a fiver
in his pocket, from a pre-
vailing and healthy idea
that the local writer, unlike
the singer, painter, or play-
actor, requires no spoon
feeding, official or other-
wise. I, for one, fail to
understand why N.S.W.
should give H.L. a billet
or free-railway pass, or treat
him otherwise than any
other flighty worker who has
badly managed his financial
affairs; nor do the encum-
brances add to the claim,
for, by parity of reasoning,
the present scribe would be
entitled to four billets—
paternity is cheap. But the
. . . The story of early
struggles against numerous
difficulties, as told by Henry
Lawson in The Bulletin, is
an instructive lesson, and
there will be few of the
many readers thereof who
will not sympathise with
the now popular author in
his battle with adversity.
The simplicity and force of
the language is delightful,
though the story is a sad
one, doubly sad when we
consider the vast wealth
possessed by so many in this
new land who are actually
crying aloud for an outlet
for their hoarded treasure.
Not one of whom could be
found to take a “ strag-
gler ” like this boy by the
hand and enable him to
earn a living a little easier
and more regularly than so
far has fallen to his lot!
Just fancy the cream of 12
years of literary life of one
of the brightest intellects
in sunny Australia bringing
to the gifted, but unfor-
tunate, author £2OO, with
all rights dead gone so far
as he is concerned 1 Small
most serious symptom, in
Vthis ions lament, is the pes-
simism ;—because the fol-
lowers of the “ Cause ” were
not all actuated by its high
prittciples, then, by infer-
ence, the “ Cause ” may go
hang, as though all Causes
whatsoever have not at-
tracted Judas Iscariots. The
loss of a champion the
“Cause” can stand; but
can H.L. afford to lose the
“ Cause,” to lose FaitH? For
the soul of literature is
faith, faith in something
beyond mere dollars that
imperceptibly filters through
to the reader and brightens
the prosaic day; faith of
some kind the writer must
have, or be damned with
arid materialism. He may-
have faith in Art; he may
have faith in himself; he
may even have faith in
God.—H.F.
. . . Why are you as
poor to-day, Henry
Lawson, as far as worldly
possessions are concerned,
as you were when you
started as a battler? An-
swer : because you roamed
too much. Do you remem-
ber how you made the brass
fly in ’B3-’B9—when you
wrote ballads for the T. and
C. ? I do, for I saw you.
As a battler no one expected
you to be an angel. But
you have yourself to blame.
“ For’ard ” says, “ We are
driven to New Zealand to be
shot out over there.” Not
necessarily. You may have
been driven from Sydney ;
not from the country. Every
man can get work if he will
look for it. You can shear.
Isn’t it a fact that a good
battler of a shearer can get
three sheds a year if he
works methodically ? Can’t
a machine shearer make his
£lOO in the one season—say
three months—if he gets a
chance ? He can live for the
rest of the year then and do
nothing if he likes. You
relate how you were broke
here, there and everywhere.
It was your own fault.
Listen ! lam twenty, you
are thirty; lam your double
in all, bar the deafness. The
drought hunted you from
Guntawang in the BJ's. It
hunted us from our selec-
tion, too, on the Q. border.
I studied ever since I could
tell one end of a bullock
from the other. I schooled
till 14 ; I haberdashed till
15; I chucked the white
collars and snagged it till
16—deliberately. I wanted
material to write up after-
wards. Did you chuck all
comforts to follow the swag-
men at 16 ? No, you didn’t.
You did at 22, when you
were forced. I clerked and
did half a hundred jobs
till 17; I taught school till
wonder he is poor, whilst
thousands read his books
and admire the author.
Just think of the hundreds
fattening in good Govern-
ment billets that never
knew a day’s hardship,
many of whom are not fit to
unbuckle the shoe of a man
like Henry Lawson, yet
when this hard-up Austra-
lian-born man with brains
and a wife and child to sup-
port applied to a paternal
Government for temporary
work “ he was kept hanging
about for weeks.” At last
in despair he applied for a
railway pass to enable him
to get work in the country,
&c. He says : il I did not
receive a reply.” Yes,
Henry Lawson, your story
is a sad one, but it is. an
admirable and a brcrre ; it is
the crying aloud of the voice
of knowledge that refused,
despite its poverty, to be
stifled. The grit was in you
and you were bound to con-
quer, and with a little more
wisdom as to the value of
your work you will go on
conquering ; then those who
have been hardest upon you
will greet you loudest. . . .
Harry Stockdalr.
. . . After an unsatisfac-
tory experience of Austra-
lian journalism I turned to
play-writing, and so far have
been told by some who claim
to know that I have done
better than any playwright
resident in the country. I
am not going to be as frank
as Henry Lawson and state
my exact income for, say,
the last five years, as such
a course might tend to pro-
mote an undesirable com-
petition in a field which, at
present, is practically my
own. At least I have not
encountered my rivals, if
there be any, at the mana-
ger’s office on Treasury
day. But if the fact be of
any interest I will go so
far as to say that I have
conclusively proved, per-
sonally, that plays are to be
sold in Australia. I never
work except on commission,
with a retaining-fee paid at
the start, and I have re-
ceived six such commissions
during the past 2J4 years.
I have sold outright nine
plays while resident in
Sydney, and my account-
book shows that the price
paid for one of them ran
into three figures. A one-
act piece (recently produced
in Sydney), involving, two
weeks’ work, and playing
only lialf-an-hour, sold for
20 guineas, and one at pre-
sent going in M.L. was pur-
chased for considerably over
that amount. And that is
better than even writing
stories for The Bulletin !
Bernard Espinasse.
nearly 18 ; shore, fenced, did all kinds of bush work
till almost 19 ; edited a successful country paper for 12
months, till nearly 20—been swagging ever since. I
tramped nearly 2000 miles as a swagman all totted up.
I’ve slept in the Domain in the bitterest winter,
and starved penniless, and felt like a criminal.
Did you do all these things deliberately ? No, you were
forced to. Then who should be the more bitter, you or I
—for that matter, I should; because I had every com-
fort. I am never bitter except when I have money;
when I haven’t, I laugh. I worked on pioneer lines, and
earned enough to take me to London and back. I did ;
and had no friends, and am much shyer than ever you
were. What did Ido these things for? That I might
make a name, not knowing whether I had the ability or
not. I didn’t start with an implicit faith in human
nature. I have none at all. And how much encourage-
ment had I? A few paragraphs in The Paper—this
Paper, none of which were more than a few inches
in size. I have had no story or verse published yet.
I claim a better knowledge of your whole work than
every other Australian. But now, as it were, having
your literary autobiography before me, that work can
never have the same fasoination for me as of yore. You
seem to have diminished its value. You have made me
uneasy. To be brief, you have disappointed me. Yet,
in your dream, “ The Writer’s (own) Dream," you
say—
“ By the dumb heart-hunger and dreams of youth, by
the hungry tracks I’ve trod—
I’ll fight as a man for the sake of truth, nor pose as a
martyred God;
By the heart of Bill and the heart of Jim, and the men
their hearts deem white,
By the handgrips fierce, and the hard eyes dim—with
forbidden tears—l’ll write," . , . I—7 x 7.
• * * *
Mercy on us ! Mercy on the moon ! , . . From
the back lane a solo ascends—
I once wrote, concerning Henry Lawson, that his verse
impressed me the less in that its prevailing pessimism ap-
peared more to be pumped-up for the sake of his song
than to embody his natural turn of thought, impera-
tively finding outlet in the song. But The Bulletin—
perhaps remembering that, as regards our Henry, “genus
irritabile vatum ” was certainly not written in vain—did
not print me to the effect aforesaid. Which was well ;
because—reading Lawson’s recent epitome of his career—
I see reason to modify my opinion. I now believe that
not for merely lyrical purposes is Lawson iconoclastic,
and revolutionary, and Uniyerse-impeachative generally.
Some veneer of rhetorical sound and fury there doubtless
is, but Lawson’s pessimism is, after all, in grain. He (at
present) “ sees yellow,” and will, belike, keep hammering
away for years to come at that “painful riddle of the
world ’’ to which—as less querulous (and, if Lawson will,
more ignoble) philosophers, like myself, are content to
believe—there is no answer.
The gravamen of Lawson’s indictment of Things in
General lies in his belief that his talent—or, if he prefer,
genius—has, in the land of his birth, been inadequately
appreciated, and his mere labour insufficiently paid-for.
On which account he adjures “any young Australian
whose talents have been recognised ” to hie him incon-
tinently to “ London, Yankeeland, or Timbuctoo, sooner
than stay in Australia till,” &o. (The full passage
will likely become a classic of Australian discontent—
and world-ignorance.) “The Talented Young Aus-
tralian” might just as well “turn his genius”—
it is genius, then 1—“ to gall—or beer,” in Sydney, as to
wormwood —or gin, in London. London, which having
picked what suits her from the horde of “talented
young’’—Australians and others—pressing ever to her
feet—calmly tramples the others into the mud of an
oblivion which need not necessarily have been theirs had
they held on at home for the mental widening and
deepening—the intellectual reinforcement and corrobor-
ation—without which (with very rare exceptions) no
enduring literary mark has ever been made. The trouble
with too many of our aspirants, in a word, is that they
are agog to strike before the iron is hot; they want to
engage all along the line before their ammunition-wag-
gons have come up.
Though, in labouring with his hands, Lawson has
quitted him right manfully, he appears to me to have
developed, or to be now developing, that dry-rot of the
Iner manhood—self-pity. Pity for others—irrespective
its moral or humanitarian aspects—is an actual mental
.nic ; but, when a man takes seriously to commiserating
mself, he throws open his flank to Fate. That she
lesn't always charge home is his luck, merely.
Just to get the perspective of things as regards Law-
in's not-ineloquent plaint, I might say something of my.
If. Lawson's experiences with publishers, in the first
ace, have been positively princely as compared with
line of mine. Lawson complains that for his two books
lostly of matter which had already been published and
lid-for) he received but £2OO in all. Well, for all rights
my “Sword of a Sin” —a novel, good or'bad—l re-
lived exactly £l2los. Of course I wanted more, and have
nee tried to get more; but for my failure therein 1
lither pity myself nor revile the publishers. I simply,
hen the recollection of the “ deal ” intrudes upon me,
ill the attention of one Alex. Montgomery to the fact
lat he is in some respects a really fine specimen of fool
id has, as such, been for the most part rightly served.
As to up-and-downs of fortune, also, I have had crowded
to my half-century of existence a variety of vicissitude
r the side of which Lawson’s record would read like
mimonplace’s self. I have been wrecked, starved,
ibbed, hocussed, clubbed, swindled, shot at, maligned,
id, as the last straw, unjustly disinherited. But the
Linel’s (or, is it the ass’s?) back has obstinately refused
i break. I’ve never howled ; and I’m not howling now
only illustrating.
Wherefore, O Henry, be of better cheer ! Haul not
>wn thy colours thus untimely, and regard not the
iblisher-man generically as thy natural enemy. In-
vidually, I grant thee, too many of him are ready to
•ind thy bones, and mine, to make him bread ; but if I,
; twice thy .years, have not lost hope of some day strik-
ig against one in whom the bowels, by some strange
lance, have not been omitted, surely it is full soon for
lee to go and sit amongst the potsherds.— Alex.
o.vraoMERV.
* • * •
The clouds scurry and scatter; the rift of purple
idens to a sea, with one round sail of silver.
How the moon triumphs through the endless
ight! ” There is a great silence.
PIPES AND BEER.
Before I was famous I used to sit
In a dull old underground room I knew, §
And sip cheap beer, and be glad for it, 'A
With a wild Bohemian friend or two. -£*
And oh, it was joy to loiter thus,
At peace in the.heart of the city’s stir, M
Entombed, while life hurried over us,
In our lazy bacchanal sepulchre.
There was artist George, with the blonde Greek head,
And the startling creeds, and the loose cravat;
There was splenetic journalistic Fred,
Of the sharp retort and the shabby hat;
There was dreamy Frank, of the lounging gait,
Who lived on nothing a year, or less,
And always meant to be something great, !
But only meant, and smoked to excess. |- i
And last, myself, whom their funny sneers
Annoyed no whit as they laughed and said
I listened to all their grand ideas
And wrote them out for my daily bread ! '« -J ..
The Teuton beer-bibbers came and went,
Night after night, and stared, good folk, '
At our table, noisy with argument,
And our chronic aureoles of smoke.
And oh, my life ! but we all loved well
The talk,—free, fearless, keen, profound,—
The rockets of wit that flashed and fell
In that dull old tavern underground !
But there came a change in my days at last, /•
And fortune forgot to starve and stint,
And the people chose to admire aghast
The book I had eaten dirt to print.
And new friends gathered about me then, rM
New voices summoned me there and here ;
The world went down in my dingy den,
And drew' me forth from the pipes and beer.
I took the stamp of my altered lot,
As the sands of the certain seasons ran,
And slowly, whether I would or not,
I felt myself growing a gentleman.
But now and then I would break the thrall, '
I would yield to a pang of dumb regret,
And steal to join them, and find them all,
With the amber wassail near them yet— .y
Find and join them and try to seem
A fourth of the old queer merry three, >
With my fame as much of a yearning dream
As my morrow’s dinner was wont to be.
But the wit would lag and the mirth would lack,
And the god of jollity hear no call;
And the prosperous broadcloth on my back
Hung over their spirits like a pall 1
It was not that they failed, each one, to try
Their warmth of welcome to speak and show ;
I should just have risen and said good-bye
With a haughty look had they served me so.
It was rather that each would seem instead, -•
With not one vestige of spleen or pride,
Across a chasm of change to spread
His greeting hands to the further side. -
And our gladdest words rang strange and cold,
Like the echoes of other long-lost words ;
And the nights were no more the nights of old
Than spring would be spring without the birds !
So they waned and waned, these visits of mine,
Till I married the heiress, ending here.
For if caste approves the cigar and wine,
She must frown perforce upon pipes and beer.
And now 'tis years since I saw these men,
Years since I knew them living yet;
And of this alone I am sure since then—
I That none has gained what he toiled to get.
For I keep strict watch on the world of art,
And George, with his wide, rich-dowered brain !
His fervent fancy, his ardent heart,
Though he greatly toiled, has toiled in vain.
And Fred, for all he may sparkle bright
In caustic column, in clever quip,
Of a truth must still be hiding his light
Beneath the bushel of journalship.
And dreamy Frank must be dreaming still,
Lounging through life, if yet alive,
Smoking his vast preposterous fill.
Lounging, smoking, striving to strive.
And I, the fourth of that queer old throng,
Fourth and least, as my soul avows,—
I alone have been counted strong,
I alone have the laurelled brows !
Well, and what has it all been worth ?
May not my soul to my soul confess,
That “ succeeding,” here upon earth,
Does not always assume success ?
I would cast, and gladly, from this gray head
Its crown, to regain one sweet lost year
With artist George, with splenetic Fred,
With dreamy Frank, with the pipes and beer 1
Edgar Fawcett.


RS
FREEMAN
£
& WALLACE
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOtTNf* MEN.
Svmntrnn«i of Dreaded Diseases which
destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less serious nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“ Stop—be sad ! ” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unmarrried man,
“ Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSoi).
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment's delay. Don’t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A lomrer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WOBK.
60 Engravings.
16 colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
NerVods Debility, Loss of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
: course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupidness, b,,shlulness
and loss of energy. You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is auuless. Vou find
little enjoyment in life, and just at tins stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide. The cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don’t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes—bring back the lustre to your eyes, and
make of you a perfect man —with an.object in life—ambitious —successful. Don t delay. Immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
Manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
!? not a disease that should be looked upon as of
httle consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
Permanent cure of every case undertaken.
. lake time by the forelock —nip your affliction
ln 'ts ineipiency—.and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life,
diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
Phrenic sores cured speedily and permanently.
■Lhe latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing strict) re and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting.
mm
y^
w) detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
111 a .y he, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
and low charges.
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don't be afraid to state your case fully. Do all you
OTTn 7 ns an< l " ; dl help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
LURED, we are readv to help you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
-onfidential.
Nine Dipio mas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
— ADDRESS. ALL LETTERS TO—
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dremns, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the hack, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST TREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. gibbons
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do nob feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIIt EL Y
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
• TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
, H . n gy. 9nf J
I OUllg AIIU
lUS am I I
Ulu Ivsen S ■
who have lost their manly
p oW er vitality strength
may regain sa.ne easily
and permanentlv Prof.
Read’s LIFE SYRUP cure; the most obs'.mate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, ic. A VY riot?£t
Guarantee given in all cases Ihe Life Syrup >tim
ulates and strengthens the nerves, anct by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdrain of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how al.
nervous disorders are cured and in many' cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St., Meloonrne
THE. NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
MARK.
This successful and liiyh I_> popular icmcuy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by llicord,
Kostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remai ka >ly .-n i t time, otten a tew days only,
reinovts an discharges from the urinary organs,
superse dug injections t ie use of which does irre-
p liable harm by laying tin- foundation of stricture
and other serious disea m.
THERAPION No. 2
fur impunt' i t uie 1, scuivy, pnnp.es,.spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of tlie joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
bean too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c„ to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
the whole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
earlv error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restorin ' strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
l he principal
Chemisis mi*t Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observp
ah ve Traile Mark, which is a tac-simile of word
*• Therai'lON ” as it appears on the Government
Btamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrapion —FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., and BOCKE, TOMPSfTT & Co.
ooiavA
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Win. LANGSTON, M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hellauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
eases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from -what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
No money is CASTLEREAGH St.,
required in SYDNEY, NSW.'
your first ’ ’
letter. or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies. < S££'SJ ? !ES
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
just issued, 108 pages, illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
Atrophy
w . IN MEN.
S^- te « < V.«i, T x Shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, krow
and admit the very first hour of its use. Strength
Vitality, Manhood. I ,osses, drains, c ase
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address :-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
Ju£
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Liglit and Life.”'
Tms valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address -S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERS ALLS
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL on Newmarket Handicap-
4th March.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Drawn on Morning of the Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name .
Address '
£, t s
NEWMARKET H. March 4.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTER BALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
AUSTRALIAN C. March 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name -
Address ——
NEWCASTLE C
March 18.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
3
BALLARAT C. March 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address,
DONCASTER H
April 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5 a
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
s
SYDNEY C. April 3.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL. .
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame —-
Address .
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


bs (alass
of FaSbioo
ANTHONY . fjORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OP . ■ .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0.
plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Garden Implements, &0
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
Modern Sawmill Machinery
For Cutting Hardwood Logs.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Portable and Stationary
. . . Engines and Boilers.
flour milling machinery.
ARTESIAN DRILLING PLANTS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils.
HIGH-CLASS VEHICLES ALWAYS KEPT
IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
CEtCUUR
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
• • FOR SUMMER . .
ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
bodices, etc, in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
odk and Merino, etc
. CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
rts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
Thr Pa ?i E M L y LAE ' FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
’ Menno, or Silk and Wool, by the yard,
amphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ go.,
(between George and York streets).
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
, JthF ,
DEAF
'&W~ “Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
: >uni> Conductor. Safe to wear,
■omfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Sar Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Ajrent.
229 u Collins-street, Melbourne.
t>OWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
■Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
A V
0 STREET. BRISBANE.
[HAIfPENNY
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAN D for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Adstrallao MOtOal Pro „id«ot Socirtv
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■ ■ v
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors :—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A.,F.5.5.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Halt Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £415,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
XXeaid Office : 07 Pitt-atreet Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Skcretart.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
S3T Send for Price List. ‘Ell
H. HILLIEE, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIKR, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
STUDY THIS WELL
Do your Eyes feel weak from Overwork, Study, etc. ?
Are they affected from Blight, Sun Glare, Granulations, Stings of Insects ?
Do they feel painful after exposure to strong winds, dust?
Are the Eyelids Inflamed or Scaly?
IE SO, THERE IS ONLY ONE REMEDY—
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion
result.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PEOPEIETOE :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
Open all Night; also Sundays and Holidays.
RUSH
ITE
OPPS
oYffiSflfl
sMI
Intending Travellers by Sea or Land
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
MANTEAUS, and all TRAVELLING
REQUISITES, from
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 Georg-e-street, SYDNEY,
The Largest Assortment of Baggage for a long
or short journey in the Australian colonies.
d3T The ADVANTAGES we offer and claim for our
Goods areLONGER WEAR, LOWER PRICES,
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE.
BRUSH’S SOLID LEATHER and IMPERIAL TRUNKS,
regulation size to fit under berth.
Size 30 33 38
£6 6s £6 15s £7 7s
BRUSH’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 18 20 22 24
Lined jean 12s 6d 13s 6d 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
„ leather 21s 22s 6d 24s 6d 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH'S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 26in., 65s
DRUSH’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT OASES, in tan can-
vas, bound with leather, size 20in. x 16in. x 12in.
Price, 14s 6d each. Size 20in. x 16in. x 14in. Price,
15s 9d each.
BRUSH’S “SPECIAL” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Each bag contains a
moveable case for dress suit, shirts, etc., fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER COAT CASES,
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, the other collap-
sible, a splendid bag for hard usage and rough
roads, sizes from 24in. to 33in. long. Prices from
63 to 100 s each.
BRUSH’S BRIEF BAGS, cowhide, lined drill.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value of
55s up. Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies.
Remittances can be sent by Cheque or P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be
added to country cheques for exchange,
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
JOHN BRUSH, SON and CO.,
MANUFACTURERS and
IMPORTERS . . .
403-405 George-street, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i THE MOST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IX THE WORI.I).
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and jb/- each.
Proprietors : GOO DA LL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ,OCK & CO., KENT and UVEKI'OOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE
Plum’
Pm
THB
‘ Fium ’
(A ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
. J-uis razor is superior to any other, ft is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. practical tradesmen ourselves, u e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee eaeh Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“ Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d, cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in,strong leather case, 10s. 6rl. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case 219.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheq
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
ISKS.-W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. CJoixiTaanv
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY *
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
Sulkies, ±7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies frem £9los. Ladies’ Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE. —Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Red fern Railway Station).
Our Special
No. 2.
vr-
mrs
■(zr.
r>t
mS3
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Ruil
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
• “6 Y H ” on certain aspects of the
Northern colored-labor question
On the Johnstone (N.Q.) you may see hundreds of
turban-topped, out-throat Hindoos working for the white
men. The farmers say they are better than the Kanaka-
more kindly, and working longer hours (with less growl)
than the latter, who is fast becoming “done-up” with
the poisons in which the Chow does wholesale “ biz ”
with Tommy Tanna. Of course, there are still many
Kanakas employed, but lots of them do prohibited tasks
—cooking, horse-driving, milking and house-work. I
know one bachelor farmer whose Kanaka cook makes up
the boss’s bunk, etc.—pending the arrival of a Hindoo
married couple, and kids —man to plough and wife to
cook and do housework. The wage paid these scum
ranges from 15s. to 20s. per week.
Re the fossilised N.S.W. Marine Board.
In S.M. Herald of Oct., 1880, is recorded the
4oss of the Susannah Godeffroy. Captain, mate
and six seamen drowned. The old tub had been
lying- for three years at Snail’s Bay, was reckoned
rotten, and only fit for a coal hulk. Was patched
up and sold, and passed by a marine surveyor of
the ) eriod. She took in 400 tons of coal, for
stiffening, at Sydney and went on to Newcastle,
where she gathered in 1100 tons more, leaking
earnestly all the time. Sailed for Yokohama 19th
Sept., 1880, and nine days later was piled up on
North Beach, eight miles above Newcastle, for
safety’s sake. She went to pieces in ten minutes,
evidence disclosing that she was rotten as an old
coal-basket. Much public indignation was ex-
pressed at the ship (uninsured —no one would take
risk) being allowed to go to sea. Jury on deaths
of captain, etc., were most indignant, and sug-
gested that Govt, should do something. Govt,
declared it was going to do something. It is still
“ going to do something.” And that was nineteen
long years ago.
The Gold-Fever.
We joined the rush on Forest Creek; from ship
and shore we came—
The men that held Eureka in the days of golden
fame.
From Bendigo and Ballarat, to last new Gipps-
land rush,
We worked on all, and starved on some, between
the times of flush.
We digged and raised and cradled when our
Turon claims we chose ;
We sluiced it at Temora —felt the cold Kiandra
snows;
Picked and puddled from New England back to
where Mt. Brown a-west
Makes trio with the White Cliffs and the Barrier’s
i silver crest.
If you get the fever badly
You must chance it, luck or lack;
For there isn’t any curing
Till you make for fields out baok.
Oh, it’s when the gold is calling,
And the windlass it is hauling—
It’s ounces to a color you’ll be off along the track.
We dug among the Maoris, when the Greenstone
hills were tried,
And helped to cut the head-race out on bleak
Otago side ;
We watched the snow-swelled freshets down the
Lainmerlaw in spring,
And dodged the falling pay-dirt that the sluicing
nozzles bring.
We tramped it in from Cooktown, through Hell's
Gates to Palmer field,
And Oakey Creek ran yellow as we panned that
first grand yield;
Above the line of Capricorn we worked in tropic
rain
Until the yellow man came there and drove us
south again.
When you see the new rush starting
Your nerves are all a-cock,
The town-delights won’t hold you
If you think to peg a block.
Oh, it’s when the gold is calling
And your mates they are a-bawling—
You’ll roll your kit and join them where you
know the cradles rock.
Echunga saw us toiling, and Teetulpa’s buried
i streams;
And south ward from Port Darwin did we drive
our sweating teams.
We walked the rocking corduroy that led across
the isle
By Beaconsfield and Bischoff, and the fields we
found at Lisle.
We specked the wind-worn nuggets when we fol-
lowed Bayley through,
Our shakeis swung and riddled as we prospected
at Cue.
From Kimberley to Norseman, from Pilbarra to
the ’Cross,
The red earth shows our wanderings—the scat-
tered bones our loss !
But you’ll always want to follow
Where the wash is raised and tried,
For the fever keeps you moving,
And the fields are far and wide.
Oh, it’s when the gold is calling
And the chains of town are galling—
If you’re loth to leave a certainty to try your luck
outside—
Break away !
Out again on Fortune’s highway !
Every other road’s a byway!
And while yet the gold is calling
Let us leave the townfolk crawling—
Let us damn the dull, dead certainties, and chance
our luck again !
PROSPECT GOOD.


GRAPHOPHONE
50/;,
Hi
QRft
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPLIES, from
60s. up.
THE “ALBERT
GRAPHOPHONE”
Sings, Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talking Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&c., £6 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Representatives lor Australia. Agents wanted where
we are not already represented. Send for Catalogues
of Graphophones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Musical Instruments and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
?he world-” The BOOMERANG,” 2s. 6d Trade sup-
plied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
Bern ember it-s
avnesm
Which means ,
It'S the pure article
IfS the best mild
laxative KnoWn
Its recommended by
your family Doctor
“Cr^iE!
Spooler’s
tOONEI^
:;;ir for
I BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECI lONS FDR USE
ramiimmnmiiun»
ROYAL NAVY,
DR€SSIN<S, |
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
b'or Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
1 MR uim mi
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and Our usual Price List' for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
3/6
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
HOW to PRESERVE the EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
It tells of a remedy with 300 YEAKa
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist,- or wholesale of bAYEKb,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
OHS HONEST MAN.
1 EAR SIR,-Please inform your readers that, if
■ written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
lei ter the plan pursued by’ which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong) I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address —
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
pointers !
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
ZNT orth Queensland.
James Watters Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Oueenslandfrtends
if they will give him a call at. the OL.UC
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
R. GENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.
Medicine Sent Free
rpo MEN L’NTIL CURED of all NERVE TROUBLES,
- 1 - WEAKNESS, ATROPHY, DEBILITY, VARICO-
CELE, etc., etc., no matter how SEVERE the case may
be. THOUSANDS cured annually. Remedy sent by
mail in plain package. WHEN CURED we charge you
not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. Write
to-day. Address—
HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
P. 0., Box 347, SYDNEY.
Drunkenness Cured . .
DR. MALING'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
D.S .MAI R
gP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6; Cleaning, 2 6 ; Hairspring, 2.6, Jewels
26 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed
12 months. , ' , ,
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances, necessai )
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 634 George-
street, Sydney.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETT BUS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.
SECRET
Photos,
(2> Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Supply Agency,
I' Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season. 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during tin
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
. Monday
. Tuesday
. Tuesday
. Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow- - - - Friday
Hides - Frida y
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badyery, Limited.
Wincheombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
Dr. TARRANT,
P.E.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.r;., L.H.C.5.1., L.M.RC.EE,
• ;
.*■
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through.the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. 1 may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
1,1011 in diic r r flit* *v*si.pm Pnsiirim** not. onlv permanent restoration to health.
and Dleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged. ___
KTo Man or Woman
» ~ first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
orifl?tasmr intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 161 pages, blocked in gold including numerous Prescriptions
rnce, oixpeus. ' . jt wj)l en able you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
s S should°consu 11 ‘ I)r".‘ TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated' their
ori"in traced qheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Liver
nerves.
universally respecte ~ suffererT write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
? lone ;.. namin 2 your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
teously and confidentially
you experience
Daiigeroxis Symptoms,
... , T ,, pnth indigestion. Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
Foul Bteatn, in o » r*:.„,.i.r cirin nniinoao nf Tnt.pllpph Pilps. CJnnshinahion. or Relaxation of the
from the Down when overwatwi'inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
1 ... ov Prioiriv Rpnsat.ion. Timidity. Fear of linDendinir Danirer. &c. Dr.
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely KTo Charge
. rw»„u«finn • hut as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
ffiS&SSSfe Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, SCTOfula. Thi'oat, Eye and Ear
11UI1) IHp ” * 1 « . ,
i^vmir'firs”le?ter 6orVa /clfis, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
„ mnlp or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
Dr TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
_. „ hevou voun«- or old, male or female, either call or write m perfect confidence to Dr.
TATI RANT who willgive you? case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED-
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
' STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar.
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 0. Dress Suits to Measure, 84'-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding llabits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-'. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts . from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. . It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
i to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
ffi? ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT-GEAR.
SPECIAL COUP
FjR A FLWJVEtKS ONLY
A Guinea’s Worth
—FOR —
13s. 6d.
Out this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments & Remittanceof 13s.
6d.. when you will have
mailedto you,post free
ap.vr of those i'.ench
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow
or wide
toes. i
p/ELLIS
fgi COUP.ON
/ Guinea
effi®
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel 00,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Out the
outline thus made with a sci-sors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a, blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIb b,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical hootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELUS S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARR AGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (is.). Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS,
535 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Sydney. our New Address.
1 Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING-
15QO GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SI EVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
flArlv’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, 01
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
I t-e t*m* rR e*e*y*o*y
The only condition is that if your answer is oorrect
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch. , . .
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir —Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I[was really
deli •■■hied with it when I opened the box. I find't to De
a most, reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. ofjlydney^^^^
_A. stolid Silver Watch
Absolutely GIVEff AWAY. Can You Read This?
W*A * S I T* E | T* M * I
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of ou
£2 10s. Solid Silver Hunter Hat Hies (Ladies oi
Gentlemen's) to every reader who sends us the c°,,ect
reading of the above rebus. Conditions—that youi
answer be correct, and you undertake to purchase one of
our Solid Silver Chains. We make this offer solely v'th
the object, of introducing our catalogue and advertisin
our goods. Send at once, enclosing stamped-addresse
envelope, so that we may inform you if correct. Addiess.
THE MANAGER—
The London Watch & Jewellery Co.,
3 Central Arcade, George-st., SYDNEY.
\ Cramps,
\ Colic i
\ Colds,
Is, )
K
Croup
Coughs
Tooth-
SLCiIGt
Cats.
Burns
Bruises
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"PainKiUev
(FEEEY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHANI & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.


H< rr RaSSn?<iSSci)’& Alfalii)€ Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever-
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
_A_ Few of Tlaera.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizaheth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a ;
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Ealgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme- ,
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall fKomraend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, MRS. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now', with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
lam a wonderfully different man to what I w’as when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. 1 have been working' in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, arid I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks. —I am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR6SS : OPINIO IS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Eemedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A.—“ Herr Rassinussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest plaee in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.— “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
TO lIEUR RaSSMUSSEN.
Dear Sir, - Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “piles.” I tried 1 almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day'they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmdssen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the* liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. 1 cannot express how glad lamat my r< covery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify?—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
IDission in the ||erbal (florid.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seenat the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING ••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remediesare hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs any where.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Axvarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia. >
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVIC€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, 0.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSER’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSER’S
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d-
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant oure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to oure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Loughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Oure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, Os.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders —Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts—Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Jflost Effectually
By taking - Herr Rassmussen’s *\7*X:T-A-X.X T7S? FILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Eassmnssen’s Head Office: - 547 Georg*e Street, Sydney
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :


1)5
BAKING
POWDER.
guaranteed
free fro.n alum'
tH E PUREST a BEST IN THEWORu
MANUFACTURED BY -;r U
WASHINGTON H.SOUL & C°, PITT Si SYDNEY.
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
CARLTON ALE.
Paizxleaa Dentistry.
I
THE ....
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr. S. LBV EH, Uriiduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mu. S. D. A>IILU, Dentists,
ty* Modern Or ntistry in its Urn nehes
LeyMinutely I’ruct lard.
We guarantee to tit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, witli or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to dll Teeth without future
trouble. Painless K\ tract ions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY— ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between Oeorge
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 201 n.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Ryes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. 1H&. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
THE BEST
CICAR E T TE
IN BU
QWSPKt!
If.AOL
Ma«« I
L
c you6,
Companyl?
EDINBURGH.
*SsSSJ3SE^*WEjS6fI®
-tA 5,.^ '
j)rink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the.stomach’ssake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.
)
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE —Latest Type, £7 10s;
or with II Records and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ E Talking Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COM PAN Y, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
The Australian Widows’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [jtd.
Established 187).
'T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting- all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. 3. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Fund* exceed £1,900,000 Annual Income. exceeds £911,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.) GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
GROWING IN FAVOR !
p*s
ROOFING
[copy! *' Miranda,” Sutherland, New South Wales.
May 9, 1898.
Messrs. E. RICH * CO. LTD.,
24 and 28 O'Connell street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —Please book my order tor four more rolls of V4-ply P & B Ruberoid Ropfing for
delivery as soon as you receive the next shipment. I have used it- for a long while now on Fowl
Houses, etc., and tlnd it a perfect roof. It is, as you claim, cheap, clean and cool, and is growing
in favor as its menu become known.—l am, dear Sirs, Yours faithfully,
(Signed) J. LODWIDGE.
P.S.—I have some of your cement left and find it a most useful thing to have about the
place. I use it for coating metal or other vessels that have to be waterproof or resist any acid or
caustic action. 1 will never be without it.—J.L.
—FOR BALE BY
Brooks, Robin-sox & Co., Agents, Klizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Saxdpord A Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Ross & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Frank Looan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twioo, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Phkrson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents ; E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
II ELI 1 HOT SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water."
VISITORS
TO SYDNEY
V
ikjOOEtl
nwffyrwyJTiri
~ » .«.•
»£-*r tfe^rXiWm
Hi
co> |[
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-,
seekers should stay at the most modern of
Sydney’s hotels—
Tattersall’s^.
HOTEL
Telegraph Office; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
TARIFF: ... 10s. per Day.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk nnd Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION-.
WINES n ‘ * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Tobacco Manufacture in N.S.W.
Excise Returns show that during 1898,
Over 60 Tons More
of DIXSON & SONS’ Tobacco were sold than
that of any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf. —DIXSON & SONS used in
manufacture
Over 149 Tons More
than all the other Tobacco Factories.
<♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦< *
DIXSON X SONS 9 Brands are:
YANKEE DOODLE, Dark and Bright Aromatic,
CHAMPION, Bright.
CONQUEROR, Dark.
BONANZA ClGARS,—Machine-made ; contain the choicest
Tobacco, and are placed at the lowest price .


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office , Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 20.—N0. 991.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1899.
Prick 6d.
SYDNEY G.P.O. SUNDAY ARRANGEMENTS.
The Postmaster-General has arranged that letters for the
north, south, and western mails, leaving Sydney by train on
Sunday evening, may be posted, at the
General Post-office up to 5 p.m., and
postage stamps may be purchased at the
Stamp Sales Office between 4 and 5 p.m.
The council of the Sydney Zoo has recently purchased a 17-
foot alligator for £s* -Which is dirt cheap, as alligators go.
Those used at The Bulletin' editorial rooms usually cost us 7s.
10id. wholesale. But that is a mere detail. The new Zoo alli-
gator has so far refused raw dog as l»eing too sudden a change
| from nigger.
j-LI I * About 6s. per foot.
The Dingo (in back-ground, sarcastically). “ I say, ole man, try him with
sliced cucumbers an’ vinegar. Pr’aps 'e’s been readin’ in the daily papers
about us Australians eatin’ too much meat! ”
Our artist, giving unbridled play to his fancy,
has here executed a picture showing the N.fe.W.
P.M.U (God-fearing) being hustled off to the police-
station, after a desperate resistance, to answer a
charge of Sunday-selling. Sunday Brunker, whose painful duty it has Ireen to
lodge the complaint, is seen bringing up the rear with an expression on his face
of sanctified but. Spartan firmness
A TUGPIT REFERENCE.
During the service In the North St. L«manl»
Presbyterian Church last night, tho I*> v - W. H.
Ash briefly referred to the criticisms of the Post-
master-General upon his sermon of the previous
Sundav on •Sabbath Desecration. The P r * ac ‘ ier
noted the courtesy of the Ministers
but said that his arguments left much to he d-
sired. As id his statements con.'.-tuns puono
convenience, the Instances he quoted were very
peculiar Indeed If the Sa' Inga Hank nMdMM be
open, why not the other bants? And If P o ®'”®
needed money on Sunday why not t-be things
money would buy? ""
London 1 , Friday Afternoon.—The St. James Gazettb says
that it will he a terrible disappointment if the Federated Aus-
tralians do not avail'themselves of an unparalleled opportunity
to create a beautiful and stately capital.
It is suggested by the St. James’ Gazette that the new city
X. | ni should be named Britannia.
British ” Money-Lender (preparing to write out cheque for new loan) : “ Yes, sonny, dots righdt ,
build a nice stately gapital and put a nice stately muggige on it ; und if I vas you I’d gall it der New
Shebdsalem!” _
London, Saturday. —Mr Joseph Chamberlain, Secretary
of State for the Colonies, who has been suffering from an
attack of gout, has recovered from his indisposition.
Joe’s gout must have been pretty bad when he gave
that advice about repaying the New Guinea land-burglars
[Jobbers (?)] Gout, sometimes affects the reason. And
men have, in their agony, seen pigs flying through the air.
London, Friday Afternoon. — Six veterinary
surgeons have been selected to inspect all meat
shipped from Maoriland ports.
TUB Experts (after tasting): “It is hoss, and
no inistake ! ”
London, Friday Afternoon.
The eggs which arrived by
" the steamer Warrnambool
wore in a stulo condition, and only suitable for pastry-
cooks’ use.
Only suitable for pastrycooks' use ! Heavens ' are
there no Parliamentary elections in England, and are
there no free and independent electors *
PICTORIAL PARAGRAPHS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians,**
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverloy, for The Bulletin
New*|«ai>er Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydxkt,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
XOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bullbtix Office Ticcnty
Skillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you mi »y pay by Post Office Order, Postal X'ote,
One Pound Xole, or stamps of any iuitraiiTm produce,
you ran ha re Tim Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Draits, ete., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Sot lee.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
aritde, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other jutrt of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor trill carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence " column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tiro columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Seiespaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tint Brums trill return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendina MS. to distinctly understand that
wears net responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs In mark and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic eo .tributions trill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the. arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 H'oot Exchange,
London, 8.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
«fc Co.. CornhUl.
Sax Francisco.— The Arooxact office, 346 Sutler-street.
South Africa. —lt A. Tnompso n and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also ix tub Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., t 9 Hout-st., Cape 7 'own, South Africa.
Colombo.—H\ M. Smith d- Co.
Fiji.—CAas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
J \otlee to Subscribers In Tirtorfa . S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprorinrial Xnc*i>af>erß, the annual sub-
seript ion outside X. S. I Vales (except (Queensland )is now
£l, with ?*. td. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
Xo newspaper can be sent unless the subscription it
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers In Qtieeuslaud.
Oiring to the imposition gf ljd. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage -ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight —now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Th j/nne*
paper edition of Tub Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
I%T%ulle£vn,.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1899.
The Blot and the Compromise and Other
Matters.
Tiie Federal compromise arrived suddenly
as most good things do, and last Friday it
was announced that all the six Premiers
were agreed, and were prepared to fight for
the New Bill to the hitter end. Even
George Reid, of New South Wales, is at last,
by his own report, an enthusiastic advocate
of the Federal Constitution, and has promised
to make it a vital part of the Government
policy. Also Oily James Dickson, of
Queensland, is agreeable, and Braddon is
pleased, for his ignorantly-abused Blot lias
been vindicated after all, and all the boss
politicians are satisfied for the moment, and
the unanimity of everybody is wonderfully
unanimous indeed.
• • • •
The alterations made don’t amount to so
very much after all. The amendments de-
manded by the Reid Ministry included the
removal of the much-slandered Braddon
Blot, and the good old Blot still survives.
For it proved that Premier Reid hadn’t a
shadow of an idea what to put in its place
and after nearly nine months hitter denunci-
ation of the Blot he was fain to admit that
it was the best available Blot afier all.
Which is a great triumph for Braddon and
his Blot. By way of making the surrender
look a little better, however, it is provided
that the Blot is to be reconsidered after ten
years—though, of course, it was always liable
to reconsideration by the Federal Parliament
and the people at any time. The amend-
ment. of the law relating to river-control, on
which the Reid Government was tremend-
ously strong, was dropped, and that matter
remains where it was. The amendments
regarding Money Bills and judicial appeals
were also dropped. The demand for a new
financial scheme was dropped likewise, lie-
cause Premier Reid had no better financial
scheme to offer— neither had anyone else.
The capital is not to be fixed at Sydney, nor
is it to be New South Wales property,
but it is agreed that it shall be in
New South Wales (where it would prob-
ably have been in any case), on a piece
of Federal territory at least 100 square
miles in area, and that it shall be located
—like a noxious-trade or a boiling-down
establishment at least 100 miles from
Sydney. The demand that the number of
senators for each State be increased from
six to eight came to nothing. But it was
decided that when the two Federal Houses
sit and vote together to settle a deadlock, the
measure under discussion may be carried if a
majority of the entire number of members
vote for it, whereas the old idea was that to
carry it would require a vote of two-thirds of
the members actually present. The two-
thirds idea was originally invented by New
South Wales Minister Carruthebs, and
was inserted largely at the instance of Car-
Ruthers and Reid, so the latter has only got
what he probably would have got last year if
he hadn’t fought against it.
• • • •
The mass Referendum re alterations of the
Constitution demanded by the New South
Wales Assembly dropped, like most other
tilings ; it placed the four small States so
absolutely under the domination of the two
large ones, and gave the two large States
such entire power to take back everything
granted by the contract of union to their
smaller neighbors, that it never had a show.
T“ alter the bargain made between the
States and embodied in the Constitution, it
is still necessary to secure the assent of a
majority of the States and a majority of the
people, but the arrangement has been greatly
liberalised by providing that the assent of
both Houses of the Federal Parliament is
not necessary ; if one House passes the Re-
form Bill twice it may send it to a Referen-
dum whether the other House assents or not,
Mid if the popular majority and the majority
of States accept it, it will become law. Also, it
has been agreed that no State shall have its
boundaries altered without its consent. This
last is the only amendment demanded by
New South Wales which was carried in its
entirety.
• • • •
The new Bill is not likely to suit the
bitterly provincial clan in New South Wales
much better than the old one did. The most
remarkable feature about it is the vindica-
tion of the poor old harmless Blot. There
was never anything wrong with that memor-
able smudge though it was the butt of
all the ignorant provincialist grumblers in
Cornstidk Land. It sets forth that three-
of the customs and excise revenue,
whether the same he small, large, or medium,
and always providing that there is any cus-
toms and excise revenue at all, shall be
handed h ick to the States so that they may
pay the interest on their public debts with
it, if the debts remain under provincial con-
trol. And if the debts are taken over by the
Commonwealth, as they certainly will he
sooner or later, three-quarters of the customs
and excise are to he set apart to pay interest
with. Considering that it takes, not three-
quarters, hut the whole of the customs and
excise revenue to pay interest now, and that,
when interprovincial customs are abolished,
it will probably take a lot more than the
whole of this revenue to do it, the dreadful
Bkaddon scheme is about as harmless as a
drink of milk in any case. It doesn’t com-
mit the Commonwealth to any particular
tariff or to any tariff at all, and it leaves
things exactly as they are. Nevertheless,
the provincialist party in New South Wales
will doubtless start its ridiculous campaign
against the Braddon clause all over again,
and tell all its bygone lies afresh, just as if
they were a perfectly new set of Ananias.
• • • •
A good many other arguments of the paro-
chial multitude will also do duty over again.
Among them was Jack Want’s tremendous
blither about the Victorian duty on New
South Wales coal—the duty that never
existed ; and the Telegraph’s shriek about
tlie inevitable increase of New South Wales
postage-rates, and the ruin of the New South
Wales coal export industry (presumably
because, under Federation, Queensland and
Tasmania would have to take off their pre-
sent duties and let coal in free), and about
the necessity for a tariff revenue of £8,700,000
or something like that. Also there was
Coghlan’s tale about a 27 per cent, tariff or
something to that effect ; and Brunker’s
clumsy lamentation that a 27 per cent, tariff
meant that every man with £lOO income would
have to pay £27 in taxes ; and the Star’s
statement that “ all the burden of taxation
would fall on New South Wales ” ; and
Pumpkin Smith’s terrifying apparition,
adopted later on by both Star and Tele-
graph, to the effect that the Federal Govern-
ment would have to pay the bounties granted
by Victoria in aid of its own local industries.
Even Premier Reid hadn’t the front to ask
the other provinces to remove these evils
out of the Federal Constitution, for the suffi-
cient reason that he knew none of them
were ever in it, and the originators of this
flock of wild apparitions knew it also. So,
with one exception, all the rocks which the
New South Wales parochial party aimed at
the old Bill will do just as well to fire at the
new one, and a great, soul-filling fight is in
prospect.
• * • t
And, as for Premier Reid, that n.an of
strange experiences and unexpected de-
partures, whose Yes is No and his No Yes,
and his Yes-no something for the gods to
shriek at his situation is a curious
one. The Retd party cursed Barton be-
cause he proposed to negotiate witli tho
other provinces instead of demanding
concessions, and it has also negotiated;
and instead of demanding concessions
it asked for them in a mild voice, and didn’t
get the most of them. And now Reid is
pledged to stake the existence of his Ministry
on defending the old river agreement, and
the old system of judicial appeals, and the
old financial arrangement, and the old Blot,
and to fight to the bitter end for many
things which he and Want previously de-
nounced. Too much Yes-No has brought
biin back to be the advocate and fond parent
of a Bill which is largely the Bame old
Bill over again—the one he voted for and
spoke against last year. Last time, the Bill
was defeated because a private member de-
manded the iniquitous 80,000 minimum, and
the Government said it objected yet con-
sented, the reason being, as Minister Young
explained, that it couldn’t rally up its
party against the proposed breach of
faith without grossly infringing the rights
of private members. This time, the
Reid Government is pledged to have
no minimum at all, whether it has to
infringe the rights of private members or
not, and thereby it undertakes to give the lie
to its colleague Young and to show that it
could have prevented that memorable breach
of faith—only it didn’t want to. And, un-
less Reid apostatises again, he and his
faithful Telegraph must part company at
last—always provided the Telegraph be-
lieves all the horrors it swore to a year ago.
• * • •
The new Bill, of course, is not perfect,
any more than its brother, the old one,
was. It is better by reason of the proviso
for a bare majority at the joint sitting. It
is a little worse because of the foolish and
utterly Tory provision that no portion of any
of the present unwieldy States can get
separation, however much it may suffer from
the tyranny of the metropolitan majority,
without that majority’s consent. And both
Bills would have been vastly improved if they
had provided for placing the debts and
railways under Federal control. But it
is apparently the best scheme that pro-
vincial prejudice will at present allow of.
It is a vast amount better than no scheme at
all—and if it is rejected the name of Fede-
ration will probably have become such a
weariness that the alternative for many
years to come will be no scheme at all. It
provides one of the most democratic forms
of government in the world, and it contains
abundant possibilities of amendment later
on. Therefore, if Premier Reid goes straight
for the first time in his life—if he stakes the
fate of his Ministry on the measure, and
creates a sufficient number of democratic
nominees to bear down the opposition of
the Tory Upper House, if that House
proves hostile, and suppresses Want, and
makes cow-merchant Brunker lie low,
and refuses to wobble when his customary
boss, the Daily Telegraph, bids him
wobble—if he does these things The Bul-
letin will have the unwonted satisfaction of
being Reid’s friend and brother for once and
in this one instance. But it is useless to
disguise the fact that this time there
may be serious trouble ahead in more than
one province. Tho huge vote of 3rd
June, 1898, is hardly likely to Vie repeated,
for a year of waiting and wobbling and inde-
cision has cooled the popular enthusiasm,
and tho popular impression that the great
Yes-No must go wrong somehow at the last
moment will give an unreal feeling to the
wholo proceedings. If all the provinces sub-
mit the new Bill fairly, and don’t load the
dice this time in favor of the bad cause with
any minimum proviso, the measure will pro-
bably be carried everywhere, just as it was
last year. But otherwise anything may
happen.
“ Saving His Face.”
The N.S.W. Statistical Register begins to
look, not so much a cold, dispassionate mass of
figures regarding Cornstalk affairs, as a publi-
cation issued with a view to whitewashing the
financial methods of the Reid Ministry. Some
curious things have happened to the N.S.W.
official statistics of late. As an instance:
for a year or two the annual estimates
issued by the Statistical Department set forth
that in 1895—the first complete year in which
the Reid Government held office—the popula-
tion of Sydney decreased 15,000, and that in
the ensuing year, though there was an increase,
it was a very small one—only 1500. It was
awkward that such a thing should happen, and
people said unpleasant things about the pro-
sperity which was to arise as soon as the boast-
ful G. Reid got fairly started, and how it
somehow didn’t arise. Rut in the Statistical
Register for 1897 a perfectly new set of figures
was presented which set the trouble right and
put Reid on a much pleasanter basis. The
alleged metropolitan population at the end of
the Protectionist period was reduced by 26,000,
and the decline of 15,000 in 1895 was turned
into an increase of 6060; and instead of an
increase of 1500 people in ’96 there was shown
an increase of 7000. These alterations naturally
made the Foreign-trade party in office feel
much better. Instead of showing a large in-
crease of city population under Protection and
a decrease under Foreign-trade, as the old
figures did, the new set showed a small increase
under Protection and a large one under Premier
Reid’s policy of shoddy and cheap imports.
No reason was given for this amazing alteration
of the figures, but the party in power found it
very comforting all the same.
* • * •
Then the factory statistics of N.S.W. under-
went an opportune, though less unaccountable,
transformation. Until the end of 1895 no place
of work in which machinery Was not tised liras
included in the statistics unless it employed at
least fivo hands* and milliners, dressmakers,
and tailors were not reckoned atnong factory
operatives at all. But in the year when the
new Foreign-trade tariff came into force, a huge
alteration was made ; the millinery, dressmak-
ing, and tailoring Classes were reckoned as fac-
tory operatives for the first time, and every
place not Using machinery where four hands
were employed was reckoned a factory, and
the people engaged therein included in
the enumeration. This had the advan-
tage of securing a certain measure of uniformity
with Victoria. It also had the advantage of
increasing the apparent number of workers by
4618, and enabling Foreign-trade politicians to
point out that this tremendous increase arose as
soon as the blessing of Shoddy descended on
the land. And again the party in power in
New South Wales felt better—a great deal
better
• * • •
And now even the poor old Deficit isn’t
allowed to rest, and a perfectly new set of
official statistics regarding it has been pub-
lished. The old lot—the one which the Statis-
tical Register swore to up till 30th June,
1897, used to set forth that the overdraft was
as follows :
Year. Ministry. Deficit.
1886 ... Jennings £1,286,581
1867 .. Parses 2,159,295
1888 ... „ 1,581,843
1889 ... „ 1,700,074
1890 ... „ 1,615,551
1891 ... „ 2,026,846
1892 ... Dibbs 1,945,054
1893 ... „ 2,294,935
1894 ... „ 2,217,599
1895 ... Reid 1,919,334
1896 ... „ 2,301,054
1897 ... „ 2,363,139
These figures were officially published as
authentic, and they stood on record till less
than a month ago. They were a beastly un-
pleasant set of numerals which wound up by
showing that the deficit reached its highest
proportions under the Reid Ministry ; and
rude people drew attention to the fact and
made remarks about it. But within the last
month a perfectly new set of official figures,
showing that the deficit didn’t reach its largest
proportions under Reid at all, but that that
financial genius reduced it enormously, was
issued from the N.S.W. Statistical Department.
And for the third time the Foreign-trade party
in power feels a great deal better.
• • * •
The new' deficit is made up by adding (in the
cases of Jennings, Farkes and Dibbs) to the
actual shortage at the end of each financial
year the amount of all liabilities incurred but
not actually paid. And it pans out thus
Jennings.
Visible deficit. .Liabilities Incurred. Total deficit.
1886 ... £1,286,581 £1,198,485 ... £2,485,066
Parkbs
1887 ... 2,159,295 ... 446,057 ... 2,605,352
1888 ... 1,581,045 ... 808,785 ... 2,390,430
1889 ... 1,907,100 ... 768,444 ... 2,474,523
1890 ... 2,352,884 ... 793,830 ... 2,409,386
1891 ... 2,202,884 ... 768,258 ... 2,795,108
Dibbs.
1892 ... 2,052,884 ... 1,055,945 ... 3,001,003
1893 ... 2,276,181 ... 676,700 ... 2,951,881
1894 ... 2,200,487 ... 926,497 ... 3,125,984
Reid.
1896 ... 1,902,224 ... 781,117 ... 2,683,341
1896 ... ... ... 2,596,990
1807 ... ... ... 2,443.596
1898 ... ... ... 2,293,596
From 1889 onwards there isn’t one of these
figures which bears even the faintest resem-
blance to the old set. Even the visible deficit
(apart from the outstanding liabilities which
are a new element imported into the business)
doesn’t in the least resemble the one which
Coghlan’s department has been swearing to so
long. So the natural inference is that either
the old lot was quite unreliable, or that the
now lot is ''quite unreliable, or that both lots
are perfectly unreliable together.
• • • *
Anyhow, the perfectly new information about
the deficit comes along just in time to rescue
Premier Reid out of an awkward hole. The
old information set forth that that boastful
political sham had, in bis period of alleged
economy, made the shortage bigger than it ever
was before, and nasty things were being said
about it. So one of his departments lias
promptly come to bis assistance by making the
four-year-old shortage of that useful beast of
burden, Dibbs (Hea\en only knows what the
gang in office would do without Dibbs),
£900,000 more than it used to be, and Reid’s
organ, the Telegraph, is already pointing with
pride to its burlesque fat man as the person who
paid off £BOO,OOO of the burden left behind by
his incompetent successor.
* • • •
And—except on paper—it is all a hollow
fraud and a mockery and a delusion. The
visible deficit of Reid, in 1898, is, even according
to the new whitewashing system, £93,000 more
than the visible deficit of Dibbs in 1894. The
difference lies in the fact that in addition to
Dibbs’s visible deficit at the end of 1894 lie had
unpaid liabilities to the amount of £925,497
while Reid has no unpaid liabilities. And the
re-ison of this is, not that Reid lias paid up any
more punctually than the other man did, but
that bis artful Audit Act Amendment Act of
1895 decrees that all of what used to be called
live unpaid liabilities of the year shall not be
that year’s unpaid liabilities at all, but
shall be part of the liabilities of next
year. He simply passed a law that last
year’s arrears should no longer be last
year’s arrears but should be amounts not
due till this year, or some future year. If
Premier Reid had applied the same principle
to the cleaning of Sydney he would have made
it, with no expense and merely by the stroke of
the pen, the one city in the world in which
there was absolutely no dirt whatever. It
would only have been necessary to pass a little
law saying that, on and after the first day of
July, 1895, dirt shall not he dirt but shali he
called (say) gold, or ox-tail soup, or anything
else that seemed suitable. Or lie could have
abolished typhoid and all other diseases, and
made Sydney so healthy that people wouldn’t
die at all, merely by enacting that “illness
and death are abolished after ibis dale and
will bo hereafter described as good health and
a profound admiration of the Reid Govern-
ment.”


The working of the idea was beautifully
simple. In the old days, if .£lOO,OOO was voted
in (say) 1892 for some public work, and only
£lO,OOO of the money was actually paid away
in that year, still the whole £lOO,OOO was
charged to 1892, the odd £90,000 being in-
cluded in the “sums owing but unpaid.”
Under the new system, if £lOO,OOO is voted in
1899 for a public work, and only £lO,OOO is spent
in 1899, that year is charged with the £lO,OOO
only, and the £90,000 is not reckoned as an un-
paid liability at all. Reid has unpaid liabili-
ties at the end of the year just like his prede-
cessors, but, being one of the artful dodger
tribe, he has wisely enacted that they won’t be
unpaid liabilities, and that they won’t appear
in the accounts. Dibbs and Parkes and Jen-
nings are charged, at the end of each year, not
only with the money they had spent, but w'ith
the full cost of the works authorised, even
though these works were not much more
than begun and the money might not be
actually due for years, and even as late
as 1896 Reid was still spending money
which he included in Dibbs’s shortage.
Reid only charges himself with the money
actually spent ; he might, if his accounts were
presented in the same form as the other fel-
low’s, have a million or more of unpaid liabili-
ties—only he has passed a law which prohibits
the painful matter from being officially men-
tioned.
• • * •
The moral of all which is that the State
Statistics should not even look as if they were
faked to glorify the bosses in office and help
them to keep in office—largely by maligning
the party in opposition. They should be abso-
lutely honest and above suspicion. When
Reid’s deficit at the end of the year is only the
amount actually spent in excess of revenue,
then Jennings and Parkes and Dibbs’s deficits
should also be the amount they actually spent
in excess of revenue also—not the amount they
actually spent, and, in addition, the large
sums which they didn’t spend, but which
became due in after years on works
which they only started. The old method of
showing the figures was fair and honest ; the
new one is disgracefully unfair. Premier Reid
did not reduce the deficit by £BOO,OOO odd as
the new set of figures pretends to allege ; he
simply devised a w’ily scheme for “ saving his
face,’ as the Chinese expression goes. His
whole career has been one of shams and pre-
tences, and his whole object and purpose is to
“save his face.’ If Dibbs had passed Reid’s
amended Audit Act in ’92 the alleged deficit of
£3,001,003 would have dropped to £2,052,884
on the spot; the province wouldn’t have been a
penny richer, but it would simply have been
enacted that the £1,055,945 unpaid liabilities
would not be called unpaid liabilities any
longer. And if he had gone a step further and
abolished the rest of the deficit by enacting
that in future it shouldn’t be called a deficit
but a rhododendron it would only have been a
case of carrying the same artful idea a little
further towards its logical conclusion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Compensation for the Burglar.
Thf. great Papuan land-swindle scheme fell
through last week, the British Government,
under the pressure of a rain of angry cable-
grams from Victoria and N.S.YV., having
decided that the utterly illegal steal shall not
come off. But kindly Joseph Chamberlain
recommends that, Victoria, N'.S. VV., and Queens-
land should repay to the chief land-jobbers
(Lowi.es and Somers Vine, apparently) the
money they spent trying to diddle these pro-
vinces, it being a fair thing, in Chamberlain’s
opinion, that any man whose house is broken
into should pay the burglar for his time and
the wear and tear of his jemmy. The proposi-
tion shows up Mr. J. Chamberlain as a most
unexpected ass, or a very wild humorist—pro-
bably the latter. In the agreement for the
control of Papua it was distinctly provided
that Queensland, N.S. W., and Victoria
should put up a certain annual contribu-
tion for the support of the Papuan Govern-
ment, and that the Governments of the
three provinces must be consulted on all
important Papuan matters. Lowi.es, M.P.,
knew the nature of the agreement as well as
any one. Also, he knew perfectly well that the
stupendous grab he was aiming at would never
receive the assent of N.S. W. and Victoria at
all events, so he carefully avoided all mention
of it on his visit to these provinces. He passed
himself off as a friendly visitor seeking general
information in the interests of the “Empiah,”
and he was well received in that capacity.
Later on he began to appear in the light of a
mean and shabby spy playing a confidence game
on his hosts. He persuaded the very remark-
able Governor M'Gregor, of Papua, to make
an agreement, handing over to Lowles’s syndi-
cate, at a ridiculously low price, all the lands
and minerals of Papua that are likely to be
available for the next 40 years, to the absolute
exclusion of Australian miners or land-buyers,
who could only get in on the syndicate’s terms.
He apparently persuaded M ‘Gregor to ille-
gally keep this transaction dark from the
Governments of Victoria and N.S. YV., and from
all except one or two members of the Queensland
Ministry—for the sufficient reason that if N.S.
Wales and Victoria had been consulted as pro-
vided by law the mighty grab hadn’t a ghost
of a chance to get through. Premiers Reid and
Turner just woke up in time to see their
honored and trusted guest getting out of the
window with the valuables, and for the last
five or six months they have been hanging
desperately on to his leg and calling for the
police; And now that he has been made to
give up these valuables he wanes £15,000 from
Reid and Turner as compensation for the time
he spent in annexing the loot, and the trouble
he had to get out of the window, and the
mental worry he went through while Turner
and Reid were hanging on to his leg. Turner
lifts up his voice in Melbourne to the effect
that he will see his late treacherous guest
hanged first, and some remarks from Reid on
the same subject are anxiously expected.
More Papuan Syndicate.
The Papuan land-swindle has ceased to interest
the Australian public, and, in view of the
cable news that Chamberlain has disallowed
the Vine syndicate, the whole case will
probably be shelved, as far as the Australias
are concerned. Meanwhile, would it not be
advisable to enquire a little more diligently
into the secret reasons of the assertive Lowles’
sudden subsidence ? While all eyes were cen-
tred on that {(articular crowd of grabbers, other
enterprisingindividuals havesneaked into Papua
and are beginning to exploit it to their heart’s
content. One Sydneyite is managing a syndi-
cate, British and Australian, for the better
preservation of the monopolist; and several
other crowds are unostentatiously going for the
boodle. It is more than probable that Vine
and co., while making their stand and attract-
ing attention to one focus, quietly crept in
under another name; and, when the first
attempt has been abandoned with a show of
reluctance, they will be found peaceably estab-
lished under another title in Papua. The fact
is that the contributing provinces have squashed
one syndicate with such all-engrossing zeal that
half-a-dozen others, just like their prototype,
found opportunity to undisturbedly settle on
the island. If Australia really intends to keep
British Papua, her nearest oversea neighbor,
clean of slavery and extorting monopolism, a
permanent agent will have to be appointed for
the Possession, or the administration handed
over to the contributing provinces. The pre-
sent arrangement means simply the establish-
ment of an elaborate bonus-system for the
benefit of land-grabbing syndicates.
Suffield and the Other Man.
An obscure line or two in the Sydney papers
has just informed the public that the sentence
on Rofe, the ex-solicitor who recently got a
new hearing, is to stand, after all. But the
huge discrepancy between the cases of Rofe
and Suffield is rather aggravated than
diminished by this decision. Just consider the
full beauty and remarkableness of that dis-
crepancy :
Suffield, the uninfluential engine-hand, was convicted
on the evidence of one girl, who contradicted herself on
every point, and despite the positive evidence in his
favor of a number of respectable witnesses. He got ten
years, and had to serve out his sentence.
Rofe, the influential solicitor, was convicted on con-
vincing evidence, and his own counsel practically threw
up the sponge and pleaded, not that he was innocent, but
that he. was “ led away.” He got a nominal sentence of
five years, and was immediately released. He didn’t
serve a day of his sentence, though the other persons con-
victed in the same case served theirs as usual.
There always was a widespread doubt about the guilt of
the workman, yet he can’t get the semblance of an
inquiry into his case, though the law provides that an
inquiry may be granted where “ any doubt or question ”
arises as to the guilt of a prisoner.
There never was any widespread doubt about the
solicitor’s guilt, yet he got his inquiry.
The engine-driver was told he couldn’t gee an inquiry
unless he produced new evidence—a thing which isn't
even hinted at in the law.
The solicitor got his inquiry, so far as is known, with-
out producing a scrap of new evidence.
The case of the workman had to be advertised all
over the country, in the press and in Parliament, before
his demand w-as even seriously considered.
The solicitor got his inquiry quite calmly and peace-
fully, without the need for press, or public, or Parlia-
mentary agitation. He got it so silently that even the
process by which it was obtained is unknown, and the
evidence was suppressed by the court’s order.
The inquiry also confirmed the conviction of the in-
fluential solicitor’s guilt, which is solid proof that he got
his silent, unobtrusive inquiry upon very little cause.
The uninfluential working man can show good cause,
yet he can’t get an inquiry.
When an inquiry is demanded on behalf of the work-
man, the invariable answer is that the jury’s verdict is
final according to law, and that if every man whose
friends think he is unjustly convicted gets a new hearing
there will be no finality in criminal proceedings. There
is practically no finality in civil proceedings, but it is
always assumed that that is all right, while the absence
of finality in criminal proceedings is all wrong. And it is
a convenient fiction that all the thousands of people who
regard Suffield as being unjustly convicted are his per-
ional friends ami are biassed accordingly. Apparently
that obscure workman had an amazing number of personal
friends in the most remarkable places.
In the case of the well-connected solicitor nothin# was
said about the jury’s verdict liein# final, and the evil of
disturbing the beautiful finality of criminal proceedings
didn’t matter in the least.
Another stereotyped reason why the Suffield case
shouldn’t be du# up again is that Dean got an inquiry
and was released, though he was really guilty—therefore,
interference with a jury’s verdict is unwise and inquiries
are unsatisfactory. But though Dean is a constant
reason why StJFFiKLD shouldn’t get an inquiry, he was,
apparently, no reason why the well-connected other man
shouldn’t have one.
How does all this look as a case of one law—
alleviated by polite and considerate grovel on
the part of people in authority—for the rich,
and ten years without the option for the poor?
♦
The Cornstalk’s Wrongs.
Truly the N.S.W. parochial gang is a hard
crowd to satisfy. The new Federal agreement
provides that the capital of the Commonwealth
shall be in New South Wales anywhere over
100 miles from Sydney ; so N.S.W. has got the
capital to a dead certainty to commence with.
Also, even if the Federal city is situated 200
miles from Sydney it will be so much nearer to
that port than to Melbourne or Adelaide or
Brisbane that the Cornstalk city will be able to
secure all the trade. N.S.W. will control the
railways running through the new city. The
other provinces made no stipulation that the
railway rates from the Victorian or S.A. or
Queensland border to the Federal city should be
at the same rate as those from Sydney to the
Federal city, so that N.S.W. has further large
possibilities of securing the whole trade
of the new capital by making the freights
between it and the other provinces
practically prohibitive. None of these matters
perhaps amount to very much, still N.S.W. has
got a distinct start cf its partners in the Com-
monwealth. But it is agreed that the first
Federal Parliament shall meet in Melbourne—
it has to meet somewhere to decide where-
abouts in N.S.W. the capital shall be located.
And already the parochial Jeremiahs are
writing in the Telegraph about the same old
conspiracy on the part of somebody to swindle
N.S. W. out of something. That widely-known
fossil. E. W. Knox, desires to point out that
the Federal Parliament may go on meeting
in Melbourne till a Dew Federal capital
is built (nothing has been said, so far,
about building a perfectly new capital),
and the painfully local Knox evidently thinks
that the horrors of a Federal Parliament hold-
ing its first meetings in Melbourne are so self-
evident as to require no explanation. And he
wants to know what will happen if the Federal
Parliament never decides on a capital at all and
goes on meeting temporarily in Melbourne all
its life, or if it fixes the capital at Albury or
Moama, or some place in N.S.W. which is so
far from Sydney that Federation won’t im-
prove the value of city property. Of
course, no one can answer a conundrum like
that. There is nothing in the Federal Consti-
tution to prevent the Federal capital being
fixed at Albury (N.S.W 7 .), or to prevent the
Federal Parliament passing a law that Knox
shall have his hair dyed bright red and be
compelled to marry six wives ; and there is
not even anything in the N.S. W. Constitution
to prevent the Sydney Parliament shifting the
N.S.W. capital out to Hungerford or Cobar, or
to prevent it making cat-soup a compulsory
article of diet. In fact, the man who starts by
asking what is to prevent somebody doing this
or that horror if we federate, or if we don’t
federate, or if we do sometliing else, or if
we do anything or nothing, or if it is suddenly
found out that we don’t exist at all owing
to nobody having been born, has such a
wide field of foolish hypothesis before him that
he is quite unanswerable. Even if he asked
what is to- prevent the N.S.W. Parliament,
supposing it doesn’t federate, from enacting
that the railways be torn up and that the pro-
vince should take to the bullock-dray again,
the only possible answer is, “ Nothing at all.”
More Boot-Trunk.
Dear Bulletin. — Re a brilliant display of
police mismanagement in the Boot-Trunk case.
In the first place, you published a letter from
“ Cockney,” commenting on the business friend-
ship that exists between detectives and the
newspaper reporters who seek information from
them. “Cockney” made it clear that the
South Yarra police could easily have unravelled
the Boot-Trunk mystery had they been put in
possession of certain facts known to two rival
cliques of detectives and to the Superintendent.
Then you published a letter from newspaper-
scribe “M‘G.” in defence of the friendly
D’s. “ M.G.,” the individual who contradicts
everything and mixes everything up, said:
“The detectives had nothing even to con-
nect South Yarra with the tragedy—not a
scrap of any information of any value reached
the detectives from first to last.” Surely the
value of information depends upon the intelli-
gence of the persons to whom it is imparted.
The detectives had information which sug-
gested a connection between the boot-trunk,
the girl Dubberke, and a certain house in
South Yarra. They made no good use of
their knowledge. It was valueless—to them.
“ M‘G.” by this time has probably felt
sorry that he offered an apology for bis
detective friends. At the inquest last week
witness Gabriel, the South Yarra youth who
sold drugs and instruments to Tod, and knew
they were to be applied to Mabel Ambrose,
stated : “ Nearly every day after the body was
discovered I used to say to him, ‘ That’s Mabel
in the boot-box, all right, Tod.’ ... I knew
about half-a-dozen other people who chaffed
him . . . it was a general thing.” The detec-
tive who took Tod into custody stated that
Tod, after his arrest, said, “It was very hard
on him the way people chaffed him at South
Yarra, and he had to put up with a lot owing
to the chaff.” In fact—as one of the cross-
examining lawyers remarkedeverybody
knew about it but the detectives,” and
“M’G.’s” letter merely served to justify
“Cockney’s” comments on the contemptible
worshipping of ’tecs by weak-minded news-
paper people.— More Cockney.
When the Bill authoring the construction of
the Byrock-Brewarrina, Rock to Green’s Gun-
yah, and Koorawatha-Grenfell' railways was
before N.S. W. Leg. Council, that body inserted
a proviso that the owners of adjacent lands
should be specially taxed to make good any loss
on the working of the three lines. Wherefore
there is boiling rage in Brewarrina, and large,
wild, hairy men use reprehensible vocabulary
in Green’s Gunyah. They point out that the
N.S. W. railway system has only been one year
without a deficit, and they have helped for
many years to bear other people’s railway-de-
ficits while having no railway of their own, and
now they can only get a line by paying their
own deficit single-handed. Also, considering
that N.S. W. has a very long list of non-paying
lines already, they want to know if it is pro-
posed to make the landowners along these pay
up their shortages also, and if it isn’t, then why
isn’t it ? There is a certain amount of logic
about that last question.
♦
To all appearance, the Queensland police have
about given up hope of fastening the Gatton
murder on to Burgess. Witness the following
dejected item which lately arrived from the
North with its tail between its legs
The police are not confident of winning: their case, when
things come to a head, though they profess to have
evidence which will vindicate the moral guilt of some-
body, even if he cannot be legally convicted. It is said
that, with the evidence they have accumulated, the police
will be able to vindicate their action before the public,
who, as they know, are not at one with them in the
course they are adopting.
It is now beginning to be remembered, too, that
the witnesses described the mysterious man at
the sliprails as wearing a beard, and not only
was Bcthgess a clean-shaved man when arrested,
but he was clean-shaved several days before
the crime—when he went out prospecting with
Mattingley, the Killarney schoolmaster. The
fact that people who reported getting a glimpse
of a bearded man in the dark promptly recog-
nised the clean-shaved Burgess as the bearded
man goes for nothing. The average identifier,
who deserves ten years’ hard labor, would have
sworn that Burgess was the bullock he saw
leaning its head on the fence if that would have
helped the sensation along. Anyhow, if the
case against Burgess falls through—and Bur-
gess has now upwards of a dozen independent
witnesses who prove his alibi from Gatton on
Dec. 25, 26, 27 —what compensation is it pro-
posed to pay him for his wrongful imprison-
ment ? He got two months, nominally for
vagrancy, but really because a police-officer
gave it as his opinion that there were “ other
circumstances ” which warranted his retention.
If there were no other circumstances after all,
how does this matter stand ?
Two Mudgee papers, the Western Post and
Guardian, complain that Judge Docker, when
presiding at the District Court there lately,
kept the business going from 10 a.m. one day
until nearly 1 o’clock next morning, and from
10 a.m. on that latter day till 9 p.m. The
community has left many points of pro-
cedure to the discretion of Judges, trusting
that Judges would in such points behave
with prudence and wisdom ; but members of
N.S. Wales District and Supreme Court
bench have of late years so frequently out-
raged public feeling and prejudiced the
principle of fair trial that it is no longer
safe to trust implicitly to discretion alone.
Parliamentary bridle and rein are wanted. The
evils of protracted court sittings are obvious to
all except the Judges who indulge in them;
and have been so often stamped with public
condemnation that even these, in the interests
of justice, should curb their predilections and
keep the fame of legal administration pure. As
they don’t do it, Parliament should compel
them.
“ Lex ” to The Bulletin ;
Melb. Tocsix says that the Vic. Govt, has cabled to the
Slonial Office for a royal pardon for detective Dckobt
/ore trial. Why such a request should be made is
hardly clear, seeing that Via Govt, seems to have under
the amended “Governor’s instructions ’’ similar powers to
the Crown in such matters, and that pardon even by the
?ueen before trial would hardly be constitutional.
he alleged cable may be imaginary, but there are
rumors about Melbourne that three different requests
to the same effect have been sent to England, alleging
the probable boom in abortions which a conviction would
generate, as a reason for the pardon ; and that a reply
has been received to one of them, stating that nothing
can he done until the Supreme Court has done its share
of the work. Whether the statement is correct or
not, it has been publicly made; and it would
seem to indicate either very little public spirit
or very great jealousy of a very small rival,
that none of the Mefh. newspapers have informed the
public of the truth or otherwise of the statement. It is
hardly in the public interest, or in accordance with Vic,
traditions of Responsible Government, that (as would be
the case if such a cable has been sent) Colonial Office in-
fluence should be invoked by Vic. Cabinet to block the
regular channel of Vic. criminal justice. In fact., it would
be, on a small scale, comparable with Duput b Bill to
shelve the criminal section of the Court of Cassation.
♦
The J6550-reward question was dragged into
the verdict of the Coroner’s jury in the Melb.
boot-trunk case. With splendid audacity the
foreman begged the Coroner to “ bring under
the notice of the Chief Commissioner of Police
the work done by the three detective officers,
This, That, and T’other, and by Senior-Con-
stable Thingummy, whose shrewd forethought
in preserving the head of the deceased for
identification had been the means of bringing to
light a most foul crime.” The jury added this
precious rider with full knowledge of how
the crime had been discovered by the con-
fession of Thkkla Dua BERKK, and hadn’t been
revealed by the pickled head at all. They had
heard counsel engaged in the case make satirical
comments on the detectives’ ignorance of the
jocular suspicions which had been cast at Tod
by his South Yarra friends, and the only con-
ceivable explanation of the foreman’s little
speech is to be found in the foreman’s nation-
ality. His name, Patrick Allen, suggests
Irish origin. The four policemen singled out
for admiration were more or less Irish, like-
wise. All policemen are more or less Irish.
The coroner, whose name is Morrison, in-
formed the jury in cold, Scotch accents that
their uncalled-for postscript to the verdict
would not be officially recorded.
The Color Line.
Come ont from among them and touch not the unclean
thing, and be ye separate, and I will receive you.—
t Corinthians VI., 17.
To your arms ! The countless hordes of Asia
Are a-swarm, a demon world released !
From the camps of Zhengis Khan and Juhal,
Filthy scourings of the putrid East,
Turkoman and Cingalese and Tartar
Gather Southward for the vultures’ feast.
From the pestilent bazaars of Bosra,
And the plague-struck jungles of Lahore,
From the slums and opium-dens of Canton
And the quays of venal Singapore,
From the mountain passes of Malacca
Sets the turbid current towards our shore.
Here the greasy Jew of Vladivostok,
Or a painted houri from Japan ;
There the planter’s slave from Sourabaya,
And the mongrel-bred Manila man ;
Dirty Arab hawkers from Damascus,
Leprous coolies from old Hindostan 1
One by one the army of invasion
Trickles in and spreads abroad and grows.
Stowaways and crew, they land and vanish
Stealthily amid the crowd that flows
Up and down the street, and that, purblinded,
Knows it not —and cares not if it knows.
And the traitors walk among you, smiling,
White of skin, but nigger-black at heart;
Preaching glibly tolerance and pity,
Quoting laws of commerce, rules of mart;
With the callousness of greedy slavers
Listing even God to take their part.
Will you hearken to the canting prattle
Of the lying, conscience-barren band ?
Will you dally till the fetters rattle
On your wrists —or will you fight and stand ?
With the brave Jehovah goes to battle !
To the strong the Lord shall give the land !
Men and Brothers ! Will you let the stranger
Soil Australia’s homes and rob her farms ?
Will you let him kiss her lips and change her
To a harlot flaunting alien charms ?•
White Man’s Land, you cowards, is in danger !
White Man’s Land is calling you to arms !
N. Queensland.
VON KOTZE.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ••• ••• £49,349,231
Increase in Assets during 1897 ... ... ••• ••• 4,187,992
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 10,508,995
Increase in Surplus during 1897 ... ... ... ... 1,513,749
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 198,159,549
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 ... ... 7,513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M.R, M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, wrtte for “Travellers'
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
TichT^s^
’RUNNING
»»
5 MARINES
Writ* lor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
r 4O GEORQE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston Bt., Melb. Queen Bt- ( Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COM INO WEEK.
He* Majesty's. “ The Geisha."
Lyceum “Flying tR-ud.”
Royal “ The English Rose."
Tivoli Rickard* Co.
Alhambra Variety Co.
Tows Hall Newbury's Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess. “The Adventure of Lady Ursula.”
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Flinders wr. tc. Sprino st. Corner—Fitzgeralds' Circus.
Boucicault’s fine old drama, “Flying
Scud,” revived at Sydney Lyceum on Satur-
day in the presence of a considerable audi-
ence, is a play surrounded by many recollection*.
The brightest memory attached to it in the time
of the present writer dates hack to the palmy
days of the old, battered Gaiety, that tneatre
which is now gradually jagging out in a neglected
old age, in the seedy back wilderness of Castle-
reagh-street- A lamentable scratch co. hung out
there in those days of auld lang beer—the kind of
co. that always wears its pant* too short, and has
low flapping shoes, and soiled white socks, and a
greenisli tail coat awav up in the small of ita back
to signify that it is a duke of great affluence. The
only exception was Captain Goodge, whose pants
were too long, and wrinkled up on his legs like a
pair of concertinas, and whose bell-topper looked
a* if he had fallen asleep at the table with his hat
in the gas-jet. And, even under these conditions,
the old “ Scud ’’ looked a healthy, vigorous—and
also rather ridiculous—drama Compared with
Frank Harvey’s cow-like plays that graze mildly
in the fields of recent literature, Boucieault’s work
is that of an artist—not of the very best order, but
an artist all the same. He was at least a man
who didn’t sleep in his write, which is a matter of
some importance.
41 41 * *
“ Flying Scud ” differs from most other
dramas in the absence of the fallen girl. Katie
Rideout lies under dark suspicions of having
fallen—in the stable, of all places; and the hero
deserts her, and drinks, and loses most of his pile
to Goodge and Mulligan and Moses Davis and
Chouser at cards ; but later on the dude who was
weeping in the loft because Julia wouldn’t marry
him is able to swear that Katie couldn’t have
fallen without him hearing the thud, so her char-
acter is cleared. The absence of the fallen girl is
a pleasing novelty, anyhow. The other hero also
loses all his money to Goodge and Mulligan and
Chouser and Mo. Davis—old Boucicault had the
gambling mania strongly in his dramas ; and
that ruined character is left to live happily
on his debts for ever afterwards. And, being
himself a thriftless Irishman, Boucicault leaves
Goodge and Mulligan and Chouser and Mo.
Davies without a bean, despite all their vast
robbery, and busy informing on each other
about a forged 1.0. U. None of Boucicault’s
characters are able to hang on to their money,
and the virtue of Thrift isn’t in them.
“ Flying Scud ” ends with the old moral that
the Lord jiastes the sins of the wicked in
His hat lor future reference, consequently
Mo Davies is left in custody with his mate,
Chouser, swearing affidavits against him ; and
Goodge and Mulligan rush across the stage on
their way to Germany with no assets but the
clothes they stand in. And the little cardboard
gee-gee that wins the Derby, after going down on
his head eight times or so, partly rehabilitates the
hero's fortunes, so that he can marry the girl who
was accused of having fallen in the 'stable.
• • • •
The horse that wins the alleged Derby is
a rather weedy animal to look at, but he is the
only seriously unsatisfactory member of the cast.
Miss Helene Burdette gathers another big laurel
as Katie Rideout, and that winsome gin could
hardly be done better than Miss Burdette does
her. Diver’s hero is good all round, barring
his invariable suggestion of nervousness, but it is
difficult to sympathise with the hero who caste off
Katie, and sconis her through the keyhole w hen
she tearfully asks to be let out so that she can
explain everything. Nunn, Hareourt, and Patey,
the most prominent of the four gentlemen who
have aces in their boots, and who live precari-
ously by stiffening horses and forging each other’s
1.0. U., are all satisfactory, with the exception
that the nose of Mo. Davis is shamefully overdone
—no human jxung would trust a man with a car-
buncle that size glowing oil his countenance. Bert
Bailey is always a pleasing individual to meet,
and when his honored white head and his two
shaky old legs brought Diver’s horse in a winner,
and a fear dropjied from his rheumy eye on to the
faithful animal, the popular enthusiasm nearly
scared “ Flying Scud ” out of his wits, and the
curtain went down with the whole company hang-
ing on to that noble ’oss to prevent him wrecking
the theatre. Also Miss Ivy Gorrick may be
classed as reasonably promising, in a somewhat
amateurish sort of way. She looks as if she
hadn’t become fully acquainted with the furni-
ture as yet. The “ Octoroon ” follows at some
date not yet specified.
# m m # ■
A scheme is on foot to get up a large, in-
fluential show, or some other useful and saleable re-
cognition, to Messrs. J. and C. MacMahon on their
retirement from Sydney Lyceum a few weeks
hence. The two brief brothers of Bendigo have
kept that establishment oj>en for 20 months
through good luck and bad—mostly rather
bad; and in that time they have given more
dramas at lower prices than were ever given
at a leading Sydney theatre before. Some
of the dramas were bad. and some should have
got six months hard labor, but a great many were
very good. Also, the great bulk of them were
well-mounted and well-played by a very good
company. Incidentally, the smallest brother with
the long top-hat and the other brother have been
instrumental in bringing to the front some very
promising young Australian actors and actresses
who might otherwise have mouldered in ob-
scurity a while longer—the very promising
Miss Helene Burdette being a case in
point. There i* about as much show for a
young Australian mummer in Australia now as
there is for a kookaburra in church, so in this
respect the Mighty Atom and Co. have done
good work. And The Bulletin would like to
know if the influential committee which promises
to recognise the MacMahon Brothers’ services
couldn't get up two recognitions when it is about
it, and let the Lyceum eo. have the cash results
of the other one? It is prepared to take its Bible
oath, or any other drinkable, that the eo. wants
it badly, and deserves it quite as much as the
management.
* * * *
The Sydney shows are sickbed o’er
this week with the pale tail-end of almost
everything. The [lantomime at Her Majesty’s is
busy dejjositing its last legs in the grave, and
ere tie's© few tasteful remarks are laid before
the public it will lie no more. The Bulletin
drops a tear the size of Fitzgeralds’ circus over
Peggy Pryde, and Gulliver, and the Ass, and
several other people, Miss Franees Adler among
them, and it is sorry to part with the bright blue
sky of Bagdad—about the only clean thing there-
abouts. But considering that the piece plainly
couldn’t hold up any longer, it is just as well
that it should tear itself away. Next week
the famous “Geisha” will receive a careful, in-
telligent, and discriminating notice, with a vein of
poetic fettling running through it, and adorned
with the evidences of a pure taste and an artistic
soul. The present writer is the owner of that soul.
* * * *
The “English Rose” will be staged at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, “When London
Sleeps ” retiring with dignity after a triumphant
season of six weeks. Frivolous persons may re-
mark that the English aren’t the only people who
rose, and that if trie English in question are male
and stout and middle-aged, and nave a night-cap
on. and projYOse washing at the pump, and are
calling indignantly to a stout, red, middle-aged
wife, generally named “ Marier,” to rise too, the
whole affair is so sordid and unsesthetic that the
less said about the English rising the 1 letter. Any-
how, the event will take [ilace in public on Satur-
day night, and this paper hopes for the best.
* 4t 4t *
Lieutenant Travis, the greatest ventrilo-
quist on earth, appeared at the Tivoli as agreed
upon, and Sydney has decided it won’t fight about
tne question. If he isn’t the greatest ventriloquist
on earth he is probably near enough to it, and it
isn't worth anybody’s while to get his eye dis-
colored through calling the management a person
who wouldn’t know the truth if he saw it, even if
there is a small discrepancy somewhere. Travis
is certainly in the front rank of his rather dreary
profession, and he and the other professors may
argue the matter out among themselves. Miss
Peggy Pryde still casts her two well-filled stock-
ings and her two small shoes at the stars when the
spirit moves her, and the other people are well
and happy, or succeed in disguising their illness
and misery very well.
« 4 * *
Biondi, the versatile gentleman of many
strange noses, has a matinee benefit at the Tivoli
on W ednesday next, when the full strength of the
Rickards co. will help to give him a send-off. The
surprising Italian has constructed a new sketch,
“ The Burglar,” in which, so this paper under-
stands, he breaks into his own house, finds himself
asleep in bed, decides not to disturb himself, then
wakes up and is enraged to see himself in the
room, chases himself, bolts in alarm with himself
in close pursuit, sees himself ahead dressed as a
policeman as well as behind racing in his night-
shirt, and is finally surrounded by himself and
captured with the assistance of a large crowd of
himself, which gathers round attracted by his own
objurgations. Biondi intends ojiening with this
sketch in London, but he will “try it on the
dorg”at the Tivoli on Wednesday. It is hoped
that the dorg will be numerous and appreciative.
# m * #
Brough, late of the Bijou, seems to have
strengthened his claim upon Melbourne at large,
and the five-shilling section in particular, by
shifting his business to the Princess’s. “The
Adventure of Lady Ursula” was set before a full
house and a gleaming display of naked shoulders
on Saturday night—Lord Brassev’s presence being
thrown in gratis. Also, the public, by vehement
applause, gave the Brough co. to understand that
it had scored what the newspajiers call a
“ veritable triumph,” and which, in truth, was a
medi un sized success. Evidently the Princess’s is
the one and only Melb. theatre where a manage-
ment can expect to run a profitable enterprise on
“ the dollar line.”
• • • •
“ The Adventure of Lady Ursula ” is a
short four-act comedy (by Anthony Hope), de-
pending a good deal upon its clothes—the gaudy
military uniforms nnd silken society splendors of
A. D. 1700 or thereabouts. Handsome costumes,
fine furniture and fittings, and an artistic assort-
ment of stage pictures make it an interesting
show: the dialogue is bright, and the story is a
slim, elegant fiction of the kind that cheers and
does not inebriate. Lady Ursula bets another girl
six pairs of stockings that she will contrive to
interview a certain Sir George, who has warned all
women off his premises for evermore. Her inten-
tions are strictly feminine, but somehow the
scheme for invading Sir George’s bachelor privacy
drags her brother into a quarrel, and then, with a
view to averting a fatal duel (for Sir George is a
dead sticker, like Julius Knight in “Under the
Red Robe ”), giddy Lady Ursula pretends to be a
boy in a blue court-suit; and Sir George takes her
at her word. He, in the ordinary way, is
a sceptical man of the world, and she is a
pal pallid fraud, with an embarrassed pair of
leffs, but he has to go on mistaking her
sex in the interests of the comedy. Then Sir
< ieorge discovers his awful stupidity by accident,
but the girl, not knowing this, challenges him to
a duel ‘on her own.” Also, she herself is chal-
lenged by one or two warriors who don’t know a
woman when they see one; and, finally, the
nickering little joke is snuffed out by George’s
offer of marriage, which Ursula duly jumps at.
1 lie play has an old-fashioned charm of manner,
*ad will no doubt improve on acquaintance, like
all damty work. There’s nothing in it—but what
is nice.
• • • •
Brough, as a quaint old parson, Mario
Majeroni, in the lordly capacity of an angry
brother engaged to Miss Temple, together with a
genteel aunt and a few casual officers in the Foot
Guards, represent the necessary padding for the
story, which practically begins and ends at Lady
l rstila and her adventure with the bachelor man.
&he is less convincing than even Hhaks|jeare’s Rosa-
lind, and he commands very little more reverence
than the tenor and baritone heroes of “Dorothy,”
whose best girls are supposed to play the
she-male trick utxm them. An actress needs
to be specially born for the part of a Lady
l rsula, and being born to impersonate a man
she must know how to express the appearance
and feelings of a beautiful 19-year-old lady in
the act of wearing breeches for the first time.
Miss Essie Jenyns ten years ago might have
almost realised the character. Mrs. Brough acts
it fairly effectively. Her face is pretty enough,
she carries sufficient height and not too much
plumpness, and, setting one consideration against
another all through the piece, Mrs. Brough finishes
up with a gixxl balance to her credit. The writer
saw her walk through a burlesque-part in trousers
once upon a time, and can testify that she is much
happier in the knee-breeches of these latter days.
Joseph Carne’s husky monotones tend to make Sir
George seem a somewhat heavy person, but the
actor’s style is manly and pleasant.
** * *
The dearth of memory in Melbourne’s
dress-circles was very palpable at the Opera House
last Friday night, when that worn-out tenement of
old associations was about to close its record. One
looked for a hundred or two gray identities in-
dulging their gentle melancholy on the grand tier,
but found not half-a-dozen. The scene of Lister’s
ambitious opera ventures ; the place where “ Tam-
bour Major ” gave George Musgrove his start in
life, and where jealous Greer committed murder
and suicide; where Emilie Melville, George Rig-
nold, and ** Paul Jones ” flourished of yore, and
Jonel Sullivan got drunk, was allowed to pass
away in silence. With very few exceptions the
very few old people who attended at the death
of the historic o[>era House had seemingly come
there to see a variety show, without a thought for
the things that were and might have been in the
days of auld lang syne.
* * * 4*
The Rickards co. had a great liotrse-
warming at the Bijou on Saturday, and the advan-
tages of the new pitch from the performers’ point
of view were generally recognised by the people in
front. Songs sound louder, and all sorts of turns
are better displayed to the far-off portions of the
audience than at the late Opera House. The
gallery gets fully 75 per cent, more value for its
six|>ence, anyway. A new background for the
“first part,” a small boy soprano, and a rapid
little pantomime by the Lorenzi-Phillips party,
gave an air of freshness to the Bijou show, which
was otherwise brought along from the other place.
Boy Daley is a taking item; the new setting is
the Cadden Woods scene from “ Little Minister,”
and the knockabout business of the matured
Brethren and Sistern (who were lately apjtearing
in Sydney) is quite as lively and almost as
humorous as the lunacies of the revered Poluskis
and Haytors.
4f 4f 4t #
“ One of the Best," a drama which occa-
sionally deals with Tommy Atkins in a Rudyard
Kipling sense, and is a genuine-looking affair at
its most solemn moments, will have to leave Melb.
Royal at once to make room for “The White
Heather.” Bland Holt has only seven weeks of
his season to fill in, so the long-exjieeted
“ Heather ” must be bis final production. “ The
Heather,” as everybody in Melbourne seems to
know already, is the most gorgeous sjiectacle ever
staged by Blandolt, and it will doubtless do seven
weeks on its ex [tensive head.
** * *
At Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus remarkable
Ajax is just now punching his lungs and liver
with his feet, to the delight of a more or less
crowded tent. The circus boom slackens a little
once in a way, but as a rule the multitude rolls up
with the same old roll. Bar Tigress Kitty, who
has been growling considerably at her mate, the
horse, this last week or two, the menageriejseems
happy; also it is understood that Kitty merely
shows her teeth for fun; she means no harm.
The steeplechase doesn’t mean any harm either,
but three times a night on an average a jockey
parts company with his bounding steed, and the
possibility of somebody getting hurt is a great
public attraction.
At Poverty Point.
“H. A.L.” : I read par by “M.A.P.” re vice-reyal dead-
heads. Was playing at Sydney Criterion with the late
Arthur Dacre. First niirht of “A Scrap of Paper” was
viee-regal command night. After the performance, Chief
Justice Darley, then Acting-Governor, thanked manager
Lohr and tendered a substantial cheque. Lohr told
Dacre of the incident a few minutes later, on the stage,
and added, “Of course I told him you wouldn’t hear of
accepting anything.’’ “ But why on earth did you say
that?" asked Dacre. Then L.J. explained that that was
the unwritten law in Australia. Dacre couldn't under-
stand It. No wonder! A few hours previously he had
({Wen present writer a diamond rinjf to pawn for current
The inquest on the boot-trunked body of Mabel Am-
brose produced a neat display of book-lore by amalgam
M Inerney. Dr. Neild had been testily reproving nre-
vious cross-examiners for their crooked way of putting
medical questions, so M‘lnerney led off with-“ We must
speak by the card, or equivocation will undo us,” whereat
Dr. Nei < assumed his best Siiakespearian-Society smile,
and nodded encouragingly. Here was a lawyer after his
own heart. As president of the B.S , the zood old doctor
approved of brother M‘lnerney s scholarly sentiment.
LAteron, Mac. was seekintr to reconcile two of the wit-
nesses statements re the late Mabel firstly, that she was
a stoutisn, strong-looking girl, and, secondly, that she
had probably died of suffocation through the mere pres-
sure or a hand upon her mouth and nostrils. Other
counsel had professed to think that a sturdily-built girl
oouldn t be so easily killed, hut M’lnerney called Shake-
speare to the doctor’s assistance. “You say that although
this young woman was robust, she may not have been
strong—you would say—• I care not for thews, or bulk,
or the big assenrblance of a man. Give me spirit, Master
shallow. ’ and Dr. Neild beamed upon the suggestion.
Perhaps he beamed all the broader because he suspected
that tiie ingenious Mae. was faking up the lines as he
went along. A recognised Shakespearian student is at
liberty to reel off any little speech with an olde Englyshe
ring in it, and, provided that he introduces the name of
one of the Immortal Hard's characters, it goes for genu-
ine. Shakespeare covers a multitude of misquotations.
"This metropolis,” writes Tim Bulletin's London cor
respondent, “ has now about 27 more-or-less full-blown
pantomimes in full blast. Nellie Stewart is at last a
popular success, and as Ganem in Ali Baba at Drury
Lane fairly 1 brings down ’ that huge barn every time.
She is charming as the superior ‘principal boy’—
p raps a little too ‘operatic’—and her early experiences
now stand her in good stead. Florrie Young delights the
cheap genteel respectability of Fulham as ‘Dick Whit-
tington,’ and is universally commended for her under-
standings (plural, please)—and her voice. Likewise Miss
Sophie Harris, of the slender but shapely props, is
sprightly and successful at Kennington (by the Oval), in
the new and gorgeous Princess of Wales Theatre. Sophy
is Prince Perfect in ‘ Cinderella,’ and smiles and warbles
equally well. At the ‘Shakespeare,’ Clapham, Florrie
Forde is the Prince, and she spreads her ‘ princely figure
and strong contralto voice ’ (vide Daily MAiL)satisfactorily
over the footlights and orchestra. Ethel Haydon is
* fairy-ing ’ with 6clat and other good things at the Theatre
Royal, Manchester, whilst ‘hubby’ knockß ’em at the
Comedy, next door or street.”
At the time of Deeming’s conviction, the owner of his
house in Andrew-street, Windsor, opened the place for
exhibition at 6d. a head, and raked in the shekels hand-
somely for a few days. Scenting a repetition of this, the
police blocked the owner of Mine. Radalyski's house in
South Yarra, pointing out that he would be liable to
prosecution for running an unlicensed theatre, or some-
thing of the sort; so the poor old fellow, who never had
any intention of exhibiting the place, was scared badly.
Anyhow, it would be only fair under such circumstances
to give the owner a chance of making a few pounds.
After a tragedy has occurred in a house it is long damned
for letting purposes.
Those five young lions in a cage at Fitzgtiald Bros.’
menagerie are sold to a Hamburg dealer, and will be
aed presently. The breeding of lions is a most pro-
e native industry, it seems, and if the Fitzses could
only do it on a large scale they wouldn’t trouble to run
their circus at all. Poor John Burns, the noble-looking
beast with the two blind eyes (one of which developes an
abscess and bursts at painful intervals), is not a success
as a sire. In fact he hasn't managed to achieve the joys
of paternity thusfar. As for the lion who squats on the
elephant’s back, he is doomed to live a monkish life un-
disturbed by female society. The fellow who begets the
cubs is a comparatively wild, untamed Lothario with a
particular fancy for having his offspring born in Maori-
land.
Doubtful whether Ada Crossley scored a point at Clara
Butt's expense when she took the place of her indisposed
rival on the first day of the Leeds Festival, and obtained
fine notices for her singing. Wily Clara seized the oppor-
tunity to present the Australian girl with a turquoise-
and-pearl bangle, which, when you come to think of it,
was a means of letting the public know, per medium of a
hundred gushful paragraphists, that Clara considers her-
self in a position to patronise her dear friend Ada.
“A great actor-manager has fallen more deeply into
misfortune,” writes Tim Bulletin's London correspon-
dent. “He is now • broke' and his old age is being
gilded only by the charity of his friends' private contri-
butions. Publicity has not yet turned its ‘ bulla-eye' on
the case, and a shock and surprise await theatre-goers
everywhere when that slumberous searchlight gets on to
the wreck. Another, p’raps greater—financially, anyhow—
manager,” continues our correspondent, “ has been un-
able to recognise his signature on bills to the amount of
£2500, which were presented to him for settlement. A
near relation is reported to be the absent-minded person
who forgot his own Christian name, and the conundrum
now is, ‘ Will this rising man remember he p ave these
bills himself, or must a jury decide that hts relative
should retire into seclusion out of reach of those too-
obliging money-lenders who are sometimes so criminally
careless of the signatures to such bills ? ’ ”
Walter Lacy, an actor of repute, who was an Australian
ere he took to the boards, died lately in England, aged
90 years. About the thirties he was a Govt, medical
officer in V.D.L. He was on board the Govt, brig
Cyprus, in 1829, when the vessel was seized by con-
victs. The crew, soldiers nnd firemen were landed on an
island where they remained some days until rescued by
the Georgiana, an Indiaman on a voyage to Bombay with
troops. Later, Lacy was wrecked off Swan River,
W.A., and after that mishap he concluded that Australia
did not want him. He threw physio to the dogs, went to
England and took to the stage, his first appearance being
as Count. Montallmn in the “Honeymoon,” at the old
Theatre Royal, Edinburgh, in 1834, and his last as Colonel
Damns at the Lyceum, in April, 79.
Rather amusing this talk of Dorothy Yane entering a
convent—two years hence or thereabouts. A 'cute ndvt.
trick if the young lady is not really determined to get to
a nunnery. But it is a fact that Dorothy dodges the
admiring dude with great pertinacity, and was conducted
to her hnnsotn every night after the' performance at the
Princess’s by a youthful theatre safely shut up,
and hastily removed to her sanctuary.' Observe that the
pensive nun’s initials are D.V., signifying that, she may or
may not D-Velope into a nun later bn. [Worst pun of
the year up to date.— Ed. B.]
" You marry for always? Not Japanese style ?’’ “ Yes,
permanently if not exclusively.”— Geisha.
Jane Hading has just auctioned her jewellery, includ-
ing a £2500 collar for her lap-dog.
“ Incl ” : Was at Dnmpier’s recent production of “ Ham-
let," and, just as the ploy was reaching its deepest
interest, was elect rified to hear one country cousin behind
me ask another—“ Say, Dick, which is Shakespeare?"


Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
. . conveying and
disbursing money m any sums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of tne world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
JAMES MALCOLM,
„ , General Agent.
Sydney Agency <
135 PITT STREET (near 0.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/O S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Qem Field.
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
.Taques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assavers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinders
17" and 38" by 60” stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of lftlb. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably the
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall's patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to' produce
6cwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, ana butchers of the
world.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mklbournb ;
11 Pittst.,Sydney ; 6S Currif-et., Add. ; t 7 Engl estreat,
•Brink. ; Lnmbton Quay, Wtllinyton,
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining: Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
„i ar a ® t^ie present financial year has gone (to
aist Jan., 1899) the five provinces which issue monthly
statements of revenue stand as follows. (S.A. only issues
March) 1 "- 68 qUarterly WOn,t be heard fr ° m tUI 31st
Increase as compared with corres-
VT ~ , ponding period of last year.
£ew South Wales (7 months) .. £298,005
Queensland ? ) .. 173,569
Victoria l „ ) .. 142i524
Tasmania (1 month) .. 8,070
Decrease as compared with corres-
ponding period of last year.
v> estralia (7 months) .. £177,074
Taking the month of January, 1899, alone the
figures are :
Increase as compared with
„ , January, 1898.
Queensland £19,953
Is ew South Wales .. „ 33 343
Tasmania .. .. .. "
Decrease as compared with
. . January, 1898.
Victoria _ £4,990
»V estralia .. .. # # 27 271
So far the revenue of Queensland is about £349,000 ahead
of expenditure, while the expenditure of N.S.W. is in
front of revenue, and the deficit so far is £304,534. No
expenditure accounts are available from the other pro-
vince at time of writing, but it is known that the out-
gomgs in >Vestralia are being cut. down enormously. At
the end of September the Westralian deficit for the three
months then elapsed was 1104,330, and. at the end of
£71*793 tbe s^ort - a l' e for the half-year was reduced to
New South Wales’s loan business still increases,
ror the seven months to 31st January the expenditure of
borrowed money was £1,147,814, which is £166,377 more
than for the seven months to 31st January, 1898, and not
much short of the whole year’s loan expenditure in 1894.
T “ e entire mystery of Reid’s alleged economy has con-
sisted in paying less and less of the public works expen-
diture out of revenue, and charging more and more of it
to loans. In evidence whereof consider the following
of mone y spent on public works from the
A.b.W. Statistical Register for 1898 (page 31)
Parses.
Paid out of Paid out of .
revenue. loans. lotal.
1890 „ ..£1,227,380 ..£2,141,218 ..£3,368,598
Parkes-Dibbs.
1891 1,486,803 .. 4,750,167 .. 6,236,970
- - L 387.203 .. 3,014,680 .. 4,401,883
1893 .. ~ 1,101,251 .. 1,913,580 .. 3,014,831
Dibbs-Reid.
1894 _ „ 762,867 .. 1,330,046 .. 2,092,913
Reid.
I*** 0* ye**) ~ 469,263 .. 656,625 .. 1,125,888
.. „ 978,497 .. 1,270,898 .. 2,249,395
1897 .. .. 854,871 .. 1,477,318 .. 2,332,189
1898 .. .. 596,986 .. 1,644,769 .. 2,241,756
N.S.W. doesn’t build railways now with anything like the
Mjror of the old days, and the Reid Government
didn’t inherit the vast mass of unfinished public works
which its predecessor did, and so wasn’t driven to a
stupendous outlay of loan-money in its early days. The fact
that Dibbs finished, in three years, 307 miles of railway
left on his hands by his predecessor, against Reid’s 190
miles m four years, accounts for a good deal of the for-
mer’s loan outlay. But the present N.S.W. Government
paid last year about £500,000 less of the public works
expenditure out of revenue than its predecessor’s averag’ei
£500,000 of small, unreproductive works which used to be
paid out of revenue are now charged to loans; and the
loan account is only kept down by building fewer produc-
tive works. This sort of thing is called economy by people
who only look at the totals and don’t inquire about
details—which is the reason why The Bulletin barracks
for a separate Public Works Fund and a separate state-
ment of ordinary expenditure.
• • « *
The new year opened gaily in the Australian
loan business. South Australia has already floated a 3
per cent. p.n. for £1,500,000, about £1,100,000 being to
redeem old loans, and the balance for new works. After
allow ing for expenses it gets about £94 for each £lOO, so
there is a dead loss of £90,000 on the transaction, and the
interest, allowing for loss at maturity of loan, is about 3i
per cent The only good points about the transaction
are that there is a saving of interest, the old loans being
at 4 per cent, and that the new loan is repayable only at
the option of the Government, so that it won’t have to
make another big loss on renewal. When S.A. borrowed
that £1,100,000 originally, some 24 years ago, it made a
loss of £9 on every £lOO, and as it makes another loss of
£6 per £lOO on the renewal it really owes £lOO where it
only received £B5. For every £9l ‘it originally received
it has paid back £ll3 in interest, and it has just
paid another £6 in discount, and it still owes £lOO. It
can’t repay the £lOO in any case till 1916, and by that
time it will have paid another £6l in interest. So it will
by 1916 have paid £l7O interest and discount for the use
of £9l which it probably spent in building a railway
that has been a dead loss ever since.
It is also announced from London that Maoriland
is floating a £1,000,000 3 per cent loan with a prospect of
getting about c 96. Apropos of which this suggestion is
respectfully offered to the Seddon Government. The
average bank-note circulation in Maoriland is about a
million—that is to say, there are about £1,000,000 of notes
for which the people don’t seem to want gold.
If the State chose to abolish this private note cir-
culation and replace it with £1,000,000 worth of State
notes which would be legal tender for all purposes,
including the payment of taxes to the Government, there
wouldn't be the slightest difficulty in keeping them at
par. The only trouble about a legal tender note-issue is
the tendency to force the country to take more notes
than it actually wants—to overdo the thing, in fact, just
as one may overdo borrowing, or railway-building, or
drink, or anything else. But if it isn’t overdone there is
no shadow- of objection to it, and so long as the Treasury
is willing to receive the notes in payment of taxes they
could hardly fall below- par even if the circulation was
£1,500,000. Canada keeps its State paper in circulation
by the simple process of making every bank hold 40 per
cent, of its cash reserve in Government notes, and the
scheme w-orks well enough. The legal tender notes of the
United States circulate freely and keep up to par simply
because they are received in payment of Government
taxes, and the Government pays them out again to
satisfy its obligations. As a cheap and perfectly harm-
less device for raising £1,000,000 w-ith which to construct
Maori land's three great unfinished railways a State note-
issue has no equal. Moreover, a note-issue is always leak-
ing awa.v through loss and accidental destruction of the
flimsy paper, so a good deal of it never turns up for
redemption, and the demand for paper currency would
increase as population increased, so the original million
wouldn't he the limit by any means. The only possible
objection is that the idea doesn’t look quite English, but
even in England the Bank of England note is legal tender
within certain limits. And floating loaus abroad isn’t in
the least degree English, either.
» * * •
Apropos of a statement in the “ Wild-Cat ’’column
last week that the Mutual Life Insurance 00. of New
York, during 1898, increased the amount of its life assur-
ance in force by £7,203,000, the largest increase for one
company during the year, the great New York Life Insur-
ance 00. desires respectfully but firmly to put its oar in.
What the New York Life Insurance Co. desires to say is
that its life assurance in force at the end of 1898 was
£13,800,000 more than at the end of 1897, and that its
increase is the largest for the year by a long way. The
assertion looks quite probable, too, on the figures.
* * » *
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
00. (Melb.) shows signs of a sudden and amazing revival.
That institution, being apparently clothed and in its right
senses, states that it has, out of profits, written £240 off
the paper-value of its Victorian Government and Mel-
bourne Board of Works debentures, thereby bringing
them down to their present market value ; has provided
£l4 for depreciation of furniture ; and has a net profit of
£2770 left. It pays a 74 per cent, dividend (£938), adds
£5OO to reserve, making it £1250, and the remaining 1582,
with previous balance, leaves £2992 at credit of profit and
loss. Which is so unlike some of the former doings of the
Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency that its past re-
cord is worth looking up :
Net profit. Dividend.
June, 1892.. ..£287 10 per cent. =£1250
December, 1892 .. 2195 „ = 1250
June, 1893 .... 152 „ = 1250
December, 1893 .. 99 Nil.
June, 1894 .. .. 361 Nil.
December, 1894 .. 663 5 percents 625
June, 1895.. .. 556 „ = 625
December, 1895 .. 465 „ = 625
June, 1896 . . .. 826 „ „ = 625
December, 1896 .. 796 „ = 625
June, 1897 .... 759 „ „ = 625
December, 1897 .. 486 „ ~ = 625
June, 1898.. .. 1006 „ „ = 625
December, 1898 .. 2770 7J „ = 938
_ . , £11,421 £9688
Therefore the last half-year’s profits are distinctly the
best that the Equity Trustees has shown since the boom-
days. It has recovered all the leeway it made by declar-
ing five dividends which were not earned, and is £1733
better off than it was before the sorrowful times of 1893.
All it wants now is careful management and a rigid re-
solve to live well within its means. In the good old
times the Equity Trustees paid massive dividends and
never even attempted to create a reserve—its first small
effort at building one up was made in 1893. If it resolves
now to amass a strong reserve, it has a fine opportunity
to start fair, for it has no dubious-looking assets to
write off. The bulk of its funds are in State and muni-
cipal securities, and it would do wisely to realise the £5988
out on mortgage and put it there likewise. Also, bv the
way, the habit of lumping together interest received‘from
the investment of the shareholders’ money and ordinary
business profits ought to be severely sat upon ; and at
least £2OOO of the profit balance should be transferred to
reserve lest the board be tempted to resume 10 per cent
dividends with it next half-year.
* * * *
The Assets Realisation and General Finance Co.
(Sydney) still works hard at realising its own assets with
moderate success. In 1896 the total loss was £15,192 •in
1897 it was £2162 ; in 1898 it was £lBl4. The largest
asset is now “ Bad Debts and Depreciation, £69,284,” and
the fourth largest asset is “ Unpaid Calls (of which about
£22,500 is bad), £25,296.” Between the admitted loss and
the calls which are irrecoverable, the total bad debts are
£91,784. The liabilities to the public are now reduced to
£40,136, so, on paper, there ought to be £53,000 for the
shareholders, or about 7s. in the £ of the capital which
they put into the luckless concern. But as the net earn-
ings don’t nearly cover working expenses, the prospects
of the shareholders are growing smaller every year, and
assets are always liable to realise only a fraction of their
P a per value. Still, by vigorous calling up of capital, the
liabilities to depositors and others are being reduced very
fast, and in consequence the loss is growing smaller each
year. Its last dividend was 10 per cent., paid in 1892.
• • * •
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.
made a gross profit of £11,530 for 1898—its best record,
so far. Eight years’ profits have been as follows :
1891 .. .. £654 1895 .. .. £6,536
1892 .. .. 3,125 1896 .. .. 7,209
1893 .. .. 4,384 1897 .. .. 10,016
1894 .. .. 4,740 1898 .. .. 11,530
AlO per cent, dividend absorbs £7500; £1450 is added to
the reserve for renewal of plant, making it £4OOO ;
£1250 is written off for depreciation, and the re-
maining £1330, added to previous balance, leaves
£3033 at credit of profit and loss. Things are looking re-
markably well with the Hydraulic Co., which is a good
reason why it should make a start now at writing off that
paper asset—“ Parliamentary Rights and Concessions,
£15,000,” which is simply goodwill under another name.
A co. whose visible assets, as set forth in its balance-sheet,
don t equal its liabilities, and which, squares the account
with a goodwill item in any form, is a thing which ought
to seriously consider its ways, however well affairs are
going.
• • • •
The Watson’s Bay Ferry Co. (Sydney), the
little co. with the asthmatic green boat, made an unusual
profit of £570 during 1898, and after putting £285 to a
reserve account the big accumulated loss is reduced from
£6247 to £4962. In 1897 the co. made only £34, so it
reckons the disaster has lifted a little. If things keep on
as they are doing the old losses wall be paid off in about
17 years, and then the co. might possibly begin to pay
dividends—only the prospective tramway will have killed
it long ere then.
• • » •
Australian Gas-Light Co. (Sydney) profit for
the half-year to 31st. December, 1898, £54,155. Dividend
at 15 per cent, per annum amounts to £51,135, leaving a
balance of £3020 to carry forward.
• * * •
Queensland’s total January gold-yield, 54,6840 z.
as against 50,3820 z. for Jan. of last year. Increase for
month, 43020 z. In Jan., ’9B, quartz crushed amounted to
55,771 tons; yield, 48,5510 z. ; alluvial, 1831 oz. Last
month, 90,351 tons gave 63,0160 z. ; alluvial, 16680 z
• • • *
Q. mining matters generally dull. On Gympie
the No. 1 N. Oriental and Glanmire has slumped from 395.
to 6s. sellers, and the gloom is profound. Charters
Towers has one or two little freshets, but the continued
depression of Queen’s Cross, Papuans, and Clarke’s Wor-
cesters, all under 4s. sellers, keeps the market down.
Lady Florence, an alluring outsider, up again for the
severalth time. Raubs must have something good-
market, £6 65., and bare at that.
• • * •
Victoria, Charters Towers, managed in Melb.,
where the chairman stated last week that, for the half-
year, the co. crushed 3693 tons for 62440 z., divs. £lO,BOO
bringing the total to £236,400, in the earning of which the
mine had turned out 3 tons 16cwt. 71b. of gold. All calls
made amount to £3900.
* * * »
Croydon notes Output for year, 49,836 tons
for 65,2750 z. Of this, quartz gave 41,3fi20z. from 30,227
tons, and cyanide 13,9230 z. from 19,609 tons. During
last half of year nearly all mills hung up for want of
water, but prospects of the new year are bright.
Waratah, Tabletop, had machinery ready, at late advices,
to treat 60 tons low-grade ore a day. Cyanide being
added to battery, and when dam filled payable returns
expected ; from 7dwt. to 4oz. per ton. Some Croydon
(Dec.) crushings : Ace of Hearts, Tabletop, 01 tons for
690 z. ; Golden Gate 3 and 4 South, 293 tons, 44Sioz :
Golden Gate 10 West, 40 tons, 51oz. ; Golden Gate 5 and 6
North, 100 tons, 6120 z. ; Iguana P. 0., 95 tons, 940 z :
Klondike, 36 tons, 108 oz. ; Klondike P.C., 90 tons, 5980z.’
Banner of Freedom and Oolden Gate lines looking ex-
cellent. New discoveries almost daily. Good develop-
ments expected when pumping machinery now being
erected at Croydon Consols helps to drain the ground.
• • • •
“ Flabby Paul ” from Tamata, Papua, 11/12/’!)8 :
“ Since last writing, there has been a very good ‘find’
made. The party got some splendid specimens, nuggets
from ldwt. to soz. pieces. Many miners have had to
come down on account of illness, and carriers are so
scarce that rations are not procurable on the field ; so the
‘ Warden ’ issued a notice that all claims are exempted
until further notice.
« * » »
Specimen of Bendigo’s sticking. The Macduff
has been call-making for over 20 years. Time after time
shares have been unsaleable ; of 28,000, 3000 were thrown
on the company, which could find no buyer for them.
Then a reef was cut at 1250 ft. ; shares jumped past £l,
and from the first crushing (1711 oz. from 23 tons) a div.
was possible. Mr. G. hansel] is said to hold 13,000 shares,
but Mr. F. Clark, the original pegger-out of over a
quarter of a century back, is still chairman.
* * * *
South German, boss mine of Maldon (Vic.), paid
£1 per share in divs. last half-year, making altogether
£222,600 (£9 ss. 6d. per share) in seven years on a called-
up capital of £11,400.
• * • *
North Mt. Deddick, Vic. : “ Exceptionally good
ore on hanging-wall, showing copper.” An accommodating
mine changes its metals to suit the market. Now's the
time to open up aDy magnificent tin deposits lying
around Mt. Deddick 1
• * • •
Vic. Mt. Morgan : Last report —“ Prospecting
and opening up mine.” That’s all. Have the enormous
milling deposits vanished ? Who could have walked off
with battery and cyanide plant ?
* * • »
Long Tunnel Extended (Vic.) half-yearly meet-
ing. Chairman said the offer for the mine was something
like £35 a share—£27 cash on the nail, and shares which,
on present production, would give them about 30s. a year
in divs., instead of £5 4s. as now. Another shareholder
worked the offer out as equal to £4l 13s. 4d. per share,
and intimated that if £43 10s. cash was offered it might be
accepted. Mine undoubtedly' looking well. By an acci-
dental encroachment, made and admitted by the parent
mine, the lode has been proved as good as ever 200 ft.
below the mine’s own workings, and it will take two or
three years to reach that point. Market value, £3O a
share. Betting even that the buyers will come along
with £43 10s.
» * * *
The New Moon Co. (Bendigo), during its last
year, paid £16,800 from stone averaging 7dwt. 19gr. in
one half-year and 7dwt. 9gr. in the other ; the latter
half-year’s return was 45890 z. from 11,728 tons. This is
among the best results of the year. The co.’s balance-
sheet, lately issued, shows how the thing is done. Mine
timber cost only £lBO ; surveying, £4 4s. ; and, especially,
management, £139.
* • * •
Black Horse —the grand old mine of Ballarat—
comes to the front again at last. Shares have lately'gone
from 50s. to 87s. 6d., and it will not surprise some people
if they see ±'B. A div.—the forerunner of many—will
probably be paid this week. It has about a mile of
ground, has come on an entirely new make of stone run-
ning over an ounce per ton, has plenty ground opened
out, and, in the opinion of a well-known mining-manager
who saw it last week, is again one of the few great mines
of Vic.
* * * »
Lord Nelson (Vic.), managed for many years by
Lane, father of the only Zebina: 61,8330 z. from 11,733
tons for the half-year. Divs., £12,600, and many others
in sight.
* * * *
A private cable says the value of copper is really
£2 to £3 above the market quotations—now just on £7O.
It will prohably be found that one or two of the world’s
biggest producing mines begin to look shaky in the
bottom. Is it the Anaconda? If so, copper may go to
£BO. Some copper magnates say that but for this mine
the French copper syndicate would not have collapsed.
At that time the Anaconda could, without loss, land
copper in London under £3O a ton.
• • * *
The copper-mining activity in S.A. has led to
the digging up of the glittering statistics of Moonta and
other famous local mines. Thus : Value of ore from
Moonta before ’9O, £5,113,252; ditto from Wallaroo,
£2,229,096; ditto since the amalgamation, £1,876,134
Grand total, £9,218,428. This is not inclusive of ’9B,
whose returns are yet incomplete. Divs. have amounted
to £1,702,254, of which £104,000 has been paid since the
amalgamation in ’9O.
The old Burra mine, too, abandoned rather
mysteriously nearly 20 years ago, is showing life again.
One diamond drill bore gave fair prospects, another is
being started, some tributors have meantime gone on, and
other ground near by is being turned over. The Burra
and surrounding mines are freeholds.
• * < •
“ S.s.” : Strong efforts are being made to induce
Melbourne pick-and-shovel hands to ship for Tas. West
Coast “on their own,” but with promises of unlimited
labor at Bs. a day T on the N. Mt. Lyol 1 line, and yet every
steamer from Macmiarie Harbor brings back' to Melb.
loads of the able-bodied whose advice to local enquiring
unemployed is an enthusiastic “ Don’t! ” There are heaps
of workless all along the line, say the men returned
empty. This being true, what is the little game? So far
as I can see, only the proprietors of the steamers profit
by the indiscretion of the navvies who rush for jobs.
Mt. Bisohoff (Tas.) co. scrippcrs met last week
—on the 21st anniversary of the first div., since which it
has paid *1,633,000. With tin over £llO a ton the pros-
pects ahead are magnificent.
* * * *
Lyell Tharsis cash-balance on 30th Nov. was
£2344. The aerial ropeway for the delivery of ore to the
big mine should be completed by end Feb. The ropeway
cost £4299 to date of sheet. The Tharsis provided one of
the surprises of the Lyell field, as it was just down to the
last bean when a secondary’ formation of pay-dirt was
blown open. The Knox-Orr galaxy would have sold the
Tharsis lease, woodheap, postages, and prospects for a
fiver a week before manager Williamson struck 6 per cent,
copper stuff.
• • • «
Steadily the buddies disappear from the concen-
trating mills at the Broken Hill mines, though some of
them were put in only a few months hack, and vanners
mostly on German models, take their place. In fact,’
Block 14, which had just arranged for more buddies, re-
jected them at the last moment in favor of the newer con-
trivance. All these frequent, changes make it absolutely
necessary that oo’s. should make regular allowances for
depreciation in their balance-sheets—either that., or charge
additions to these tentative plants to ordinary working
account. Co’s, that only make a depreciation-debit when
directors darn well please (and several of them do that)
simply humbug shareholders.
• • * •
The British B.H. continues to make up lost
ground by liberal extractions of carbonates, for which
lock 14 is a ready buyer. But the mine up there that
can’t get through on sulphides is as good as lost.
• • * .
The much-talked-of sample parcel of ore from
Grasmere copper-mine, Wilcannia wav, consisted of
18cwt., which cost £5 to land in Broken Hill. Thence it
was sent to Wallaroo, where it was paid for on a 12 per
cent, basis, 2i per cent, being deducted for the gross of
Ilk* per cent, shown by wet assay. Silverton Tram-
way Co. doesn’t charge for anything less than 3 tons
(at least, it doesn’t charge less for 18cwt. than it does
for 3 tons), and as sampling and weighing cost £1 Is., and
a few other disproportionate items were thrown in the
little lot means a debit balance of £3—without reckoning
cost of mining. But still, in view of the small parcel
handled, the figures other than those as to assay value are
to be accepted cautiously.
Cobar notes : Cobar Cold Mines, Ltd., as sleepy
as ever re arrangements for the big start. They have ap-
plied for six months’ exemption from labor conditions,
and got three months, alt hough the warden, on a previous
occasion, said that he would grant no more. At the rate
things are going, shareholders had better bequeath their
interests to their grandchildren. Chesney talks
definitely of smelting. Is opening up, and proposes
widening the old shaft instead of sinking a new one. The
old shaft is slap-down on the lode. Why not sink a new
one ? The mine is all right, hut needs proper handling,
and a good shaft means much for the future. Young
Australia has almost cyanided its valuable tailings-heap
another week or so will see it done. As a gold-show, its
race is run, and, to all appearances, nothing has bees
done to develop its copper formation. No wonder the
shares are coining into Sydney market again. The
Great Western has abandoned its one sane notion, i.e.,
to continue sinking its new shaft, and has gone to work
rooting fora rich patch. Shares, a shilling buyers.
Occidental spending heaps in enlarging its tank, which,
when filled with water, will keep things going. Additions
to cyanide plant proceeding, and when rain comes the co.
can expect something like a return.
• • • •
Announced that work will soon be resumed a(j
that old N.S.W. low-grade proposition, the Brown’s Creek
mine, now owned by the Coinpagnie des Mines d’Or.
Some men, weak in the jaw, think that a mine with such
a proprietary deserves to be shut up.
• • • *
The Great Blayney mine —the old Annandale —
is being put into shape. A 100-ton smelter is under
way, power being provided to drive three such. The
mine itself is strongly believed in by its owners as a very
big thing indeed ; also the co. considers it has an un-
rivalled stand for custom-smelting.
• • * *
Wentworth Mines, N.S.W., reported in London
five weeks back that the month’s production was 1020 oz
In this there should be some profit. Why are companies
allowed to keep their returns secret from the public?
They are lessees of public property. The land is freehold
in this case but the gold is reserved to the Crown. Pub-
licity can do no possible injury and might help along the
industry in the district.
“It is reported from Parkes that the Bush-
man’s mine will soon be in full swing again.” Very un-
likely that owner Dick will tackle the job again. He has
plenty of money and pluck, but he is a man upon whom
experience is never exactly lost. The Bushman’s appears
to be unpayable.
» « * *
The most notable instance of what cyanide has
done for Maoriland mining is the Waihi mine. For years
the same show was dependent on battery treatment ; it
existed miserably on a 6dwt. average, and did not pay a
single div. In those days it was known as the Martha.
Then a new crowd got hold of it, introduced cyanide, and
it is now turning out a monthly average of £25,000
bullion.
“ Where is the I van hoe gold ? ” After turning
out big- cakes every month for over a year, the directors
announce a ss. div.—half of what was expected. Has any
other co. been financed with it? Is the mine so extrava-
gantly managed in London as not to be able to pay more,
or is the directorate anxious to bring down price of shares?
Estimated that £BO,OOO is unaccounted for, and the bal-
ance-sheet is eagerly awaited.
• • • •
Again something wrong with the works —Rone-
mann’s. The inventor himself has been laid-up—suffering
the effects of a dose of cyanide fumes, which won’t stand
any monkeying with. But what has cyanide to do with
the perfectly new process that is going to revolutionise
things in Westralia?
“ Grumballa ”: D. L. Doolette’a statement
(14 1’99) that Brookman and Pearce dollied ICoz. from
cap of present Boulder lode is all rot. That lode does not
anywhere show above the surface, and its existence was
unknown till Dave O’Neil struck it in a costeen consider-
ably later than Sept., ’93. Same man found present lode
in Lake View, which was also pretty “ wild ” when floated
in Adelaide.
A find of rich alluvial gold reported from Pil-
barra, Westralia. Two men dollied 750 z. from some loose
quartz, and some natives got 720 z. The good thing was
kept, quiet till some 600 oz. were got—one slug almost all
gold turned the scale at 231 b. Then the rush started, and
another sensational find is reported in the neighborhood.
• * • S
Mining on the Murchison, W.A., is very sick.
Out of 21 batteries near Cue only three are at work, and
one recent crushing (Polar Star) of nearly 200 tons only
gave lOoz. or just ldwt. per ton. The directors, needless
to say, are in London, and the battery was sent out heed-
less of local advice to the contrary. They ought to have
sent out a reef same time. Cue is busted'.
Some batteries standing idle on the Murchison
(W. A.) owned by English co.s : Lady Forrest (20 head),
Red, White and Blue (20), Gem of the Murchison (20),
Lady Mary (10), Cue One (15), Maoriland Consols (10),
Phmnix (10), Polar Star (10), Princess Royal (10), Kinsella
(10). And yet Govt, imported another 10-head battery for
Tuckanarra, only 30 miles from Cue; also another for
Lennonville, only eight miles from Mt. Magnet, where two
other batteries (10 and 20-head respectively) have been
idle for months. What splendid administration 1


CL
DAVID
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
ORIENT
CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s,
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES & COMPANY.
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SOCIETY
Gov Hampden leaves N.S.W. March 1.
But when announcing his resignation he intimated
that he was entitled to six months’ leave, and that
the leave would count from the date of his depar-
ture. How will that run with the incoming Gov.
Beauchamp? And how will the arrangements of
both cut into the expectations of Chief Justice
Harley, who, as Lieut -Gov., would in the ordinary
oourse add to his salary the emoluments of resi-
dent of Gov. House ?
• • • •
Sydney theological memorialist*, who lately
petitioned Queen Victoria to maintain the prac-
tices of robust Protestantism, gleefully tell one
“!* he p r Beauchamp is H.M.’s favorable
S-re 1 n h>,lip 18 v “**-presuient of the Eng
h*h Church L nion, and a sworn foe to High
Churchism and Homeward movements.
•
Shellback administrators like Papua Mae-
jfregor must feel sore when they 6nd such utterly
inexperienced striplings as Beauchamp pitch-
forked into the softest and most lucrative Gover-
norships. Despite his efforts to obtain the succes-
sion to Gonnan-ston in Tasmania, old-man Mao-
gregor, as the world knows, is to be sent to Lagos,
OVERHEARD IN TRAIN.
TOMMY: "Aunty, that train goed that way."
TOMMY: "You shouldn't say GOED, Tommy; you should say WENT."
TOMMY : "Oh! well, why did it went that way? ”
an unhealthy West African possession—a “white
mans grave’—which entails even greater hard-
ship than New Guinea itself. It would be interest-
muck his unhappy friendliness
with Grabber Vine and Co. had to do with this
apparent whim of the Colonial Office.
* • • •
Several Governors’ daughters have beon
married in Australia, but marriageable Governors
nave been few. Beauchamp will therefore be a
novelty in a way. Henry Barkly, when Governor
of Victoria, buried one wife and took another—
Miss Pratt, daughter of a local Major-General
Hut widower-Govemors create little sensation
• •
• J 1? aven ‘ge Australian laughs at the
Britisher who addresses letters to “ Collingwood
near Brisbane, South Australia,” and at the
Bnglish public man who refers to “Sir Tobias
Barton Premier of Australia.” Yet at the
federal Council m Melb. quite a number of dele-
fates were unaware of even the others’ names,
“reinier Dickson consistently referred to John
M'lntyre, ex-leader of Vie. Opposition, as “Hir
Jarnes M‘farlane,” while James Service was
knighted by almost every non-Vio. delegate.
Turner, with all his prominence, was termed
“laylor” more than once, and at least one
stranger wrote Deakin’s name “ Deacon.”
• • • •
■ Chief Justice Way was so very ill last week
that Jews, Catholics, Protestants and Mahomme-
dans in Adelaide started praying for him ; to so
comprehensive a petition a favorable answer was
almost assured. The little chief will be <l3 in
April. There is a general hope that his recent
breakdown will induce him, in future, to divest
himself of his ornamental and talkative offices, so
that he may contiue himself to his judicial duties.
• • • •
The recent gruesome coach accident near
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) is a whole sermon on
the cold, calculating cussedness of inanimate
objects. The road was a lonesome one ; probably
there were not more than 10 minutes in the 24
hours when a tree cduld fall with a certainty of
hitting somebody. The tree was probably 100
years old ; it had been waiting its opportunity
ever since the days of the First Fleet and taking
careful ami all the time. It was the last run that
®°*« h was going to make ; also, the driver had
handed in his resignation, and it was bis final trip.
Ihe coach would have passed with half a minute
to spare, only the solitary bagman on the roof
grew tired, and just ten yards away the driver
{railed up so that he could get down and go in-
side. And that stoppage fitted the time in so
accurately that the tree killed both baginan and
driver. It was about the most deadly accurate
tree on record.
• • • •
About 18 months ago in a Q. country
district, a young man was tried for attempted
rape before a District Court Judge and a jury of
12 of the most intelligent residents. After a short
consultation the jury agreed and returned to
oourt with a verdict of guilty and a strong recom-
mendation to mercy ; but when the Judge asked
on what grounds they recommended mercy the
foreman could give no reason. One of the other
jurymen, however, spoke up to the effect that
they recommended prisoner to mercy on the
ground that they were not certain he teas there
when the offence teas committed .” The Judge
stared and sent them hack again, and after a little
guilty F d V^ y they . brought in a verdict simply of
guilty. The sapient juror in question is now
administering “justice” on his own behalf Ja
• • • *
The Jaypee again. At Townsville, before
a couple of amateur beaks, a man was charged
with indecently assaulting a child of nine years
Snlon V H- ! T asr f por . tedlooked nuiteclear, but the
?h/ld «< dlBCharßed pn ? oner on fc he ground that the
child was a consenting party ” !
• • • ,
Minister Varney Parkes notifies that the
chief Telegraph Office, Sydney, will be open at 6
A VINDICATION OF
THE PUSH.
PIPPO : “ They say us blokes ain’t game ter
yet onter no one when we’re alone. Jes' you watch me deal
it out ter this ole grid!”
p.m. on Sundays, at which hour telegrams may
be handed in for transmission at double ordinary
rates. Why double? If Sunday opening be a
concession to public needs, why is the public to
be failed? Is the fine a sop to Sabbatarianism ? If
so, Varney should pay it over to some Sabbatical
organisation.
• • • •
Cairns papers (editors of which lately
waxed wrathful with Bulletin gibe that Cairns
takes off its bat to the Chows) are just having a
pretty little duel on their own account. Accusa-
tions hurled in this fashion : “ Our contemporary
lives on Chinese advertisements. . . . It couldn’t
last a month if it didn’t crawl to Japanese
lessees.” And so on.
“ Old Jack ” is displeased with latter-dav
conventions:— J
I" t ‘* e . »>oot-box enquiry the glib complacency with
which Miss Dubberke talks about “ the ladies " and “ the
gentlemen of her acquaintance is noticeable, because of
the apparent acquiescence of everybody in the irrat in-
inconsistency When it comes to calling a harlot a tody,
there might be some historical and contemporary evi-
dence in support—only to the bread-and-cheese intellect
it occurs that while a lady may be a harlot, a harlot ean-
Dot possibly be a lady. Similarly, a gentleman max be a
thief, but a thief cannot be a gentleman. And that is
bow people get mixed up with their indiscriminate ai.pli-
cation of lady and “gentleman" to every frowsv
slut and cigarette-sticker of the blocks. Indeed, things
have changed these 50 years. This bald beaded incom-
jietent can remember when a grocer's assistant was a
young man,'and the neat-handed Phyllis behind the
Berved V °. u the “" ,ber beer in long Elizabethan
goblets, was not a bit surprised or offended, or even dis-
pleased, if you called her a “ young woman." But who
dares address young Sugar-bin to-day than as a young
l£lv ? e "w n ’° r tb f . a, . ,,a ? in tf bar-girl than as a young
(Se y ’Ate, is in keeping, and perhaps tis time to
rJS th 8a . , . ue ’ "’bat a blaze and blare of vulgarity
and coarseness these things suggest.
Apropos, what a daisy is this Dubberke woman '
f A h * , r K mC, ! ll ; er w d th ® ni * ht that the body (of the done-
to-death girl Ambrose) was found. Madame and herself
were walking ln the Park. They had a conversation
Bhe W ne *o Baid that if she had known
that the body would have floated, she would have ripped
it open. . . .
Was ever suoh brutal candor in the history of the
criminal courts ! The truth be hanged. After
this, please give us lies.
• * • *
The Argus portrait of Mabel Ambrose
sold at least 10,000 extra copies of the paper, but
its publication evoked a yell from many toothless
Tones. It was, perhaps, to atone for the “ half-
™,‘| iat A tb Argus published hastily a reprint
of Iho Queens thoughts” in the middle of
page 5. And now Queen Vic. notifies that
there is no truth in said “ thoughts,” or the
report of them. *
* • • •
The attempt to continue the Boot-Box in-
quest on Foundation Day was severely jumped on
and collapsed miserably. This possibly because
nearly all parties concerned are Australian
natives. Tod Radalyski, and Dubberke (the
three prisoners), the dead girl, Mabel Ambrose,
detectives Dungey and O’Donnell, coroner
Morrison the coroner’s orderly, the two lawyers
for the defence, and 24 out of the 27 witnesses
cafied all claim Australia for their birthplace.
Ihe boot-box affair, it will be admitted, is emi-
nently creditable to Australia. Every true-born
Australian should be proud of it.
• * • *
Of the famous boot-box trio Madame
Radalyski appeals to one most. Deep furrows
underline her eyes, and over her ashen face a blur
rests like a veil, but behind it one can trace a sym-
pathetic trait very common amongst stone-deaf
people. Iraviee Tod is a small man, with small
shrewd blaok eyes and thick lips. Thekla
Dubberke now and then seems to possess the face
of an angel. Fair, with blue eyes, a beautiful
P[°™V talI > BVolte figure, she would make an
ideal Marguerite. Dress her as a mm, and the
passionless innocence of her expression would fill
a Jos. Symes with religious fervor, but if you look
closely into the light eyes and thin iips you
tremble as you realise that in her coquettish fancy
there may rest to a considerable degree the fate of
her comrades m crime.
• • * *
The recent blackmailing conviction in
England suggests an interesting little sum in pro-
portion. If one advertising firm of “ regularity-
restorers receives 12,000 applications for its
remedies, what is the total number of women
who procure, or attempt to procure, abortion V
It is gravely asserted that
henceforward N.B.W. subor-
dinate prison officials who seek
promotion will have to pass
an examination in orimino-
iogy. At the same time the
whole penal system shows, and
the contemporary “improve-
rs , g how yet more plainly,
that the higher authorities
have about as much know-
ledge of criminology and the
science of which it is a branch
—mental biology and patho-
logy—as a fortune-teller has
ot the stars. One of two
things must be the case; either
the aspiring officials are to be
stuffed with a quack “ crimino-
i°fTy» collated by ignorant
pseudo-scientists, or they are
to be instructed in the truth
and compelled to administers
colossal lie.
~ W w
It doesn’t often happen
(as recently in Sydney) that
when a couple have got as far
towards divorce as decree nisi,
they should seek the revoca-
tion thereof on the ground of
restored connubial harmony.
Such cases would doubtless be
sTud hv q ih nt but , for the mechanical animus
set up by the mere fact of having nubliclv taken
opposite sides for legal battle. * Y
* * • •
f S n!i C i tor w hitcombe, M.L.C., of Gerald-
MvJb A d who , cheeked Bi »john Forrest’s brother-
Iwltllix ' Und ? ot seven da ys for contempt, was
Sowed a so to speak. He was
?*", , fc P P ro yide Ins own bedding, have his food
and t "* . call for liquor when he felt that way,
and entertain friends. All this, it is understood
on the representations of the magistrates, whose
backbone seems to have weakened as soon as they
t pped off the bench. Two days afterwards, also
on their recommendation, the penitent lawyer was
let out. And now this paper is waiting to see how
much entertaining John Bilsmith, laborer, will be
allowed after kis next commitment for contempt.
Lemuria : A few days ago, a Sydney
policeman was chasing three
suspects in the early morn-
ing, when a person, described
in the press as a “ plucky
civilian,” joined in, drew a
revolver, and uttered such
horrible threats that one of
the fugitive’s legs gave way
and he was captured, drag-
ged before beak Isaacs, and
sent to gaol for three months,
for no visible offence—simply
as a suspected person. All
of which is justice, as un-
derstood in Botany Bay.
lhe “plucky civilian”
went on his way rejoic-
ing, and was comnli-
men ted in the papers.
Yet the man who
got three months
had committed no
overt offence, while
the man who cap-
tured him had. There
is n law againstcarry-
ing loaded weapons
in a public place.
The new Sydney
volunteer regiment, to
the formation of which
Premier Reid only as-
sented on condition
that the cost of the
meinbers’(khakee) uni-
forms should not exceed
30s. apiece, will surely
be known as “ The
Thirty-bobbers.” Apro-
pos, there was lately an
attempt, promptly sat on,
to form an addition to the
b irst Australian Horse at
~ "'here do you think?
Cook's River ! Had the
scheme come off, a lot of
the knock-kneed mokes
that you see in the
“ four-bob robbos ”
upon Coogee road
on Sunday after-
noons would soon
have been posing
as cavalry char-
gers.
“NO BAWL.”—Cricketer
Noble as a vocalist.
nt is not the
correct thing to be in an ecstatic condition of de-
votion when the contribution-box approaches,”
says Sydney Catholic Press. The Bulletin
begins to believe that b ather O’Dooley really has
a huger in the Pkess.
* • • .
How providentially Gatton, Oxley, Yarra,
and 1 aldington tread on one another’s heels to
nil up the press columns in Australia’s silly season !
And yet, at the start, the meeting of the moribund
f ederal Council was the only oasis in sight. That
is what comes of havingseveral saintly newspaper
proprietors in Australia. The farmers pray for
rain, the newsmen (no doubt) for murder.
* • • *
Overheard at the inquest : “ There’s only
one bloke a match for that there gurrl an’ that’s
Deeming. On’y she’der killed the poor devil afore
they ’ad time to ’ave a fumily.”
m * * £
The detectives and the police mined in
entirely separate shafts of inquiry over the Tod
and Ambrose business. Bach branch had informa-
NIGHT’S DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All undisturbed by conscience pangs
Your taintless life to mine I knit;
So sunbeams on a muddy pool
Rest goldenly unstained by it.
You see me fair ; I know me foul;
But, without foul, naught old you view.
Impure, I give you purest joy—
And yet the world will pity you.
But no apologies. I give
My contrast to your perfect light.
I frame in bold, becoming black
Your pictured soul drawn all in whita
If in the end good oonquers ill,
Has evil not its right to be ?
So pardon me my sins, sweet saint,
And I’ll forgive—youi purity.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


I Hill
IK
1
A'
K/axi.OO'aoj .
nOA 3AV|i»
a
■r>
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Preliminary Advertisement.
Woollahra Point-
mHE Grounds surrounding the well-known
X. WOOLLAHRA HOUSE will be offered
at PUBLIC AUCTION in SUITABLE BUILD-
ING BLOCKS at an early date, with a
FREEHOLD TITLE.
An opportunity will thus Is* afforded intending
Purchasers to acquire the FINES'!’ WATER
FRONTAGE LOTS ever offered to the Public.
Agents for the Estate—
RAINE & HORNE,
2 Hunter-street, Sydney.
tion withheld from the other. Neither made the
discovery.
•’• * •
The Burgess identification business con-
tains a tou of invaluable morals. Burgess has
been identified in three or four different towns as
the man who committed such-and-such a mis-
demeanor on such-and-such a date; everyone
knows him and his bald pate, and could swear to
him a mile off. Every petty crime perpetrated in
South Q. for the past six months was committed
by him or his twin brother—in fact, he was some-
times guilty of two offences on the same day in
towns hundreds of miles apart. . . . And now the
man has the cheek to produce almost indubitable
evidence that two-thirds of the parties identifying
him have made either liars or fools of themselves.
And the gods grin on, as usual.
PERCEPTION. ,
NIPPER: "Coin' Ur follow the Gussie up fer his
butt? ”
PIRATE : “ Pooh; ’ e’ll smoke the bloomin' lot."
NIPPER: "Naw fear—near burnin' his nose now.”
More Gatton theory. “ 8.E.” writes :
Nathless “D. Busst’s ” jibe (B. 28 l/’99), it is very
probable that Harry Stockdale is right in surmising that
the Gatton murderer (if only one) was naked. The sug-
gestion recalls a crime committed many years ago in
Ireland, out of which arose a curious point affecting
the much-discussed question of identification. A girl was
found under a hedge, dreadfully mutilated and quite
dead. Some yards away the searchers came upon a man
stretched face to the ground, with his head badly fractured,
evidently by a big blood-stained stone which‘was found
lying beside him. He was still alive, but so injured that no
hopes were entertained of his recovery. The impossi-
bility of his having been the murderer was soon apparent,
and suspicion fell upon one Mulqueen, whom the girl was
known to have jilted. But proof was wanting, and
meanwhile the other victim recovered sufficiently to
talk. He said that, taking a short cut, he had
come upon a man, stark naked, standing over the
woman’s body with a knife in his hand. At his approach
the murderer fled, and he gave chase, only to be
tripped and head-battered by his quarry before they had
gone far. It was a dark night, and he acknowledged to
having caught only an imperfect glimpse of his assailant’s
face, but thought he would recognise him again. Mul-
queen was brought in, and instantly recognised as a man
who had passed him on the road earlier in the evening.
But now comes the eurious part, for the witness posi-
tively refused to swear that lie was the man he en-
countered in the field, because, as he said, “This man is
dressed and the other wasn’t, and I can't he sure ! ” The
presence, or absence, of clothes made such a difference
that the identification fell through, for ere th* experi-
ment of stripping Mulqueen could be tried, the witness
died from his injuries, and the Crown’s most vital evi-
dence went with him. Mulqueen got off at the trial ; hut
another murder was subsequently proved against him,
and before hanging-day he confessed to having killed the
girl, and that he had taken off his clothes, to avoid blood-
splashes, long ere the girl arrived, and hidden (nude) in
the hedge till she appeared on the road.
• • • *
Be Gatton : If everybody had his rights,
some of those good people who so readily identified
Burgess as the man at the slip-rails, &e., would
get a lot of gaol. When Michael Murphy
turned off that road into Moran’s paddock,
he did so of his own free will and without
hesitation or resistance on the part of his sisters.
It was part of the night’s programme. Also, the
slip-rails had been left down for the purpose. The
idea that a fourth party forced them to turn into
Moran’s paddock at the point of the revolver or
rifle, or induced them by a lying story, is unten-
able. When the weapon was levelled at him the
driver of the sulky would have stopped at leasb
till he was told where to go to, or he would have
stopped to hear the specious tale which led him
astray ; but there was no sign of even a momentary
pause ; only the clear track of an absolutely free
and natural turning, done without undue haste or
undue hesitation. The sulky only held three
with difficulty, and there was no room for that
party who, it is supposed, might have got a lift
and shot Michael from behind. The whole evi-
dence points to the fact that the party turned into
the fatal paddock because they had long before
arranged to do so. They didn’t even have to stop
to let down the slip-rails, because they were
already down. They had been lowered by the
man who was waiting there —by the man who was
expected to be waiting there. There was no row
or outcry on the road because nothing happened
on the road. The man at the rails was known to
them all—he wasn’t a stranger like Burgess, and
no one was startled at his sudden appearance.
The rug was spread on the ground quite deliber-
ately. And here The Bulletin’s theory ends (so
far as print goes) for the present.
• * * *
The bane and the antidote growing from
the same root are well illustrated in the Burgess
photo, business. The aid which the photo, gave
some to identify him as the probable Gatton mur-
derer it gave others to identify him as the sun-
downer who was miles away from Gatton at the
time of the crime.
• • • •
There is a regular boom in the Bananaland
“orror” business. T’other day, a party went
out to the scene of a certain gruesome tragedy in
S.Q.; inspected the place; shivered a joyful,
little, horrible shudder; then . . . brought out
their baskets ; spread materials for a banquet,
and had a pleasant picnic only a few yards away
from the spot that has become so hideously famous
in the last few weeks.
* * * •
From Brisbane Courier (3/2/’99) :
Townsville, February 2.
At the Police Court to-day Barboo, an Indian, was
committed for trial for an attempt to commit a Criminal
assault on a respectable married woman after breaking
into her house at Ross Island. Ayer, a Cingalese, was
also committed for trial on a charge of entering the house
of the Salvation Army and indecently assaulting a woman.
Three Japanese women were charged at the Police
Court this morning with having no visible means of
support, and were discharged on promising to leave
within a week. Immediately on the action of the police
the rest of the Japanese women here cleared to Charters
Towers.
Also, Tommy from Tanna and Mat from Malli-
colo have been running amok amongst the white
women of Bundaberg (Q..). Two more lepers have
been “ discovered ” at Mackiy, and another
woman has gone to the lazarette in Moreton Bay.
• • * *
A Thursday Island horror. Two white
children were recently vaccinated in that parti-
colored Island, and the discovery was made shortly
afterwards that they were suffering from leprosy.
Meantime lymph had been taken from the diseased
pair and used to vaccinate others. Terrific efforts
(as usual) to hush the matter up. Hard predica-
ment; for a Thursday Island parent. He vaccin-
ates his youngsters to guard against small-pox—
and discovers he’s filled them up with leprosy
bacilli.
• • • •
A correspondent :
The curious ask by what singular coincidence it is that,
within three short months, the two Andrews brothers
have been appointed to leading positions on Melb. Hos-
pital stuff. I)r. W. Andrews, of whom the public had
previously heard very little, was appointed to the much-
coveted post of “ honorary ” by the back-door of pro. tern.
appointment by the committee, and now one of that very
committee, the dreamy T. R. Andrews, has been given
the powerful post of secretary. Among the rejected
was R. C. Norman, secretary of the Alfred Hospital.
• • * •
Be the barbarous rot of Salvation Army
wedding-rites. The connubial corroboree lately
conducted by the Melb. S.A. buss—grotesque
enough, in all conscience- was quite a civilised
function compared with a ceremony recently wit-
nessed in a Gippsland township. It was a mining
centre, and every man and boy not on “night-
shift” attended at the barracks, with, of course,
the whole female population. The bride, a
lanky, flat-chested young thing of 35 or so, sat
on a raised platform opposite the groom—a
stumpy little chap, mostly black beard and
squint. Widower, too, with five children. The
brethern and sistern, fully equipped with
their devil-scarers, sat round, and a song,
fandango, and mandoline accompaniment by a
gymnastic staff-captain opened proceedings. The
overflow audience on the tin-roof having kicked
themselves cripply in applause, the visiting chief
read selections from the C.E. marriage service,
interpolating bad puns and clumsy jokes where
the text gave an opening. Coming at length to
the “ Wilt thou have this woman ? ” &c. “ Yes,”
whispered the groom, making a movement to seize
the desired one’s hand. “Ah, but you haven’t
got her yet,” interposed the jocular high priest,
and (with an expressive wink at the gallery),
“what would you do if she said ‘No?’’’ The
bridegroom scratched his pate while the audience
roared and whistled ; but the bride, looking more
wishful than ever, promptly climaxed the crisis by
stating firmly that she “ would have him.” And
she did.
Dr. Bevan, Melbourne’s cherubic Congre-
Rationalist, declares that Parlia-
ment has outlived its usefulness,
and consequently must soon go.
But the fact that an institution has
out-lived its usefulness is no proof
that it must soon go. Look at the
pulpit !
A BOTTLE OF DINNER.
1ST DOMAIN DOSSER: "Hal any dinner, Bill?"
2ND DITTO: “ Not a blanky drop !”
At Ballarat, the other day, one Edwards,
whilst acting as bearer at a funeral, suddenly let go
his end and fell to the ground, bringing the coffin
down with him. Edwards was dead. You never
know your own funeral.
"MANY ARE SENT, BUT FEW ARE
CHOSEN."
A BULLETIN contributor dreams of the waste-paper
basket.
The duel between S. M. Herald and
Sydney D.T. for early Govt, information, which
ended in a fist-fight under the Stuart-Dalley re-
gime, threatens to recrudesce. On the former oc-
casion the Herald was Govt.’s white-haired boy ;
now Premier Reid holds his good winking eye to
the D.T., and the emotionless glass one to the
rival angel.
At Colac (Vic.), the other day, a bold, bad
man attaoked two ladies. One subsided with
wild cries, but the other, a spinster and quite
inexperienced, went for the assailant, knocked
him endways, scratched him, kicked him, and
tore his chin whiskers, and then twisted her scarf
about his neck and choked him till he was purple
in the face and his eyes resembled glass drawer-
knobs. The police arrived about this time, and
the bad man was afforded the protection of the
law.
• * • •
Love—Exhilaration. Courtship—lntoxi-
cation. Marriage—Delirium Tremens. Divorce—
The “Gold-Cure.”
“ Acdile ” : Re Sydney ’busmen. I rode
in a ’bus the other evening to the
railway-station, down George-
street. There were about 22
passengers, picked up here
and there. Driver had to
pilot his ’bus through the
crowded traffic, watch for pas-
sengers to right and left, take
the money inside and out,
give change, and see that no-
body missed payment. I
handed 6d. through the hole,
and found that the ’bus-driver
had put my change in his
mouth—as an extra hand, I sup-
pose—and handed it back to me nicely
moistened with tobacco-spittle. I suggest
that ’bus-boys be employed, or that a special
class of bus-man be bred with four eyes and
four hands, so that he may watch the traffic,
keep an eye on intending passengers, and
give change without half swallowingit first.
Big Donald M‘Donald, the Argus jour-
nalist and botanical litterateur, distinguished
himself last week by rescuing a lady-vocalist from
a watery grave. Miss Adelaide Bruce, the song-
stress aforesaid, was getting lost beyond the
breakers at Lome (Vic.) when Mac. was sum-
moned by a damsel in a bathing-dress, and, with-
out stopping to admire the figure of his fair
informant, he swam to the assistance of the
distressed damsel, gave her full instructions
bow to get saved, and straightway hauled her
ashore. Also, he gallantly credited her with
having made his achievement quite easy.
Mr. M'Donald, who is a 15-stone six-
footer, footballed with Essendon in his
youth, and is probably the most powerful
man on the Australian press. Mrs. Mac., a well-
known penwoman, holds the distinction of being
the pioneer bloomered cyeliste of Melb. Once
asked what her husband was like, she said, “Just
stroll down Collins-street till you meet a man like
a god—that’s my husband.” M‘Don aid hailed
originally from the Corowa Free Press, the
journalistic birthplace of several bright writers.
+ m m *
Recent ad. in Melbourne Age :
Man, young, wants comfortable board 15 minutes’
walk G.P.O. No hanky-panky. Terms, Ac.
What an untold tale of woe is here ! That man’s
next ad. will read :
Man, young, wants wife (not daughter of boar ding-
house-keeper).
* * * *
A certain “ghost” has lately haunted
Castlemaine (Vic.) on windy nights, and many
people have been scared off their base by the pale,
rushing apparition, which goes by with a chatter-
ing sound like teeth shaking in a loose skull.
Three local heroes decided to arrest the vision,
but thought better of it; one fainted, and the
other two ran for their lives, and the apparition
mowed and gibbered down the road unmolested.
Castlemaine is a town with a great record in the
way of apparitions, but its boss spectre was the
Greasy Man of twenty years ago. This buttered
visitant haunted the outskirts on Saturday nights
almost exclusively—his regular hours were be-
tween 8 and 12; and lie was seen only by women
carrying groceries. The Greasy Man had a fine
taste in groceries. A stout, middle-aged
female would be trudging home, carrying
her week’s supplies—lib. tea, 61b. sugar, 501 b.
flour, |c\vt. potatoes, 8 loaves, tin of kerosene,
21b. butter, large bundle mixed vegetables, one
hindquarter of mutton, bottle of vinegar, also salt,
washing soda, soap, blue, some clothes-pegs, a
bottle of beer, the child’s new frock, and the old
man’s bluchers just come back from being half-
soled. Then a tall white figure, apparently in
tights, would vault 12ft. high over the fence and
land in front of her with a blood-curdling whoop.
Naturally the lady would drop all her miscella-
neous groceries and run for her life. The larded
spook was always gone when help arrived ; so
were the groceries and the bluchers. The Greasy
Man had a long innings, but he met his fate one
night when a robust washerwoman, instead of
bolting, dropped her weekly tin of kerosene on
his toe and then fastened on him like a bulldog
till.help arrived. He proved to be a local resi-
dent, with nothing on hut a coat of grease, padded
shoes and a vaulting pile. Some tons of groceries
was found on his premises, and begot 18 months
—for robbery, being undressed in a public place,
vagrancy, and conduct calculated to lead to breach
of the peace.
* » » *
The larrikin doesn’t always have it his owp
way. At S. Melbourne, one night recently, a
small party waylaid a grizzled veteran of 60 and
his fat missus, and began to “ mix it ” for the old
man.* The sturdy citizen entered into the spirit
of the thing, and responded in kind so earnestly
that he presently had one “ bloke ” spread out
under the stars and a second badly damaged, and,
while the old lady whaled the latter unmercifully
with a big stick, he dealt in a tradesman-like
manner with the remaining two. At this stage
another reputable ratepayer took a hand, and the
push was glad to gather up its wounded and limp
off. When tile police arrived the grizzled elector
and madam were getting on to the second citizen
“something awful” for interfering with a fight
that did not concern him, and spoiling their even-
ing’s amusement.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin. —Everybody knows that
love and cigars should never be re-lit (with cer-
tain exceptions). Pass the love ; but can any of
your experts explain the cigar? What are the
physical or chemical changes in the leaf which
destroy the aroma when re-lit ? And does a nice
palate feel the same trouble in a re-lit pipe or
cigarette ?—B. B.
• • • •
P.M., who has been worried with cases
and cross-cases between a couple of nagging
women on almost every visit to the township, to
husband of one of them : “\yhy don't you try to
keep your wife out of court ? ” Hubby : “Ah !
sure it’s aisy to talk, yer worship ; but what the
divil can / do wanst war’s declared ! ”
BURGESS'S ACCOMPLICE.
He was a myth ; his name was Smith; he was crowned
with pale-black hair.
His eyes were either dark or light:
He was a dwarf of extra height;
He lived next door to nobody, and the bunyip lived next
door but three,
In a nameless street, where four ways meet, in the town
of Godknowswhere.
No kin nor kith belonged to Smith. No person saw him
pass;
No one beheld him take the track,
Or noted that he ne’er came back.
He was an unassuming chap; his absence hasn’t left a
gap,
Bud on a certain midnight dree he helped to butcher
persons three, and left them on the grass.
The reason why he made them die no mortal man can say;
He left no footprint as he fled
In haste with blood upon his head.
No one can find on road or track the house to which h«
came not back.
He shot his victim with a gun, and swallowed it when he
was done ; then blew himself away.
No monolith stands over Smith, but folks are sure he’s
dead.
His blood no stain left on the ground ;
His body somehow can’t be found ;
And nobody has called to say that somebody has gone
away ;
No stray dog drifts adown the street, looking ’mongst
people it may meet for some one that has fled.
The hot winds blow, and come and go, but still no due
they bear;
No old hat hloweth to and fro
Whose owner people do not know ;
No boarder when the night was late from hash-tower did
evaporate.
II that accomplice is a myth-but probably his mimo
was Smith, from the town of Godknowswhere.
TEMPUS FUGIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ As it was in the Beginning .”
A curse—for a chance thrown windwards ;
A sigh—for another’s pain ;
A pause—for a sin regretted,
And life goes on again !
Lips with their sweetness tasted ;
Eyes that beseech in vain ;
A tomb—for a dead emotion,
And life goes on again !
A careworn spirit moving,
Slow-pulsed, with death in train ;
A mourner, perhaps, at the grave-side,
And life goes on again !
Let Caution dwell with the greybeards,
We laugh at the jade’s refrain ;
A pause—for a sin committed,
And life goes on again 1
Mofee.
W.P.
AS THE QUEENLY MOON’S REFLECTION.
(After Heine.)
As the queenly moon’s reflection
Trembles in the waves of ocean,
While herself in splendour paces
Heaven with soft majestic motion ;
So whilst thou, Love, calm and stately,
Little heed of aught art taking,
In my heart thine image trembles
While my heart itself is breaking.
Q-
P. LUFTIG.


Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
REDUCED PRICES!
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks,
“ Dent’s ” Austrain Lairb Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Fownes Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
“ Dent's ” Chevertte Kid Gloves, any color and black, 8/6
“ Dent’s” Chevretie Washing Suede, in white, 1/11
„ „ special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
Fownes best Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 2 11
The “Merlier" Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broidered backs, 3 11
Superior Chevrette Suede Gloves, in all shades, BAI
‘'Dent’s” Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; xrorth 3/11
Long Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
White, new stitchimr, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompt and special attention.
W. T. WATERS &. CO.
Ladies' and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
HOSE
TEIS have WO Equal.
Atckerley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
“The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
25.; Soprano Song, 2s. ; postage 2d. extra. W.
H. Paling and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane.*
The Manhattan Luncheon and Tea Rooms.
The coolest, largest and best-lighted room in
Sydney. A speciality is the dinner of three
courses, Is. 6d. —from 6 to 7.30 p.m.
Parnell’s shade rejoices in the discomfiture
of Vernon Haroourt. Parnell foresaw that Har-
court would take Gladstone’s place as Liberal
leader, and protested that he would rather have
the Tories in power than Harcourt Premier.
Parnell wanted Morley to succeed.
Melb. Age advt. :
TMOULDkind srentleman Lend lady £6 for three
' ’ months, save family relio. Letter to Geisha,
0.P.0.
After duly considering the pseudonym, The Bul-
letin inclines to the opinion that the “ family
relio ” that wants saving so badly must be the
family honor.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
. Sydney, February 7, 1899.
My Deab Myek —
Alternately, hopes have been coming and going
all the week. Tne nasty news that dear Lord
Beauchamp would not look at a woman unless she
was an assured Fright, and could further sup|x>rt
the assurance with a certificate from Clothing
Classes, and Cold Tea Unions, and the Society for
Doing Good to the Poor Whites, has given every
woman under seventy a severe shock. Many
won’t believe the tale at all. Others who know
very well they are not frights, but can see their
title clear to many good marks from the Y.W.C.A.
and other bodies in elastic-side cloth boots, are
brisking up, and beginning to take a younger view
of life than ever. As for tne male adjuncts of this
wicked city, it will go hard with them if they are
going to be forced into a comparison with a
juvenile fossil (genus: Crichtonus Admirabilis).
They keep rather a gloomv silence as each new
quality comes to light. We have had so many
varieties of Governor out here that, somehow,
nobody is quite prepared for a young man whose
only fault is that he hasn’t got one. Unless the
cables are cruelly keeping dark his redeeming sin.
Another Earl whom Sydney takes special pride
in is the new Lindsey, late' Lord Bertie. His
father died last week, and a Sydney girl. Miss
Millie Cox, who married Bertie while he was
aideing the Carringtons out here, is now Lady
Lindsey. This title is generally supjioeed to be
a hollow-sounding affair, but at any rate die ex-
Berties will now tie able to leave the lodge cottage
where rumor has always painted them living in a
very hard-up style, and dwell in a mansion more
worthy of people with a handle.
_ n^,? nd | )U8 bing young Australian pianiste,
Mdlle. Celinaki, who lias done so well in Mel-
bourne lately, shows quite a genius for fixing
herself up for the photographer. It isn’t the
commonest kind of talent in Australia either.
Our most graceful beauties have a way of stiffen-
ing under the camera’s fire that is not much of an
improvement oil a raw bushie having a shilling’s-
worth of “portrait taken while you wait.” CeKn-
®ki * pictures are not in the least suggestive of her
native place and her name proper, which are re-
spectively Ballarat and Maud Wilson. She throws
into her pose a remarkable liveliness and chic,
even when she is pictured striking ixwture-chords
at the piano, which might reasonably take the
sprightliness out of a Vital S|«irk. Her first con-
cert in Sydney comes off next Thursday by invi-
tation. On the programme is a piece called “ The
Bells, by Prof. Graham Moore, inspired by Edgar
Poe s poem. Both their Exes, are to be present,
and people who want to combine music with a last
good look into Lady Hamixlen’s back hair may
have seats reserved on the payment of one shilling.
I hope it will not be unfortunate for Celinski
that “The Geisha” opens fire on the same date.
As soon as the box plan was exposed last Thursday
a wild scrimmage for seats began, and three nights
booked away immediately. Society is going
to come down in large quantities from its rose-
hunting m the country, and everything points to a
brilliant beginning for this hungrily - expected
opera.
Our decamping panto, reckons it has had hard
luck in Sydney. Pattie Browne’s illness was the
wggest cross it had to carry, and then there was
Hassan’s accident, and an unusual epidemic of ail-
ments among the girls of the co. kept upsetting
things generally. The house grew very thin
towards the last. Pattie lias come through her
operation, but she is still very dangerously ill.
Everybody feels sorry for her. She hasn’t had a
rosy time since she came bock to Australia,
with bad business, a had part in the panto., and,
finally, a bad illness that will long keep her away
from the stage.
A well-known Sydney girl is earning much
commiseration at present. When she married a
naval officer a few years ago. her fond mother
stimilated that she should continue to live at home
all her life. At the time this suited the voung
wife very well, and she gave the required promise.
Hubby, however, has now been ordered away on
foreign service, but the observance of her bond is
insisted on. So the poor girl is doomed to grass
widowhood fora |*eriod of at least three years,
though there is nothing but her promise to prevent
her from going abroad with her husband. The
lady whose engagement to a Wallaroo officer has
just been annouuce-d, is being congratulated with
reservations.
Two Sydney weddings come off in March. Miss
Birdie Prosser's marriage with Mr. James Pick-
burn, of the junior Bar, is fixed for an early date
V. month. Another Sydney University-man,
Mr. Norman White, C. E., is to be married about
the same time to Miss Marion Horton, the pretty
girl grad, who had so terrible an experience some
years ago m the Redfern railway accident.
Mayoress Harris, along with other Sydney
iadies, is working up a farewell-party, flanked
with a solid souvenir, for Lady Hampden. There
was a meeting at the Town Hall last week to dis-
cubs the matter, and it was decided that the tear-
ful ceremony should take the form of a conver-
sazione. Lord Hampden is luckier. His vale-
dictory struggles are to be by wav of a banquet
which is fixed for Monday, Feb. 27. Lord Bras-
sy is coming over to help the parting guest
through the final Barter of Butter, and, when all
these dolorous junketings are over, the Hampdens
will take the sharp edge off their parting, as it
were, with a week at Melb. Govt. House. And,
after that, the cry of Long Live the King will
positively refuse to be suppressed any longer.
Public opinion is pretty eVen with a good word
for the Hanqidens— or was, until the dazzling rays
of the new Gov't lustra rather paled away the
light of the present comfortably polished op. Lady
Hampden has kept herself more or less isolated
from the giddy world, but has managed every-
thing with such a sweet motherly grace and iiecu-
liarly nice smile that society hasn’t noticed that
Her Ex. has never absolutely pressed it to her
bosom. Besides, the vice-regal daughters have
gone everywhere; even to the length of causing
some (icople to be surprised at meeting them in
the houses of dear enemies.
Since English opera failed all of a sudden at
the Lyceum, a more successful state of things
has l*-eu following the theatre’s return to
its original paths of melodrama. “The Flying
Scud ” is the latest production. Miss Burdett
plavs a heroine charmingly again, and looks slim
and simple in a long blue muslin, with a cinnamon
satin sash, and the same shade of mittens. Her
riding-habit was rather suggestive of tea-gown
draping; but, then, the riding-habit in a play of
this kind, where dressing doesn’t run to anything
absurdly extravagant, is always a ticklish matter,
for a smartly-built horsey suit can never be run
up on the cheap. Miss Ivy Gorrick—the amateur
who played Fouchi rather promisingly last year
is cast as an adventuress, but frocks herself too
sloppily for the part. A bright little bit of busi-
ness is the jockey boys’—by the way, they are all
gir s—hornpipe, where a tall, dark-haired horse-
girl in a natty black-and-yellow jock suit, shines
out from several other pretty beings.
But the actor I liked best in the play was the
horse that put its head out of the stable door,
ouch an adorable, spirited, but innocent-looking
white head gazed out on the audience ! All the
men and women in the house seemed suddenly to
grow common. If there had been other horses the
effect might have been less striking, but that one
solitary, beautiful creature quite took away the
good looks of just ordinary humau beings. It
made me think of a wise old worldling who said he
liked to get home out of the streets because all the
people looked like pigs and hawks. I fancy this
is a fairly universal phase of feeling, as another
m&n with his finger on the pulse of thing's was
recently heard to say “I have seen a dog killed,
and I’ve seen a man killed, and I shall never for-
get seeing the dog killed.”
A new source of terror has been found for per-
sons suffering from blue-blood, as shown in the
following advt. recently apjiearing in S.M.
Herald : “\V anted ladies with influence amongst
the upper Classes to procure life assurance pro-
posals for the leading society. Salary, £l a week
with exjienses and commission. The application
of Lad us moving in good society will be treated as
strictly confidential. , Herald Office.”
Ladies moving in good society at £1 a week!
Droll!
People who read advts. were often amused last
winter with one about a lecture on Russia. Week
after week announcements would appear fixing
the discourse for a certain date. And next day a
very friendly, chatty sort of notice would intimate
that the entertainment was unavoidably post-
P°ned. The reasons for postponement ran on such
eccentric lines as a charity ball that must not be
interfered with, or the prior engagement of soine-
body wanted to preside. Every notice was headed
with a long and creamy list of patrons, beginning
with Lady Hampden, and including everyone who
could (tossibly be put on this kind of list.
" hether the lecture ever came off is a mystery, as
anyone who meant to go got lost in the labyrinth
of altered dates, and gave up all hope of reaching
the land of the Czars. ?
Personal from the S.M. Herald
QHORTEST lady of three, using glasses, Lyceum
stalls, Friday, address Friend, Hkkald office.
One more tribute to the fascinations of the short
woman !
Speaking of little women reminds me that Syd-
ney people often complain that they see so little
of their most popular woman-author, Ethel Tur-
ner. tor the last three years she has been living
quietly at Mosman’s Bay, where she occupies
herself chiefly with a lively edition of her “Story
of a Baby,” a year-old little girl named Jean.
Between whiles she has managed to write a new
book entitled “Three Little Maids,” a true and
delicately-painted picture of her own and her sister
Lilians early literary days, wherein the story of
her first book is set forth ; also, she edits the chil-
dren’s page m the Town and Country Journal
under the name of Dame Durden ; and keeps the
baby from emptying the ink-bottle on its downy
head. Lilian Turner, Ethel’s elder sister, now
Mrs. Thompson, lias been editing Cosmos up to
date, much to tho benefit of that tempest-tossed
little journal.
As already mentioned, that clever Sydney
artist, Mrs. Stoddard, is preparing for a visit to
England. Her water-color |K>rtrait of Miss Bur-
dekin, exhibited at last Art Society’s Exhibition
has been so loudly and deservedly admired that
the artist is going to try her luck with work of
this kind in London. Her gifted daughter, Mary
goes along with her mother to pick up a wider
knowledge of art than Sydney offers. Just now
Mrs. Stoddard is at work on the portrait of a cer-
tain classic-featured Maoriland beauty who lately
married a Sydney scribe. J
Capt. A. W. Mackav, lately appointed governor
of Goulburn gaol, is a large 42 year-old son-in-law
of Rev. J. E. Moulton, of Sydney Newington
CoHege and local Wesleyan tonnage. For long
Mr. Maokay represented a Sydney oopra-buying
firm in the h riendly Group, and was much regarded
by the dusky denizens thereabout. His exi>erienc©
was availed of by the Union S.S. Co. on the
occasion of the s.s. Waikare’s recent South Sea
trip. Mr. Mackay’s appointment to Goulburn
gaol has caused severe lieart-burning in various
quarters.
A local waltz with a good swing in it comes
from Paling and Co. in the shape of “ Le Geypt ”
waltz, by J. Edward Pople, with a -string of
music-meaning letters after his name. This i 3
unique in being decorated with a portrait of the
composer’s wife in the top corner, while the com-
poser stows himself away at the bottom of the
It ought also to run on its merits as a
it, melodious little waltz. “Beloved” (also
from Paling’s), by Angelo Mascheroni, is what
you might call a sweetly pretty song that wouldn’t
bite anyone, which attribute may further be
accounted for by the fact that the composer is
called Angelo Mashoroni.
From Nicholson and Co. comes a nice little
musical album, beginning its repertoire with the
same Chanson Triste that used to move Sydney
girls to tearful praying for autographs when Mark
Hambourg played it. Chopin, Beethoven, Handel,
are all represented here, and the only flaw to be
found in the shilling’s-worth is that some of these
classics have had their best creases smoothed out
by local fingers. There are still |*oople living who
don’t think Sydney can help Chopin and Beethoven
alongduuch, out these folk don’t patrouise shilling
albums, and need not be considered. Paling and
Co. send a trio of songs- stirring, sturdy young-
man declamations—“ The Patrol ” (by Edward St.
Quentin), “On the Deep Blue Sea" (by W. 11.
Jude), and a “ Sailor’s Star ” (by Godfrey Marks),
lhese are all good, honest songs, and may be
recommended to any man who likes to yell at the
top of his voice. The same firm sends a new and
rather Pretty little song of its own publishing,
called I’ll Ne’er Forget.” Esther Lewin is
responsible for the music and L. 11. for the words,
all blended together in harmonious wailings al>out
the sea, sobbing, and nevermore. As these four
songs are all about the sea, I gather that the
waves are still saying a good deal.
Local music has other pulls over local literature
besides its superior knowledge of the sad sea
rollers, rrom the back-block poet suffering from
sunset, to the flourishing Ilorsetralian novelist, ac-
ceptance or rejection is meted out to pen-wielders
from behind the screen of a postage-stamp, or from
the even more advantageous beating-ground of
an ans. to cor. column. But the man wno lets his
soul soar through the medium of a waltz or a
polka is seldom hooted off the field with a written
statement like, “Your waltz has galloped into the
w.p.b. Answers to local Mozarts are nearly
always personal, as the music-houses have no
correspondents’ column at their disposal, and
haven t enough water on the brain (in spite of
their musical occupations) to ruin themselves with
replies per post. Imagine the sufferings of
these publishers explaining to the composer's face
that it isn’t our style ! Several local firms have,
within the last two years, received tons of waltzes,
studies, nocturnes, songs, to say nothing of queer
hitherto-undiscovered animals that are neither
concertos, sonatas, fugues, nor good hearing of
any sort, but are marked simply in the highest
type of musical arrogance, Op. 100 by Johnny
Bach-. Tones, or Eliza Beethoven-Browne. Maud
Fitz-Stubbs’ Heather Waltz was about the best-
paying piece of music ever published in Australia.
You would be surprised to find what a long, long
way after are the profits of other local composers,
who, most of them anyway, never get anything
but newspaper notices and musical head out of
their heavy labors. And yet the unremunerative
music-market continues to be rushed, as if it were
going to turn demi-semi-quavers into diamonds in
six-eight time.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The cadets, who were body-guard to Lord
Brassey on Foundation Day, got drunk on glory,
flashed about in round shoulders, narrow chests
and crochet-needle legs, with pipe in mouth and
chin-strap on nose. Very little lord goes a long
way. But, strange to say, not one of them paraded
his girl ! Not even a mother or a sister. Whence
comes the difference between the 4 colonial ’ and
the imported toy-soldier ?
“With the Bland Holts, Frances Ross, as the
\icar's one fair daughter, affects white muslin and
blue ribbons, a velvet necklet and small black
crass imparting a churchy touch to the costume.
This innocent-sounding plumage looks more
worldly than you would suppose, what with its
up-to-date lace-flounced skirt, cluster of red-red
roses in the fluffy bodice, and long, narrow sash
encircling the wearer’s slim waist. Later on, the
comely mourner sartorially expresses her anguish
at her lover’s disgrace by modish black ruches on
a white gown and plumed black Panama hat.
Whou the clouds roll by, the heartened-up heroine
rejoices in gauzy black and sheeny scarlet.
Fine feathers make fine birds. The lengthy
process of stripping the decorations off the elabo-
rate Highland uniform of cashiered officer Baker
shows how much trimining goes to a gunpowder
hero. Divested of epaulettes, sword, medal, sash,
sjxjrran, phillabeg, frogged cuffs, revers, even the
basque of his coat, the accused was reduced at
last to short scarlet jacket and plain kilt skirt. A
mixed audience heaves a sigh of relief when
culprit’s official undresser stays his hand at said
stage. There’s much {>opular uneasiness, of
course, re a Hielandman’s nether toilette.
Mrs. Bland Holt as a bike belle is “one of the
best” she-breek-wearers hitherto encountered,
thanks to shoulders apparently broader and more
massive than her hips. Most feminine hips look
as if built on purpose to hold out skirts. With no
lietticoats to do their duty by, their width seems
meaningless, swaggering, waddling vulgarity.
“ At the ‘ Geisha’s ’ farewell, Lauri and Dorothy
Vane came in for most of the fuss and flowers.
The latter got floral parasol, boa, stuffed parrot
amongst bullrushes, &c., but cakes and ale, so to
speak, didn’t prevent her turning her back on the
audience, and looking half-inclined to howl, when
the gaggish Wun Hi advised her to ‘get her to a
nunnery.’
44 Ex-bank-clerk MoNicol Turner, at present
director of Monday concerts, who used to do
“ funny-man ” in the defunct Lyric Club, watched
the 4 Geisha’s ’ last gambol from a stage-box. Rose
Mtisgrove and this stage-loving amateur collabo-
rated of old in song-and-dance sketches and sieh,
and the male performer in those by-gone dramatio
duets is understood to watch rather wistfully his
quondam colleague’s progress along her smoothed-
out professional path. So far the French 4 Geisha ’
hasn’t justified her amateur promise. Her stage
tactics up to now are mostly would-be chic squirm
and wriggle, and her hand deportment suggests a
seal waggling its flippers.
44 Its worst enemy couldn’t call the Brough com-
bination 4 nosey. ’ Mr. and Mrs. B. themselves
are both more or less short-nosed, though the
latter’s profile is impressive compared with those
of three other prominent lady members of the co.
Bijou patrons welcomed the recent annexation of
a sprightly local damsel, but now that they’ve had
time to look at her properly, bless her little heart!
if she isn’t the most button-nosed of the bunch 1
“Some time ago a letter appeared in one of the
Melb. papers, from Portsea, complainipg of the
conduct of some of the male visitors at that place,
who, it was stated, had been bathing from the pier
in a state of nudity. The letter asked why the
pohoe did not take action. Accordingly the Chief
Commissioner of Police gave instructions to the
local constable to obtain the names of the offenders
m order that action might be taken. The names
were obtained, but—but—but—they were those of
two legal Dignitaries and one very large municipal
1 otentate. Up to now no action has been taken,
and no more letters on the subject have been
admitted to the papers—which evidently 4 didn’t
know it was loaded’ when they printed the
original complaint.
“ Yes the unlikely happens ! Who would have
expected those inoffensive Murphys, in quiet
bat ton, to dree bo grim a weird? Mornington
\ Vic-), that pretty little seaside townlet, lost all
its young men at 4 one fell swoop * a few years
!•’ i b ,! *>ey weren’t ‘ a drowning lot,’either, like
nsherfolk habitually ex|K)sed to r j>eril on the sea.’
Ao, these fifteen Newington boys were lost, boat-
ing home after a football match at Frankston.
three sons of the present Presbyterian parson at
Mornington went down with their fellow-players
Not long before the disaster the ill-fated brothers
had sailed with some friends (among whom were
the two Saunders girls, afterwards massacred in
t Inna) over the spot where they themselves were
soon to find a watery grave.
“ Presbyterian Parson Hume Robertson, of
Castlemaine, who, ’tis said, intends to stump the
country in op|iosition to the A.N.A. art-union, is
himself Australian-born, an only and substantially
dutiful son, generous brother, and one of the few
bachelor shepherds in the Victorian fold. Like
La Poupee,’ his wide-awake reverence ‘can
sing and dance,’ play tennis and billiards. He is
a nephew of those dead-and-gone Melbourne
identities, Dr. Wilkie and Dr. Robertson, of
Kew Asylum. A cousin, Mrs. Willie Ninnno,
was a Melb. belle in her spinster days, and sup-
plied inspiration for Douglas Sladen’s rhymes and
rhapsodies on Australian beauty, like her rela-
tions, the Wilkie girls, one of whom married a
baronet.
M ith the advent of the boyish Earl Beauchamp,
Lord Lamington will cease to be the ‘ Little Ben-
jamin ’ of the Australian gubernatorial group.
Prior to its present vice-regal regime, Bananaland
had no experience of youthful Governors. Sir
George Bowen is chiefly remembered by old
Queenslanders for his long memory and as the
husband of a handsome wife—a dark-eyed Maid of
Athens, whose Christian name, ‘Diamantina,’is
commemorated in Northern geographical nomen-
clature.
“Sir George’s own namesake, the town of
Bowen, has begun the New Year with one of its
habitual hurricanes. Poor little port! Lulled to
rest ,of late by comparative immunity ; in its in-
fancy its nerve was cycloned to smithereens. Old
time Bowenites were known by their scared looks
and maunderings re their harbor’s familiar storm-
fiend— ‘Three puffs, and down goes the township
like a house of cards. ’ For months after such an
experience sufferers started and changed color if a
stone clattered on a galvanised-iron roof, or a goat
banged down street with its horns entangled in an
empty kerosene-tin.
“Gov. Blackall, another Northern pro-consul,
was a widower with one grown-up son. Steaming
into Gladstone (Q.) he saw a welcoming crowd on
the wharf. As the vessel drew alongside, a local
loyalist shrieked, ‘ Three cheers for the Governor!
Three cheers for the missus and the kids ! ’ Next,
the enthusiast caught sight of the gorgeously
uniformed aide, standing at his Ex.’s elbow;
‘ Three cheers for the man in the brass mountings ! ’
he yelled.
“A banquet was once given thereabouts in honor
of the old Marquis of Normanby. A visiting
somebody speaking to the toast of the ‘ Mining
Industries of the District ’ foamed at the mouth
with earnestness. ‘ Your neighborhood teems with
minerals,’ said he in his peroration ; ‘you have but
to give Nature an emetic and inside will become
outside, in no time ’! ! ! CJgh ! Fancy talking
like that at a banquet! And such a banquet 1
Served up in sweltering weather and shared by
swarms of buzzing bottle-flies! Lashings and
lavings of liquor and meat, the latter going from
bad to worse under the very noses of the diners,
very little vegetables or fruit, no ice.
“Re the antiquity of old-time northern pro-
consuls, Gov. Kennedy, in his Bananaland days,
was a fat, more-or-less infirm widower, addicted
to good jokes and Irish stews, and dutifully shep-
herded by his one unmarried daughter. As Capt.
Kennedy, in an Irish garrison town, he had
brought himself under the favorable notice of the
powers-that-be, through his energetic Famine re-
lief measures.
“Their Excellencies Musgrave and Norman had
each of them buried the wife of his youth, and
been married for long enough to her successor
before his Q. appointment, so neither was a guber-
natorial Infant Prodigy. The first-named had
digestive and consequent temper-troubles. Aboard-
shipj bound from ’Ome to Australia, he got huffed
with his fello.w-passengers, the late Baronet W.
Clarke and family, because one of the youngsters
accidentally hit him with a ball. During an official
tour, he set aside prior hotel-arrangements, and
put up at whatever seemed to him the staidestand
least rorty of available caravanserais. Despite
these precautions, one night in a sultry Centralian
town ho was disturbed by a crying baby. First
thing next morning he sent for the landlady, and
in awful tones exclaimed —‘ Woman, you have
undone me! ’ She was horribly frightened, and
coidd have screamed with relief when he went on
—* Governor or infant! Choose which you will! ’
“The fag-end of nice old Gov. Norman’s Banana-
land term was less restful from a domestic point
of view than the start, owing to the frisks and
flirtations of a junior relative, who came from
school in England determined to have a good
time, ‘ though father and mother and all should
run mad! ’ After all, mamzelle wasn’t the first
member of the clan with an eye for a man.
The nresent Lady Norman herself, as a nut-brown
bread-and-butter miss, carried off her school-
chum’s elderly, widowed pa, then General
Norman.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
CBMegXiip^
m
O
*-3
CIGARETTES.
TH3EI TJGST
rHbcoa
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
l^L^ aint^ S "v raple T . ij ? < a Postcard will do) which will be sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Addrm*: Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited, Sydney.
Tb.e Famous French
Chocolate.
CHOCOtHT-HIEIHES
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners
Wholesale
Agents:
W, M. Cameron <('• Co., "
24U (irnnjr-Ht.. Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Marshall-Hall is now in Sydney—staying
in camp at Cremorne. His latest—" My friend the
Rev. Mr. Fidgett, of uneasy-virtue celebrity.”
Mayor M‘Eacharn, of Melbourne, is a
many-thousand shareholder of Sydney Daily
I klkgraph—not in his own name, but as executor
of J. B. Watson, his father-in-law.
George Kingswell, erstwhile proprietor of
Coolgabdie Miner, is in China. He has gone to
the I lowery Land to see if he can’t get Chinese
railway-sleeper contracts for the Forrests’ timber-
firm.
“General” Booth, who is expected to
begin his third tour of Australia on 22nd inst.,
will be 70 during the progress of it. His “first
appearance ” this time will be on the Westralian
goldfields.
Mabel Ambrose’s trip in a box was not
her first experience as a parcel for delivery.
• ?>'rf S once Posted to her father, who was a clerk
in P. 0., Albury, by her mother. That was when
she was a baby.
Again N.S.W. draws a non-aquatic Gover-
nor from the Imperial ballot-box. Brisbane drew
Norman Melbourne Brassey, but Sydney, of the
Beautiful Harbor, etc., draws a man who gets sick
at the smell of brine.
Francis Druce, a middle-aged Brompton
(S.A.) bootmaker, claims to be heir to the
Portland estates. He is grandson of Jonathan
Druce, brother of the T. C. Druce who, it is al-
leged, was the Duke of Portland.
The Pope has created “Tim” Quinlan,
M.l. (W.A.), a Chevalier of the order of St.
Sylvester. The new “Chevalier” is one of the
wealthiest men in Perth, a city father, and mem-
ber tor an agricultural constituency.
Just as well Tyson’s love-affair didn’t come
off, after all. The man who prefers to camp in
the open with a bluey for pillow, instead of com-
fortably snuggling up indoors, would have been
m the Divorce Court in about six weeks.
The Imperial Government has done N.S.
Walesa three-years’ damage in its new Governor.
His name will be Bewchamp, Bawchamp, Bew-
shong, Boshang, Bochamp, Beechamp—anything,
m fact, to avoid clashing with the pill-man.
For Sydney Smith, ex-Minister for Mines
-A-gricultyir - ©, N.S.W. Govt, means to provide
a billet as dairy-expert in England in connection
with the Agency-General. Smith is, literally, a
born dairy-expert. He first saw light in the Red
Cmv at Penrith.
J. GILLER.—ST and 55, and 3 for 45 for Vic, v.
N.S.W. One of the probabilities for the Aus. XI
Charles Hardie Buzacott, ancient father of
pleonisms and platitudes, says the late Premier
Byrnes was a small man till he went to England
and talked with great men. “ When he returned,”
says Charles, “ I discovered he had grown a great
man—and was glad.”
“Cabbage-tree” Ned Devine, one of the
first Vic. drivers for Cobb and Co., is “jobbing ”
in horses at Coolgardie and Kalgurlie. Ned was
bailed up by most of the bushranging gangs, but
never tells any yarns about them. “Not such a
bad lot,” he says, “ take ’em altogether.”
When a Melb. Metropolitan Board of
Works commissioner accused Chairman Fitz-
Gibbon of attempting to boss the show the
humorless old busybody replied : “ I follow out
the Biblical injunction, ‘Magnify thine office,
saith the Lord.’ ” Fitz is a Lord unto himself.
Since “ Mines ” was made a special N.S. W.
Ministerial Department, a quarter of a century
ago. Cook, the present Minister, is the only one,
except Copeland, who had worked as a miner for
daily bre «d. Several Ministers dabbled in mining,
both coal and gold, but only as speculators on the’
labor of others.
They tried to “ get off one ” on Peacock,
Vic. Education Minister. He is not a perfect
speller, but was an authority at a spelling-bee.
liume-Cook asked him to spell “ Pan tom me ”
thinking to trap him in the penult letter. Pea-
cock gave it an “ n ” and won, stating that if he
had l)een asked for “ Pantomime ” he would have
spelt it differently.
The first Australian posterist to appear
before an English audience is caricaturist Laing—
he of the big-footed sundowners. Laing lately
sent to England copies of several of his posters for
sale by auction to collectors. His caricature of
“ Quatre Bras ” brought <£3; his poster for Dyson’s
“On Top and Below,” £2 ; and others sold down
to 10s. apiece. The poster is a department of art
to which Australia has so far given no encourage-
ment, though there are several men in the country
who can turn out excellent work.
Dear Bulletin. —Oapt. Pentecost, of
the Lady St. Aubin, speaking of finding re-
lics of the expedition of La Perouse, says
that “ one hundred years had passed away,
when the remains of his two vessels were
found on this island of Vanikoro.” Rats!
When I was a kiddy, and in London, I
met Chevalier Dillon, a tough old salt, who
had been pensioned and decorated by the
French Government for discovering (in the
twenties) the remains of the lost ships of La
Perouse. And, as this same John Dillon
nearly succeeded in preventing my existence,
I want to stand up for his rights. It was
this way. My dad, in 1808, having much
§rize-money, purchased a brig called the
pring, and started for this part of the
world ; and he shipped Dillon as first-mate.
On the way out, my progenitor, looking over
the log-book, read this entry : “ Boar up
two points N.E.,” to which he humorously
appended the note: “Boar, a male pig!”
Dill on, as Irish as they made them in those
days, resented this comment, and challenged
his skipper. They had it out at the Cape,
and Dillon sent a ball through the pater’s
bell-topper beaver hat. Then they shook
hands and jogged along. Dillon soon got a
vessel of his own, and, some years afterwards,
stimulated by the offer of a big reward by
the French Govt.—after the Restoration—he
spent some time in the South Seas, searching
for news of La Perouse. At last he struck
oil, and was rewarded. La Perouse left
Sydney i" 1788, and Dillon traced his wreck
in 1826 —38 years later. When Dillon visited
our house in London, in the forties, he came
in a glass coach, and had to be edged out
carefully, for he was enormous of height and
girth. I had heard of him often, and had
gazed upon the historic hat, with many
fancies of what might have been. With
the ingenuousness of youth, I brought this
fateful tile from the lumber-room, and asked
him if he remembered it. My father ex
plained. There was an awkward moment.
Then the old chevalier exclaimed, “Ha!
my boy, you will make a spoon or spoil a
horn.” And I spoiled the horn. But Dillon
nearly spoiled my existence.—O.J.
Gov. Tennyson is the first genuine book-
man sent to govern an Australian province.
Bowen was a bookman of a kind ; he was brought
up in the atmosphere of books and contemplated a
University professorship as his career, but early
withdrew his mind from serious study. Tennyson
is 47, and books mainly possess him.
Old Col. Phillips, a peppery army veteran,
is in charge of Westralian police. Recently,
when addressing the Perth bobbies, he said that
the three cardinal sins possible for a policeman to
commit were—insubordination, intoxication and
giving information to the press. The public, he
considers, exists solely for the police.
Obit., at Devonport (Tas.), Michael Quin-
lan, an old-time V.D.L. policeman. He was for
many years stationed at Oatlands, then the
favorite lurking-spot of bushrangers, and could
tell stirring tales of affrays with the Robin Hoods
of Lagland romance. Deceased, who suicided,
was 90 years of age. It took him close on a cen-
tur} 1, to find that life was not worth living.
Paddy Perkins (aboriginal), whose name
comes up in the Gatton affair, is probably the
champion tracker. He is credited with having
once tracked a nigger murderer who walked along
li post-and-rail fence for two miles, said nigger
giving himself away with a pole he carried to pre-
vent himself from falling. “ Paddy ” tracked the
impressions of the pole in the grass, one about
every quarter-mile.
In the gay days of the Tas. capital, when
the late John Donnellan Balfe was in his glory, a
Misther O’Reilly was its king of tailors, and his
shop the resort of swells of the first rank. “A
gintleman walked into me emporium this mom-
ing,”said O’R. upon one occasion, “and purchased
the most be-utiful shoot of sooperfine cloth ; and
this afthemoon I percayved the most magnificent
costoom of sooperfine cloth lying in the gutter,
and Mr. Bawlfe in the middle of ’nm.”
Two of the most prominent applicants
for the vacant “Governorship ” of Norfolk Island
—open again, no doubt, owing to the misfortune
which has befallen Governor-elect Knapp—were,
it is stated, ex-Judge M‘Far]and, of Sydney,
and Capt. Strachan, chiefly famous for his libel-
action against a Tasmanian daily, and his over-
whelming failure to oust Labor-member Hughes
from N.S.W. Parliament. M'Farland, who re-
tired from the District Court some years ago, was,
in his time, the butt of many humorous yarns told
out of his hearing by irreverent junior counsel,
and festive bagmen tell tales about him in the
commercial room all over N.S.W.
R. C. Luscombe, formerly M.P. for
Northumberland, N.S.W., afterwards inspector of
scaffolding in Sydney, has turned up—after many
had thought him dead —with a long article on
Westralia in S.M. Herald. His facts are four
years old, but no matter. This paper is glad to
find the old battler alive. It once suspected that
the Dibbs crowd gave him his scaffolding billet
so that he might fall off something tall and
become a denizen of a better land. R.C.L.’s first
trip after election was to the opening of the rail-
way to Glen Innes. A. G. Taylor, unknown to
him, marked the railway-car “ H.H. the Duke of
Northumberland.” This was confounded with
the Duke of Manchester, then in the country.
Luseotnbe got all the cheers at wayside stations,
and several times returned thanks from the car.
WHAT THE MAN HEARD.
MAID : “ No, I don’t think I’ll ever marry. I’m too
fond of having my own way."
MATRON: “My dear girl, marriage is the easiest
way of getting it."
Wilson, the Oxford graduate now being
taken back to Brisbane from Albany by three
Q. police on a serious charge, was easily traced on
account of having constantly with him a cripple
son, whom he wheeled in a go-cart. The boy
contracted paralysis while at Broken Hill, where
his father was a schoolmaster. He was only one
of several child-victims of lead-poisoning. Some
died ; others, less fortunate, face life disabled.
As a result of the now-deceased Adelaide
Hospital squabble, Dr. Napier, the able and
popular imported surgeon, was recently black-
balled on his nomination for membership of
Adelaide Bowling Club, an institution containing
a majority of medicos and their Tory friends.
This latest action of the interested medical clique
which “kept the sore open” in the early days of
the dispute, is, perhaps, the most despicable in
the whole business.
Monsignor O’Brien, president of St. John’s
College, Sydney, and a possible successor to Dr.
Higgins as coadjutor bishop, if the latter returns
to Ireland, contradicts the assertion that he is
related to Card. Moran. Frequent jibes have
been made at the alleged preponderance of the
Cardinal’s kin in good ecclesiastical billets, but
two clerics only in Sydney diocese are related to
him—private-secretary O’Haran and another mem-
ber of the cathedral-staff. Dr. Verdon, now Bishop
of Dunedin, is a cousin of the Cardinal.
Old Samuel Daven -
porfc, who, though past 80
years old, still plods along
Adelaide streets, was first
called to S.A. Leg. Coun-
cil by Major Robe, the
fourth Governor, in 1846.
He then lived at Maccles-
field, 27 miles from the city
over the Mt. Loftus Hills,
and he often rode down in
the morning to attend to
his legislative duties and
returned the same night.
His brother named Mac-
clesfield after their English
home. The English Mao-
elestield is still represented
in the Commons by a
Davenport.
Andy Kelly, of pot-
hat fame, who on rejection
at the polls turned back-
blocks publican, returns to
Sydney as lessee of a Red-
fern pub. He vainly con-
tested Grenfell at last elec-
tion, but will continue to mix liquor and politics
in hopes of better results next time.
Apropos the liberation of Mrs. Gordon
Baillie, at least one Melb. man is praying that she
will not come to Australia with any more philan-
thropic projects. Mrs. G. B. made extensive use
of the poor man and the poor man’s banking
account, and when he became too affectionate had
him hoisted out on a boot. The sufferer returned
to his home, a broken and contrite man, and was
kicked off his own doorstep for his sins (uncom-
mitted, alas !) by his own sons, aided and abetted
by his indignant wife. He was two years winning
his way back to the family bosom, and has ever
since repented his uncommitted sins.
An English Tyson states that the mil-
lionaire’s father, William, did not come to Aus-
tralia in 1818, but in 1808, and that he did nob
accompany Commissioner Bigge to N.S.W.
When Melb. detective Dungey (of the
“ boot-trunk case”) was senior-constable at Epping
(Vic.), a recidiviste came into the neighborhood,
plundering houses and frightening women.
Dungey went in pursuit, came across him while
camped, jumped off his horse, and tried to hand-
cuff the man, who, however, turned out to be a
wrestler, and tumbled Dungey about till he gob
him down. Then the Frenchman set about
throttling him, but Dungey, winded and almost
powerless, by an effort got out his revolver and
shot the man dead. So exhausted was Dungey
that, for some time afterwards, he could not shake
the corpse off the top of him. Dungey, when
orderly to Gov. Loch, was one of the showiest of
such ornaments in the Govt, service.
“ C.M.G.,” to The Bulletin :
You lately published a par. re death of Joseph Bosisto,
in which you mentioned that the lamented deceased was
a ‘ ‘p atron ” of Jimmy Thomson, who formerly ran Melb.
Evening Standard. I knew them both, and rather think
it was the other way about. Jimmy was a pressman, and
always kept Bosisto’s name well in front during Calcutta
Exhibition, after which the pair were associated in the
Colonial and Indian show in London. I see by the old
gentleman’s will that he has bequeathed hisC.M.G. insignia
(a big pewter sort of medal) to his nephew, George
Joseph Stirling, surgeon, of Melbourne. He also men-
tioned in his will that his “ sword of State and garments”
presented by the Queen were to go with the rnedal. As a
matter of fact, both sword and garments were supplied
by an ordinary trading firm in London, and paid for in
the same fashion as those ordered by other C.M.G’s. Dr.
Stirling is scarcely a nephew in the ordinary acceptance
of the term. “ Old Bos.” married a widow, and they
were both childless. Her brother had several children,
one of whom is “ Dr. Bob,” but he is no blood relative of
the late father of the gum-leaves, as Tom Carrington
called him. The only surviving relatives are William
Bosisto, for many years a railway-guard in England, and
his daughter, both residing at Reading.”
Melbourne Age’s London correspondent
re the retirement of old Justice Hawkins in Eng-
land :
His vigor, mental and physical, is as great as it was
when in 1873 he led the case against the Claimant, and
was coached by me in the topography of Victoria, and
the different names by which the same places were called.
“Me ” in this case is George Collins Levey.
Hawkins married his cook, about whose mala-
propisms many queer (but doubtless apocryphal)
stories were told. But she was, as the writer
happens to know, a very good and kindly woman,
and the old Judge was very devoted to her. One
used to see Hawkins out with his dogs on Sunday
mornings in Hyde Park— a genial, hairless-headed
little fellow in a brown-velvet coat, who would
stop to give a child a pat on the head and a six-
pence, and always had a gentle word for those
who approached him. Yet he was England’s
“great hanging Judge.” Hanging Judges and
hangmen are, domestically, dreadful “ take-
downs.” When this scribe entered the private
residence of an Australian man-butcher who has
slain his scores, he found the chimpanzee-like
gentleman with a little daughter on his knee teach-
ing her to spell out a paragraph in the Bible! And
when the writer was departing, the hangman
snuffled to him in quite a genial way: “ When
you come again be sure and bring the missis and ”
(pointing to the flowers in his garden) “ I’ll give
her a fco-kay.”
About 14 years ago, Willoughby Andrew
(who narrowly escaped the scaffold and is now
confined for life in Darlinghurst prison for shoot-
ing dead a Sydney draper) was, on the eve of »
general election, attending at Molong (N.S.W.) a
meeting addressed by Dr. Ross, the sitting mem-
ber. Andrew was wordy with whisky, and had a
difficulty with a pugnacious Rossi te, whom he
BILL HOWELL—perhaps the most popular cricketer of the hour.
Almost a certainty for the XI.
speed lly laid in ruins on the floor. Then he
mounted a form and announced his determination
to wipe out Dr. Ross, politically, as he had wiped
out his follower, physically. A red-hot contest
for the seat ensued, and Andrew was narrowly
beaten ; and, loth to leave the town without a
tangible record of the campaign, he gave hints
about the propriety of a testimonial. But, as no-
body rose to the proposal, he decided to manage
the business himself. Preparing a subscription-
he button-holed the first man he met with,
Here, Smith ; we cannot allow Willoughby
Andrew to leave the electorate without recognising
the spirited way he fought the election. What
about a gold watch—say, 50 guineas? What shall
I put you down for? A guinea ?” “ Really. Mr.
Andrew, times are too hard.” “Great Scot, man !
I don’t expect you to part-up. I only want your
name. I pay the money. There, you’re down for
a guinea, and many thanks. Come to the pre-
sentation. I’ve ordered the watch from Sydney—
suitably inscribed.” And off went Andrew to
Jones and Robinson and the rest. The watch
duly arrived, a party assembled, wine flowed, and
Andrew made a “ feeling ” speech in reply to the
toast of his health. He would, he said, “ treasure
the token of their generosity,” &c. Then he
calmly invested himself with a 50-guinea ticker,
inscribed : “ Presented to Willoughby Andrew,
Esquire, by the electors of Molong, as a slight
appreciation of his distinguished political talents.’


Brewed from the finest English grain, and bottled in England.
Holbrook’S Vipcgar.
Mr. WILL A. DIXON, F.1.C., F.C.S., SYDNEY, ANALYST UNDER THE
PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, WRITES AS FOLLOWS:
*'l find that it is a * Pure Malt Vinegar ’of the highest quality and strength, being quite
free from Mineral Acids or other Deleterious Matters.”
Holbrook’S Vipcgar.
Beware of Common and Low-Priced Vinegars—they are most injurious.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Ei.KGANT and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
Eacket. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
tamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRirE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
Aboriginalities.
The man had been dead two days. The
ground had been lumpy always. The dog had
been trained for two years. The man, just before
crossing the golden range, had given the dog to
an old friend. Large crowd at funeral; and,
barring “ Daddy ” Doolan’s glass optic, nob a dry
eye in the lot. Dog very quiet; seemed to know
that he and his master had parted for ever.
Clergyman picked up a clod ; dog’s face bright-
ened. “ Dust to dust, ashes to ashes ” —and the
clod was dropped into the grave. Instantly the
dog bounded in after it and “retrieved” it,
scrambled up a plank, and laid the clod at the
clergyman’s feet. Men struggled to look grave.
The pastor repeated the solemn words, and
dropped a handful of clay ; but when a mouthful
of it was rescued as before, the mourners had to
smile loudly—with lumps in their throats.
“A.G.” : Once travelled from Albury to
Sydney on a pound of tea. Got packet of tea in
Albury. Vile stuff it wan, but that was uiy dart.
Didn’t want a good article or 1 might have gob a
few orders. Was travelling for a firm that didn’t
exist. Came to a house and a»ked if I could do
them a tin or a chest of tea. “ Well, no ;we have
just given an order.” Produced my sample, ex-
patiated on its merits and asked leave to brew a
little. Was ture they’d like it. Made some tea
and, incidentally, had something to eat —a feed,
in fact. Next house (when hungry) the same;
and so right through. Dropped in for three
socials, and a fettler’s wife wanted me to stay for
a month and teach the young ladies ” (her
daughters) to danee. Was 23 days on road, and
occupied 19 feather beds. Not a bad record !
Don f t catch me cadyiny tucker.
• • • »
Still more animal companionship. Or-
chardist Dorahy, of Dundas, N.S.W., possesses a
greyhound which has “ taken up ” with a mother-
less kitten. Picks puss up by the scruff of the
neck and gallops playfully round a few acres of
orchard ; kitten, not in the least disconcerted, on
being released ooyly taps greyhound’s nose—and
thus tbe twain gambol for hours. The other day,
while carrying the kitten, the greyhound spied a
hare, dropped his playfellow, chased the hare, and
killed it. Then he returned to the homestead
dead hare and live kitten in mouth.
• • • •
Re animal friendships. Got
a dog at our camp ; a fearful cat-murderer excepb
in case of big Tom—reared with him; and when
cat catches bird he always divides with dog. Also,
at tucker-time, Tommy has first go, and if strange
dog comes along Tomaso helps in the fight.
• • • •
A Two-wharves pig-farmer went duck-
shooting with his man, Terry, and when the boss
had bagged nine black ducks be handed the gun
to Terry to have a try. Terry stalked up to the
reed-edge, got within 40 or 50 yds. of a small mob
of ducks, and took careful aim. Then he lowered
his gun, aimed again ; then lowered again, and
scratched his head till his boss sneaked up to him.
“Why don’t ya shoot? Y’ave some splendid
chances.” “ Chances, is nt ? Yiss, begorra !
Plinty ovum ; but they was spoilt. Ivirry toime
Oi got ta good aim onta wan ov thim ducks two
or three other divvies wild shwim betune me an’
th’ wan Oi wizz aimin’ nat. Yiss!” Later on,
another beautiful chance offered, and the boss
insisted that Terry should try again. The un-
willing Terry took the gun, aimed carefully at
the right-hand ducks of the flock, and then, as he
{mllea the trigger, swung the gun round to the
eft. Down went Terry, but no ducks were hurt.
Boss rushed up—“ Well, Terry, ya break me up.
Wot did ya swing the gun round for ? ” “ Whoi,
Oi wantid ta pepper th’ whole blessid flock. Yiss.
Am Oi hurrt?
Miss AMY GOURLAY (of Charles Holloway’s co. at Sydney Royal).
Photo., Falk Studios, Melbourne.
Re discussion on boot-destroyingest places,
I will back the scoria cone of Rangitoto moun-
tain, near Auckland, M.L., against any other
place in Australasia. The volcanic rocks cut like
razors and grind like emery wheels.—Old Boots.
• * • %
A Waanyarra (Vic.) farmer recently saw a
brown snake coiled round a milch-cow’s leg ex-
tracting the milk from her teat. The farmer
watched the operation for some time, fearing to
disturb the thief lest the cow should suffer.
• * * *
In infrequent patches there is money in
the rabbit still. Out on Lake Victoria, in the
Ear South-West (N.S.W.), a couple of rabbiters
“knocked out ” .£l5 in a week ; but that was un-
usual enough to be talked about. Still, men who
know the way do better at it than at sandshifting.
• * * •
Message to Shoalhaven school-teacher from
a lad’s mother :
Pleas exccua my Joe this day as he a 9 ony five days
Rekuvercd from them Meassels And is gone Over to the
Kiamma shoe with the hareshare Cow and two heffers for
His farther.
* * * *
Received by Sydney softgoodsman from a
Big Scrub township :
Dear Messers Tweed, Calico & Co., Please sendme pat-
trens of allyour speciments of drnppery. I want samples
of all what you can send me, andpl'ease don’t cuttheni
verybig, as they will havetobe carried on horseback bythe
male boy in parcels po9t, which they would be orkword if
theywas to big and the roods is in a awful mess and they
ain’t much chop even in fine wether.—Yours truely, Mrs.
Maria Winsky.
* • * •
Blank, an affluent N.S.W. squatter con-
siderably over seven, was accused by a neighbor-
ing grazier, suspected of similar practices, of show-
ing hand-fed sheep in grass-fed sections. Blank
watched his opportunity, and when his enemy ex-
hibited in the grass-fed section at the local show,
and the pen was surrounded by admiring wool-ex-
perts, he strolled up, pulled out a handful of oats,
and held them through the rails, saying, as the
jumbucks hustled over each other to get at the
grain—“ These are Mr. Jones’ grass-fed, sheep,
gentlemen. He disna’ call ’em hand-fed till they
can use a knife and fork 1 ’’
* » • *
A N.S.W. squatter, going round with a
Crown Lands assessor, passos a paddock in which
there is a very fine horse. “ Fine animal that,”
says the assessor. “ Give you £2O for him.”
“ Best horse on the run. Wouldn’t take a hun-
dred for him.” “Let’s see, what rent are you
paying?” “ Threepence all round.” “Ah, you
have 20,000 acres of C.L. at 3d , that’s £250.”
Then meditatively, “ A very fine horse ! I really
think, Mr. Blank, you’ve got this land a lot too
cheap. Now, at 6d. your rent would be £500.”
Pause. “ Yes, a very fine horse.” “ Oh, take the
d d horso at your own price,” burst out the
squatter, “if you admire him so much ! ” So £2O
bought tho horse and the rent stayed at three
pence.
* * * *
“ F.S.” on captive eagles :
Had two Australian eagles in a large netting enclosure
for some time ; but one morning found the smaller of the
pair killed and disembowelled by his friend. Curious to
observe the business-like way in which the remaining
bird kills a rabbit or other small animal. When a rabbit
is put into the enclosure, he simply drops on it like a
stone, grasping it by the neck with one foot so hard that
the victim cannot even squeal. Not long ago, while I
had a trap-door at the bottom open, my cat walked un-
suspiciously into the enclosure, was dropped on, and
duly strangled by the potent claws—the eagle the while
not taking the slightest notice of my yells. He looked a
bit askance at the first guinea-pig I put into him, but
eventually scoffed it, and will now kill as many as I like
to put in.
« * • *
Bushman watching old blackfellow cooking
a flying-fox in his gunyah. Darkey : “ What
you lookin’ at?” “I bin look at you—l think
you very ugly man. ” Whereupon the nig. : “Me
ugly pfeller? You ugly pfeller—your face like a
oallafash, your hair like a scrub, and mine tink it
plenty wallaby sit down there.”
“ Duffer”:
Any Bulletin
reader ever
seen or heard
of the “furry”
lizard? In
Adelong dis-
trict once saw
one taking a
sun-bath on a
mullock-heap.
He had that
tired feeling so
bad I had no
difficulty i n
catching him
in an empty
jam-tin. Ab-
out 3in. long,
and same
shape as a
“ jewey,” but
covered with
fawn - colored
hair or down.
Thought h e
was a great
curiosity until
I showed him
to an old
miner, who
said he was
common
enough. Have
never seen one
since, though.
* *
A corres-
pondent, hav-
ing been be-
guiled into
rapid motion
for once in his
life, and being enraged thereat, writes as fol-
lows :
If country people are slow, they are sure. Got down to
country railway-station half-an-hour too early, thinking
train left at 8.30 a.m., when 9 was the correct time. On
the way, was passed by all sorts of people, who were
hurrying, as though to hurry was a new experience but
imperative, and I put on a spurt myself, thinking watch
might be wrong. When near station, people were
beginning to run, and I was scared into a bit of a sprint
myself. Found waiting-room full of people, who looked
as though they had almost missed the train ; yet found it
did not go for 30 minutes. Fancy some must have spent
the night there, and that those I had seen running were
really bound for the 5 p.m. train, and were anxious not
to be late.
* * * *
He was a N.S.W. P.M. who lived by rule
and was very particular never to be out after 7
p.m., but at 4 o’clock one evening a well-known
squatter burst into his room at the hotel, and,
slapping him on the back genially, said, “ Come
on, Jones, get your coat on and come out with me.
Just got in from Melbourne.” In vain Jones
pleaded his rule. “Oh ! hang the rule,” said the
pastoralist. “It’s only 35 miles, I’ve got four
demons in the trap, and I’ll rattle you out in three
hours.” They reached the station, had dinner,
and then the squatter asked to be excused for a
few minutes; had to see his overseer. He’d
hardly gone, when a man was announced as
wanting to make the then necessary sworn declara-
tion about his land, and the reluctant P.M. was
thereafter kept busy taking about thirty other
similar perjuries. Soon after he was through, the
wool-king returned full of apologies, and the in-
dignant Jones recounted how he’d been kept hard
TROUBLE AHEAD.
MICK: “ ’Ow’s yer lug fer a drink, Jimmy?"
JIMMY: “No good. It's me birthday to-morrow,
and the old girl's collared all the cash to buy
me a present."
MICK: “ Wot’s the presen t? ”
JIMMY: “ A pick an’ shovel.”
at work in the interval. The squatter expressed
great surprise that the men had known of his
presence, and liberally cursed their cheek in
taking advantage thereof. Then—“ Awfully
sorry, old man I —just got a telegram ; got to be
in Melbourne to-morrow evening ; we’ll have to
start at 4in the morning, and it’s 12 now. Better
get to bed.” The wily dummy employer had
saved about .£lOO which it would otherwise have
cost him to send his men to the township to make
their affidavits.
* * * *
Re the introduction by scientist O’Connor
of the edible frog to Queensland. What is the
matter with our local croaker ? He is very juicy,
of the slipstone variety, quite equal to the French
HE HAD GAINED A STONE.
fi. Pecuna was the owner of the Great Curative Pill,
An unfailing' patent - medicine that aiuiple bushuu n
trusted
To relieve all mortal ailments. When he came to Mutton
Bill
He was treated like a hero, but expressed himself dis
g us ted
With the conduct of a gentleman named Hegan, whom he
lusted
To encounter do* n the |>addock in a fair and open mill.
This Pecuna had made offers to all persons who would
seek
Testimonials from patients, tales of cures, improvements
steady,
And such yarns as help the sale of pills, and Uegan, like
a sneak,
Wrote to him, and was rewarded for a tale of Peter
Eddie,
W'ho, he stated on his solemn oath, had gained a stone
already,
Though he'd really only taken Great Curative Pills a
week.
When the pillman published this some people rushed to
raise his roof.
They were relatives of Eddie, whose decease was past
denying.
So Pecuna sought the Hill to make the fraud disgorge bis
oof,
Or find proofs to back his story. Uegan turned, without
replying,
Took the chemist to the grave where Eddie's mortal part
was lying,
And then, pointing to the headstone, says he : “There's
yer bloomin' proof J **
SILAS SNELL.
THE EDITOR COMES TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the man from Jindabye,
And none might hustle him ;
He got aboard the Sydney train.
And, oh, but he looked grim !
His eyes beneath his bristling brows
Shone with a savage light,
And two revolvers in his belt
Gleamed truculently bright.
His luggage was a carpet bag.
For very light flew he ;
Yet by his side a vxuldy lay,
Ferocious for to see.
“ I am,’’ said he, “ the editor
O' th' Western Eaolk Et« ;
It circulates in Cudgeroop,
Cow Flat and Jindaby e.
“ I’m going down to Sydney now
Some type to buy -ahem!—
A den of thieves is Sydney town,
But I'm prepared for thkm I ”
Then up and spake a passenger—
“ Your talk is mighty free ;
Not all are thieves in Sydney town—
Take back your words," said hr.
" I mean ihe Sydney editors,"
The other man replies—
“ They steal my leading article*—
their eyes.”
V.J.D.


25/G
42/-
Any initials in Monogram, as above, 2/0 extra.
The “Fx&R” Watch.
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH of tiir AGE.
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have Brequet. overcoil balance springs.
THEY are jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY hir e jewel rtiby rollers.
THEY are dust-proof and WATERTIGHT.
THE Cases SCREW together.
THEY are specially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about, and go with great accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
THEY are 25 6 each in Oxidised Metal Cases, and
42/- in Solid Silver Cases.
THEY are made in every style of case.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Immense value in mercery can be obtained at
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street, who can boast of a connec-
tion extending over the whole of the Australasian
colonies, and their exact methods of supplying great
value at small cost results in their having the confidence
of customers, some of them residing in the remotest
corners of the colonies. Pop your orders in the post, and
register them when they contain remittances. Hordern
Brothers, Cash Buyers and Sellers, 203, 20S, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street, Sydney. N.B.—Small orders attended to
with as much care as large ones.*
WHAT FEDERATIONISTS WANT
AND WHAT YOU WANT
is
WHITE LABEL LAGER.
in flavor—the sirloin is delicious—though lacking
the bulk of the long-wool Canadian bullfrog. This
latter is exported in thousands to the N.Y.
market, anti is as big as a chicken. The Agricul-
tural Department might wisely import some of
these bulls for stud purposes, locating them in the
swamps of Bourke and the Never-Never. Care
should be taken to select a strain with a good lay-
ing record, and milking qualities have preference
over mere feathering.
* * * •
“ M R.” ; We had always considered Tom
a very quiet specimen of the bush native, but the
other day he quite climaxed his reticence. He
kept the li very-stables in the little township near
which we spent our summer-holidays, and used
often to drive us out, on which occasions our
efforts to make him talk were dreadful failures.
The other day he drove us out as usual, and, on
the way home, we saw smoke in the direction of
the village. “ Hello ! ” exclaimed one of our
party, “ there’s been a fire.” “ Yes,” replied
Tom, with a slow smile, “ that’s my stable —it was
burnt down this morning.”
* » * *
The story of an out-back wedding :
A wealthy squatter employed one Jones as rouseabout,
dummy, boundary-rider, or cattle-lifter to suit the occa-
sion. This adaptive genius had a daughter who favored
her father. She was the best horse-breaker in the dis-
trict, her vocabulary of abuse was more extensive than
that of any local station-hand or bullocky. It was quite
common for her to go alone after cattle. Then she would
boil her hilly and sleep under a log, quite oblivious of any
feminine misgivings. Her friends called her “ Clothes-
peg ’ on general principles. She chummed in with
another versatile genius in the cattle-duffing line; and
lived with him—clearing out. at intervals when thrashed
with unusual severity. A neighboring cocky’s wife
sought to reclaim Nelly and to remove such a scandal
from her front slip-rails. So she interviewed Bill and
induced him to promise to marry Nell. But that lady
had cleared out for the time, and had “to be fetched.”
After some persuasion she consented to become a wife,
i But,” said our stout tramp-chaser, “ remember, Nell,
if I take you out you must stay with me, and not go to
Bill again till you are married.” “All-right, Missus.”
The Missus drove Nell out of town, and all went well till
the gate near Bill’s hut was reached. Nell got down,
opened the gate for the cart, and then—“ So-long, Missus,
thanks for the lift.” “ But, Nellie, you promised to stay
with me till yon xvere married ; you know it is very wrong
to live with Bill like that.” “D n the odds,” quoth
Clothes-peg, “ it won’t be worse than it's been all along.
So long!” The good dame naturally felt angry at being
fooled so neatly. However, when the bush parson next
appeared, she hauled him and his wife into her cart and
drove to the dummies’ hut. The bridegroom was found
stretched on his back under a “contagious tree " smok-
ing contentedly, but the bride was axva.v rounding up a
mob of horses. Presently she appeared, seated “ clothes-
peg” fashion on a half-broken colt, which raced among
the timber in perilous style. Presently she saw the
visitors, and most demurely the bride rode up to greet
the parson. “ Good morning, Nellie. This is the minis-
ter; he’s come to marry you. Bill’s willing.” “ But I
ain't got no rings. We can’t get married.” “ Have you
a door-key?" asked the parson ; “ that would do.” Then
the missis lent a ring. Bill went “to clean himself,” and
presently appeared in clean flannel-shirt and moles. Liz
produced a gorgeous silk jacket, and asked if that would
do; but she considered a clean-up quite an unneces-
sary luxury. Her filthy face and hands, matted hair, and
dirty, tattered dress strongly contrasted with Bill’s neat-
ness. The pair were arranged in one room of the hut,
with the pledge of their affection, now a big lump of a
boy, in the background. The ceremony over, the parson
grounded his black pants on the dirt floor and prayed
long and earnestly for the couple. Then Nell got out
the billy. “ Now, you must ’ave a tot of tea, Mister;
you're very dry." But the guests could not stay for
the wedding-breakfast.
• • * *
“ Tassy ” ; Term “ bluey ” never applied
to swag in Tasmania. The Tas. “ bluey ”is a
rough overcoat of blue-grey woollen, and never
-ecn by writer in any other part of Australasia.
GARRY, a Wide Bay black athlete, and his wives.
Perroux, photo.
Gurry, the Wide Bay aboriginal, pictured
herewith, with his two wives—“one,” as he
used to say, “for week days, and the other for
Sundays is the man who, getting tired of his
week day partner, bashed her on the head with a
nulla, was arrested on a charge of murder, escaped,
was recaptured, had no “ true bill ” found against
him, hashed his Sunday wife in turn, got away,
and is still at large.
“ Steele Rudd Have known the death-
.((pjer to spring a couple of feet straight up in the
a j r w h en teased, and have seen one rise higher
than a sheep’s back when mob passing over him.
* * * *
The M’Cooey on limbed
snakes and legless lizards :
The carpet snake has posterior rudi-
mentary limbs, as has also the diamond
snake, which (bar color markings) is
strictly identical with the carpet snake,,
and should never have been classed os
a distinct species. Liasis childreni, the
mighty 22-feet Queensland and W.A.
snake,' will probably prove to have
rudimentary limbs. No venomous Aus-
tralian snake has these ; but a vtnoin-
ous legged snake is found in Papua.
No country has nearly so many venom-
ous snakes as Australia, yet no Austra-
lian lizard is venomous, not even the
so-called “ woodadder,” about which
the blackfellow and the bushmen have
made so much mystery. The bush-
man of to-day, however, is as ignorant
(scientifically) as the bushman of 60
.years ago, and still believes that the
death-adder has a sting in its tail,
and that, the young kangaroo grows on
its mother's (eat.
As to legless lizards, Australia has
many (very snake-like to the inexpert
and always called snakes in the hush).
Here, however, are two out of numer-
ous generic distinctions: All lizards
have ear-holes ; snakes have not; and
whereas in snake-like legless lizards the
tongue is single and somewhat leaf-like
in form, in all snakes the tongue is
bifid or forked.
» * *
“A.E.G.”: lie “hairy men.”
There was one once in Jmgera
Ranges. A Braid wood civil-ser-
vant was in the habit of stalking
wallabies, in a bear skin suit, and
Maloney, riding up that way when
the C.S. was out for sport, got such
a “divvle of a fright ” that neither
he nor his neighbors would ven-
ture out at night for years. A
man who goes about in a wallaby
country with a hairy suit carries
his life in his hand.
Mac had offered his place for sale, stating
amongst other things that the ground was timbered
with gidyea, willows, etc. Buyer came up and,
after riding about for a week, asked Mac where
the willows and gidyea were. Mac pointed to
some scrubby bushes. “ There they are.” Buyer :
“ That’s only rubbish.” Mac : “ Well, I call
them willows. I’m not a blanky botanist! ”
THE SUPERSTITIOU'S PICNIC MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The picnic maid and her “ to be,” .
Far out at “ Lovers’ Bay,”
Sat silently and watched the sea
Against the islets play.
Around her neatly-fitting vest
His arm he coyly stole —
When on his breast her head found rest
He reached a blissftd goal.
“ But why so sad, dear Owyn ? ” he said,
“ What can the thoughtlets be
That throng your head, and that have led
You into reverie ? ”
The maiden sighed, and sobbed: “Dear Mac,
Oh, this is why Fm sad:
I’ve counted back, from you to Jack,
The sweethearts I have had,
“ And find that ” —here she raised a tear
To ease the parting-scene—
“ Our courtship, dear, must end, I fear,
For you just make thirteen ! ”
6x8.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken or communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Toko : Neither time nor eyes for such painful
scribble ... B.N.E. : Idea good ; handling clumsy
Putcha : Needn’t have troubled. See no reason why
you shouldn't improve. Verse ralher crude ; sketch
tolerable G.B. : Your opinion isn't the general one ;
and if writers you mention appear in publication you con-
demn, it must be, to at least that extent, good quality.
.....Jackaroo : Too much husk ; may extract kernel and
print .... Moko : “Departure” has no point—no “ point
of departure,” as it were. Please give titles of others ...
R.G.M. : Too prosy and long-winded Shortcap : Wish
you were a lot shorter. “ Ilis inertia is profound ”; so is
your “poem’s.” ...Alan L. : Well-written enlargement
upon too slight an incident., Z. : Will consider
R.H.T. : Not ill-written, but ends feebly... P. Alex. :
Verse down-at-heels and out-al-e!!>oxvg. Fish-lie, regula-
tion pattern Bumper : But Tiie Bulletin isn t “an
upright journal ”—it’s a rfmi aright journal A.G.W. :
“Between the Sights” nlmost gels there. ...“Pons"
spoilt by last two lines. “ Inspiration” hasn’t any
Egotist : To hand W.M.F. : May use one or both
Lizzie C. : No ; verse is obviously out of his line
F.L. M‘G. : Good points about it, but only squalid yarn
of plain murder at best A. H.T. : Bunny-snapper verse
rather gloomsome... M.A.P. (Melbourne): Needs more
force and less mild preachiness .... L. Hensiowe : A yarn
of no importance Waldo: A rather inartistic horror.
.... Gobung : (I) Queensland's is not so much a protectix e
as a heavy revenue tariff, just like N.S.W.’s only on a
larger scale. (2) They haven't really got Fieetrade in
N.S.W. ; that province raises more money' per inhabitant
in customs duties than almost any' protective country in
Europe or America. (3) You say you get less wages in
Queensland now than you used to get in N.S.W. But,
unless von get more wages in Queensland than you know
how to get now in N.S.W., why do you stay there?
(4) You say “ It is well-known that. Sydney is the happy
hunting-ground for workless men,these gentry', when out
of employment,, flocking there from the other colonies in
numbers.” Yet, according to the official statistics of
N.S.W., and so far as these statistics go, that province,
in the last seven or eight years, has almost, invariably sent
more people to the adjacent provinces (Queensland, S.A.,
and Victoria) than they have sent to her. To foolish,
ignorant people who don’t think or study for
themselves, but take the yarns of Sydney D.T. for
gospel, your theory is well enough known, however
Geo. J.M. : Both acceptable F. : There is absolutely
no “ question as to his parentage.” He was the son of
an Anglican clergyman ... J.F. : Comeford was hanged
at Sydney in 1837 for eight murders committed at Port
Phillip. The assassin was only 22 years of age J.O. :
Adelaide was the first city in Australia to adopt municipal
government—in 1840 ; Sydney, 1842; Melbourne, 1842-
hut Melb. was proclaimed a “ town ” and did not become
a “city” till 1847; Hobart, 1858; and Brisbane and
Perth 1859 E.O. : The swift is the largest of the
swallow-family, and has enormous flight-powers. Doesn’t
alight even to feed y'oung ; hovers at nest to do so.
Nests (in Europe) in ruins, church-towers, &o
F.W.M. : Unavailable ... J.J.B. : Couldn’t possibly repro-
duce it, anyhow . Albert Mac. : No, we don’t want your
Little Pediingtonisms . A Dering :No raison d’fitre
C.P.W. : Sorry most of them far two prolix. Also, the
substance of several is well-known and has often been
printed Chapel-Street,: Anyhow, Tod say she hired the
buggy in which the dead body' was conveyed at a Prahran
livery-stable, and returned it late at night; also that he
bought a length of wire clothes line at a Prahran iron-
mongery. The detectives evidently hear of these things for
the first time Jerry B.: If the Oatton Horror has
done nothing else, it has given Australia a lesson in
geography. Nothing: like gore to make the quidnuno
■niff over every inch of a locality J.H.B.D. : Yes, you
are quite right about the Jockey and his whip. But which
par. are you correcting? Can’t find it Trot: But we
try to keep the “ Aboriginalities ” column interesting.
We don’t profess to print every dryasdust note and query
sent in .... B.E. : Those terms of endearment aren't
typical Maloolmson : Then all we can say is that libels
are cheaper in England than in Australia R.H.: No,
Charters Towers isn’t a good place to seek work A
Page (Wei.): Both printable, but may not appear for
sometime Tassy : Have handed “ Magee ’’ to artist—
to see if he can illustrate with advantage .... W.J. : In
N.S.W. the man who has improper relations with a pre-
cocious girl under 14 years is not excused by the fact
that she told him she was over 14. The man has to
take the risk, and very properly so Seems: Let
it go. Too much of a ticklish subject N. : Quite
common. Travelling interminable miles of the richest
land and best provided with railways all over Australia,
one hears it is “ Smith’s country,” “ Brown’s country,"
“ Jones’s country," “ Robinson's country.” L. :
Yes; and how many people know that Queensland
has a town of nearly 30,000 souls north of Brisbane?
Mungi: Thanks Gobung: This paper tries very hard
not to quote from Tit-Bits Bunt: Will print
“Exercise." N.L.U. : Not new H. : But the
finding of gold in Melb. environs is nothing new.
Graham Berry emerged into notice as secretary of the
Collingwood gold-mining co W. G. Selby : Probasco’s
circus was at Horsham, Vic., on 20th January E.A. •
The “ regular ” clergy, no matter what they gammoned,
didn’t really like “Father” Chiniquy anymore than they
liked Edith O’Gorman, the “ escaped nun.” Both took
up too many .successful collections Leoro: “The idea
of any Englishman with any good in him being convicted
of any such offence—assault on a woman—is too ludicrous
to need comment." Query : Was Valentine Baker an
Englishman “with any good in him?" His comrades
continued to believe him the very incarnation of all that
was chivalrous Pyrrhat: Many thanks. .Alma
Mater : Thanks .... C.W. : No space to spare for so trivial
a discussion Camiro: Good situation; handling not
up Walter R.: Misuse of term. Scottish custom
called a man by name of his estate, and “of that ilk”
was used w here the estate itself bore the family-name.
Thus, “Allanbank of that ilk” meant “A. of A."
Amos Keeter: Can’t buzz in Bulletin this turn
Frank K. : “Bush and Town,” musical in spots, but
erratic in metre and hackneyed in idea. “ Drought,"
too long and weary. “ Queer Women,” feeble
J.H.D. (TaB.): Crude work J.A.E. : Too tame
Nil: Good in places, but jerky and discursive Winda :
“Tripang,” may use Evelyn : Cleverly-versed ; but—
for 10,000 th time—Bulletin won’t print any but abso-
lutely brilliant parodies V.H.E. : Factory-made
“legend”—with disconsolate lover, bewitched maiden,
friendly magic-monger, and spell-dissolving charm-
all complete C.J. B. ; Malicious, no doubt
H.N.R. : Getting rather tired of Gat ton theory ... Annie :
Fluent gabble Charles H. : Kindly turn off the moral
poem at the meter ... R.J.M. :No inspiration W.J. :
Goes too undecidedly to get anywhere E.B.W. : Some
pith ; no point P.J. : Most of your reasoning is
knocked out by the facts C.E. : The last word kernels
it The Harp : The tin-can, if you like, or the camp-
kettle, or the cow-bell; but the harp ! good Lord, no !
Louis M. : “Incorrigible” declined H.F.W. : Give
them to the four winds—it’s your only chance of publi-
cation W.D.H. : Lines as a whole unusable; will con-
sider suggestion ... Joan: Lines unattractive... Algaz-
zali: There’s no salvation in political-economy text-books;
you must just wade through and save yourself.. Crux:
Doubtless Labor is a miserable sinner—and you? ...
S.F. : Yes, they’re pretty abject.... A.J.G. : None usable.
C.C. : Possibly “Night” and “Widow”; not “ Pessi-
mist.” R.C. : “Styx” has too many jolts and jars;
others not up. H.G. (Balwyn): No, thanks.
S.F.N. : Yes, he's a Chinaman A.M.M.K. : “ Weaned ”
gag a chestnut; therefore others suspected R.D. :
The Kaiser’s “ one-foot gun ” is merely the Mauser auto-
matic pistol, considered by some experts to be 100 com-
plicated and easily' deranged for military purposes
Yid : Don't know “ whether it's love or not’’—but it cer-
tainly isn’t poetry Joe J. : Good of it all in tail.
Should have to amputate 6cwt. of preliminary to use
M. Muir: Wasted for lack of dramatic power.... Strol. :
Idea good; but verse obviously a pitfall for you
W.A.J. : Same old sailor and star and girl and curl
Blood finch : You don’t mention any' symptoms.. Tim
Bobbin : Laborious fun Nil Desp. : Got it all in first
verse—
“To cut life's thread and blindly go
We know not where—good gracious, nol
It’s grand to live and look about—
Oh, hang it nil, let’s see it out 1 ”
The rest is about as original as your pen-name Maori:
Threadbare theme, convent ionally treated Larks : You
don’t have’em with cs ! Heard that yarn in our guile-
less infancy R.T.S. : The critic’s standpoint n the
reader’s standpoint—as the critic understands it. Of
course, j'ou may deny this ; but then, you see, everybody
can’t have a say in the editing of a paper Scoffer : Don’t
you think that Randolph Bedford sees the humor of
his own ramblings? If you don t, then you don't know
Randolph Bedford £46 : Little use made of your ex-
cellent text. Why not write a paragraph embodying the
facts, which are eloquent enough .... The Broker: Pen-
name too like another contributor’s—“ The Breaker.”
D.O. : Perhaps tunny to hear—dreary to relate.
.... I nderived : Too microscopic ; also too inde-
cent... Sub Rosa: Husband discovered that his wife's
beautiful teeth were artificial. Well, it would have
been stranger nowadays if he found they weren’t.
Frank S. : Silver-trumpet, yarn palaeozoic Auk:
You ro on the idiotic assumption that every “ hard-up”
is a loafer. ? our turn max come to be personally con-
vinced of your error 7: You would play off on' us as
original the hoary old biting sheep gag. Jas. M‘D. (W.A.):
To hand. Yamun : Had that crutch-story before.
Mungi: Pooh! Malm. : Variant of a very old story .....
G.K. : Roberts has not been beaten (on level terms) at
English billiards within the past 10 years. But the Ameri-
can. Frank Ixes, boat Roberts al a s|>eeia]lv-arranged can-
non game, played on an English billiard-table w ith balls
of a particular size Ernest Vers. : A ponderous joke—
or xvhal ? \\ e don't publish conundrums. It. usually
lakes a judge-and-jury io interpret them F.C. : A ride
on I lie tram-dummy has, up to now, been more dangerous
than a trip on a holiday excursion-steamer . K. :Do
you speak from a daily experience of Melb. Cemetery ?
Occasional visitors to the boneyard don’t notice chief-
mourners getting photographed in the act of dropping a
tear on the coffin Mopoke : Very silly practical joke.
Moko : Not quite good enough'... Smithy : The man
who would “ leave the gaol first ” is older than the oldest
gaol in history Back Blox : A hideouslv-clumsy de-
vice. Who would trust one man, or one archangel, with
such chances of manipulating the figures on which vast
sums depend? A.P.B. : Quite unhumorous C.W.S. :
A mere paraphrase of what Dailey said long ago about it
being his experience that the last link of evidence re-
quired to hang a man was always supplied by some
imaginative woman. That was apropos of the Scott mur-
der case Jackson : The cable-tram system is about 600
times more comfortable to the passengers than either
steam or electricity O.P.Q.C. : Plentee dull
Stepan : Total public and private borrowings : N.S.W.,
about £102,000,000, or £79 18s. per inhabitant; Victoria,
about £86,780,000, or £72 12s. per inhabitant I.M.T.
(Murchison) : Never heard that hair-raising lie before
J.W. : And yet a diary of the early Wesleyan Conferences
refers to the nuisance of the teetotallers H. : Nothing
new'. Malthus refers to a wealthy English family named
Bickerstaff. They bred with science. In one case, after
a council, a young Bickerstaff married a milkmaid. The
issue was a notable improvement of family physique


WHEN DOCTORS DISAGREE.
There is a heated controversy just now in Sydney scientific circles as to whether the typical Australian is a herbivorous or a carnivorous animal.
When the matter has been fully threshed out in the daily press, the truth will doubtless be found to lie somewhere between the two above extremes.


EFFECT OF THE WEATHER.
All the members of the Habitual Drun-
* srds Inquiry Board were present at the
remiex s office yesterday afternoon, when
be taking of evidence was resumed. Mr
ox. M.L.A., presided.
/ Mr J A. Panton, Police Magistrate, said
.that he had been in the public aervioe since
llAs* J
Many ap-
plication* m* cases where people drank t<*
excess in private life had been made to him *
for help, but he powerless to do any*
thinu. Drunkenness was with some jgg
people a nervous disease, and alter WM
years of observation he had found i &
that all nervous diseases were af- ’■
footed by barometric conditions. A clear g|H
fine day would be the precursor to a small jgg
.list of "drunks" at his court, bat a heavy
atmosphere invariably affected and in-00
1 creased the Qpjnh® r ot cases
-Tf±S
*9‘-4&W r ' ‘
Covsl&le ■ - /## 7 ' /c ' ~.
& JkMss'oy j/ er
er ** t Sor ° l -* - otpr,
en °ae. tie 60/
y "^
t<L
“L f 1
dk
s33Ss£'rf&
c/oWp.
*
Vwt) YOUNO LADIES WASHED OUT
TO SEA
narrow escape of a well
known SINGER
RESCUED BY A MELBOURNE
JOURNALIST
/ Mr Donalt
>1ocdooAl«J ("Observer' 1 ), uJ 'The Argus.
T f ev VC
-yis'tZKe Abou-rri--
3
% <V> 'V'S
</j7pe -
7?oy*\(* 'Vh/d o?
% /y^d^n?.
< ~* > &y° u - Will //Ve 7 o~See
your'
'rfe Aus/rdfaty.
he n^ e ‘ c '-ei l . t . Oq, &0&.
&&§&&*>*?* i
; i
.aAni u'“'**^4
lllhvll lllii.li iWi. Lk /ds'
r
/pforn? AftQ/sier
fire /s Sery /ttf/ejrour/sfe/
<<?etp/~'rc? ScJpOo] fliers y'
pr/zr7ers 'txA-yZr
&S?ec/Ajly y
Zoxf y'
tylJfkp'
fs
111 y
L 2J e Vsf^
&s&*' Iv
f e "
*l '•#
%-V 7
L
C§f
/s' / 'A/ Y°J a ■
s' %«&**» / /
d^:~—*yjd>lv d/d you //fie Ye Ser/por?
Y or ~*Zi 7 fi Y* S op A/firdi /o't-
aoourr /fie cAofep yeoA/e, £&c/~o&y& &s p<=> s-o
S do?ffi fipow pow w/o's deep fi/cfied 7&d/fie efiev^/p.
%(r'etpe/y&cr' you *re
dr/Wrya °A
ffitfleoujpeSS , ifo
fayd /s do,
do ft~ fard.
MELBOURNIANA.


ANALYSTS,
DOCTORS,
CONNOISSEURS,
RECOMMEND
SYDNEY LAGER BIER
BEFORE
ALL
OTHERS.
It’s the Best Tonic Going.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME JUICE
AND
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonics.
Sole Aeents
for Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL A CO.,
91 Pitt Strkrt.
ACETYLENE <SAS
IS DANGEROUS to the
COAL GAS COMPANIES.
ACETYLENE GAS
IS DANGEROUS to the
ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANIES.
ACETYLENE GAS
IS DANGEROUS to the
OIL TRUSTS.
But it is now well known that
ACETYLENE GAS
is the CHEAPEST, COOLEST,
CLEANEST, SAFEST, and best all-
round Light for the Public.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Write for particu-
lars to the „
Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia Limited,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Patentees of Acetylene Gas and Carbide of
Calcium.
THE PUBLIC ARE WARNED against dealing with
Infringers of our Patents.
Business, Robbery, etc.
N.S. Wales G.P.O. is trying to block the smartiea
who make a saving by sending a long telegram in two
divisions. Thus a 20-word gram to Victoria would cost
2s. Bd. (la. the first 10 words and 2d. every additional),
but by making two separate messages of it it would go
through tor 2s. A clever Sydneyite, who was recently
prevented from doing this at a branch-office, now sends
two halves of the “ wire" from different offices ; ad-
dressee, of course, being posted in the dodge. If foiled
in this, he would probably submit the messages with dif-
ferent signatures.
• • * •
The small shopkeeper’s paper-bag fake is toler-
ably obvious. The bags are made to weigh from ljoz. to
Soz., by which amount the purchaser, therefore, receives
less than he pays for. Thus, in a pound of biscuits at,
say, 4d., there will be SJd. worth of biscuits, and a ha’porth
of bag. This is paying at the rate of fid. a dozen for bags
which don’t oust the tradesman 2d. per dozen.
• • * •
Australian wines get a poor Bhow in Sydney.
For a “ baby ” bottle (reputed half-pint) of wine” of any
well-advertised brand you pay sixpence in the restaurant;
but for a reputed pint of same wine Is. fid. is invariably
extorted. Why ? Also, how ?
• • • •
“ Jack ” : IU “On Various Kinds of Grog,”
the advts. quoted by Bcllstis appear in London Times,
Telbgraph and Standard, or did, a year or so back. Also,
30 years ago similar ads. were to be seen in all leading
London newspapers. Likewise the manufacture on
chemical lines of superior clarets, ports, brandies, &c.,
has been going on for a century in England, HoHand and
Oeruiany. And, of cousse, the industry gets out this
side. Writer knows a man who makes a fat income at
the biz, and, what is more, drinks his own liquors. But
he takes pills—any quantity ; so, maybe, that levels up
the immorality of the thing.
• • • •
Malle: Was in a Sydney tobacconist’s when a
ragged newsboy, about 3ft. high, came in and offered
Evks’ Noosk. Said the shopkeeper : “ The boy I got my
papers from hasn’t been here for four days. You bring
me a last edition every’ night; but mind, you’ve got to
buy a penn’orth of cigarettes from me every week. If I
spend money with other people, I expect them to spend
with me, so you’ll get flvepence a week and a penn’orth
of cigarettes." The Legislature will soon have to tackle
the juvenile smokers’ question on the Canadian basis.
• • * *
A rustic-looking youth is going about Sydney
taking down small tobacconists thus. With a wayback
look and a 3d. cigarette packet containing (say) five
“ fags " in his (right) pocket, he enters a smoke shop and
buys a 3d. packet, which he puts into his right pocket.
Then, as if wanting a smoke, he pulls out the “ readied ”
packet and “discovers” the shortage. The tobacconist,
being in the habit of breaking packets to oblige juveniles
with thrce-a-pcnnv, thinks he has made a mistake, and
hands over another full packet. Then the guileless one
walks off with five smokes to the good.
• * • •
“J.F.D.”: The struggle for a crust. A big
Sydney tobacco-man lately advertised for a coachman,
and of the crowd of whips who turned up the majority
tried to indicate in some way their patronage of the ad-
vertiser’s firm (ciirarette-box sticking out of vest pocket;
cutting pipeful off one of firm's plugs, Ac.). The irony
of it all was that the employer hired a
non-smoker, and gave a bit of gratis ad-
vice to the rest about the evils of too
much cloud-blowing.
• » • •
“ S.S.” : The favorite happy hunt-
ing-pound of & class of Melb. and Sydney
spielers for some time past h«& been cer-
tain Westralian steamboats, and the
brotherhood have made many journeys
East and West, mostly profitable. On
board ship a man will speculate on the
“ little queen,” or the alert, mysterious
pea, who would not think of risking a
copper on land where other dissipations
and distractions are comparatively numer-
ous. On a recent boat from W.A. the
“buttoner "of a party of three was a hard-
faced young man who spent most of the
first 48 hours sprawling round, obtru-
sively reading a large, fat, black Bible.
He looked about as pious as a Port Mel-
bourne plug-ugly; but the fake worked.
The party relied on that venerable de-
vice, the thimble and pea, to take down
the unwise men of the West, and suc-
ceeded wonderfully, the Bible'student de-
veloping a shocking and insatiable appetite
for rash speculation. The man with the
thimble cleaned out the passengers, and
the student cleaned out the man with
the thimble. Hints that stewards have a
finger in the sea-pie of the spielers are
not wanting.
• • • *
A Bulletin correspondent dis-
courses on the don’t-vou-feel-well business:
“ Even the cleverest quacks give away
their game when in boastful mood. One
eminent Melb. nervous-dehility-and-opti-
cal'snecks man often makes merry over
his dupes. ‘When a patient comes in I
first feel him as to previous doc to is, etc.
Then examination and relation of symp-
toms. I>on’t matter what his complaint
is or whether he has any. With a look
•f horror I exclaim “ Good God, man ! how
long have you been like this? I>o you
know what’s the matter with you?” It’s
all the same whether he does or not. I
tell him it’s a very serious and complicated
case and will need a long and expensive
treatment. Then 1 demand P 5 down and
tell him the medicine is 10/6 a bottle—
two bottles a week and a guinea for a con-
sultation every week till you are cured.
My medicines are all made up on well-
known formulas, and my terms are dictated
according to the fright of my patient and
his appearance. The wearing of a gold
watch and chain would raise the first
demand to a tenner.’ This scientist., a
very uneducated mail, came to Australia
in a very menial * capacity. Another
quack—a very successful ‘ palmist’—says
tlxit he does not rare about men cus-
tomers. Women are the best because
their gloves, jewellery, pronunciation
are all good pointers. ‘ And as I do
the clairvoyant trance business I can watch the
effect of my “feelers” without alarming them. A
common dodge with women is for a single woman to wear
a wedding ring and for a married one to put hers in her
pooket, but when I hold their hands during my “trance,”
my first pointer is the mark on the ring finger, which
is easily read ; and a trance utterance commanding a
married woman to put on her ring—“ You cannot deceive
■me. madam ! is as good a start as you could wish for.’ ”
» • • *
A tenant (Mi*. Smith), of a large city house-
agent breaks all shifting-records. Smith’s family con-
sists chiefly of a wife and four villainous olive-branches ;
and the furniture of a boiler, two saucepans, four mat-
tresses, some chairs, a table, and two hair-brushes. The
family lives on old man Smith ; what old man Smith
lives on is hard to tell. Four years ago Smith
came to this house-agent, “rented” one of his slum
houses, paid 2s. deposit, and ever since his rent
has averaged Is. a week irregularly. When the
agent realised the unshiftableness of Smith, and the
fact that his props wouldn’t pay bailiff's charges, he
made terms with him. Smith moves about once a month
into one of the agent’s empty houses, and pays 4s. or so,
which the agent gets as his commission for letting the
house. In four weeks he reports to the landlord that he
has ejected Smith as an undesirable tenant, and Smith
goes into another cottage—same agent, but different
landlord. If Smith hasn’t the 4s. or so, which happens
frequently, he makes it square by banging the house to
pieces a bit—the agent has a relative who does the re-
? >airs. He isn’t always called Smith ; for fear the land-
ords should compare notes, he is put down as Jones and
Bartholomew and Brown and Ferdinand Poniatowski.
When he has been in every one of that agent’s houses,
and the game seems really to be getting played-out, the
agent reckons that he can get MX by selling Smith to an-
other agent who doesn’t know the game yet.
• • • *
The law which provides that the landlord must
have first cut at a debtor’s goods and chattels is made a
source of profit in Tasmania to both landlord and tenant.
The tenant of a shop stocks up on credit and doesn’t pay;
the creditor gets an order and sends along the bailiff ; the
latter finds that the landlord’s claim for rent is so big that
no other creditor has a show of a div., and retires from
the field defeated. Landlord and tenant then whack the
profits of the “ trade.”
• • • •
A Vic. P.M. lately recommended the registra-
tion of dealers in gold, apropos of a case wherein some
boys were found guilty of gold-stfealing. A Chinaman
was their “ fence,” and the bench at once waxed wroth.
Chinese dealers are always willing to buy a few grains at
a time, paying l$d. a grain, or thereabouts, according to
the locality. They buy from needy fossickers, both men
and boys* Doubtless some they buy is got “ on the
cross,” but it is not the Chow who is “ fence ” to the gold-
thief in a large way of dishonesty. Highly respectable
jewellers and the unimpeachable bank are in it. All gold
is honest gold as soon as it gets into the melting-pot—at
any rate, no one can prove it otherwise. The Chow
would probably conduct his operations despite Registra-
tion Acts ; and the jeweller, the country storekeeper, the
pawnbroker, and the hanker are so eminently respectable
that they would get licenses for the asking.
* • * •
The boss of a large Australian business house
opened his festive soul last Xmas eve. He wrote the
names of the employes—twenty-nine of them —on slips of
paper and put them in a hat, also put a corresponding
number of slips in another hat. On one of the latter
slips was written the lonesome word “ Ham.” They were
drawn out of the hats until the ham had been won. The
winner was notified of his luck, and solemnly handshaken
and congratulated by the boss, who said, with a break in
his voice, that they had worked together for many years,
and had always been friends, and that he (the boss)
rejoiced in his good fortune in winning the ham, and
trusted that he would live long to enjoy it. That was all
the Xtnas-box there was in that establishment.
* • • *
It is nearly 25 years since J. Bull “ fell in ” to the
tune of £30,000, or so, over the ingenious Haven mine
swindle. The man who brought off this coup turned up
in London with a few dozen genuine copies of the annual
report of the M.L. Mines Minister, which gave the gold-
returns of all the leading mines at the Thames —then the
star goldfield. Then he got lithographed in London a
gorgeous map grouping all the rich mines mentioned in
AT A SALVATION ARMY ENCAMPMENT.
the official report around a piece of ground which had no
existence in fact, and attached the faked plan to the
State paper in a manner suggesting that it was part and
parcel of same document. It would have deceived the
very devil himself.
J » • * •
Cornelius Job Ham, chairman of Melb. Gas
Co., at the recent half-yearly meeting, urged that Vic.
mean time should be fixed to correspond with that of
Adelaide, instead of Sydney. It was difficult to perceive the
congruity of the suggestion until the old gentleman went
NOT FIT FOR
WALKING
EXERCISE.
MR. GOODENNOUGH (to
the drunk) : “ If I were
like you I'd go right away
and take the pledge."
THE VERY DRUNIK: “ If you was (hie) like me
you (hie) wouldn't."
on to state that the somewhat-recent alteration of mean
time-whereby Melbourne went to bed and got up 20
minutes earlier than formerly—costs the bloated mono-
poly £3OOO per annum. Apparently Ham aforesaid would
like the sun extinguished and the moon abolished by Act
of Parliament in order to increase the profits of his com-
n _
* • • •
~..,, . , ■ ,
Major Quimhy, who, from his long connection
with explosives, ought to know, tells a great story of
kalienite—called after one Callaghan, if you please—in tiv-
manufacture of which eucalyptus leaves are used with
much advantage. It is claimed to be clean, safe, smoke-
less, fumeless, and strong'; it will, the Major says, S> lve
Australians the best explosive on earth, and afford em-
ployment to thousands of skilled and unskilled people;
European armies and navies are to be supplied with the
finest smokeless powder ever made. Hitherto, the Major
has represented the California Powder Co., which had
much to do with the cheapening of dynamite in Australia
though it is much too dear even now. Last year, an
arrangement was made under which the Major s co. was
to “ pull out” of the country, and it seems a very season-
able time for the new power to “ pull in.” Anyhow, the
syndicate running the new explosive should do all it
knows to keep the Major, for there is no man on God s
great earth” that can “let off” on powder like that
warrior.
“ Softgoodsman ”: lb is quite erroneous, dear
Bulletin, that the Sydney wholesalers in our line unani-
mously favor Freetrade. Last year,
to my knowledge, three at least of
the York-street houses made no
profit. Cause not far to seek.
There are dozens of men here,
without either capital or stock,
calling themselves “ indent
merchants.” To these can the
smallest draper go and indent
any of the bread-and-butter
lines for as small an amount
as £5 worth. Most Sydney
drapers do so indent, and
only come to the warehouses
for the fancy lines in which
Fashion is the sole arbiter
of profit or loss. There
is tremendous risk in im-
porting a line of ladies’
hats, which may not
catch on at all; there
is no risk at all
in such lines as
Horrocks’ long-
cloths or lino-
leums, but the
warehousemen
with big estab-
lishments to keep
up cannot com-
pete in these arti-
cles with the kerb-
stone merchants. A
stiff duty would ham-
per this indenting busi-
ness, and throw the
trade done by “ in-
den ters” into the
hands of the ware-
housemen.
Vic. shires are
allowed to permit
farmers to put fences
out several feet
in the road-
way to protect
live fences un-
til they have
properly grown.
When the permit
is granted, it is
not uncommon
for the farmer to
plough up to the
protecting
fence, to
plant an-
other
live
fence
there,
to apply
for a permit
for a fence to
protect it, and—to get it. The
councillors indeed, being farmers them-
selves, are not at all averse to granting one another per-
mits. This will explain the peculiar narrowness of many
three-chain roads in agricultural Victoria.
* » * •
More soldiers, more canned meat wanted.
More “ conquests,” still more soldiers wanted to hold the
new territory, also more canned meat wanted. So
the ’Murkan pork-millionaires have become enthusiastic
“ Imperialists.” And, knowing the importance of yelling
all together, they are forming a “ combine.”
Monsieur Lautier has conceived wnat he
thinks to be a novel plan of punishing those
Frenchwomen who sometimes get into trouble
and then wish to avoid the consequences. The
Chamber of Deputies, only too anxious to aid
in this direction, has received Lautier’s petition
eagerly. His idea is that the State should pro-
videaninstitution wherethe young mothermight
be afforded an opportunity of clandestinely dis-
posing of her offspring, and thus avoid the shame
which usually causes nine-tenths of infanticide.
Quite seriously the petition goes on to say that
“ Instead of condemning these poor unfortu-
nates to travauxforces (hard labor) they should
be condemned to tnfants fords, and despatched
to one of the colonies and there compelled to
produce one, two or three children whether
they like it or not, thus assisting in the work
of colonisation.” The Chamber of Deputies has
taken this suggestion much to heart, and has
forwarded the petition to the Minister of the
Interior, whoever he may be. All this recalls
Gen. Gallieni’s scheme for the taxation of all
bachelors in Madagascar, or of such of the male
population as fail to account for the addition of
three little colonials to the population. France
seems resolved to force fruit to grow upon all
fig-trees, promising or otherwise, that cumber
the ground of her colonies. But think of the
wild humor of sentencing a woman to three
years compulsory infant—or three years hard
infant, whichever you like to call it. Liberty,
Equality, and Maternity !
Ten Years of Mistakes.
“ Experience is nothing but mistakes, and a
memory,” a writer has said. From mistakes man
learns caution. Caution equalises judgment. So
man becomes mature. Mr. Edward I. Jones,
Financial Agent, writing from the N.S.W.
Masonic Club, Pitt-street, Sydney, says : “I am
writing purely out of gratitute, for I have hereto-
fore been very much opposed to patent medicines,
and it was only after a great amount of persuasion
that I was induced to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I
had been suffering for the last ten years from a
variety of complaints, including insomnia. I did
not get any permanent relief until I tried War-
ner’s Safe Cure. In all I have taken about seven
bottles, and I am happy to say I am now com-
pletely cured.”


£2OOO PURCHASE OF
Bile Beans for Biliousness.
A Mammoth Order from New Zealand.
Maoriland Tribute to the World’s GREATEST REMEDY.
FACSIMILE ORDER
FROM
MCSSRS. KEMPTNORNE, PROSSER & CO.,
ILLUSTRATING THAT
The Fame of Bile Beans in Australasia
IS NOT CONFINED TO N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND
asaas® <3®sa®&Kra >
LIMITED
©OTHIDSSS.
<S £UM Sir ©2ME©®.
CABLE ADDRESS “CREMATION*
TELEPHONE: WAREHOUSE s*. WORKS. 133 i
14th Nov.
'Q.
The Bile Bean Manufacturing Company,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
In response to your letter re Sole Agency and Depot for
Bile Beans in New Zealand, we will take to the extent of £2,000
worth as a first order to handle and control the business.
Yours truly,
/Ui-MPTi IORNE. PROSSER 3 CO.’S
N&&Z EALAND DRUG COMPANY, LIMITED
///I'
4 Mawaguio Oiiisctor.
PROOF RIGHT IN SYDNEY
—THAT —
BY BILE BEANS’ TJSE MIRACLES ARE PERFORMED.
OLD THEORIES ARE EXPLODED.
AILMENTS LONG CONSIDERED HEREDITARY ARE POSITIVELY CURED.
A CASE OF SUMMER AILMENTS, WITH ATTENDANT SYMPTOMS,
BEING OUSTED.
An illustration from a Sydney resident of what a low-priced preparation is capable of doing when
the ingredients are right. Mr. Frederick Marks, of Park-road, Moore Park, Sydney, interviewed
regarding his cure by Bile Beans, when the reporter called on him turned from his desk and greeted
the reporter with a smile. “So
cure by Bile Beans? Well,
severely from attacks of bilious-
have not the slightest doubt
were caused indirectly by the
we find so trying in Sydney
My constitution has never been
there is no other way of ac-
time went on and the weather
sailed me regularly; in fact,
unable to attend to my busi-
ness being so bad that I could
pondence, writing and type
jumble before my eyes. Then,
night after night 1 would toss
so’s sleep at a time. In the
have a bad taste in my mouth
able, and there was seldom-a
with a more or less severe head-
exceedingly unsatisfactory ;
|ILE
m\ s
lUOUSNESS
you want to know about my
some time since I suffered
ness and sick headaches. I
that these periodical sufferings
warm, moist weather, which
during the summer months,
one to be easily affected, but
counting for these attacks. As
grew hotter, the biliousness as-
every three days found me
ness, the headaches and dizzi-
not read my papers and corres-
alike dancing in a confused
too, my rest was disturbed ;
about, getting only an hour or
morning when I got up I would
that was extremely disagree-
morning that I did not awake
ache. My appetite also was
sometimes I took no food at
all, but drank a great deal of water, which I am now convinced did me more harm than good.”
“ Anything else? ” “ Well, no ; except that, of course, my system ran down, and I became list-
less and suffered from ‘that tired feeling’ we hear so much about. I tried several patent medicines
and seidlitz powders, also a lot of household remedies, such as lemon-juioe, bub none of them did me
any good at all. Then a friend recommended Bile Beans, and I tried thfun, and with the most grati-
fying results. They picked me up wonderfully. The headaches, biliousness, loss of appetite, and
insomnia all completely disappeared in a short time, and now I never feel the slightest trace of any
of them. Bile Beans have completely cured me, and I’m glad to let the facts be known. I especially
recommend this remedy for biliousness, as I know positively that it cured me after a great many other
medicines had failed. You can make what you like out of this. I think you’ve got all the facts now."
4.
DEBILITY.
SOME HINTS FOR SUMMER WEATHER.
HOW TO KEEP HEALTHY.
General Debility is a state which is generally caused by a combination of nervous exhaustion, indi-
gestion, deranged liver, and constipation. It is brought about by the system becoming run down.
The functions of the body are irregular and weak, the waste matter is not carried off properly, the
blood becomes poor, and sallow. The whole system, in cases like this, needs “ toning
up.” The diet must be regulated, and a remedy must be taken that will put the digestive organs in
thorough working order. For this work, Bile Beans for Biliousness are the very best specific, as they
act in a gentle manner, and are so compounded that they repair the waste of the nervous system, and
make, pure, rich blood. Bile Beans on every hand are effecting cures for debilitv and all summer
ailments, such as loss of tone, lack of physical force, &e., &c. Sold at a low price, they come within
the reach of all; and that the great mass of Australians appreciate this fact is illustrated by the fact
that last year over 20 million doses were taken in Australia alone.
-V
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specifio for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation,
Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness,
all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and side, Fullnes after
eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn, and That Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and Storekeepers generally, or direct from the AUS-'
TRALIAN DEPOT OF THE BILE BEANS MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 39 Pitt-street.
Sydney. Victorian Branch : Flinders-street, Melbourne. S.A. Branch : King William-street, Ade-
laide. W. A. Branch: Murray-street, Perth. Queensland Branch: Charlotte-street, Brisbane. New
Zealand Branches —Dunedin and Auckland.
For “ That Tired Feeling* ” Take Bile Beans.


A Good
Innings.
KIGHT
The Crack Eleven.
TO A TEA.
This is how Popular Opinion places our TEAS, &c. &c. :
BlLLY—Captain.
WHITE HEATHER—Long-
on.
GOLDEN I A—Point.
RANEE—Cover-point.
LOTA—Wickets; stops long
in favour.
JUMPER —All over the
field !
DONOOLA—Square-leg.
API OM—Best bat. Yes,
sir ! Ask for it.
COOEK CEYLON—Scorer ;
anrl a good ’un, too.
GRANUMA—Best bowler.
Porridge Bowl ! See?
ZENANA —Mid-on, and A 1
at that!
JAMES INGrI*IS & CO.,
So*. AORSTS— WHOLESALE Only,
Salvitis Remedies, Electric Cleanser Soap, Qranutna,
Oommendador Port, Podah and Hoinah.
THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA ! !
Wines, Spirits, Spices, Meals, Baking Powders, Ac.
DEAN’S PLACE, SYDNEY : and »t> Brisbane.
• •
Kupper** Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture <& Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
fST" Sales Held at the A uction Itoonis.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Buadley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
(i The Queensland Ministry is going in for
an extensive building programme,” and elegant
atone court-houses, lock-ups, gaols, post-offices,
«c., are to be built, with borrowed money, all over
the province—with a judicious eye to the approach-
ing general election.
Premier Dickson, when Minister for Rail-
ways, was fined in Brisbane police-court 10s. and
£1 Bs. 2d. costs for employing a Kanaka contrary
to law. It speaks volumes as to the character of
the man, now apeing popular leadership, that on
that occasion he pleaded Parliamentary privilege.
The local R.C. Archbishop has announced
that, so far as the Catholics are concerned, the
coming S.A. elections are to be fought out on the
Capitation-Grant question. He asks for £4 for
•very child taught in a R.C. school who passes the
present compulsory standard. There is no yellow
aog in S. A., but this injudicious demand is round-
ing up all the heathen into one antagonistic camp.
It has come within the sphere of the
practical to speculate who shall play the nursing
Part towards the Commonwealth Bill which Deas-
Thomson and Wentworth played towards the
Constitution Bill forty-five years ago. Thomson
and Wentworth carried the Bill to England and
Btayed there till they saw it safely through the
Imperial Parliament. Who will stand on Barton’s
left?
That English press-suggestion to call the
Australian Federal capital “Britannia” doesn’t
go far enough. Why not call it “ Jaybool ” right
out, and style Sydney “ London,” and the Parra-
matta River the “ Thames.” The Bulletin
doesn't advocate such a choice, but it strongly
suspects that, “when the numbers go up,” the
name of the Federal metropolis will be plain
“Parkes.”
Common sense from Justice Chubb on Q.
Electoral Act: - “ lam of opinion tint if a man
camps under a gum-tree for s>x months in one
electorate, or in a tent or hut in the one electorate,
it is sufficient residence, the intention of the Act
being that if a man resides six .months in any
electorate it does not matter how often he changes
about in it during that six months, he is entitled
to be on the roll ” Truly—times have altered in
Bananaland.
S.A. Labor-party is in fear and trembling
le*t Federation be the big question at the approach-
ing Assembly elections. The Labor Ms.P. op-
posed it to a man at the referendum last year, but
now that individual seats depend upon the atti-
tude, the position is entirely different. S.A.
electors have a firm idea that Federation will pay
that province, and the candidate who opposes it
stands a big chance of defeat. And so Labor
Ms.P. ponder.
In the old lag days of N.S. W., every captain
leaving |>ort had to hand in to the police* 24 hours
before sailing, a complete list of his crew and pas-
sengers, so that the escaping convict could be
recovered and enthusiastically flogged. The law
still exists ; when the Shipping Acts were consoli-
dated last session no one had sense enough to
take it out, and it was solemnly re-enacted. It is
an impossible law nowadays, for often a vessel
doesn’t stay in port 24 hours altogether—yet the
penalty for non-oompliance is £5O.
John Forrest was a much quieter man this
Federal Convention than last. Last time Wes-
tralia was still staggering on the pinnacle of the
boom. Its customs revenue averaged £7 per head
annually against £2 in the other provinces, and
John was great on the injustice of asking his
great, rich province to join the others on even
terms. Within the last year all the other pro-
vinces have improved while W. A. is the falling
Hooley of Australasia, so Premier Forrest wasn’t
quite the same loud Bigjohn this time.
The S.A. Labor-party is running a can-
didate against Works-Minister Jenkins at Sturt;
more, it is giving its nominee a free hand on the
subject of the Capitation-Grant in the hope of pick-
ing up valuable R.C. support. The Conservatives
are hoping that the Laborists will also run a man
against Kingston at W. Adelaide as it is believed
such a course would help to drive the Premier,
admittedly the strongest man in local politics, a
gfK>d way towards the Tories. Each of the dis-
tricts named already returns one Laborist.
The Australian Star threw in its lot
with the Federationists last Monday, and as
S.M. Herald and Evening News were always
on that side, the Telegraph is left as the only
wobbler and the only hope of the Little Cornstalk
party. At time of writing that paper hadn’t com-
mitted itself in its leader columns, but it has been
tentatively pulling the public leg in casual sneers
among the news - matter to see if the leg
in question will come off or not. Knox and
Tom Slattery have also appeared as the lone
precursors of the crowd with the small
parish intellect; and Slattery in particular groans
about Victoria having got the best of the case—as
if it had been a question of prigging a handker-
chief at the Water Police Court. And the Man
Fridays of one or two men who haven’t spoken
out personally are beginning to send along para-
graphs which The Bulletin doesn’t print, and
which paragraphs show how the wind may blow
by-and-by if it doesn’t pay the wind better to
blow in the other direction. But things are rather
quiet as yet. Jack Want, now placidly fishing
for tittlebats in the Red Sea, is greatly missed.
How does Central Queensland’s claim for
separation from Brisbane look as compared with
Brisbane s old-time claim for separation from
oydney? Old Moreton Bay demanded severance
from N.S.W. mainly on figures of population and
revenue, and because it was big enough and old
to start for itself. Moreton Bay had then
a P°P ldat ' on ; Central Queensland has
now 160,000 ; Moreton Bay’s annual exports then
amounted to £523,000, the Central district’s now
are £2,240,000. And soon. Either, therefore, on
figures, Moreton Bay had no claim for separation
40 years ago or Central Queensland has a better
claim now.
I’he Vic. Premier sticks to his intention of
not moving re the new Federal Bill till it has been
formally and definitely accepted in N.S.W. He
v 8 *vr ! n an d the other Iscariots of the
Yes-No Ministry, and still regards it as possible
that they will permit the insertion of another im-
possible minimum, or demand more concessions,
or ,the unreformed Council to reject the
whole thing. If N.S.W. accepts, Turner promises
to push the matter through with all possible speed,
but if it doesn’t he will save his good red money
? nd have no referendum. The other Premiers
bold the same view—all save Kingston, who pro-
poses to save time and cash and stationery by
combining the Federal Referendum with the
general election.
Wales Ms.P. still plot to have their
letters on public business” franked, and as
Premier Reid is of opinion that the privilege may
be legally conceded by Executive minute alone,
franking may begin any day. It seems that
letters of Vio. members, if sent to the Parliamen-
tary Library, are stamped at public expense. S.A.
follows a similar practice. Tasmanian member's
are allowed to frank without supervision ; they are
even permitted during the session to frank their
private correspondence. Queensland permits no
postal exemptions. Maoriland allows Ministers
to frank letters of members when assured that the
correspondence _ is on public business. But the
practice lends itself so readily to abuse that the
arguments for extending it to N.S.W. are weaker
than are those for abolishing it where it now
obtains.
A meeting got together the other day at
far-out Milparinka (N.S.W.) for the purpose of
specifically calling the local member, Sleath,
M.L. A., a clumsy and bellowing Ananias. Sleath
recently declared in Parliament that the local gold-
warden and P.M. was 96 years old, that he could
neither see nor hear, that he wouldn’t go down a
mine if he was offered £lOOO and the Premiership,
that he had never given a decision which wasn’t
upset on appeal, that he had one foot in the grave
and the other in the public-house, that the Public
Service Board appointed him and also raised his
salary, and that Milparinka was 250 miles from
Wilcannia. And the meeting replied that its
P.M. was 76, went down mines constantly, could
see and hear well, was in good health, didn’t
drink, that not one of his decisions had ever been
upset on appeal, that he wasn’t appointed by the
P.S. Board, that the Board didn’t raise his salary,
but reduced it, and that Wilcannia was only 169
miles from Milparinka. And it oalled on the
leather-lunged Bore of N.S.W. Assembly to come
out of that famous wine shop in Park-street, Syd-
ney, and apologise.
TO BE CONTINUED .
HIS BETTER HALF: “Now, you promised me this morning never to get
drunk attain.”
EDITOR OF THE DRYBURG NEWS: “ Hie—but - this - same-dr-unk,
m’-dear — hic-sec-ond-edition—hie !”
Just seven months ago Barton was howled
at as a traitor to N.S.W. and a hireling of the
other provinces because he talked of a compromise
on the Federal question. In these days the only
all-wool patriot was the one who proposed to ex-
plain that N.S.W. wanted certain things and was
going to have all of them immediately. What a
fall it all is now ! The rivers question, and the
judicial appeal question, and the money bills
matter, and the financial settlement, and the
Braddon Blot all remain as they were, and Premier
Reid pledges himself, as a genuine and consistent
Blotter, to fight in defence of every one of them to
the very last. Even with his record as boss
chameleon of Australia the spectacle of Reid
perishing in the last ditch before a hair of the Blot
shall be'injured looks a little unusual.
AGGRAVATING.
GNARRY: “ Coojer do a wet, Coppertop? ”
CONSTABLE COPPERTOP: “ Could I wot? I tells
yer I'll run yer in, if yer don’t stop aggra-
vatin’ me.”
Alleged that one Bear, of Thursday Island,
is being run against Hamilton for Cook (Q.) elec-
torate by the Thursday Island pearling-boat-
owners and the Japs. Hamilton supported the
Bill to prevent Japs, from owning or renting boats,
a restriction which, while naturally disliked by
the little brown men, is also disfavored by the
boat-owners, because they cannot depend upon the
wages-Jap. to bring back all the shell taken. It
will be a new development of the alien difficulty if
the Japs, practically elect the next member for
Cook.
Announced for the several-billionth time
and a fraction that the Maoriland Opposition
“ intends to make a determined effort to overthrow
the Government at next elections.” The Opposi-
tion Samson has been making that same deter-
mined effort ever since ’9o—and this is ’99. Sed-
don goes to the country with a treni ndous handi-
cap this time, for the country grows a trifle weary
of any Ministry when it has lasted out three com-
plete Parliaments. But The Bulletin stakes its
dollars on the Seddon Cabinet for next election
all the same.
In Freetrade Eng-
land just now some kind
of an effort is in progress
to raise the age at which
children may start work
in factories to 12 years—
at present they are al-
lowed to start at eleven.
Out of 1,084,000 persons
occupied in the British
cotton and woollen fac-
tories, over 80,000 are
children between 11 and
13, about 180,000 are boys
and girls between 13 and
18 ; and the females of
all ages number 656,000,
or more than three-fifths
of the whole. In Vic-
toria (which has the larg-
est proportion of female
workers in Australasia)
one-fourth of the factory
operatives are females,
all over 13, and the shoddy
press always calls this
“one of the manifest evil
results of Protection.”
After all, Queens-
land Premier Dickson is
not an utter fool. The
late Premier Byrnes
processed through the
remoter parts of the
country in a limelight
flare of promises and
rosy pro g n osticacions.
His successor tours the
North in the pose of a
painfully non-committal
politician, whose modest
reserve seems to subtly
suggest that all the for-
mer heads of the Con-
tinuous Ministry have
been reckless blowhards
and unreliable windbags.
“ Of course, I can’t pro-
mise,” or, “I never make
a promise I cannot keep,”
are the qualifications to
every speech of his, and
people hear and say, “Lo
and behold ! here we
have the conscientious
statesman at last ! ”
Already Goulburn, Junee, Cooma, B.om-
bala, Delegate, Bathurst, Forbes, Albury, Armi-
dale, and other prospective Federal capitals begin
to wake up again. The agreement that the capital
is not to be within 100 miles of Sydney shuts out
Moss Yale, Katoomba, Mount Victoria, and other
applicants, but all the rest are left in. N.S.W.
will want the capital just as close to the 100-mile
line as can be arranged. Queensland will want it
north—as far north as possible— from Sydney ;
Victoria and S.A. will want it south or south-
west. But what the Conference quite forgot to
specify was that the capital should be not less than
2000 ft. above sea-level—2sooft. for preference—
so that the Federal Government won't be an aim-
less, collapsed, floppy wreck like some of the pro-
vincial Legislatures down in the lowlands.
Queensland Govt, brags about having
thrown open one million acres to selection within
the last two years, and it is certainly able to show
that it has sold somewhere about that area of land.
But it transpires that the whole area has been cut
up into sixty selections, and that 40 out of these
60 comprise close on 20,000 a. each. There isn’t
one “ selection ” among the lot small enough to
be within the reach of the common variety of
selector. A million acres have certainly been
thrown open to the big squatting freeholders, and
the speculators and banks—but that isn’t exactly
the same thing.
Postmaster-General Parkes (N.S.W.) in-
tends to open the post and telegraph offices on Sun-
day. How does Holy Brunker manage to stay in the
same Ministry with this reprobate ? But for that
matter, now that ho allows the banana-shops and
tobacconists and soft-drink places to be open on
Sunday, and half the Sydney pubs, are doing
business that day, and Manly is a howling scene
of drunk on the I-)ay of K,e*t, how does Brunker
manage to stay in the Ministry along with himself
nowadays ? The spectacle of any sainted auc-
tioneer winking at his own conscience for the sake
or office is sad to look upon ?
Onlooker ” : The Yankee correspondent
• U dne y da 'ly» speaking of the recent war
with Spain, remarked, the other day, that “ the
American eagle had fought tooth and nail for the
oppressed Cubans ! ” The tooth of the eagle !
Also, that bird bashed his hat firmly down over
his ear and waded in with all four hoofs.
N.S. W. Animals’ Protection Society should
thoroughly sift the story that some cattle in transit
from lenterfield to Sydney are kept 2i days in
the trucks without food or water. What the lack
of the latter means, for such a time and in such
equatorial weather, the people responsible should
be given an opportunity of personally experi-
encing.
There’s a charming flavor about the request
of a lawyer in a Sydney court, t’other day, that
the bench would deal leniently with a defendant,
as it was the first time the latter “had been
found ” evading the law.
The dust-storms have howled with unusual
malignity this summer in S.A. Lately, it was
reported that the town of Virginia was blocked by
sand-drifts at both ends, the invading desert being
3ft. deep on the main road and still accumulating.
Some houses even had to be abandoned, because
the sand poured in at all crevices. There were
obviously two things to be done : Either the in-
habitants could turn out en masse and shovel away
the sand, so as to keep their town from being cut
off and possibly obliterated by the sand-heaps or
they could moan to Govt, to do it for them. They
moaned, of course—they always do in Australia—
and Govt, spent .£25 on the job, and, when it was
finished, the drifts rolled in again. But the in-
habitants even then didn’t get a shovel apiece and
rush at the job. They were left moaning.
J.F.D. on certain Sydney ’bus matters
“T.D.”(B. 7/1/99) states that when riding on the railing
of a'bus he was (on the driver receiving a signal that a
transit officer was about) ignoininiously packed inside
because the driver “ being a pore man couldn't afford to
be fined 16 bob.” Then he spreads himself about the
absurdity of having uniformed officials to catch 'busmen
tripping. But the 'busdriver is often so busily occupied
in driving in a crowded street that he does not perceive
persons of the “ T.D.” stamp who will persist in jumping
on a ’bus already carrying its full complement, and thus
not only making t he driver liable to fine but inconvenienc-
ing those already seated. If private-clothes officers are
wanted, it is to deal with every hoodlum who hoards a
full ’bus, treads on other people’s toes perches on the rail
and calmly blows cigarette-smoke in the face of the seat
occupants. Then poor hussy would not have to endanger
people's lives by franl ically endeavoring to get aforesaid
hoodlum “ off ” or inside as soon as an M.T.C. heaves in
sight.
A Hinglish paper cells the usual little
story of how a certain lord was walking along a
country road towards the house of the local squire
when a poor, ignorant baker, mistaking him for
an ordinary mortal, offered to give him a seat
among the crusty loaves, which his lordship
graciously accepted. The lord in this pirticular
case is Brassey, and the baker is said to have mis-
taken him for a valet, but the average valet is so
much younger and tonier than Brassey that Thk
Bulletin was already regarding the story with
grave suspicion, when it went on to state that the
vice-regal personage gave the baker a shilling.
At this point The Bulletin’s credulity utterly
collapsed. Besides, Brassey would have fallen off
the cart. That eminent statesman falls off every-
thing, and the man who doesn't fall off isn’t
Brassey, however violently he may pretend to be.
The house-shifting industry in Melb. has
increased hugely of late, and nowadays it’s quite
common for an unoccupied dwelling to be dis-
mantled in a few hours, everything of any value
being removed. But last week some enterprising
individuals began operations on an inhabited
dwelling. In the course of the evening the family
heard noises on the roof, which they put down to
the pleasantrios of the local toms and tabbies. It
was only in the morning, after the rain had been
pouring through the roof all night, that a damp
and dilapidated family discovered that the noise
aforesaid had been caused by thieves removing all
the lead from the roof-gutters. This was in Carl-
ton, of course. By-and-by some respectable
citizen will go to town in the morning leaving
behind his wife and family and the house and the
family dog, and during his absence his wife will
become a missing woman and his children get. lost,
and when he returns at night he will be staggered
to find his house Vanished and only the family dog
howling lonely in the midst of a vacant allotment.
But notice how the Carlton J.’sP. will flatten out
these destroyers of property—if they get them.
“I throw up this brief! ” cried the counsel;
“My client is hardened in crime,
For I find, to my just indignation,
The fellow’s been caught every time.
“ But here is a case for y r our mercy—
I pray you, forgive and forget;
For, save on this luckless occasion,
Defendant was never caught yet! ”


Twenty-Sixth Report
OF
The Royal Rank of Queensland [limited,
PRESENTED AT THE
Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders,
HELD
0n THURSDAY, 19th. JAKTUA-RY, 1888.
ReDo T^w^sT a B f^l^*r re A in the Shareholders the Twenty-sixth Half-yearly
Keport, with a Statement of the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank, and the Auditors’ Report.
* or Half-year, after deducting Rebate on
BiUs Interest on Deposits, providing for Bad Debts, pay-
ment of all charges, and reducing valuation of Bank Furni-
tore and 1 ittinps, amounted to
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from last
nail-year ....
Giving an available balance of
Wh T h tv r « cn mmend should be distributed as follows:
lo Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 21 per cent, per
„ Dividend duty on above
„ Reserve Fund "
„ Balance carried forward to next Half-year..." "S.
£ a. d.
7,578 11 8
1,069 16 3
4,833 2
241 13
2,000 0
1,573 12
£ «. d.
8,648 7 8
8,648 7 8
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND, LTD.,
Half-Y ear Ended 31st December, 1898.
LIABILITIES.
Capita] called up, £386,650 * & 8 ’
Balance of Call
outstanding 366
D , 386,284 0 0
Reserve Fund. 30,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 8,648 7 8
Bills Payable 31,879 19 g
Lianility to Treasury for
Notes held in reserve . 33,500 0 0
Deposits and other Liahili-
ties • 776,003 17 10
Outstanding Drafts on Agents and Lia-
bilities on Remittances as per contra
M s. d.
433,932 7 8
841,473 17 4
68,981 7 0
£1,844,387 12 0
ASSETS.
M a. d.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers 165,914 12 1
B,llllon 52,581 5 10
Treasury Notes on hand ... 41,876 0 0
Government Securities ... 39,105 7 2
Other Bank Notes on hand 37 o O'
„ , _ „ 299,514 6 1
Hank Premises, Furniture, &c. ... 61 480 5 0
Bills discounted and all other Debts due
T . &‘t» e 914,411 14 11
.Liabilities of Customers and Agents, for
Drafts and British Bills current, as per
contra ... 68,981 7 0
£1,344,387 12 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 31st DECEMBER,
1898.
£ e. d.
£ s. d.
To Salaries, Rent, and other
Expenses at Head Office
and 16 Branches 8,644 6 8
■> Interest paid and accrued
on Fixed Deposits, Rebate
and Exchange Paid .. 9,620 13 3
~ Balance ... _
l '
18,064 18 11
8,648 7 8
£26,713 6 7
By Balance brought forward..
Gross Profit for the Half-year
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
> .
t ::
£ s. d.
41,000 0 0
£41,000 0 0
By Balance invested in Government Securi- ' ’
* ies 39,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 2,000 0 0
£41,000 0 0
Audited and found correct. P-I-A.Q.,
GfcO. FIiED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.I.A.Q
Brisbane, 7th January, 1899.
Auditors.
P. L. CAKDEYV, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
'TKt
\)S
800
jy
rice
V-
fotlfneVl
]Oil>JU2 4 P>, I*. lUt o»Wllitd Jl2<!k m »
IMPORTANT.^*
No 43 NOW READY No- 43
NEW ISSUE of the
Australia!} tyOSic Books,
Containing FORTY-TWO JUBILEE SONGS,
SECULAR AND SACRED,
WITH FULL WORDS AND MUSIC.
CONTENTS as FOLLOW.— Daffney, Do You Love Me ? Did Not Old
n,| l ßv a o a « h Get T° 8t? / °'f' ine t 0 Run All Nitrht - orthe Camp town Races;
i" (* n(l * on X) ; Gideon’s Band; Gone Where De Good
Good "o 6 nl Ci ’■ 9,° o 0 " - ! 1 ’ Moses > Wh en Israel was in Egypt’s Land,
Good News .the Chariots Coming:; Ham !He War De Boss ; Arose •In
No More • Uii b H the L ' K>lt ( the fr ' l,r)us end sony) ; I Ain’t Goiny to Die
World • T H ®ar the Trumpet Sound; I’m a Rolliny thro’an Unfriendly
Wnli d iA \ the , RlV , er °I John Baptised; I Want to he Ready -To
Chariot; Steal Away to Jesus; The' Belle of Tennessee*-’ The I ,mi» niloS ? ot . her ,, Me I ' Swin «T Low, Sweet
Prioe, la. ; or Mailed to Any Part of the World for Is. 2d.
For Sale by Every Music Dealer throughout Australia and New Zealand, or Direct from the Publish.™
Bilan and Co. proprietary [imited,
284, 286, 290, 292 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
h *
V.
%
50 Years’
Success!
T \
Highest
of Perfection.
Artistic Tone Quality
Great Durability
Careful Selection of Material
Experienced Workmanship in Construction
HAS PLACED
PALING'S
PIANOS and
ORGANS
Far iQ Atkaoce
Of All
Competition.
EASY
TIME
PAYMENT
SPECIALLY LOW PRICES
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Catalogues Free ok Application
Sole
Agents for the"
World-renowned
-PIANOS-
STEINWAY
BRINSMEAD
LIPF
FEURICH
UEBEL
“ VICTOR”
BELLING
&c., &c.
ESTEy • •
• • ORGANS
H PALIN<j.*,l«
338 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
Aq Ideal Tyre
is that which will
carry the rider
m
m
m
over the roughest roads for 12 months
without causing any misapprehension as to
whether the tyres will stand or cause any
trouble.
Such perfection can always be obtained by
all cyclists if they will only demand
m
Duniqp Tyres
»
when purchasing their machine or when re-
placing their old tyres. These popular tyres
are now made specially by us to suit the Aus-
tralian roads so that we have no hesitation in
guaranteeing all our roadster tyres for 12
months.
None genuine without this
Trade Mark.
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
up
Tb? Pftpiop Ppgfriypatic Tyre Co. Ltd.
486 KENT STRI ?ET, SYDNEY;
And afe Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
The prospectus of the Ovens and Buck-
land Alluvial G.M. Co. (Vic.) appears in this
issue. The property comprises over 200 acres and
represents J 61200 of expenditure up to date, and
the results of said expenditure have been highly
encouraging. For the rest—well, everybody seems
to want to have shares in alluvial mines just at
present.*
The conference of Premiers has smoothed
outmost of the difficulties that beset the great
political question, and there is nothing to prevent
young Australia from ordering a new Federation
suit from the London and American Supply
Stores, Bouike-street, Melbourne. Boots, Hats,
Shirts, Ties, Unde ■rwear and Haberdashery of
every kind may be ordered at same time. Prices
moderate. Satisfaction immoderate. Write for
catalogue.*
Telltale sentence from the N. Territory
account of the murder by blacks of Moore and
MacKenzie, the buffalo-hunters :—“ Moore (head
of the party) was a curious character. . . . Wher-
ever he went he had a quantity of blacks attending
him.” Moore was a well-educated man, daring
and reckless, a son of Dr. Moore, of Melbourne.
But the murder seems to have been just simply
butchery, inspired by desire for loot and the
belief that the third member of the party, Tuck,
had been killed further out.
According to a legend of the Prussian
royal family, there will oorae a period when three
Hohenzollerns will reign in a single year ; also the
third of them will have seven sons and will ruin
his family and his empire. Three Hohenzollerns
(William 1., Frederick, and the present William
the Sudden) all reigned in one year (1888). Also,
William the Sudden has six sons already, and
may have a seventh, and he looks eminently fitted
to wreck something.
Sydney D.T. lately declared that Bun
Tuck Seddon didn’t exclude the Austrians from
Maoriland because ho had any fear that they
would become a burden on the State, but because
they were intended to deprive the present gum-
diggers of their “monopoly of a lucrative em-
ployment.” And the Tki.kgraph might have
added “therebyrenderingthe presentgum-diggers,
or some of them, a burden on the State,” and the
State very properly objected to its own people
being pauperised by cheap aliens. But gum-
digging a lucracive employment! !! The sublime
donkeyness of it! Had Dante known of those
dreary mud and scrub flats where Maoriland’s
miscellaneous failures, and hard cases, and people
with no mozzle worth speaking of, toil unceasingly
to find sufficient gum to give the storekeeper
enougli on account to keep credit going, he would
probably have made his worst sinners kauri gum-
diggers.


Hotel Australia
t •
Rates from 12/6 per day, inclusive
of all meals and attendance.
If you are a stranger in
Sydney, do not waste time
considering where you will
go. Drive straight to “The
Australia.” There is only
one Hotel Australia in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Ladies with families will
obtain every comfort at
The Australia at a very
reasonable cost.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
The Boulli Tin’s advice to its readers—
don’t go to a draper’s shop to look for iron-
mongery, and don’t go to the ironmonger’s store
to order your clothing; but go direct to McLean
Bros, and Rigg Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney, for
cutlery, electro-plate, tools, guns, cartridges—in
£act, every line in hardware.*
“ When Luxury flaunts before the People
they don’t want Work. They want It.” — French.
Prevention of Seasickness. —The extra-
ordinary nature of the now remedy is the subject
of a letter from Mr. G. Cunningham, of Auckland
(N.Z.). He writes :“ I was very pleased with the
result of the ‘ Seajoi ’ I purchased from you.
I have done a lot of travelling, but this trip
is the first I have enjoyed; on all former occa-
sions I have been a martyr to seasickness.”
“Seajoi ” is sold by Albert Sharp, 257 George-st.,
nearly opposite Bridge-st., Sydney.*
Sorell (Tas.) undertaker’s account of 80
years ago:—
Mr. Jas. Lord, Dr.
To W. Nichols,
For the funeral of late Anthony Lowe, deceased.
.The coffin, etc.
6J yards of Cossa for the shroud
Paid for making the shroud...
' Paid for tolling the bell
Paid Sexton for making the grave
9 quarts of spirits attending the
before the funeral
2 gallons wine at the funeral
Spirits at the funeral
Biscuits, tea, etc. ...
Attendance
corpse
0 0
4 10
3 4
3 10
110
10 0
10 0
2 0 0
10 .6-
7 &
£2l 13 6
Sorell —almost the eldest settlement in Tas. next
to Hobart—still lives up to these traditions. Last
year its charge-sheets showed a greater propor-
tionate number of drunks than those of any other
Tas. municipality.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR-
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
THE BEST DRINK IN THE HOME.
IT IS THE RATIONAL DRINK.
IT IS THE DRINK <!
THAT
STIMULATES,
STRENGTHENS,
REFRESHES,
VITALISES.
Prices and particulars from the
N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.,
Moore Park, Sydney.
IT IS SYDNEY LAGER BIER.
igents in Tovm and Country.
USE TIKE IE
New Sunlight
SunllgHt in Your Homes.
Incandescent Burner.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Earner
Complete, Os. Od.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
One of the most excitable Australian metalli-
eiaua is—well, call him Aaronhofenberger—whose big hat
is os well-known as Zox'a white vest. HU peculiar
characteristic U to take hU beatings howling, and baokers
exist who swear that they have seen him absolutely weep
salt tears on a favorite getting home. At the time of the
big bank smash he was a viotim, and when be heard that
his bank had suspended he rolled off the sofa he was
sitting upon and fell upon the club floor with a wild
shriek. He is also afflicted with terrible anguUh when-
ever he is struck for a double, and the occasion when a
man battled hard and succeeded in inducing him to lay a
big price about two outsiders who eventually got home,
makes him miserable to recall even unto the present day.
Regarding the races as a foregone conclusion for the
favorites, he laid an extravagant double and afterwards
failed in his attempt to get a bit of it off. Consequently
he had to stand by and see the nags come in, and so
chagrined was he at the action of the backer that he paid
the whole wager—£loo—in threepenny bits. But even
this solace failed to bring balin to his heart, and to the
present day anybody who refers to thU particular double
will see Aaronhofenberger haul off hU big hat, mop his
brow, and go away to a corner to pine.
• • • •
Wren, the Melbourne tote-man who so elabor-
ately and successfully safeguarded hU establishment
against the police, seems to be a bit of an all-round
phenomenon. Teetotaller, non-smoker, good cricketer,
tiger at football, no slouch of a pug, runner of two boot-
factories and several pubs, uniformly lucky speculator,
and prospective millionaire. Related of him that when,
as a lad of 15, he lost £B5 in one day, “ backing," be stuck
to it until, before the week was out, he had netted £2OO.
• • • •
The tote ia essentially a Democratic institution.
It doesn’t give the big inner-circle backer an advantage
over the small outside punter. One-man-one-price.
Under the bookmaking system, early information from _
the stable ranks as Proputty, and secures longer odds
than the general public obtains.
• • • •
N.S.W. “sports” need go no further than
Sydney for the strongest argument in favor of the tote.
An illegal tote, paying placed horses, is run by a Sydney
“ shop " on all races—pony and horse—and in 19 out of
every 20 events the aiv. paid by said machine on the
winner amounts to longer odds than those laid by the
“books.” When a man can pay first three, and then
knock out big profits, what must be the profits of the
individual who lays shorter odds and pays first only 1
* • • •
Not generally known that Rand wick paddock
has seen an official tote worked. It is 20 odd years ago,
but, for all that, the late Mr. Franck ran a machine there
successfully for two meetings, It paid decent dividends,
too. An outsider named Poverty paid £5O lor every £1
invested.
<• • • •-
“ Blister ” : What chance has the casual backer
of receiving,.if Ikey Mo should he suddenly struck dead,
say, by excitement on seeing a hot favorite lose by a nose T
There is nothing to make his heirs, executors, or assigns
pay-up, whereas the living bag-man must: either pay-up
or shuf-up.- Again, s’pose a bet is booked by a punter
and hr dies, and his horse wins, will lkey inform the rela-
tions and pay-over ? I should smile 1 The tote does no
booking, doesn’t repudiate, and can’t die from apoplexy.
• • •
“Jack Shay”: The only basis I can imagine
for the idea (8.. 20 11 ’9B) that a horse with three white
legs can’t win a race is that a white foot or stocking on a,
horse is always accompanied by a white hoof. That is to
say, the hoof is clear, almost like white horn instead of
the usual slatey-grey of horses’ hoofs. Now, white hoofs
are tenderer than grey ones—softer and more liable to
ailment, therefore it is harder to keep a white-legged
horse on his feet while training hard.
••• • j
At a Sydney pony-meet, a while back, owner
X. discovered that his newly-engaged jock was related to
two bookies. Concluding he would be forestalled if the
boy knew he was to try, owner X. fell back on the pony’s
peculiarities. ThenobleVx-ast.it seems, only goes the faster
when a pull is taken and stops like a clock when the flail
falls; consequently the boy was told be was not to *’ take
any,” and to “catch hold" at the distance. As was
anticipated, the apparently “deadening” orders were
reported to the books, which was handy for owner X.,
whose commissioner gathered up £2BO to £4O. Boy
caught hold, pony went all the harder, boy pulled ditto,
but pony knew its business, and beat the boy badly and
the rest of the field by two lengths. Next day, one of the
bookies remarked sympathetically to owner X., “ "Fraid
you did no good with yours yesterday. Damned noosance
when they get 'orae on you dead, ain't it? Conianava-
drink.” And then, when the whisky had trickled thorax-
wards, and owner X. gently remarked, “ Oh, it wasn’t
so bad ; 7‘s is a fair average to get on £4O at. .1 think
you accommodated us with £BO to £lO, didn't you?”
there was a gasp that nearly blew out the electric lights in
the Marble Bar.
• * * *
One of the smartest examples of “ ringing-in ” a
trotter occurred years ago over a horse which died not
long since near Sydney. The moke was landed from the
’Frisco boat heavily clothed and bandaged and takeri up
town. Next morning he was trained to Richmond to
await the arrival of a drover who was coming to Sydney
with a draft of cattle. At Richmond the drover picked
him up and rode him behind the cattle to Homebush. On
the day his cattle were sold the drover boasted much
about the horse he had picked up at Pilliga, a natural
pacer, the end of it being that his owner made a bogus
purchase before a crowd of sporting butchers. The good
thing did not come off, however, as the horse never
showed his true form in Australia, but, strange to say,
the story of his ringing-in didn't get abroad for a long
while.
* . * •
“Poker Ned”: It has been quite common in
M. L. for years past to back a horse in a race and have a
contingency bet on a race preceding it, the object of the
backer in most cases being to try and save his stake. For
instance, a Derby being the 3rd or 4th race on the card,
the backer would put, say, £5 on the favorite, the win-
nings, or a stated amount, to be put on his fancy in a
race run prior to the Derby. These bets were mostly
made on meetings at a distance, where the results would
likely all he made known together; and so long as the
contract was made before either race was run it didn’t
appear to make much difference whether the contingency
was on a sooner or a later race. Such Bets have often
been made on Australian events., Of course, in cases
like* the “Scorn-Bobadil" wager, where the full stake
had to he put on, there could be no reason for making
the first Investment on the second race, but the principle
is the same. However, it was cases of this kind and the
fact of backers sometimes wanting a second contingency
and, so to speak, jumping all over the programme, that
was the origin of the rule, “Contingent bets cannot be
made on races to be run prior to the race on which the
first investment is made.” (
* * * ♦
Ah Do, the boss Chinese storekeeper on the
Burdekin (Q.) is the owner of a string of racers, and has
the reputation of being a sure trier every time. He
Chinese and sport it-is not generally known that Sydney’s
owd mandarin, Quong Tart, was a noted rider of race-
horses in Braidwood district a quarter of a century ago.
9 • • •
“Face”: Overheard rider of second horse in a
Sydney pony-race explaining to trainer how he got
licked. He said : “ When we wuz coinin’ roun’ inter the
straight I see The Ant would about lick’ me' 'ocut, so I
gets up close to Slim Jack, oowuzon ’itn; an' I sez, ‘’Ere,
yer young ! where the —; ! are yer goin’?’
and strike me pink if the little blank didn’t get scared
and flog away from me, and I never gets near 'im agen.”
• • » •
Mr. Stead, of M.L., is credited with having
refused an English offer of £3OOO for his unbeaten colt,
Multiform. * ...T
• • • _ •
If Mr. “ Bill ” Long advocates the tote then
'tin a sure sign that the machine is a pull in favor of
owners as well as the ordinary punter. No man living in
Australia has taken more out of the ring than aforemen-
tioned Hon. W. A. Long.
* * * *
The ghastliest of late “ring” jokes is Charles
Mitchell’s challenge to slugger Sharkey. When
Mitchell was man Friday to millionaire Abington Baird
he brought about that poor little “ champagne-besoken ”
beggar’s death by enticing him to ’Murka for the honor (?)
of being in Mitchell's corner in his woeful fizzle with
Corbett.
* • • *
Is it ever remarked that Oxenham bears a
rather strong facial resemblance to Tom King, the one-
time prize-fighter and rival of Jem Mace, who turned
bookmaker and died rich ?
♦ * • *
The Britishers can afford to give big prices for
proved Australian horses. Trenton’s stud fee is 100
guineas.
“A.E.G.”: There is a racehorse in Illawarra
district with a moustache as splendid as that of Jawbone
Neild’s. Owner says that, in a long experience of horses,
he has only seen one other thus embellished.
During a recent Vic. road cycle-race two men
came down, one smashing his face, the other his mount;
whereupon the latter seized his fallen rival’s machine
and bowled ahead, securing a place. Afterwards he ex-
plained to his admiring backers that he “ seen the other
bloke was dead to the world.” How dead he didn’t stop
to enquire.
* • * •
Luck. At Nelson (M.L.), not long since, a
Cyclist fell over a hen which bolted across the road in
front of his machine. Another cyclist behind came down
heavily on top of him. A trap in the rear drove over
both of them. Horse injured ; both bikes wrecked ;
riders scared out of seven years' growth ; hen, quite un-
injured, peacefully digesting worm at roadside. •
» * * *
A Melbourne cyclist who had a spill on the St.
Kilda tram-track, the other day, arose with a valuable
opal pin stuck in his cheek. He swears the pin was not
his—that it must have been lying on the track.
The knpe-long bicyclerskirt affected by Ameri-
can damsels of all classes is now prohibited in N.Y. State
unless the wearer i» accompanied by her machine or can
prove that she left her home with it. This, at first sight,
seems an extraordinary rule, but It is evidently directed
at a certain class of women who would never miss the
chance of doing the pavement in ballet-skirts. When
all s said and done It was Tottie far more than male oppo-
sition who killed the bloomer in Melb. As soon as a few
women bifurcated themselves on the bike Lonsdale-street
did likewise, and its fatted calf brightened Beaumaris
every Sunday, while bloomered beauties, drinking beer
from bottles, were common objects of every suburban
road.
» » • »
There is a man in Johannesburg who has regu-
larly sent Tattersall £lOO a year for the past eight years.
The Afrikander scored with a £3OOO prize atan early stage
of his spec., and is still £2200 ahead.
• • » •
Conundrum set for the sporting editor of a
Gippsland bi-weekly : “ Hear sir,—ln the cricket-match,
South Star v. Ramblers, the ball, batted by H. Smith,
struck a stout man 70 yards off in the stomach and re-
bounded into the hands of cover-field. Was Smith out?”
What about the stout man ? Was he out?
• * • *
One of the most successful Australian profes-
sional tipsters follows a system which, to an extent,
answers the question why tipsters do not back their own
fancies and make a pile. The prophet in question makes
it a practice to back his own good thing consistently. He
attends evety race-meeting of any size around Melb., and
as soon as he has scored a win on one race, the whole of
his winnings are popped on to the dead-bird for next
event. By following this system to its logical conclusion,
the tipster argues, one day, when he strikes a sequence
of six winners, his pile will be made, and he will need to
tip no more ; but, though he has been at the game for
10 years, and with eonsiclerable success, he has never been
able to get beyond four consecutives. Racing seems to
be like music in one respect—there are forbidden con-
secutives. Also, his system is a fool of a system, in that
after he had doubled and won three or four times he
could not possibly obtain wagers of the amount needed
to bring off the long-waited-for coup.
* * * »
Rockhampton has a one-handed athlete of all-
round excellence in C.B. St. John. He is a representative
cricketer and footballer. Is a consistent scorer, a brilliant
field, and bowls fairly. Plays three-quarter at football,
runs fast, and fends strongly with the maimed arm.
* * * »
Sydney footballers are suggesting that because
Melbourne club contests have ceased to excite the multi-
tude as of yore, there is now a chance to popularise the
Rugby game down South. The wish is father to the
thought, and the thought is absurd. Newchumsin Vic-
toria are pretty unanimous in admitting that the local
game provides a brighter show and is better adapted to
the typical Australian physique than the Rugby game, in
which “ Bull’s ” beef gives him an advantage.
* « * *
At the annual Newmarket (Eng.) blood-stock
sales, the highest price paid for a colt was 1200 guineas.
The mare Simoon, St. Slmon-Shotover, covered by
“ Best Man,” fetched 3000 guineas. Four mares covered
by Carnage realised 210, 500, 300, and 490 guineas, while
a more fashionably bred mare, covered by Ladas, only
brought 450, and a mare by Bend Or, covered by Carbine,
onlv 200 guineas.
* * * *
Call the farmer smart who wanted a 40-acre
paddock ploughed and so promoted a ploughing match,
offering prizes of £6, £2 and £1? (queries a BuliiKTIS
correspondent). The pub-keeper in our township would,
if he were sober enough to read the par., call him a fool
This is what he does. He has half-a-dozen barrels of beer,
and ten cases spirits in—at least, he says they come in
cases. So, wanting them drunk, he promotes a monster
sports gathering ; once it was races, but that wasn’t com-
prehensive enough. Give prizes? Not he! Canvasses
the township for them ; sends to all the merchants doing
business with everybody in the township. Gets them,
too. If there’s any liquor over, it’s consumed at the
‘‘ settling.” And what our pub.-man does the pub.-men
in scores of other townships, and even in places where
there aren’t any townships, have been doing for years
past.
• * * *
“ C.C.” : Can any reader inform me what is the
fastest Australian time in which a log of 2ft. diameter has
been chopped through, competition or otherwise ; by
whom, what kind of wood, free chipping or tough, ditto
sawing. Best Maorilaud time : chopping, smin. 45sec.;
sawing, 40Jsec. White pine, soft but tough.
' Be bowlers. See Judges xx. 16. “There were
700 chosen men, left handed. Every one could sling
stones at an hair-breadth, and not miss.”
(Continued on page 36.)
A SONG OF THE "CYCLE."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the buzzing- of the bearings,
To the whirring of the wheels,
To our lawless down-hill tearings
With the street dog at our heels;
To the low, long, level places
Where we gaily get along,
To the cool air in our faces,
Do I sing this song.
To the long, lean, raking racer,
To the man who turns not back,
To the pace that is a pacer,
To the track that is a track,
To the noiseless even gliding,
The exhilarating time,
To the scorcher’s joys abiding
Do I sling this rhyme.
Some men glory in the beating
Of the horse-hoofs on the turf—
Some men revel in a meeting
With the rough-and-tumble surf )
Give me two steeds of metal—
And a mate of mettle, too—
And a point of speed to settle
As we rush things through.
When death at last shall take us
And we’re scattered to the wind,
Surely “ Peter ” will not make us
Leave our bicycles behind.
On the sand shore of the Jasper
(Where to “ coast ” is not a crime)
We will make the pace a rasper
Till the end of time.
Queensland.
O. COWLEY.
"BIDING WORK."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coldest game I know of is on the training-track
On a foggy winter’s morning, rUiing work;
When the cold nigh nips your head off, and an over-
coat you lack
(They’re too heavy to be worn at riding work),
While the fog's so thick and heavy that you hardly
see the “ moke,"
And it settles in your throat and makes you cough
and almost choke;
And the only way to ease it is to have a puff of
smoke—
When you go out with the horses, riding work!
You strip the horse's rugs off, and the girths and all
make tight
(For it'? awkward if they get loose, riding work),
And you get a leg-up, and the boss sings out “All
right! ’’
(For he’s always out to see the horses work);
He says— “ A mile o’ ’arf-pace, an’ a sprint ‘ome at
the end,
in keep ’im on the sand-track until you pass the
bend I’’
You're glad yours is the first to work, for when
yovfve done they’ll send
You with the horse to stables after work.
Tas.
Or, p’r’aps, you have to school some horses over
sticks—
Then there is excitement, riding work;
For the schooling jumps are solid, and a “perfect
box o* tricks”
Is the horse that you are jumping, riding work;
For he reefs ami clouts his fences till you think he’ll
shift his hide,
Or he tries to gallop through them, and he will not be
denied,
Or you cannot make him face ’em, no matter how
you ride —
Or he falls ami lands a-top you, riding work .
But, after all is said,and done, it’s really not too
bad,
For you have a bit of fun a-rhUng work;
And if you’ve a little bad luck, like any other lad,
You must take it bright and game—U’s all in
work;
For you know that all the jockeys who have gained
the name of cracks,
Did a lot of early riding upon the training tracks;
And so they learned their business, and if any of
them lades ( .
A. wrinkle, he re-learns it riding work !
STAN. WARRINGTON.


WHAT WE SAY THEY’LL DO
THEY DO DO . . .
Iu the final of the £4OO Austral
Wheel Race, the greatest of all Cycling:
events, for which 187 of the world's finest riders
accepted, the 16 winners of heats started on
Satuiday last. Of these 16, 7 were mounted on
English-made machines, 5 on Colonial-made
mac nines, 2 on American machines, and 2 on the
Easy-Running Canadian Massey-Harris. In
the 11 heats, bi-
every kind made
country in the
The result of i his
perfection in
ness of piopul-
the 2 IVI as-
Bicycles
Ist and 2nd.
Meeting:, Massey
won nor only the
Wheel Race, but
oftheClassic
cycles oi almost
in almost every
world were used.
| exacting test of
'quality and easi-
sion resulted in
sey-Harris
fi n ish i ng
At the Austral
• Harris riders
Great Austral
3 out Of 5
Aust r a 1
International Scratch Races,
including: the Austral Derby, in all of
which they secured world’s records,
and earned £472 lOs. prize money,
more by £lO3 10s. than half of all offered.
We have all along: claimed for Massey-Harris
Bicycles that “ They Run Easy and Keep Run-
ning: Easy.” What we say they’ll do they do do.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street. Melbourne
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. . A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
‘ Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
prank Grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Nigfht and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN,
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
; ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CItEM E.MT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellin’ Kinn-slroel < ollee I'alnce,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Genuine )
KEENER [
UNS (and Rifles) J
For Pigeon and
Game Shooting.
These can now be obtained from all the principal
dealers throughout Australasia, and all bear W. W.
■ GREENER’S NAME and MARKS, proofs positive of quality
and workmanship. All prices from 10 to 80 Guineas.
Shooting unequaled in any country. Write to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to the Via
Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 87 MARKET STREET, SYDN EY
BICYCLES
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘Garden City
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered m
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
I Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
\ 263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
„ „ Patent ~ 10/6
„ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
„ All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
„ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/G
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
SEND FOE
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
OF .
Ladles’, Gentlemen’s,
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat .
I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer. ■
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
I’rlre, 10s. Oil.
Sole Agents :
The Result
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st., Sydney
f\VIHKIA/S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores tbeir Health, Viyor, Comfort, and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
w
\
\
f
0
* f/
/
4
ciT7slJn233^
«
//
✓
/
5^
Whats the use o' talk-
ing.''SWlFTqdes
were made before
thoughts
BUimre-
Yoimg.
Sole Agents
Tke Austral
Cycle Agency LTD.
Depots Sf Agencies in
all the principal towns
°f AUSTRALASIA.
When the Stampers Start.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said a somewhat cynical mining man,
“ You may take it as truth from me
When a mining-town goes suddenly down
The reason is this, d’ye see :
“ They peg their claims ; they whose trade it is,
And making a deal of fuss,
‘The district is rich,’ is the yarn they pitch
In the company prospeet-us.
‘ vVe sent a parcel to Freiburg town,
A sample from every part;
It’s payable ore and the divs. are sure—
When the crushing-stampers start.’
“So a boom begins and they float their mine,
Or several, all in a batch ;
But never they tell, when tie y want to sell,
The gold is in one little patch.
So the boom goes on, month after month
(Delay is promoter’s art),
And shareholders wait their investments’ fate
Till the thudding stampers start.
“ But sad is the story of wasted work
By the turning cam-shafts told.
And the lifting cams grind a chorus of woe
To the shoes’ blank verse * No gold.’
Then down drop the shares on the market list
As fast as the falling dart.
The mines are shut down and down goes the town
When the dropping stampers start.
“These are the facts,” said the cynical man,
“ And are proven in every part.
For we learn the truth with but little ruth
As soon as the stampers start.”
PROSPECT GOOD.
A grave-digger at Grenfell (N.S.W.)
dropped dead in the grave he was making. His
epitaph :
Two neighboring farmers at Borung (Vic.)
planted wheat early last spring. Soon after the
grain sprouted one “ cockie ” flooded his crop.
During the dry weather in October it bore up
splendidly, while the un-irrigated crop wilted
away and had to be cut for hay. The final result
to the irrigationist was 24 bushels to the acre !
Same soil, same seed, same climate, same cultiva-
tion ; water the only difference. Let us irrigate.
“ Sub.” : Travelling in the Australian Alps
district recently, I inquired ofß., who was always
talking California-in-the-fifties, whether he had
known a former employe of mine who had left me
to go to California. “Know him, sir! Why, I
seen him hung l ” Intimate acquaintance with a
vengeance; but, as B. explained, they had only
two punishments in those days—flogging and
hanging. “If they weren’t busy they flogged
’em, but if there was a rush of work on they
strung ’em up. It saved time.”
He had an order for a grave
(So cynic Fate had willed it),
And like a honest man and brave
He digged the grave—and filled it!


The firm of J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd.,
with branches at Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, and
Hobart, is steadily though surely getting all Aus-
tralia to know that the firm’s leather and leather-
belting is unsurpassable for wear. The firm has
just executed one of the largest orders ever given
for leather belting for the Westralian gold mines.
It has also supplied several of the largest belts in
Australia to the electric-tram service of Sydney ;
while it has recently sent to Queensland the
largest belt now running in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.*
“As a young man I
landed at Hull on Sunday, and
was rebuked for whistling in the
street. I left England directly.”
— Bi&mark.
Captain Phillip, Australia’s
first Governor, reserved the whole
of what is known as Sydney
Domain for the use and recrea-
tion of his own family.
The committees of the met-
ropalitan hospitals will soon move
effectively in the direction of
forcing well-to-do people to pay
for dependents whom hitherto
they have foisted, when ailing,
on public charity. The course
under consideration is to impera-
tively direct the secretary to bill
every such person on the death
or cure of the patient, and to
carry the account, if repudiated,
into court. A little bit of polite
blackmail.
An obvious moral attaches to the recent
Sydney case, in which a man mortally wounded, at
her employer’s house, a nursery-governess—whose
acquaintance he originally made through her
Daily Telegraph matrimonial advertisement.
He believed her to be playing fast-and-loose
with him, after he had given her a ring and pro-
vided her with money. The slayer is Hibernian
and carrotty, and the moral is that it is a parlous
thing to trifle with the affections (if a red Kelly ;
though perhaps, after all, it is more apparent
upon the evidence that the swain’s severest pangs
were in his pocket. He appears, at all events,
to have been dunning the faithless one,
not for affection alienated, but for cold cash
advanced. A further squalid flavor is im-
parted to the affair by Kelly’s espionage upon
the lady in the matter of a certain surreptitious
visit to a public-house in quest of long-beers. The
circumstance, too, that after “getting outside’
sundry such quenchers the 38-year-old Miss Flynn
further got outside a ’bus has a bearing upon the
current question of the susceptible ’bus-driver’s
liability, under the fascinations of the fair, to let
hisgee-gees wander from thepathsofsafety. Kelly’s
assumption, also, that “ the man in the tall hat
whom ho caught talking to the woman in a dark
side-street was “not her social equal,” tends to
show that the divinity which has so far hedged
that badge of stodgy respectability is on the
down-grade at last. Kelly, after killing the
woman, shot himself twice, but failed to a
mortal wound, and is in police custody at St.
Vincent’s Hospital. He will, in a few days, have
sufficiently recovered to appear at the inquest.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep6t, 257 George-st.,Sydney.*
y
%
y y
i
*
y-
y y
*
*
*
£
*
most Bicycle Qealers or Importers
Are not interested in any particular make of Cycle. As a result, they sell
several brands, but push the sale of those on which there is the largest margin
of profit. This is the reason why dealers sell one make to-day and another
to-morrow.
“ Red Bird Special,” “ Red Bird No. 1,” and
“ Black Bird ” Cycles
are sold by the only Direct Branch of an exclusive Bicycle Factory represented
in Australia. YVe are, therefore, directly interested in ONE LINE of Cycles,
which we manufacture, sell, and guarantee ; and, as our reputation depends on
their quality, it is to our interest to make those Cycles the Best.
All experienced Cyclists will acknowledge RED BIRDS to be the strongest
and best, unless they receive a commission to sell other wheels.
YVe Want Good, Live Aoknts Where Not Now Represented.
The Go old Bicycle Co. Limited,
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KINO ST., SYDNEY (Head Office) ;
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE;
Factories- Brantford, Canada.
Trl., 3160.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ;
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
Agents Everywhere.
Good attendance and fields at Rosehill, Sydney,
on Saturday. There were a couple of reversals of form
on Hand wick running that fairly subdued the crowd. As
soon as betting opened ou the Nursery Handicap, Par*
thian, on his great showing at ltandwick, was fairly
rushed by punters, 2to 1 being laid on the colt Felicity
jumped away, Parthian getting oil slowly. Coming into
the straight. Felicity was lengths in front, and stayed
there to the finish, Mat. Harris not pressing Parthian
when he thought the case hopeless. Hopscotch was the
other surprise. At Randwick, in the Challenge Stakes,
the grind chestnut ran last, but on Saturday, in the Fly-
ing Handicap, he downed the favorite. Platinum, in the
last few strides, the general opinion being that he could
have taken the I tail at any portion of the race. Since his
victory, Hopscotch has been nibbled at for Newmarket
Handicap, but as the stable also holds the favorite,
Beachcomber, it will take punters all their time to pick
the right pea.
A serious accident in a flat race is becoming
almost a weekly occurrence on Sydney courses. No one,
not even the jocks themselves, is ever able to exactly
set forth the cause, hut a combination which has much
to do with it is—big fields, weedy horses, and weedy and
incompetent jockeys. A mosquito-like six-furlong animal
starts in the big field, in a mile-and-a-half handicap, with
a wasted mannikin up, and, jumping away, leads for half-
a-mile, when it begins to “crack." The half-starved rider
hasn t the strength to keep his “done” mount straight,
and, getting back into the ruck, the beaten “ weed ” either
crosses its legs or gets in the way of something else, and
down go half the field. The public gasps, looks anxiously
to see that the favorite hasn’t fallen, and rushes to the
fence to watch the white-faced jockeys being carried in ;
then it forgets all about the occurrence in the excitement
of picking the winner of the next.
The racing rulers eau’t undertake to do away
with weeds, nor can they run races on the invitation
system and allow only the best horses to start, because
the nags that are evidently the !>est generally succeed in
getting badly licked by what are considered the worst;
but they can do much to minimise accidents by a few
simple rules. Limit fields to, say, 15 starters; draw up
strict regulations re the apprenticeship of a jockey before
he is allowed to ride in a race; and raise the minimum
weight to do away with all excuse for wasting, and flat-
race accidents will be few and far between.
• • • •
The Summer Cup winner, Strathroy, put up a
big performance in Rosehill Feb. Handicap, won by Ailie,
by carrying the thumping weight of 10.2 into second
place, lieating such horses as Eastern King, Toxleth,
Boscobel and others. Strathroy once was thought unre-
liable, but he has developed into a very consistent race-
horse, and is, bar Merloolas, perhaps the best handicap
horse in N.S. \V.
• • • •
Merloolas, by the way, is in the market for sale,
and although a high price is asked for the large-hearted
bay he should prove a good investment for anyone who
will treat him well and supply him with a good horseman
in his races. Merloolas is an exceptional horse who has
been badly mismanaged ; anyone who has seen him finish
under the whip for the last half-mile of a gruelling, two-
mile handicap, and answer challenge after challenge
without a sign of faltering, knows that there isn't a gamer
or truer horse living—and weight makes little diflereuce
to such an animal.
• • • •
Three of the late Richard Craven’s horses,
Woodlark, Gauleon and Oceana, have been leased by
Humphrey Oxenhatn, who should get some good races out
of them. Woodlark gave promise of being something
out of the common, and Gauleon, although he has never
jet won, is a full brother to The Grafter, Gaulus and
Aleuiene, so that he is bred to gallop. Gauleon would
pass almost anywhere for The Grafter, being of the same
gaunt build and possessing the same prominent nose.
• • • •
The howling of Sydneyites, who had backed
Vigorous for Newmarket Handicap and were hurt to find
him ** let down” with Sst. llib., seemed rather funny to
some people. “ Mr. 8. Fielder has been advised to de-
mand an explanation from the handicapper,” said the
D.T. “ Vigorous at his best is a bad performer, yet he is
called upon,” Ac., Ac., Ac. Well, if Vigorous is a bad
horse at his best, and has been doing his best every time,
the weight given him by the sceptical Dakin can't affect
his chance. No bad horse, nor even a moderately bod one,
could win the Newmarket with even 7st. up. However,
Vigorous isn’t going to start.
• • • •
Cocos’s breakdown always looked likely, even
when the Abereorn horse was showing no signs of un-
soundness. He isn't one of the wear-and-tear sort, like
corky Bobadil, who is said to have improved much since
the Spring.
• • • •
Sana Cocos and Amberite, at first sight it looks
as if N.S.W. will be but poorly represented at the coining
Vic. autumn campaign. However, the Wnlers’ Cabin Boy
and Stand GCT are both genuine candidates for New-
market, and one of them may win the rich prize, whilst
Longford and Merloolas will make the best of them
gallop for Australian Cup, which, however, is averred by
Victorians a certainty for Bobadil. Gakleigh Plate at
Caulfield, on 18th inst., may also fall to N.S.W. per
Vigorous or Stand Gfl.
Really wonderful how some horses improve in a
few davs. On 'Versary Daj Hopscotch, carrying 9.6 and
ridden"by a stable-boy, started priceless for Challenge
Stakes, got off last anil finished in last three. Last Sat.,
at Rosehill, carrying 9.3 and ridden by J. Barden, he
started first favorite for the Flying Handicap and won,
easily beating a big field, amongst which was Proudfoot,
who had run a good second in the Challenge Stakes when
the record time of 1.13 was put up. True, Hopscotch
here met Proudfoot on Blb. better terms, but, still, in the
nine days the old gelding must have come on immensely.
• • • •
Another mannikin sacrificed through the evil of
big fields. And so it will continue with gruesome mono-
tony until the ruling powers of Vic., N.S.W., and S.A.
racing institute a substantial sweepstakes for starters.
Then only shall we see smaller fields (mostly triers),
better racing, and little ambulance.
• » * •
In pre-telephone days, betting was often carried
on in Sydney after the race was actually run. On one
occasion sundry sports were awaiting, in a billiard-
room, result of a Hawkesbury Handicap. They knew
the race must be over, when the marker, entering into the
conversation, asked the price of a certain outsider. A
big bookie answered, “50 to 1." “And the favorite?”
“4 to 1.” The marker offered to take 40 to 6 the favorite,
if the book threw 50 to 1 the outsider in ; and the bookie
closed with the offer. In about ten minutes the results
came to hand—the outsider the winner! The bookie
“ tumbled,” but paid, and eventually the marker gave
awav the “have.” Had a confederate at post-office to
get a wire. Confederate did not enter the room, hut
went round to the back and wrote winner’s name on a
wall where the marker could see it out of a window.
Bookie, knowing the marker had not left the room and
that nobody had come in with the tip, thought he was
taking a fair chance.
• • * •
When Dan O’Brien brought Carbine over, a
certain smart Vic. trainer showed him a point. Carbine
used to he worked at daybreak, and the smarty shifted
one of the furlong-posts a considerable distance from its
place so of course the M.L. champion showed bad time
in his fast gallops. Meanwhile, the astute Victorian was
backing him for pounds, shillings, and pence. But
Derrett discovered the little game in time to secure a sub-
stantial bit to nothing for himself and O Brien.
. . • • •
“ Tossy ” : Re “ F.C.’s ” suggestion that aborigi-
nals should be used as jockeys. The nig., though he can
sit on a horse with the best of them, is wanting in the
chief attribute of a Jockey—judgment. Black's idea of
the game seems to be—jump away, flog from beginning
to end, and howl like a steam-siren.
• • * * .
The shop-assistant who drew the Le Var ticket
for the Perth Cup sweep, and was not sufficiently prompt
in accepting the owners squeezing terms, said in his
plaintive letter to the local press— ‘ Next time I draw a
horse 1 shall make the owner a present of the ticket,
instead of laying him one-half to nothing, the same as I
offered to do this time.” : What would happen to
a ticket-holder who adopted the give-all policy ? Pro-
bably the owner would stand him a new suit of clothes
‘Mi a “ Aver ” in one of the trousers pockets.
Up to the end of Jan. Gozo still easily tops the
list of winning sires with £>0,327 to his credit, Loehlel
(46829), Trenton (£5217*), Malua (£3177), Bill of Portland
(£3108), and Ourbine (13042) following,
• • • •
The Council of Churches in S. A. has decided to
make the abolition of the Totalisator a test question at
the coming- general elections. The Anglicans, however,
are neutral on the question, while It.C. Archbishop
O’Reilly favors the instrument, and has asserted that he
sees no harm in gambling so long as the speculators keep
within their means and pay up when they lose.
* • • *
In Sydney “club” cricket, on Saturday,
M’Kibbin, playing for Glebe against E. Sydney, did not
improve his chances of a trip ’Ome, for, although E.
Sydney only got 163, Mac. couldn’t capture more than
one wicket for 33, while his club-mate, the volatile Con-
ingham, got five for 50. “ Bill ” Howell, on the other
hand, brightens his prospects on every occasion. For
Central Cumberland u. Iledfern, he went in first wicket
down, and knocked up 39 by good punishing cricket and
captured, for 27, the only two Redfern wickets that fell.
Other prospective 'Oine men to score on Sat. were Iredale
35, for Waverley against Paddington (the two leading
teams in the Sydney Premiership competition). Waverley
only got 151. For Paddington, Trumper scored 36 (not
out) and Mackenzie 32. One wicket down for 86, which
looks as if Paddington had the match won. “ Mary Ann”
Noble gathered in eight Waverley wickets for 61.
• • • •
In the Waverley-Paddington fixture, Gregory
performed his usual running-out-his-partner trick. Noble
was in great form—caught and bowled Iredale, Bell and
Gregory, scooping in 8 wickets for 61 runs.
• * • •
Gregory and Kelly had a misunderstanding
when tossing in the Paddington-Waverley match. Kelly
threw the coin, Gregory calling “ Woman,” and upon tail
coming up Kelly claimed to have won, saying that
“ woman ” meant head. Which was, of course, absurd,
as in tossing “ woman ” invariably stands for the reverse
to “ head,” be the head that of a king or a queen.
• • • •
Mr. J. C. Davis’s remarkably-complete Crickkt
Awxual for 1898 is a little volume that the cricket enthu-
siast should carry in his pocket. It will surprise many to
hear that Worrall holds the bowling average until they
learn that he only bowled 7 overs, getting 1 wicket for
18 runs.
• • • •
N.S.W. Cricketing Ass’n.’s decision that five
colts shall be picked in the team against M.L. is wise, as
there are several rising young ’uns little, if any, behind
the ruck of the big guns. In picking them, however, it
is to be hoped that real colts will be chosen, and not old,
spavined, aged ’uns that have been running for a life-
time. Marsh, the fast South Sydney bowler, has pace
little behind Jones’, and should be tried ; and then there
are the “other" Duff, Fartpihar, young Gregory, Hop-
kins, Poidevin, and Karl Quist—all good men and bona
tide colts.
• • * ■
It is generally accepted in cricketing circles that
next all-Australian team will consist of 13—“ the Dei il’s
number ” —the selection committee, it is said, having
decided to take no more l»ecause 14 would mean ad-
ditional expense and a smaller “ div.” for each man, to
which the nine “certs” all object. This again draws
attention to the rottenness of allowing players to have
anything to do with the selection of the team. Also it
raises the question as to who has the authority to decide
the number of players to go—the selection committee or
the Aus. Cricket Council ? If the team is merely a
money-making concern it doesn’t matter how few go,
but if, a« is understood, it is being sent 'Ome to do its
best for Australian cricket, then the cricket authorities
should see that the 14 best men go. Several previous
teams have found 13 insufficient, and have been compelled
to borrow men in England.
• • • •
An open secret that Iredale and Howell are the
two men selected to complete the eleven. The extras
will not be picked until after the test matches.
• • • •
Some people behind the scenes prophesy that
the Australian team, about to visit England, will quarrel
even more than previous Elevens. Apparently Joe Dar-
ling will be captain, an initial mistake, for Darling has
been a failure as captain of S. A. this year. When Harry
Trott fell ill Australia suffered a big blow, for he was the
only man of any capacity in the position since Murdoch.
The man for captain would be Jim Kelly, but Jim can’t
make a speech, a fatal failing in these banqueting days.
• • • •
London papers (E. News in particular) are
already threatening that Jones will be disqualified in Eng-
land. Apparently some of the English writers think Jones
should have been left out of the Australian team because
Phillips “called” him last year in one match only.
M’Kibbln’s delivery, it seems, will also be questioned.
The Australians will be in a nice fix if two of their lead-
ing bowlers are no-balled. And it is certain that if Jones
throws so does M’Kibbin.
One of the certainties for the Australian XL
has developed a complaint which utterly defies the best
medical skill. The leading symptom of his malady is
terrible swelling of the head.
• • • •
“M.”: On Anniversary Day writer went to
Sydney Cricket Ground new stand for lunch. Nothing
but scones and tea. Waited quarter-hour for rush to
abate, then went to ladies' pavilion, and sat there lOinin.
unattended to. Next tried members’ room, where were
plenty of waiters rushing round with empty dishes ; but
none of ’em came my way, so returned to new stand, and
made shift with scones, and tea in a cup of wine-glass
size. At ladies’ pavilion, where cold lunch is served at
Is. fid. a head, the board outside had the shilling dis-
played boldly and the sixpence carefully obscured by a
blot of blue ink, after the manner of small hucksters.
This, however, was altered before the conclusion of the
match.
• » * «
Bathurst guaranteed the expenses of the two-
days' match against Victoria. Worrall rewarded this by
asking the locals to pay Is. on the second day to see
Graham bowl. Country teams are generally treated like
this. No wonder they fight shy of entertaining crack
players.
« * • •
Giller’s cricket-life to date has been brief, if
happy. A few years ago he was an unknown junior, and
joined S. Meli). (captained by H. Trott) for practice
merely, but Trott and one or two more of the S. Melb.
cognoscenti at once picked him out for the first eleven.
Time after time he has saved his side when in a hole, arid
to-day, since the retirement of Trott, he captains his club.
Is most unassuming, lives a temperate life, has a cool
head, and a stout heart at a pinch.
* * * *
London National Sporting Club has resolved,
with a view to preventing the recurrence of fatal contests,
that before signing articles for a mill each boxer is to
furnish the manager with a certificate of health ; during
training and on the day of the contest he is to be ex-
amined by the club doctor ; the rounds are to be reduced
to two minutes each, with a minute’s rest; and the gloves
are to weigh fioz. Of these new regulations the first three
are designed to safeguard the sport against cases of heart-
failure, and they will do this effectually as long as they
are carried out. The increased bulk of the gloves will
not be liked, and the new rule may lead to the making of
other fioz. articles, harder and smaller—which would
defeat the committee's purpose. But the evident inten-
tion is to diminish the chance of administering knockout
blows, and to do so without a specific regulation exclud-
ing them.
, • • •
The lone, red-haired N.S.W. middle-weight,
Jim Richardson, went under in seven rounds to Maori-
land Heffernan in England last week. Ileffernan has
been abroad for some years. Went hence to S. Africa,
earned fame there as a boxer, for he is a plucked ’un from
the ground up, invested his savings in an itinerant
saveioy-and-tater plant, and did roaring biz in Johannes-
burg streets ; sold out, went to England and America, but
did little good in the squared circle till last week's luck
came his way. Writer says "luck’’ because the cable
reads that way. For when both Richardson and Heffer-
nan were in Sydney, one Partridge defeated the Maori-
lander in a round-and-a-half; then Richardson came
along, and, after a fierce battle, bested Heffeman’s victor.
• • • •
Golden Gate (Sydney) Athletic Club started
another novice tournament on Saturday night; 600 or 700
people turned up to view the lively proceedings. Science
was thrown to the winds, and thumps rained thick and
fast, while arms flew about like flails—neither side in any
bout escaping unscathed—till one or other cried ago
through sheer exhaustion.
* • * *
Champion pug. Fitzsimmons, when asked re-
cently whether he would meet Sailor Sharkey if the latter
beat M'Coy, replied that he could not say, as Mrs. Bob
had not yet released him from his promise never to “ put
'em up ” seriously again. As a lover-like husband who
abandons the ring because of affection for his wife and
the fact that his further connection with “flghtin’”
would cause her great mental pain, lanky Robert stands
before the world in a much better light than many of his
predecessors; let us hope he will “ live up to his blue
china.” Pugs., as a rule, don’t make good husbands.
Those well up the ladder are usually vainerthan peacocks,
and in the days of their prosperity are the subjects of
much adulation from women who would not notice them
but for their athletic celebrity. Legion are the marital
infelicities of prominent pugilists. Tom Sayers was
“ up” at least once for wife-beating. “ Yankee” Sullivan
threw a lamp at. Mrs. Y., which burned her so severely
that she died. Joe Goss, when in Eng., resented the
shrewish tongue of Mrs. G., setting her down upon a hot
stove till she was badly broiled. Mike M’Coole, the deck-
hand champion of America, always treated his spouse
brutally ; while Mrs. Heenan, wife of the " Benicia Boy,”
made no secret of the fact that her husband had wronged
her in a terrible way. John L. Sullivan’s wife got a
divorce from him. Corbett and the first Mrs. C. parted
company, as also did Fitzsimmons and his Australian wife.
» * » »
Strong-man Sampson and Prof. Miller are not
going to meet after all—at least not just yet; Miller has
taken his money down because the coin-breaker, instead
of keeping certain appointments, went on tour through
Vic. country towns with a co. of his own organising.
Wrestler Dunn has, however, offered to throw Sampson
20 times in an hour for a big side-wager. If he had the
slightest show of beating Miller in the “ Rastle ” part of
their proposed match, this offer of Dunn's should well
suit the man of muscle, but present scribe doesn’t think
Mr. Sampson is “ taking any.”
* * * •
With the exception of that at 100yds., swimmer
Lane has this season taken every championship so far—
utterly outdistancing his fellow competitors. The mile,
half-mile, 300yds. and 220yds. premierships already belong
to him, while the quarter-mile—the last of the year —to
be contested to-day (Sat.) looks a moral for the brilliant
vrangster. At the Palace Emporium club’s gala, on last
Fat., he secured absolute possession of the President’s
Challenge Cup, having won the event two years in sue-
MICHAEL KELLY, who, at
Sydney, shot Maria Flynn.
Miss MARTA FLYNN, shot
by her disappointed lover,
Kelly.
cession, and at the same time wiped out Englishman
Tyers'world's 300yds. record (3min. 48 2-ssee.). In the
mile championship at Wagga, the other day, Lane put up
a world’s record by using the exhausting “ trudgeon ” or
double-over-arm stroke throughout the whole distance.
* » * *
“F.”: Just opened a volume of that reliable
English authority. The SroßTiso Mirror, and found a
valuable biography of George Beach, the sculler who beat
Haitian. “ George,” it appears, was born at “ Dafto, 11a
Warra." He won three races in one day at Drffo
“ regattas,” and among others he beat in Woolloomooloo
regatta was “ M'Cluken.” “George "also rowed in the
“ Balmiane ” regatta, and shortly after again defeated,
amongst others, “ M'Clucken,” who had probably
changed his name in the interval. He is now known as
M’Clerkin. Also, Parramatta isspelt three different ways
in the brief sketch.
* * • •
Sydney larrikins have found a new way of
getting the cyclist’s heart into his mouth. They wait
half-way down a hill until a scorcher comes, and as he
rushesbv thev dash a ‘•throw-down ” cracker just behind
the wheel. Bikey eases up, thinking his tyre has gone
bung.
• • • •
Two English trout-experts took a trip to the
Great Lake (Tus.) recently, and on one day became
separated at the start. Towards evening the junior part-
ner set out round the lake to look for the old Tin, whom,
after long search, he discovered stretched out on the
bank in a gasping state. To all enquiries the ancient
merely pointed to his tongue, which hung out of his
mouth like a dried fig. The other moistened it
with a few drops of grog, which immediately revived the
owner. “ Mav deah fellow,” he said, “ I fawgot my
flawsk, and heah I have been all day long perwishing for
a drink of watah.” “ Why, you old idiot,” said his mate,
“you’ve been standing in good fresh drinking-water the
whole day ! ” The old gent thought, by the sound of the
sad sea waves, that he was fishing in mid ocean.
* * « *
A medico in practice at Putney —the place where
the Thames rowing matches start from—wrote an in-
teresting letter to London Rbfkrek on the subject of
American, Australian and English training systems.
Sppaking from 16 years’ knowledge of professional oars-
men, he says that the Yanks and Australians are more
careful in their habits, and more scientific, lly teachable
than any 'Ome men, who train on certain I ard-and-fast
rules, and have (as another rule) a lot of intemperance to
make amends for when they are getting fit. As to the
healthfulness of an oarsman’s life, the Putney doctor
declares himself convinced that, it is the best of all athletic
lives. Also, he goes out of his way to curse the bike—
“ Whereas by running only the heart is injured, by
bicycling both the heart and lungs and limbs are
damaged.” All of which remains to be proved, doesn’t
iff Lightning pedalling is still in its infancy. Thus far
no champion cyclist has dropped dead on the track,
whereas James Itenforth, the last of England's old-
fashioned great oarsmen, died in a 4-oared boat in
America. They were preparing to start for an inter-
national race, when Itenforth fell hack fainting into the
arms of ex-champion Kelly. Heart-disease. The tragic
picture is carved upon the base of a monument erected
to his memory.
• • • •
Anyone desirous of obtaining an illustrated
pamphlet of the new Multiflex Dunlop Tyres for’99 can
obtain same by dropping a line to any of the co.'s depots.
Every cyclist should have one, as the improved tyre'pro-
mises to play a bigger part than ever in the advancement
and popularity of the pastime.*
* * . * *
As usual, during the recent holiday meetings,
riders of the easy-running Massey-Harris were successful
in securing a large proportion of the chief racing events
in the different provinces. The company’s record for the
week shows more than 60 firsts, more than 30 seconds,
and more than 20 thirds, and more than £3OO prize money
won on its bicycles. The wins include six International
Scratch races, three Championships, the four principal
N.S.W. League Handicaps, the E.M.B.C. Wheel Race, and
pretty well all the good things at the country meetings.*
* • • *
A wood-chopping contest for .£BO, cut up into
four prizes, will be held at the next Sydney Agricultural
Society's show. Entries close 10th March. See advt.
THE HOUSETRAIJAN TEAM.
The “ Ironsides,'' “ Mid-Ons," “ Not-Outs”
Have kept this subject warm ;
They’ve worn us out with Iredale's strokes
And Tom M'Kibbin's form.
They’ve w’earied us with Howell’s length,
The all-round play of Pye.
Now, cun in hand, we ask that team
To take its hook—or die.
E. M. D.


Justdead, H. B. Hinton, an unregistered
medico, practising at Sofala, N.S.W., and in
charge of the hospital there, aged 82 years. He
had lived on the Turon for 40 years, and for many
years was the only medico in the neighborhood,
his certificates being accepted by the Registrar-
General unquestioned.
A very old colonist, Thomas Jones, died
at Parramatta last Saturday, aged 94. He arrived
in N.S. W. in 1821, and in ’24 was stationed at
Bathurst as a police constable, where he did good
work in suppressing bushranging. He had a
memory well stored with old-time facts, and was
officially acquainted with the Cato-street con-
spirators, and with Hunt, the accomplice of
Thurtell, murderer of Wearo, the gambler. De-
ceased has left a brother of 88 years in Bathurst
district.
“ APENTA,”
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
“As a cooling medicine for children it has no
superior, and it is readily taken by them.”—
Practitioner.
Sole exporters : The Apollinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.
Few things are more genuinely pathetic
than a long-way-back township, too small to run
a doctor even with the help of a Govt.-endowed
hospital, and too poor to call over a doctor from
the nearest big township when an epidemic
breaks out. The blacksmith, or the local con-
stable, or some other long-established worthy,
who generally provides the medical advice of the
place, confesses he is lost; and then, as one in-
habitant after the other sickens and perhaps dies,
the scare is positively affecting. Pooncarie, a
poor, forlorn little township on the Darling,Jhas
for months past been, off and on, in this state of
pitiable fright. Diphtheria has been the enemy ;
it has swept two or three out of a single household;
the doctor has been got down there once or twice;
and a public subscription has been made to buy a
few tubes of anti-toxin, which the local constable
injects on sufficient provocation. Meantime,
nobody who can avoid it drinks water in Poon-
carie; for both the wells and the river have fallen
under suspicion.
It was proposed in Sydney City Council to
send to the retiring veteran, Alderman Kippax,
an illuminated farewell letter—illuminated, of
course, at the expense of the Corporation funds.
W hereupon Boanerges Norton said No—he was
willing, however, to subscribe a guinea out of his
own pocket if the other aldermen did ditto.
Result—no illuminated testimonial for Kippax,
who will get a plain sheet of foolscap instead. What
a hollow sham is the mufciial-admiration*at-public-
expense system ! The Corporation is willing to
grease Kippax with public funds, but its indivi-
dual respect for that distinguished citizen doesn’t
run to the extent of 21s. Yah !
Be Tennyson, whom South Australia has
got on as Governor, the Argus remarks
that ‘ if the new Governor were not his father’s
son he would not be a lord, and if he were not a
lord he would hardly be thought of ” for the pur-
]>ose. Exactly, a young man has no qualifications
whatever, but his pa happens to be a lord, and
therefore a province has to keep him. In this case
it is to be remembered that the elder Tennyson
would not have been a lord if it had not been for
his son. His biography shows that he would not
have taken a title had it not been his son’s wish
that he should.
“Go to the mirror, young lady, and see
what a pretty word Snob is on your rosy lips.”—
Thackeray.
In January, the month when the t’other-
siders who went home for Xmas are generally
streaming back, Westralia had only 1705 arrivals
as compared with 5000 in Jan. ’9B. And the
departures were 2097—a loss of 392.
“Sherlock Holmes” outrivalled. Any
reader wanting news of a missing relative, or a
copy of a will, certificate of birth, etc., or need-
ing a delicate enquiry to be made, had better write
to J. W. Holdsworth, the leading Melbourne
Inquiry Agent.*
The Bulletin notices with pleasure the
Melb. announcement (Jan. 27) that “ Miss C. H.
Thomson and Mrs. Evelyn Gough have purchased
the Sun newspaper, and that it is their intention
to make it a high-class and interesting family
journal,” and that they invite original poems.
And just below this The Bulletin notices with
astonishment that the Sun reprints Roderic
Quinn’s poem, “A Western Garden,” from Bul-
letin of Nov. 19 last, without a word to show that
it has been borrowed by said “ high-class and in-
teresting family journal.”
Both Orleans and Prince Napoleon are
probably far too tired to make any determined
bid for French monarchy. If there is any attempt
to overthrow the Republic, it will be stirred by
the mutual jealousies of the claimants —both of
whom, by the way, had allegedly abandoned their
claims—and it is just this rivalry that will most
likely render their kingly aspirations ineffective.
The Dreyfus embrogiio seems to have afforded at
least three psychological moments for a sudden
coup, but one prince spends his time in talking
big nothings to people in Brussels, and the other,
who is actually in Paris, seems so inconsequent
that nobody will take any notice of him.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue.*
Missing Friends.
JAMES COMAN, formerly of Kerang and
Bendigo, Victoria, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, write to his brother, Thomas Coman,
133 Grattan-street, Carlton, Victoria.
CAROLINE HICKS, St. Leonards-on-Sea,
Sussex, England, spinster, deceased. NEXT
OF KIN please furnish proofs of identity to
Murray & Magarey, Solicitors, Eagle Chambers,
Adelaide, South Australia.
HAWES, WILLIAM at
once to Alfred, 79 Leadenhall - street,
London ; call on Robert B. Parry, Esq.,l77Pitt-
ktreet,. Sydney. Important.
TO curiosity-mongers. For sale, a batch of
French Republic assir/nats. 1792 issue,
ranging in face-value from 5 to 50 livres. In
excellent preservation. Address “ Marat,” Bulle-
tin office.
IF there is a man or woman left in N.S.W. with
• .£6OO, willing to take a very small risk for a
large return, apply “ Isis,” Bulletin Office.
IF Mr. Edward O’Grady, Ron of the late Mrs.
Johanna O’Grady, of Wahring, in the colony
of Victoria, widow, will communicate with The
Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company, Ltd.,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
"D.0.L.”
When applied to a man is a high academic dis-
tinction. When applied to whisky, “D.C.L.”is
the highest distinction it can possess. “ D.C.L.”
(black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.
A most particular fool is that United
States official who admits that, at the beginning
of the trouble with Spain, his country had only
enough ammunition to furnish two rounds for
each gun, and the quarrel was so long coming to a
head simply because the States couldn’t fight
earlier. A big naval Power, if it had gone into
war with a rush, could evidently have crumpled
up the Yankee navy like a wet rag simply because
it hadn’t enough shooting material for a good
hour’s battle, and then blockaded the coast and
battered down the coastal cities. Other nations
will make a careful note in their hats now that
the U.S., after a long spell of peace, is liable to
be found in some such state as this. Plainly, the
row with Britain over Venezuela was all a bluff ;
a country that hadn’t many guns, and was only
ready to fire two shots from each one that it had,
couldn’t twist the lion’s tail to the bitter end.
And when the next similar row is on, the other
party —if he is a good-sized Power—will probably
remember this and refuse to be bluffed, and give
the (States 12 hours to get off his tail and apologise.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! of LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
One of tße Best,
SATURDAY, Uth FEBRUARY,
The Most Remarkable of Drury Lane Successes,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
ills circus boom.
HE CIRCUS BOOM.
. . Fitzgerald’s . .
N€W Con?bipgd SI)OWS,
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK'S ZOOLOGICAL
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location).
TWO BTG \ The Tiger and Horse.
SENSATIONS / The Lion and Elephant Tricycle Act.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORA MA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
IJIHE GAIETY THEATRE, ZEEHAN.
Seats up to 1000. Beautiful building; large stage, 38 x
48; electric lighting; usual stock scenery ; all modern
accessories. Equals any provincial theatre in Australasia.
In a rapidly rising district, with an amusement-loving
public. Terms from proprietor, EDWARD MULCAHY,
Hobart; or S. F. Hickotn, Zeehan, agent.
Amusements.
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY’S
£5O Wood-chopping Contest.
Ist PRIZE, £2O; 2nd PRIZE, £l5; Brd PRIZE, £10:
4th PRIZE, £6.
CONDITIONS—
Aboitt six-foot standing logs. About 18-inches diameter,
lo be chopped in heats according to number of entries.
Competitors draw for logs. The winner in each heat
to chop off for final.
Heats will start on TUESDAY MORNING, April 4,1899.
iMnal will be chopped for during TUESDAY AFTER-
NOON, April 4, 1899.
ENTRANCE FEE, £1 la.
Entry Form to till in—
Name . ..
Address
Occupation
Age
ENTRIES CLOSE FRIDAY, 10th MARCH, 1899,
with F. WEBSTER, Secretary, Royal Agricultural
Society, Hunter-street, Sydney.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, 9th FEBRUARY.
Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove will have the pleasure
of introducing to the Sydney public the most attractive
and successful musical novelty of the present day, the
Famous Japanese Opera, in two acts, entitled'
ghe §eisha; <A (Story of a sea (House.
Plan, Nicholson’s. tST" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
ffJtHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular and Powerful Dramatic Company, in the
Enormously Successful Original Play,
When London Sleeps.
SATURDAY, Feb. 11—THE ENGLISH ROSE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
IVOLI T H E A T It E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Emphatic Success of the WORLD’S VENTRILOQUIST,
Lieut Frank Travis
Splendid Success ! Continued Brilliant Reception of
Miss Nellie Wilson Miss Etbel Yorke
Mliss FEG-G-Y FRY3DB
Mr. FRED. POPLAR
Miss KITTY WAGER, POPE and SAYLES,
CHAS. W. COGILL, WALLACE KING, and our Double
Company. Matinees every Saturday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sisters Phillips and Brothers Lorenzi
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
CONLEY & CAREW. Mr. SYD. DEANE.
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
Horace Wheatley- Cora Caselli-
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company.
PRICES—2/6, 2/-, 1/-, and 6d. Plan at Allan's.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson- and Mi-sgrovb.
Sub-Lessee ... Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative for Mr. Brough, Mr. Hamilton.
IMMENSE AND SPONTANEOUS SUCCESS Ota
THE BROUGHS
In Anthony Hope’s Brilliant Comedy,
The Adventure of Lady Ursula.
PRICES AS USUAL. ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
Presentation Silver-plate & Jewellery for ([Jedding PrGSGDtS
A. Saunders 7 Stock is Bright, Effective, and Reliable.
Kindly send your orders to us —we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display.
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, Pure Silver-plat e l, £2 17s 6d.
Others charire you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver Hand Mirror, velvet back, 255. Chased
fcil er hack, £2, .£2 10s.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 30s Similar styles,
178 6d, 218, 255. Silver-plated, 18s od. Mirror, 20s.
■-'v-
« V
■
■mm
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled eases),
£2 10s, five years' guar.
anlee, extra quality;
£4 48, 20 years’ iniar-
nntee; ditto, 14c,Gold,
pa ent. cases, £6 6s, 26
years’ guarantee, “the
same strength as a £2O
watch.” Ladies’, beau-
I if-'ly ornamented, same iftice. Mind, “ the above watches are giiaran-
te -I with a written certificate from th^makers, nnd we will make them
u;> Old it.” Send for Illustrated I Vice Book of Watches.
H
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Saunders'
HANDSOME urn. uni'u, PRESENTS.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. S . —ders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell nntl Chain Gold Brooch, 16s,
strong and pretty. Silver, 6s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders'
Registered Pater Christmas. Rel! and Pearl
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
Oak Butter and Knife, 7s 6d ;
with cover, 8s 6d.
1
A Saunders.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s 6d ; Fluted Bands,
20s ; Shield only, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
First,-class 4-botile Cruet, 85s;
similar styles, 21s, 255, 80s ;
6-bott,le, 85s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut-
glass and Puff Boxes,
168 Od, very cheap.
18c. Gold, pare Double
Cut Diamond, £5 6s;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
• £l5, £2O.
18c. Gold, 4 Diamonds,
Opals, Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3, £Blos, 14.
S inclfor size card. We
cut and polish opals.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Sugar
169 6d, 20s, 265.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, S Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Large Diamonds, t‘3
16c. Gold, 20s, 255, and 80s.
180. Gold Band, Pure Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £B, £4.
Send for Size Card.
tt
A. Saunders.
4 o’c. Teaspoons and Tonsrs, 15s, 20s, 255;
Spoons, w ithout case. ss, 7s 6d half-dozen
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 265; with
Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding (Biscuit), £3,
£3 10s, £4 ; handsome present.
A. Saunders (Registered),
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 16c. Gold, £!
Diamonds, £2 10s and i 3. Any Name o
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similai
Mgmm
A. Saunders.
Silver-plated Butter, Cut Glass, 8s 6d ;
larger, 10s.
1. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call anc
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
'ifcS ' >f.V. 1
815 George-street, Sydney


Banking. Publio Companies, &o.
H. 5.111. Iflont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Makble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroh'ing Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
*Sot\tta&V
hcad or Pice
Intersection Hunter,Buck AND
Castle reach Streets.—
• SYOR£Y •
7l_ Established - 1879. tU c
Office in Austria* *
Annual Income ah d Invested
Funds Exceed£2oo. OOQ Berlin* .
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, haring paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Capital Paid-up £38,000
Reserve Liability .. £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in rettard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of London
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Inaoiity.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Miu, an, M.P., A. W. Mkk.ks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Pracket, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN A THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/1 J. of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, O RIM WADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Reader. mam Hollow Ground
rl*»
r
s>^V
**
N2VER REQUIRES GRINDINu.
WADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT. & CO., LONDON. V.
VIIIICKT/S Fluid IHsiufrrtnnt clears out Buys,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverflsh, and Fevers.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jb€ TrGstccs, CwGtorS,
AND
Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £73,375 15 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £160.000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ... £6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydnky Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Rbgistkrkd Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up Capital .. .. £3,082,511
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E C. O. Howard.
London Office: l Jiis/topsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Hay market, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. | ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
ELECTRINE.
I Julies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
Public Service Board,
60 Young-street, Sydney,
17th December, 1898.
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION of CANDIDATES for
JUNIOR CLERKSHIPS in the PUBLIC SERVICE
of the COLONY will be held in Sydney, and at various
Country centres, which will be fixed as far as possible to
suit the convenience of candidates, on the 20th MARCH
next and four following days. The estimated number of
appointments to be made is 50. Candidates must be not
less than 16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day
of examination, of good diameter, and in sound health.
Persons already employed in the General Division of the
Public Service will be admitted to the examination, pro-
vided their age does not exceed thirty years. The sub-
jects in which Candidates will be examined are .’—Hand-
writing, English (Dictation, Composition, Precis writing,
Parsing, Analysis, and derivation of words), Arithmetic
(full course), Geometry (Euclid, first Book), Geography
.{outlines of physical and political geography, and the
geography of the Australasian Colonies in moderate
detail), English History from the Middle of the Eighteenth
Century to the present time, especially with reference to
the Colonies and Dependencies. Candidates will also be
allowed to take any two, but not more than two, of the
following subjects: Mathematics. English, a prescribed
Author, viz.: Shakespeare’s “ Richard lll.,”Latin, French,
German, Elementary Chemistry, and Elementary Geology.
Applications to attend the examination must be made
on a form for the purpose, which can be obtained at
the office of the Board, and must reach the under-
signed not later than the Ist March. Candidates
will be required to pay an examination-fee of 10s.,
which must he lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions or
the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded to the
Secretary to the Board with the form of application. A
list of registered candidates with centres of examination
will he published in the Govf.rnmf.nt Gazkttk, after the
time for the receipt of applications has expired, and can-
didates will also be advised direct of the place at which
they will be examined. Candidates may be examined at
any centre (outside the Sydney radius) where persons
approved by the Beard of Examiners are willing to super-
intend the examination, and a form containing the signa-
tures of such persons should be forwarded to the Secretary
of the Board of Examiners not later than Ist March, 1899.
Forms for the purpose may be obtained from the Secre-
tary of the Board of Examiners, 7, Richmond-terrace,
Domain, Sydney. The requisite stationery will be sup-
plied by the Public Service Board. The Regulations and
copies of the papers set at the last examination can be
obtained at the Government Printing Office and the prin-
cipal booksellers.
By order of the Board.
9a 60 .J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH Li:;E.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
W ARRN AM BOOL
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 11, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, Feb. 14,6 (Mil.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. IS, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
POUT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Feb. 14, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, Feb. 14, 6 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 11, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Feb. 14, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 18, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERU
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 11,2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 18, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
I,©WEST CJIItKBNT FAKES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydne3~.
1/INGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
Special Trip
to .. isr-
UttdttC ¥ DUIH3
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COY.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on or about the 30th MARCH, 1599, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passensrers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Rates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to —
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P.; lion. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address—Kiemseii*.
Code— Moheing & Near, eto.
Telephone No. r>!»s.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
TRADE
GIRL U BRANO
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Kx| ’ n '* H , Sl ;r. viw to and from West Australian.
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOU MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT I‘IRIE
And GULF FORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Rockton, Friday, February 10.
S.S. Wollowra, Sat., February 18.
ALBANY, >
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VAHSE, DONGAURA,
BUNBUItY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
February 10.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
February 18.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinfra, Saturday,
February 11.
Best, <(; Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A U S N
Company at all ports.
G. 8. YUJLL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Ilrindisi.
v_/a.uniji ui xiuuaro.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
"W° ra ble terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
ID‘|luiraith, in^acharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
LTilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PIIILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and everv Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,'ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA. SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co's Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOIIMANN <fc CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 I’itt-strcet, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PA F SUNG HR LINE. -
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS- Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOVVN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, .o n' FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
2* asftenffer I ccnnnnodatlon, Attendance and
Ca Ist a e an rivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE -B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents


“Genius is beloved of all but its trades-
men.”
“ flow can a bishop marry ? How can he
flirt ? ” — Sydney Smith.
“ Bargo ” : A six-year-old Hebrew young-
ster (father a tailor) has just been telling me that
he is in a c lass with youngsters “ three sizes ”
bigger than himself. Heredity or environment ?
Slab of Sec. 40 N.S. W. Criminal Law
Amendment Act:
And whosoever has carnal knowledge of a woman with
her consent induced by the language or conduct of the
accused that he was her husband shall be liable to penal
servitude for 14 years.
Under this section the only way in which a hus-
band can cohabit with his wife without endanger-
ing his liberty is to represent to his wife, either
by language or gesture, that he is not her hus-
band.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Recently died, Jane Cakebread, the
champion British drunk (300 convictions), How
little all this had diminished »Tane’s vigor was evi-
denced by the fact that from her dying bed she
was able to cave in two of her doctor’s ribs with a
playful thuinp, Jane’s monument has been
erected in the shape of the Habitual Drunkards'
Act, just come ihto force.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
countryby discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 24 ’> George-st., Sydney.*
“ Comp.” : The course n£ the journeyman
comp, never did run smooth. The Linotvpe has
admittedly done great havoc with type-snatchers,
but, even before that contrivance was introduced
into Australia, the out-of-work printer had griev-
ance to contend with. I once called at a country
(N.S.W.) office, looking for work, and, in the coni-
posing-room, saw a Boy and girl (aged about 13
and 11 respectively) setting type. Conversing
with the boss—a very tired-looking person—lie
told me he couldn’t “give me a start,’’ things
being so bad that he had of late been seriously
thinking of reducing his present staff !
GEISHA SOUVENIR JEWELLERY.
“ KOTOBUKI—GOOD LUCK.”
Latest London KToveltiea.
"Just Received, ex R.M.S. Oriental.”
ALL ARTICLES ARE SOLID GOLD AND FINEST ENGLISH ENAMEL.
18c. MARQUISE,
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald,
or Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
9c., 11s fid and 12s fid;
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s fid pair.
Solid Gold and
6 Lovely Opals, 255.
Richly Engraved and Solid
Plain Flat.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ; 15c., 355,
40s, 455. Silver, 4s, ss.
Solid Gold, 16s and 20s.
Any NAME or MOTTO.
- 9a, 12s Gd, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s (Id, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters, 5s extra.
rat
&
Gold Bamboo
and
Chrysanthemum
Brooch.
16s 6d.
20 Other
PATTERNS
in
GEISHA
BROOCHES.
iyr
GEISHA PENDANT
PIN and CHAIN.
Solid Gold, 13s (id.
Pendant only, 10s.
Please Send
for our
Illustrated
Slips
of
Novelties.
GEISHA LANTERN
PIN and CHAIN.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d.
Lantern only, 4s.
gold bamboo
fan and LANTERN
BROOCH,
12s 6d.
GEISHA
BANGLES, LINKS,
in
Great Variety.
Our New Gold Bamboo BANGLES, 22s 6d
Broader, 32s 6d ; Children’s Size, 14s.
18c. HALF HOOP.
5 fine Diamonds, £7 10s ;
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
6 lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s.
18c. ENGAGEMENT.
3 fine Diamonds, £5 ;
2 fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl,.
£3 16s.
18c. TWO HEART.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 365.
2 fine Diamonds, 455.
oc., 18s 6d ; 15e., 27s fid.
Silver, 3s.
Solid Gold and Lovely
Opal, 16s.
BOARS’ TUSKS.
Silver-mounted, 4s 6d
Gold „ JOsGd
188
18c., 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies, 27s 6d.
Plain BAND RING.
9c., 10s, 12s Gd, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s Gd, 27s Gd.
18c., 218, 255, 30s.
With any. Name or ,
Motto, Is extra.
Wa
V/?*A
Wl/x
N.OTJC—Our ON LI Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
fac simile of
ROYALJESTIMONIAL
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
■O'
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
GjLi l 0£
2 S'%
K"crfLp 'b.Ck/m. j /si
Qjoji 'QjlnJc
°U: hJui^Zo
0-5
(Ax
l/vv
KOKO
&
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and its
unique Testimon als prove It to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harm less, Clean. Cool, A Invigorating, t 2 6 A 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Stores AC. THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD., 16, Bevis Marks, LONDON, ENG.
“Tb€ R€AL MAC KAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
ENOS‘FRUIT SALT’
ft. Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
0
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Shin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyeemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestirmted.”—A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUB. It is, in fact,
NATURE S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION . —See capsule marked FNO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a I MIT A riON. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
$
€9
(
m
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
\A' HY are the Preparations manufactured by R. HOL-
' ' LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge —2O years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing hut quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says “ Everywhere Igo I heat-
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
'm
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, hut with a full, thick head of hair.”—P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20 9 97.
PRICE, per Bottle, Bs., 4s.* 55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extrafor postage. Sold by all Chemists.
E. HOLLAND,
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL
• M: EX.BOXJR3VE •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY AND COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
ss. to 12s. per Day ... y Inclusive Terms -{ . . 255. to £3 10s. per Week.
ROOMS ONLY—at from 2s. to 10s. per Day; 12s. f>d. to £3 3s. per Week.
Two Dining Hooma (2s. 6D. 4. Is.) and Cafe.
The Rationale of the Mosquito-Net.
A medical correspondent gossips interestingly on
a Bulletin text
BiLLKriN (20/11/’9B) asks why Papuan Macgregor places
such faith in mosquito-nets as a preventive of malaria.
It proves that the old Dictator keeps his professional
Up to date - for the mosquito factor in many
ls being worked out bj Surgeon-Major
results * tle * nt^lan Medical Service, with interesting
eJii ome yearH a ft° Ross and Manson (I write from memory,
®P en J to correction as to the actual dis-
trnm fOU ? d J" the blood of P er Hons suffering
1?". malarial fever certain discs of protoplasm
ich underwent definite changes during the course
ot the periodic secures. These were proved to be
r 'i a ! P arasites - Later on they discovered in blood
* had been for some time removed from the body, a
re s ' ,nil l ar in for "‘ to a minute octopus,
r showed that the structure represented the
'u a /°‘! n suitable for conveyance to another
nf it« i;fl h K® e t body „ would pass through another stage
of its life-history. For obvious reasons, the mosquito
suspected of being the host, and the dissection of cer-
mi?, J l 0f mosquitoes which had been fed on
eitstenee . co " ta,mn * f these organisms showed the
of the malarial parasTes & ° f lar ** numbers
_ TL 6 :" went . to work on malaria of birds, and in
hi•m£Ti »n??E e ? m . ents Proved that their parasite is
ldenticid with that of men. His observations, according
to Manson, tend to the following conclusions (1) The
malaria paras, te is principally a parasite of insects. (2)
It is only an accidental visitor to man. (3) Not all mos-
re ca , pa , ble of acfc > n f- r host to it. (4) Particular
mosquitoes' 14 a^a Seem t 0 demand P arfc >cular species of
tJf b ? 8e ex P ,a '. n many of the peculiarities of malarial dis-
tribution and infection.
Ypa« AA n oS ' ,ui^ 0 d ? eB not confine itself to malaria.
? ancroffc - of ,Brisbane, and Manson, then of
S®T°. n '' discovered a long worm-like organism in the
vil F nL? pe - )ple ' • Tbis Filaria sanguinis hominls
' e r.noeturna, as its scientific title goes, is, when full-
fi1 o e"hair eV D a i Twf 1? lp , ntrth and of rhe thickness of a
?i?rn,i tl t J l l b ?blt BJ 'he lar h r er blood-vessels and is noc-
,tB bablt f-. Experiments proved the mosquito
life cvHe h r thlS creature also during onestage of its
mpc>c ,e . Later on, researches were made into the
dkiAAT 'll e ! ephan^,aa iS' an d it was proved that this
SJi/h? t e , a ; laol,strllclln B lnd inflaming the
jmphatic channels of the part affected. Chylurta (milkv
ofelenhanHa ° ftCn P rec edes,and is usually a concomitan t
nerh,mnt faC a t nH P i e H nUpalar ? efield of conjecture and ex-
i the mosquito comes to be a somewhat
o h?r i?, The p r lnci P le may be extended to
o fliesin ic f*~ tbe . contra ' :t,ol .i of anthrax from the bites
infected country is well known; the“bung-
cirv ° f *“m , “cr, a n d » sandy-blight’’show a large capa-
city for the distribution of virulent septic organisms
fo°rm e , ST* thi '“ » po9sible explanation oTcertain
°Th?.r f fu a ?r e r a " d other malignant neoplasms.
«I!tt , »!,i dl, rlba . tl ? nofthe mosquito may come to be
f. L at : ° f r'r ,nent ’ ,n t ome lat 'tudes. The latest notion
in ivn? S h° kerosene. The mosquito deposits her eg-a
i?t b^nd S t h hen f H ,naSSeS rrK n the SUrfare of water » about sun-
'd l K ben dies. The eggs rapidly hatch out and pro-
*££**&* in turn deyelop the form of the adult
mosquito. Kerosene is absolutely fatal to eggs grubs
f£ d ad,dtB a, ' ke - and a couple of ounces poured gently on
of ill aHeaH f ? po ,°u 20rt ‘ SC|l,are ' vill clear it of mosquitoes
of all ages during the next 24 hours. A few applications
account literally for millions, and in certain of the
MmOTt y ahdkhS al ° n ,'i the Mississippi the pest has been
nundier a proportlonate Crease in the
m toalcob ?J' aII dical men who have prac-
riMd "A" a " ree with .Vour Anglo-Indian
friend, in theory if not in practice. Blackwater fever the
man^n 0 / p ?p, S al Af / i ® x ' alw *y« chooses the drinking.
’ J** IPrentice, 1 Prentice, of Bilantyre, gives an instance of two
of whiakv hadbeen “ making merry over a bottle
of whisky, after a long spell of teetotalism. One de-
veloped bilious fever, the other blackwater fever. And
Prentice is no cold-water fiend either.
To sum tip —the best way to keep dear of malaria is to
avoid Whisky and chills, to wear flannel, and to use a
mosquito-net. Which is the advice of the Dictator of
Papua.
PUYYARA.


Schoolmaster: “I am thinking of the
very best boy that ever was in this school, and
where do you think he is?” All the boys; “In
Heaven, sir I” “ Well —er —no, not exactly. He
has a grocery-shop of his own.” — French.
Russian humor: “Little brother, have
you any vodki?” “No, have you?” “No.”
“ Little brother, have you any money with which
to purchase vodki ? ” “ No, have you ? ” “No.”
“Then, little brother, let us sit on the grass and
talk about vodki.”
Two and three years ago, just after the
homestead “ blockers’ ” idea got into working
order in S.A., and when orchards were planted
by the dozen, the jaui-makers sat down hard on
prices, and hundreds of tons of fruit rotted on the
trees and under them because it didn’t pay to
cart it a dozen miles to market. Then desperate
growers went round with an axe, and chopped
down the trees that were too big to be dragged up.
This year the jam-maker can’t get a look-in—the
retail fruit people want it all, and more.
SUITS TO ORDER!
MARVELLOUS REDUCTIONS IN
TAILORING !
GOING WITH THE TIMES 1
C'GH^MDeuitoiiin,
18 MAKING A SPECIAL FEATIRB OF HIS
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
He has purchased a large Btock of the very best Mate-
rial, has adopted the Latest Improvements and Appli-
ances, and is prepared to make a single Garment or a
Suit at prices which defy competition.
You can select from a choice assortment of the, best
West of England, Scotch, Kaiapoi, or Geelong Tweeds,
Fox’s Navy Blue Serges and Sergerettes, and have a
SUIT made in the most fashionable style, guaranteed fit
and superior workmanship, for
TWO GUINEAS,
with an extra pair of Trousers given in.
The Best Value anywhere. Equal to Four-Guinea Suits
at other establishments. Write for Patterns and Self-
measurement Forms.
Place your orders early for the Autumn and Winter
Season.
0. G. HATTE, NEWTOWN.
CECOND-HAND
® ASD
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charted else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO..
278 Georsre-st. (8 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS' IRON
In concentrated drop*.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
o( the blood,and ena-
blingOi' constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
I Highly recommended
for weak and
I debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/(hot all
the good effect* of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion.and
it does not blacken the teeth ”
»nm »Y CHEMISTS *l.l. TBI WOMB OYH*.
WHOLESALE : Parts, 130, Rue Lafayette.
Publishers’ Notices.
Science & Medical Book
DEPOT.
BOOK OF NATURE, or Illustrated Marriage
Guide, 3s fid ; posted anywhere, 4s.
FRUITS OF PHILOSOPHY, known as
Knowlton Pamphlet, Is* posted, Is 2d.
LAW OF POPULATION, by Mrs. Annie
Besant, Is ; posted, Is 2d.
PHALLIC, or Skx Worship, by Joseph Symes,
Is ; posted, Is 2d.
SOCIAL SCIENCE, 3s fid and ss.
PLAIN HOME TALK (Dr. Foote), 8s 6d. New
1808 edition.
MARRIAGE, by Mrs. Besant, Is; posted, Is 2d.
A- T Wilson, 19 Bourke-street, Melb.
~ 7r SPORTING_PAMPHLET7 r
The Art of Successful Watering,
by
A well-known Australian Sportsman of
Twenty Years’ Standing.
AN INVALUABLE' GUIDE TO BACKERS,
POST FREE, 1/1.
Sole Agent, Box 1324, G.P.0., Sydney.
- SMALL FORTUNE
FOR A £.5 NOTE
PERTH, W.A..,
Adjoining the Property recently purchased by the Right
Rev. Dr. Gibney, and the Perth Commonage.
ALLOTMENTS. £6 each. 76 links by 200 links.
10s. deposit, ss. per month. No interest. Free
deeds under Torrens' Act upon completion of payments.
Gold return for the yeir 1898, over £4,000,000. 4J
millions being expended on the Cooltrardie Water Supply.
Cable trains now being laid in Perth. Splendid returns
from timber, agriculture, &c. Buy now and reap large
profits. Mr. Broughton, having recently returned from
Perth, can guarantee that the land is as represented : free
from rocks, gullies and swamps, and in a splendid posi-
tion. Deeds made out in the names of children or
married women. Personal attention in Sydney unneces-
sary. Plans and all information post free on application to
E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
Bworn Valuator under the Real Property Act,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Mining Notice.
BRIDGED PROSPECTUS OP
The Ovens & Auckland
Alluvial G.M. Co.
(To be registered as a “ No Liability " Company.)
Capitali
£30,000 In 60,000 Shares of 10s. each.
80,000 shares as paid up to 6s. are retained by the vendors
(the Ovens and Buckland G.M. Syndicate No Liability),
and
30,000 shares are offered to the public on the following
terms Is. 6d. per share on application, and Is. 6d.
per share on allotment. The whole of the money
thus raised to be placed to the credit of the company,
less brokerage and flotation expenses.
DIRECTORS:
To be appointed by the shareholders at the first meeting
of the company).
BROKERS:
CLARKE & CO., 309 Collins-street, Melbourne.
SOLICITOR:
H. HALE BUDD, Bank-place, Collins-street, Melb.
LEGAL MANAGER (pro tern.):
EDWARD W. HUBBARD, Norwich Union Chambers,
34 Queen-street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
This company is being formed to acquire from
the vendors (the Ovens and Buckland G.M. Syn-
dicate No Liability)—Lease 3656, Beechworth,
35a. 3r. ; lease 3750, Beechworth, 16a. 2r. 35p. ;
lease 3914, Beechworth, 17a. lr. 22p. ; together
with the southern-most portion of lease application
4 P.P., Bright, 130 a. 3r. 19p., making in all 200
acres 2roods and 36 perches, or thereabouts. All
these leases are contiguous, and contain the very
pick of auriferous ground in the Ovens Valley,
and are within one mile of the Eurobin railway
station.
In placing this property before the public, the
vendors would point out that they have spent over
£l2OO to determine the value of these alluvial flats
during the past 18 months, and have tested the
ground in the first instance by putting down bores,
which disclosed a Imdy of wash AVERAGING
Oft. in DEPTH, from 3ft. to 4ft. from grass. To
make assurance doubly sure, shafts were sunk on
the sites of bores, as well as elsewhere, and
in each instance the wash was struck and pro-
spects taken out, all of which were of a highly
payable nature. In order to drain the ground
and so determine the extent of wash, a race was
put in from the Ovens River for 24 chains. This
race cut through 19 chains of payable dirt.
Drives were also put in on the high bank, and as
much as 17ft. of WASHDIRT WAS DIS-
CLOSED, CARRYING GOLD FROM TOP
TO BOTTOM. Mr. Reginald Murray, late
Government Geologist, has visited the property,
and extracts from his report will be found in full
prospectus ; also, a report from Mr. W. B. Gray,
of Maldon. The services of a practical engineer,
Mr. R. R. Hedley, of Yackandandah, who has
special knowledge of the barge system (now being
so successfully worked by the Hon. J. A. Wallace,
of Staghorn Flat and elsewhere), were obtained.
His report gives a good idea both as to the great
value of the holding and the adaptability of the
ground for working with a barge. Mr. A. E.
Glover’s report determines the value of the gold
won, £4 2s. llsd. per oz.
When 20,000 shares are applied for the company
may be registered.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
The vendors are so thoroughly satisfied with the
value of the property that they prefer taking
shares rather than stipulating for a cash considera-
tion, such shares only paid up to 6s.
There is no further prospecting work required, |
the ground having been most exhaustively tested 1
and its value determined, and it now only requires ,
suitable machinery to make this a paying com-
pany.
Full prospectus can be obtained with extracts
from report of Mr. Reginald A. F. Murray,
together with full report from Mr. R. R. Hedley
and letter from W. B. Gray, Esq., of Maldon,
from the brokers, and from the legal manager, as
above.
KRUPP’S
Ball Mills, Batteries, Bilharz Tables,
Steel Shoes and Dies, Crushing Bolls,
Wheels and Axles.
WESTINGHOUSE
WESTINGHOUSE
Electrical Machinery
for Lighting, Traction,
Winding and Pumping.
Engines.
CALLENDER
Cables for
Power.
Transmission of
CYANIDE
98/100 per cent. N 3 Brand.
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Queen-st., Melbourne.
VITADATIQ
THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY.
Xleglatered.
It you have suffered (or 20 years VITADATIO will cure
you, and don’t forget It. VITADATIO will cure you
(without operation), even when the eminent doctors of
London, Melbourne, or any other part of the world have
failed ; be it Bright’s Disease. Cancer, Hydatids, Con-
sumption, Piles, Gall Stones, Liver or Kidney Compljnt,
Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Indigestion, &o.
TESTIMONIAL.
876 Bay St., Port Melbourne,
October 3rd, 1898.
Mr. W. Webber,
Proprietor of “ Vitadatio.’'
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure that I write you
these few lines to tell you what your great remedy,
“ Vitadatio,” has done for me. At the beginning of my
illness I was living in America, and was attending a ball
to see the “ New Year in,” in 1897. On my way home I
took a very severe cold, through going from the heated
ballroom out into the cold air (the snow being two or three
feet deep). I was laid up for some considerable time, and
'J
r
BEFORE.
m
fm
J 'ji * *
X
1
\
AFTER.
treated by some of the most eminent physicians in
America, but all to no advantage. Hemorrhage of the
lung set in, and 1113' doctors said that I had “ gone into
Consumption,” and that there was no cure for me, and
advised me to return to my native land, Australia. So
on the 4th June, 1897, I arrived back in, Melbourne. I
then consulted many doctors, and tried all sorts of medi-
cines, but got no relief, so naturally began to despair.
My husband heard from our friend, Mr. H. M'Kenzie,
sewer contractor at South Yarra, how his son had been
cured of Consumption by the use of “ Yitadatio.” Mr.
M'Kenzie urged my husband to .give me a course of the
remedy, which he did ; and right glad I am that he did,
as the hemorrhages have censed, and also the terrible
racking cough that used to keep me awake all night. I
can now attend to my duties, and can truly say that
“Yitadatio” has cured me. For the sake of other
sufferers who may be in the same plight as I was, I give
you full permission to use this letter as you may think
fit. We are well known in these colonies, as my husband
was in the furrier business for years.
I remain, Yours truly,
F. A. CLARK.
PRICE of this Wonderful Medicine is ss. 6d. large bottles, 3s. fid. small bottles. Ask your
Chemist or Grocer for it. If not obtainable locally, send to any of our Institutes.
S. A. PALMER, Sole Agent for Australasia;
Head Office—4s and 47 Bourke-st., Melbourne, Vie.
South Australian Institute, 244 Rundle-st., Adelaide. Agencies throughout the whole of New Zealand.
Prepared only by IF. WEBB HR, Launceston , Tasmania.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d. f & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and. canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
DON’T LET BABY CRY!
u
I
s
p 7
V
Use Fisher it* Co’s Wonderful
MATRICARIA
\
(REGISTERED)-
UNSURPASSED
for CHILDREN CUTTING THEIR TEETH, and the
various slight derangements incident to Infants.
Dose. — Under six months, half a powder, dry on the tongue, every three hours; above
six months, one powder, dry on the tongue, every three hours. If the child is
in much pain, or very restless, a few doses may be given every one gr two hours.
In Boxes, Is. Three Boxes for 2s. 6d.
TO 13 3E3 OBTAINED A.LD CHEMISTS.
FTSHER & CO’S MATRICARIA TEETHING POWDERS are a great boon to the little sufferers.
Relieve them without delay.
OT Special Notice. —Be sure and ask for FISHER* COMPANY’S. Insist upon being served
with boxes on which are printed the words “ Fisher & Co.” None other genuine.
Manufacturers
and Proprietors:
FISHER & CQ., chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET (nearly opposite G.P.0.). SYDNEY.


TEDDIS
A. H. MOORE & 00.
416, 418, 41W
SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
J'lie SLASH I NO Racquet 15/-ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The Pl'lltl'UT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE STRUNG,
From O-i.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz. 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... S/6
Red Enamelled, per doz. 7/6
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melto o < i rne.
Pub icatlons, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s 6dL.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
“TOKOLOGY
A BOOK FOR EVERY WOMAN.
. . BY . .
ALICE B. STOCKHAM, M.D.
Dedicated
To all women who, following the lessons taught in
this book, will be saved the sufferings peculiar to
their sex.
“ To be well-born is (he right of every child.”
Sent post-paid on receipt of price, 12s. 6d., to
any address in Australia.
Chicago Publishing Co.,
232 Clo- newest... SV'"
*v
yiJ i,
With 22 llacy ILLUS-
TRATIONS,depict tigher
Tlieatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is,
Sydney
Confes-
sions
of a
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
BOOKS
Bookß ooks
Published Second
Price. Ilin I.
Chambers’ Encvdopoedia, last edition,
10 vols., 1887 £7 10 0 £2 15 0
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vols 10 16 0 310 0
Popular Educator, (i vols. 400 100
The Home Physician 2 6 0 017 6
Large Family Bibles, colored plates... 4 0 0 1 5 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt. Novels
by the best authors for 255.
Non- Up-to-Dato Publications.
The Soiled Dove: Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s
Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy, each post
free Is Od ; The Ballet Girl’s Gay Life behind the Scenes,
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard, Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
RW Q XT'T MAT CD New and Second-hand Book
. VV . ijAilN IN JIiXVj Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Telephone, 3043. Sydney.
THERE ARE TWO WORLDS.
A pro y one an a Work! of Music. \\ liicli do you inhabit?
.{the latter, jvur world is not Complete w it bout our Diamond
Opllection of Sours. As Hie name implies, it is a musical
jewel, bongs of all nations and kinds,humor, pathos,sen-
timent un i patriotism. 600 gems that ujtpcul to all tastes,
WORDS AND MUSIC.h It till ill I t-UII t ■ Til I COVerS vitllSCWOd
binding lost a.lows it In oia u lint piano or organ A list
of them if you send slump for it. All ,v..ui'» by mail, post
free throughout Australasia fur only 2 6, stamps 2d. extra
Agents wanted—Akoui-Amkhican I em.i iimu i 0., Com-
mercial 1 hambers, Sydney, N.b.W. Mention this paper .when
writing
The Editor .. of ,.
TJ e goyal [f)agazine
Henrietta Sti'eet, London, W.C., England,
Invites AMATEUR or PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHS.
. . . Good Prices Paid . . .
Also TALES of TRAVEL and ADVENTURE,.
Anything of Interest Accepted tvill be
Promptly and Well Paid for.
“I Only Live for THee.”
Words by Edward Oxknkord ; Music by E. J. Emmkrton.
Sung by over 20 Eminent Vocalists ; in three keys, E flat-,
F and G. Published at 2/-. lutermetzo, “ Federation,”
composed by Henri Laski (composer of “My Polly
Waltz ’’), the favorite composition of this favorite com-
poser, 2-, Also Chimes of Normandy, Songs of Ol her
Years, Rose of the Mo n Waltz, and many others. Of nil
music dealers. Wholesale of the Publishers. \fj .
PAXTON &. CO., London and Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Catalogues of over 10UQ Songs, Dances, etc.,
at 6d. and 3d. each, post free on application.
HEN RY FARMer S Operatio Rejections for. VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” "Robert Ie Diable,"
“Crown Diamonds," “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Hallo in Masohera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. (id. each. Also arranged
for sm-.n orchestra, 2c 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., Loudon,
and 203 SwA.Nsiux Street. MELBOURNE.
The wirelens-telegraphy notion has pro-
gressed so much that Tesla, the celebrated eleo-
trician, expects to be able, without cables, to
transmit energy from Niagara Falls to London.
N.S:W. Govt. Architect Vernon says that
brick is a more desirable building material than
stone. He does not know of any premises in
Sydney 80 years old.in which the stone is any-
thing like in good condition, whereas he knows of
brick buildings of that age, the bricks in which
showed no sign of deterioration.
S.A. Register advt. :
•WANTED, kind Policeman take charge of Mitcham
'' Fruit and Poultry Thieves. State-schoolbred
and perfectly profane; willingly given up. James
Page, Mitcham.
A woman was seriously, perhaps fatally,
injured by being jolted out of a vehicle on a Vie.
bush road, the other day. The children ran to
seek assistance, and when they returned the
woman’s head and face had been eaten away by
pi/s. Recalls Ambrose Bierce’s ghastly story,
“ The Coup de Grice.”
When Queen Victoria recently visited
Netley (military) Hospital, she asked a small boy,
who presented her with some flowers, where he
came from, and, upon being informed that he be
longed to a certain training ship, asked him if he
had a “ good time ” on board. Thus has this
much-needed and long-disfavored Amurkanism at
last made good its footing as literally “ Queen’s
English.”
“New York may have its ‘hoodlums,’
’Frisco its ‘ toughs,’ London its ‘ hooligans,’ Aus-
tralia its ‘larrikins,’ but Birmingham alone has
its ‘peaky blinders,’” writes an English-exiled
Australian to The Bulletin. [Where does
the “ ]>erky perisher ” come in ? Isn’t he
from Birmingham ?—Ed. B.] “The ‘peaky
blinder’ has his special tailor, who advertises
himself as the ‘ only genuine maker of flash tog-
gery.’ He is the‘champion builder,’and wishes
to ‘ put them awake to the fact that he has dabbed
his fins on a nobby swag of stuff for his ready
money, which will be made up in the best styles
at low prices.’ A pair of ‘ ikey cords, cut slap-up,
with the artful dodge and fakement down the
side ’ (now, Riley-street and Chowder beat that,
if you can), for half-a-sovereign ; while ‘proper
cut togs, turned out up to the knocker,’ will only
cost a sovereign. A pair of ‘ kerseymere or fancy
doeskin kicksies, any color, cut pegtop or to drop
down over the trotters,’ will run the would-be
elegant into twelve-and-six, but the wearer of
these ‘ kicksies ’ will be ‘ fit to toe it with any
swell.’ ‘Lavenders, built spanky, with a double
fakement down the sides, and artful buttons af
the bottom,’can be had at all prices; while ‘fancy
sleeve vests, cut very saucy,’ cost from nine
shillings.”
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
6. H. Smith * Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO LAPIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
2*7
j>lisy
(Lru uua^v/v
m
FOREIGN STAMPS.
P ETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
FJ Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is (id ; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Rouinama,
(id ; 12 Cuba, 9d; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ;50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, (id ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s Od ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s (id; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Fists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACIvLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Praises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
MOUTH & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
TO ALL
\DOMtSTIC A
|^ANIMALS/sfl
m
ys£Er/
V
/DESTROYS''
Ait
NOXICU&
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL /
V DOMESTIC /A
ANIMALS /Jk
A
1
V
/DESTROYS'
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL .
/a
I^ANIMALS^j
A A
*
V
/DESTROYS''
ALL
noxicus
INSECTS
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at- the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HE ARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your 1 Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest-return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by j
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro- '
prietor, W. G. HKARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. |
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
SYDNEY’S MODERN PHARMACY.
MAIL
ORDBR
Respectfully
Solicited.
.Shots that.
Reach the Spot
Clarke’s Blood
Mixture, 28;
Etio’s Fruit
Salts, 21; Fel-
lows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, 1/11; Pain Killer (Perry Davis’),
1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6. Everything in pro-
portion.
J>>\ davit son's
Re-In vifforator
We still offer
£lOO Reward
for any case
we oannot
cure. This Remedy stops all Ailments
in 24 hours; restores Vigor, cures
DEBILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER,
and all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed to any part ot
the Colonies, 7/6 bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed, to Cure.
Caution to Women!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY'S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box ; extra strong, 10s. ; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE HOUSE.
Pyramid
Pile Care .
THE LATEST SPECIFIC
for Curing
Haemorrhoids
The most. Chronic and
Obstinate character of Inward or Outward PILES
yield readily to this improved mode of treatment.
PRICE 3/6 per Box ;or 3 for 10/-; postage 6d. extra.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD WIDE.
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED aiid
Olilv SAFE SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTETO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatesso quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HA VE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRABY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chamber* Pitt-st. Sydney.
1
_
Coxon’n AvcorUeont
AND
I'a atpbell’n Hold,
Medal Melodeona ,
With orgtan and Celestial
tone ami churming bell
acci) m pan iine n t. No
home .should be without
one. The solemn psalm,
the soul-stirring' hymn,
the cheerful sonjf and the
merry dance can all be
played on these.wonder-
ful instrun nts. No
knowledge of music re-
quired. Special offer to
readers of this paper.]
Campbell’s Gem Mclod eon (with instruction and song
book), 15,6; ditto Miniature (ditto), 25 -; ditto Paragon
(ditto)) 30,6; ditto Favorite (ditto), 37,6 ; Coxon’s Lord
Fauntlerov Accordeontl (ditto), 15/6 ; ditto, indestructable
bellows (ditto), 21/-; ditto, special size (ditto), 22/6; ditto
ditto, 28Twenty other different kinds, from 6 6, to
select from. Carriage paid to any part of Australia, care-
fully packed. Send P. 0.0. for the full amount. Write
and send 2d. for/;ataloi'ue. We are sole agents for Aus-
tralasia. W. F.* COXON & CO. LTD., 745 George-street
(opp. Christ Church), Haymarket, Sydney.
BELTfor *
IMPLYaWONDER
30 Bays’ Trial.
We prant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fnHv explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.”
]
Our E'eetric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS and
other DISEASES in
all stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee w’ith each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), jrivinjr illust rations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
D? RODE RTS’
S/f/iV MfAfef
o?ro'berts
AND WOUA/OS
or £. VER Y
DE SCRIP T/Off
AITERM I''* 1 ''*
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
A/VD ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
S FOMA CH & L/VER .
OF ALL CHEMISTS //// X 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L° BRIDPORJ.
JH, MY BACK!
v.i>
F/
V
w
-=*=r
IT PAINS IF I BUND OVER.”
IT PAINS IN THE MORNING.’
IT PAINS AT NIGHT.”
I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.
A WKAK BACK is a very aggravating complaint. It
1 makes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
if they know how. Plasters give only temporary relief if
any at all. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the proper remedy for all such distressing complaints.
It warms the back and kidneys with a gentle glow, gives
the muscles an elastic feeling, and cures permanently.
You will never need another plaster if you will try it.
fS’ Our “ Book No. 2” gives price-list and full particu-
lars. Call or send 2d. in stamps. It will be sent in plain,
sealed envelope by return post. Rupture.— lf Ruptured,
send also for “ Pamphlet No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S:A. ;or
\V. H. SOUL & CO., 158 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty, in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediatelv relieved by GRIMAULT & CO'S
Indian Cigarettes; Sold by all Chemists.
tuo
DEAF]
T
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Isoisi S>ih> Ki
how longstanding. Areth same
t>> the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST. 145 Collins St.. Melbourne.


Do you want
Consumption ?
—* ■■■■
We are Bure you do not. Nobody wants
it. But it comes to many thousands every
year. It comes to those who have had
coughs and colds until the throat is raw, and
the lining membrane of the lungs is in-
flamed. Stop your cough when it first ap-
pears, and you remove the great danger of
future trouble.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral
stops coughs of all kinds. It does so because
it is a soothing and healing remedy of great
power. This makes it the greatest preven-
tive to consumption. It is not a question of
many bottles and large doses. A few drops
will often make a complete cure. Don’t neg-
lect your cough: you cannot afford to run the
risk. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral will soothe your
raw throat and quiet your inflamed lungs.
Beware of cheap imitations. See that the name
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, is blown in the glass of
each bottle. Put up in large and small bottles.
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine!
This inducement is Offered You to know the
TIME to STITCH !
- - WATCH THIS
The British Watch Co.,
of George Street, SYDNEY, desiring to introduce into
every household its stock of watches, chains, bangles,
rings, etc., GUARANTEES to present a Solid Silver
Keyless Watch to any person guessing the following
Puzzle:—
W*T* H T * E T* M *
CONDITION: Send your answer with astamped-addressed
envelope for reply, and if correct you will receive a Solid
Silver Keyless Watch free of charge, on condition that
you purchase one of onr Solid Silver Single or double
Chains to wear with your Watch. au .
Addrkss-THE MANAGER. PRICE
British Watch Company,
George Street, Sydskv.
o
o
Y.*»
CO
OLD
RNS
SUNBU^p
INC
r*i
HAKFED
N
if
y
s
n
Y
m
mm
(/in
P *o
P *'ET
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
A perfervid Bulletin correspondent, with
a pretty turn for sarcophagi, and mausoleums,
and mementi mori, writes thus on suicide: —
One’s life, I suppose, is one’s own —perhaps? But,
postulating this, how would one like to die ? I
would die in a Roman bath—blood-warm, a gentle zephyr
fanning with an air caught from a sea of Araby, laden
with all the aromatic spices of the East, the recumbent,
naked, Pagan body, tired to satiety of pleasures, housing
an alleged soul (a thinking and loving something), wearied
with the ardor of search for love and friendship, and inte-
rest—if only in the newspaper-hoarding score of a cricket-
match ! I would die to the scent of the flowers that
bloomed in Eden, to that of the humble mignonette
that struggles for a sweet, sad life on a cottager's
window-sill, to the odor of the rose that blooms
on my lady’s bosom, to the fierce energy of
the god-blossom magnolia. I would die to the sounds
of some soft Lydian melody, or a German chant to the
All-father, voiced in the organ tones of Bach, or to the
myriad-orchestrated harmonies of Berlioz when he damned
Faust past all the redemption of all future tear-dropping
weaknesses of the King Almighty. I would die to the
dulcet tones of a nocturne by Chopin, to the weird musio
of a Hungarian march, to the savage strains of the down-
trodden who chanted unpublished “ Marseillaises,” and
to all the glory of the hymn-triumphant of him who rode
through the gates of Death in splendor at Persepolis 1
“Phoebus" tells The Bulletin some-
thing about old Potts’ dog:—
At Booloocooroo old “Dad” Potts had a dog,
upon which he spent an amount of affection that
disbursed in a proper quarter, would have suffloed for
the sentimental needs of a score of lovers. The dog’s
name was Jerusalem, but it should have been Dan-to-
Beersheba. He was not much of a dog to look at; you
could pick up a better-looking dog than this one any-
where. On the contrarj', his ugliness and inbred coarse-
ness of demeanor had passed into a local proverb. Had
he been favored with as many legs as a centipede, Jeru-
salem would not have differed much from others of his
kind ; but it was queer to’ see such a wealth of dog
wedded to such poverty of legs. It was beautiful to see
Jerusalem rounding the angle of a wall and turning his
head to see how the remainder of the procession was
coming on. He was once circumnavigating a small out-
house, when, catching sight of his own hindquarters, he
flew into a terrible rage. The sight of another dog
always had this effect on Jerusalem, and more especially
where, as in this case, he thought he could grasp an un-
fair advantage. So Jerusalem took after the retreating
foe as hard as ever he could hook it. Round and round
he flew, but the faster he went the morethecircle widened,
until presently he lost sight of his enemy altogether.
Then he slowed down, determined to accomplish his end by
strategy. Sneaking closely round the outhouse, he moved
cautiously forward, and, when he made the full circuit,
came smack up against his own tail. Making a sudden
spring, which must have stretched him like a bit of india-
rubber, he fastened his teeth into his rump, hanging on
like a poor relation. He felt sure he had nailed the other
dog, but he was equally confident the other dog had
nailed him, so the contest was simplified into a question
of endurance—and Jerusalem was an animal full of
pluck. The conflict was maintained with deathless per-
severance, until Dad Potts discovered the belligerent and
uncoupled him. Then Jerusalem looked up at his
master with a shake of his head, as much as to say, “ It’s
a precious good thing for the other pup ; but who took
him off me? ” And then (Thanks. —Ed. B.]
“ A kina is a word for the mouth instead
of the ear. ” — Cyrano de Bergerac.
Stead mentions that Joseph Arch’s grand-
mother lived to 90, and was Oft. 4in. high. Her
four brothers were talller.
“ The Duke of Nodland owns the worst
London slums, hut he also owns the most influen-
tial newspaper offices.”— Grenville Murray.
The Argus now talks of “ the most
pathetic figure in Europe, the Emperor of Aus-
tria.” Has the “ pre-eminent in grief ’’ been de-
posed at last ?
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
There’s a man in Melbourne who has
written a book about Westralia. It isn’t a book
of statistics. It doesn’t deal with gold-mines or
jarrah forests. If it touches on pearls it is only
to show at what cost of aboriginal life and suffer-
ing they are procured. It is, in fact, an indict-
ment, and the man says he is going to make many
people wish they had never been born. He has a
big trunk-full of records from which he has got
his information, and he declares that when “ A
Modern Inferno ” gets circulated in Groperland,
there will be gnashing of teeth. But authors are
very sanguine—and Groperlanders’ hides are
tough.
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never lie without it.
Over fifty years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.*
Another old London landmark is about to
be broken up, lest it tumble down when least ex-
pected. The shop in Fleet-street facing the
entrance to Chancery-lane—the shop with a first-
floor front protruding over the pavement in true
Shakespearean style, and many dingy evidences
of bygone splendor clinging to its decay. An
inspiration on the gabled front states that the
queer old fcrib was Cardinal Wolsey’s ‘‘palace”
350 years ago. For as long as anyone can remem-
ber it has been a barber’s “saloon,” much fre-
quented by barristers. There was a rival shaver
quartered within one of the stone supports of
Temple Bar until the historical Bar passed away,
but he died of antiquity and a broken heart when
the city improvers drove him from his cavernous
old home. His customers took their patronage to
the man at Wolsey’s palace, and now that this
last of the historical places to get shaved at is
under sentence of demolition a number of old
fellows will, The Bulletin presumes, lay their
heads back and beseech the tearful barber to cut
their throats.
4
TiOOK OF NATURE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated w*th more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll. Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mourbt’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Homk. Talk About thf. Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is Od.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
llkitameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ; by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle dh Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty's Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver's
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron ok Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs. Athletics. &e.. Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6ci.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book. Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is Gd post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Oliea.'p Book Depot
16 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
FRINGES,
If it ural Curly, from S/B eaola
PLAITS and TAILS,
®W"> t ,o ” B ' ¥ 6 - a " real hal».
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
• worlied up, v/6 per oz.
w* ore the cheapeitln Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzsll;
110 WIhMAU Stuket,
norner of Palmer -street.
- SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List ’
Prompt attention given to Country Order*
m
ABSOLUTELY
FREE.
ss.
ABSOLUTELY
FREE.
In Goods You Can Select Yourself.
A SENSATIONAL OFFER.
In order to introduce the “ MARVEL” Solid Silver
Watches (for which we are Sole Agents), and cause the
quality and value of our goods in general to be recognised,
we make this MARVELLOUS offer. The “MARVEL”
Watch is solid Silver, engine-turned, f-plate movement,
patent regulator, fully jewelled, crystal glass, seconds
hand, enamelled dial, perfect timekeeper and GUARAN-
TEED, sold retail for t'2 2s. ; but we will send either
Gent’s Keyless or Ladies’ Regd., post-paid any colony, for
One Guinea. And with same our latest Illustrated Cata-
logue, from which you may select goods to the value of
55., and on receipt of your order we will send goods
selected without any extra payment. Don’t waste your
Time and Money in guessing-competitions, but send
P.-note or money order for £1 Is., which pays for the
Watch, postage, and the ss. worth of Goods to be selected
by yourself. NO RISK, because, if you are not fully
satisfied, we hereby guarantee to return money in full.
H. POTIER & CO., Importers,
24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
kfkin Wi4ea4e4.
s?leu) Widcodery
”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
•W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir, —For years past (about ten), I have been
troubled with “ Acne ” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene,”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “ Cum Grano Salis,” and was in-
clined not to use it ; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured ;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligomolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O'REGAN. t'
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAYS :4-
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon, — August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitas,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M‘Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THUS. LE GAY UOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Ch em ist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
sa. a,ncT 7s- 6d. Eacii.
f3F"Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents— Elliott Brothers, Sydney.
MEKTT
TO “THE QXJEEKT.”
BY ROYAL WAB.BA.3V T OF
Ask for
Wbisky aod
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
( ?dd9A\Cps,
p(ie ApOejg
JOj
SOPA WATER, &c-
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.FTO (Lalte Illawarra), near
SYDKTEY.
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
P RODUCBRS
or
FINE SILVER.
KlM&BliaBl
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILL AWARRA”
T
..BRAND OP..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Wkinbkmo, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
b.mouhtcastle & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Shifts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per -dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. I*IK. IC It HO I'll H HS,
Gentlemen'sEmporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cswnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
A RELIABLE MEDICINE
P LLS
ROOT
INDAN
MORSE’S
DR.
HAVE CURED TENS OP THOUSANDS, and will CURE YOU
Tired of Trying.
MANY FAILURES MADE MRS. JEW
DESPONDENT.
HER LITTLE HOPE RESTORED TO A
GREAT FAITH BY MORSE’S PILLS.
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick, and more
particularly so when the health is concerned. No
eye can see the depth of despair, where the heart
of a person with broken health lies. Mrs. Jew, 61
Wickham Terrace, Brisbane, for years proprietress
of the Freemasons’ Hotel and Golden Age Hotel,
Gympie, does not go into detail, but states clearly
what she means in a few words. She writes :
“ For some years I have suffered from a, sluggish
liver, accompanied at times by severe pains in my
chest and shoulders. These pains not only caused
me intense suffering, but they often kept me from
doing my household work, and confined me to my
bed. No medicine gave me permanent relief, and
many failures made me despondent, so when I
tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills 1 had little
hope that they would give me any great relief, but
I can assure you that one bottle made me feel a
different woman. I find they are a very good
pill, acting mildly and searchingly, benefiting the
whole system, and I can recommend them to any-
body needing such a medicine. You may make
what use you like of this letter.”
+
A Critical Period.
MELBOURNE LADY’S INFLUENZA.—
SHE SUFFERED FROM CHRONIC
COMPLAINTS. —DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS MAKE AN ALL-ROUND
CURE.
In seeking for a small gain, Mrs. Kilner, 15
Sydney-road, Moreland, Melbourne, found a
great blessing. She was unlike the people we
hear of who are given an ell and who take a yard,
but she was given the yard when she only asked
for an ell. Nor is she ungrateful for her good
fortune. She writes : “ A few weeks ago I had
occasion to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for influenza, which was beginning
to take a firm hold on me. They were
recommended to me for that terrible complaint.
Previous to getting influenza for a long time I had
been listless, languid, and quite unable to do my
work, owing, I believe, to the change of life. I
can only describe my life as a most wretched one,
owing to this condition. Well, the Pills not only
cured me of influenza, but I was delighted to find
that I was cured of the depressed, run-down feel-
ing and I became bright and energetic; in fact, I
am'far and away better than I have felt for years,
and I take pleasure in recommending the pills to
all who need a medicine for such complaints.”
A Cruel King.
ANOTHER SUBJECT IN THE DOMINION
OF DISEASE IS RESCUED BY DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Nero at his worst was overflowing with the
milk of human kindness compared to the king
who held sway over Miss Maggie Jones, Albert-
street, Sebastopol, Ballarat (Vic.). Pity the sub-
ject of King Biliousness ! The tyrants of old did
not upset the stomach and derange the whole
human system. This is what happened to Miss
Jones. She relates : “ For a long time I was
subject to biliousness and fainting fits. Lately I
have heard a lot of people saying what a splendid
medicine Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are, and
this induced me to try them. Now I can endorse
what others have said, as the Pills have cured me
completely.'* I have not finished a bottle of them,
and the improvement is so great that I will not
need any more medicine. I have spent a con-
siderable amount of money trying to get better,
and Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have cured me
at scarcely any expense. I should say that there
can be very little sickness in the house where
these Pills are used as the household medicine.”
A Real Bad Time.
A GOLD DIGGER SUFFERS MUCH.-
TRIES MANY REMEDIES.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
GIVE HIM A GOOD TIME.
Mr. J. C, Price, at present employed on the
breakwater, Port Macquarie, N.S.W., is a gold-
digger who has been going the usual road of
agony which sufferers travel. He now writes to
us to give us the first good news of his recovery :
I desire to thank you for the benefit received
through taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
For two years I have had a real bad time with in-
digestion, and during that time I was put to
endless expense buying different guaranteed cures,
and when they failed I would despair of ever get-
ting well again. Indeed, it seemed that my ail-
ment was incurable, when a friend advised mo to
try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I took them
with no great hope that they would do me any
good. I am happy to say, however, that they
proved thoroughly effective, and I am quite
cured, and, it is worth stating, at very
little expense. I wish this had been, the
case with all those that failed. I have no
hesitation in recommending these Pills to any-
body suffering with the same complaint. You are
at liberty to make use of this as you like.
Approaching His Doom.
MR. CREED’S DANGEROUS POSITION-
NEAR CONSUMPTION. A NOTION DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS WOULD
CURE HIM WAS PROPHETIC.
Mr. Creed, Mayfield-street, Drake (N.S.W.),
sends us a short account of a narrow escape he
had from being carried to a consumptives grawe.
In his case it may be said that instinct saved him,
as it lead him to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills : “ For a long time I had a very violent cold,
such a cold which leads to consumption, or some-
thing equally as bad, and had a most uncomfort-
able rasping cough which used to shake my whole
system, and seemed to break me up. I got a
notion that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills would
relieve me. I took them and the result is that
they cured me.” To show his good faith, Mr.
Creed has got Mr. James Allison proprietor of
the Mount Pleasant Hotel, Drake, to witness his
signature to the above statement, which we have
received.
A Pillar of Strength.
AN OLD LADY LEARNS HER BEST
SUPPORT.-DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS HER MAINSTAY.
When persons begin to grow old it takes more
than Nature to support them. Their old vigor
gone, what sustains them better than a first-class
medicine? Mrs. M'Kenzio, 391 Rent-street, Syd-
ney, is an old lady who discovered a pillar of
strength to rest upon, and she writes of her sup-
port in a few plain sentences: —“I have been
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for liver
complaint. They keep me in good health. I have
suffered for many years, and nothing ever did me
much good. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are,
without doubt, the best medicine there is. If I
had not my own experience to go by I would
know it by the way everybody praises them, and
by the fact that they seem to completely cure all
manner-of complaints. They never fail to do
good, and keep sickness out of the house.”
; ♦ '
A Great Discovery.
FOR WHAT DOES IT BENEFIT A MAN
IF HE OWNS THE WORLD WHEN
HIS HEALTH IS ALL WRONG ?
Mr. T. .T. Coucom, saddler, Glen Innes, gives a
plain story, for. the guidance of others :—“ This is
to certify that I have taken Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills fo» the last few months, and have
found them a good remedy for the piles, from
which I have suffered for some time.” Mr. Cou-
com comes from Armidale, and is well known
there.
A Great Faith.
SUFFERED FROM THE HEART A
FRTEND'S FAITH IN DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN FOOT PILLS SAVES HIM.
Mr. VV. J. Trim, Royal Hotel, Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.), should know the true value of faith.
The man who believes in nothing is a most unfor-
tunate fellow. In fact, faith probably saved Mr.
Trim’s life, since it induced him to try Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. He writes : —“ Having been
suffering for some time with a pain round my
heart, which caused me much uneasiness, a friend
advised me to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
May be he did not know that they were good for
the heart, but he considered that they would cure
anything. Well, lam of his opinion now, as the
Pills in question have cured me.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
HAVE CURED THOUSANDS, AND
WILL CURE YOU.
One of the roots from which these Pills are made
is a sudorific, which opens the pores of the skin,
and assists nature in throwing out the finer parts
of the corruption within. The second is a plant
which is an expectorant that opens and unclogs
the passage to the lungs, and thus, in a soothing
manner, performs its duty by throwing off the
phlegm and other humors from the lungs by
copious spitting. The third is a diuretic, which
gives ease and double strength to the kidneys ;
thus encouraged, they draw large amounts of im-
purity from the blood, which is then thrown our.
bountifully by the urinary or water passage, and
which could not have been discharged in any
other way. The fourth is a cathartic, and accom-
panies the other properties of the Pijls while en-
gaged in purifying the blood ; the coarser particles
of impurities, which cannot pass by other outlets,
are thus taken up and conveyed off in great
quantities by the bowels.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a Perfect BLOOD
PURIFIER, curing BOILS. BLOTCHES,
PIMPLES, SALLOW COMPLEXION, JAUN-
DICE, ECZEMA, and all SKIN DISEASES,
and a positive cure for SICK HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS, INDTGEdTION, DYSPEP-
SIA, CONSTIPATION. SHORTNESS OF
BREATH, FLATULENCY, LIVER COM
PLAINT, KIDNEY AND FE'MALE
TROUBLES. Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS, Price, Is. lid. per bottle,
or six bottles six shillings.
If not obtainable tfrom your Chemist or Store-
keeper, same will be forwarded upon receipt of
price. Sole Proprietors—
The W. H. COMSTOCK CO. Ltd.
Australasian Branch-
-58 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
America’s Best Pill. They Have Stood the Test for Sixty Ifears.
The Exercise-Yard —A Prison
Poem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m walking about in the exercise-yard,
Brick walls around me, a warder on guard ;
Time after time the ten paces I measure,
One hour a day for my health and my pleasure.
Blue sky above me—my God ! but it’s hard
Walking about in the exercise-yard.
Tommy the Nark’s in the next yard to mine,
Put me away to “ the demons,” the swine !
He got a couple and I got a “ fin ”
By the Lord Harry, the Judge rubbed it in !
Said with the devil’s own brush I was tarred,
Sent me to walk in the exercise-yard.
T’other side’s walking a gentleman bloke,
Lost someone’s money a-backin’ a moke.
Don’t take it well either, looks a bit blue,
Got no more sense than to barge with the screw,
Thinking, I s’pose, of the life he has marred ;
Good place to think in—the exercise-yard.
As I’m tramping I think of the missus in court;
The lawyer had told her my time would be short.
When the Judge gave me five—well, she looked a
bit off
(I hope she won’t go and take up with that tofE
Him with the nose that got broke when we
sparred—
I wish I had him in the exereise-yard).
But it’s no use of fretting—ah ! there goes the bell.
“ Put on your masks ! ” Now it’s back to my cell,
Back to my peter and hominy in,
Satan’s own mixture of maize-meal and sin,
Then safe for the night I am bolted and barred,
Done for a day with the exercise-yard.
Pentridge, ’9B.
BUNT.
English church papers are very hot over
the fact that Mahometanism is to be taught in
the Khartoum Gordon College, while Christianity
is tabooed.
David Syme is lavishing bawbees over the
new Age office in a manner that is simply awfu’.
The building will occupy a little over twice the
area of the old one, and although it is merely
cemented after the manner of most of the boom
edifices, the usually canny Dawvid is flashing
money around in a neatly - sculptured group
with three figures emblematical of what happens
to a disobedient Ministry, while on Ihe apex of
the pediment will stand a 12ft.-high figure of Mer-
cury skipping through the air with a hunk of
“copy ” in his fist.
The Boom of the Surf.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was eight o’clock, and the evening air was
filled with the music of the cicadas. Through the
open door could be seen one brilliant star flaming
beautifully in the dark blue sky. The nurse had
left the lamps unlit as the moon came creeping up
and poured its light down on the desolate hills,
the lonely Coast Hospital, and heaving ocean.
A great rest stole through the ward, and the men
forgot all their anxiety and half their pain. Their
silence was eloquent ; but x»resently, when the
lamps were lit and conversation started, Llewel-
lyn, the patient in the next bed, turned over, and,
fixing his big, hollow eyes upon me, asked
languidly : “ What, in your opinion, is the most
remarkable feature of the present age ?
I considered for a moment and replied : “ The
scientific development and industrial organisation,
I suppose.”
“Not at all,” he said. “The strangest and
most inexplicable thing about this epoch of the
world’s history is the silence of God.”
“ The silence of God ! ” I repeated, be-
wilderedly.
“ Yes, the silence of God. The world is full of
unbelief ; faith is dying, and only a faint, linger-
ing hope of future life remains ; for man, in spite
of all, hungers for immortality. And one little
word of the Deity would set all straight. I would
give my life to hear God’s voice as did the holy
men of old. (His eyes blazed with enthusiasm).
Think of it, my friend— to hear God speak ! -The
glory of it ! I would give my life to be so blessed.
I have longed and prayed for it, and all niy-re-
quests but that have been granted. God will not
speak ! ” He turned over and sighed, and a few
minutes later was asleep.
* • * *
I was suddenly awakened by Llewellyn grasp-
ing my arm. “ Wake up and talk to me, my
friend —for lam going to die !” he said. I sat up
hastily, and would have called the nurse, but he
begged me not. “I have heard it,” he went on,
“ and understood ! —the voice of God. Listen ! ”
And he placed his hands over his ears.
I listened, awestruck ; but heard nothing save
the long, monotonous boom of the surf. I looked
down the dimly-lit ward to where the nurse sat
quietly writing by the night light. Hearing our
voices, she made a sign to us to speak in whispers.
“ It’s only the sea, old man ! —only the noise of
the surf.”
“ Yes, yes,” he gasped. “ But you don’t under-
stand. The sea makes the noise—but it is the
voice of Omnipotence—and I understand it !
Listen to it telling of the eternity of Deity—lo,ooo
aeons ago it was testifying as it is to-night—lo
million years hence it will still be booming on —
mighty, tireless as ever. And, now I have heard
it, I cannot bear to live. The tremendous sig .”
I stopped him : “To-morrow I’ll tell the doctor,
and he will send you to Camden, or somewhere
where you can’t hear the surf.”
“ Useless,” he replied. “ I might have got better
if I had never heard it—never understood its awful
meaning. But now it would find me in the centre
of the globe ! Mortality cannot bear even the
voice of Immortal Omnipotence. Goodbye ! ”
He threw himself down on his pillow, and I
oalled the nurse and told her. Bh*» looked grave,
and sent for the doctor.
m • • •
When I awoke in the morning Llewellyn was
dead.
HEMES.
A Brixton (London) grocer is catering for
decayed-tooth customers. With every two pounds
of tea he gives away an order on a dentist for the
withdrawal <>f one tooth.
The monster White Star liner, Oceanic, is
now afloat. Eight such vessels, placed end to end,
would exceed a mile’s-length by U 7 yards ! The
ship’s coal capacity will carry her 20,000 miles
at 14 miles an hour. And the White Star Co is
building an even bigger cargo-boat.
A delightful piece of unnatural history
appears in an Argus leader, dealing with the
sewerage system—of all subjects in the world.
The scribe complains of the ugliness of the tin
pipes attached to houses, and grabs at a
simile: “ The district bristles with these pipes as
the back of an angry hedgehog does with quills.”
But, unfortunately, the hedgehog has no quills, and
such an object as an angry hedgehog is beyond
conception. As well speak of an angry mouse.
The hedgehog is the most timid thing that lives in
English woods, and when he rolls himself into a
ball with his spikes—not quills—up, he does it for
his own protection. It must have been the same
leader-writer who wrote, some months ago, “ The
bells that ring from the dome of St. Paul’s
Cathedra], in London to-day, will echo round the
world ” —when there are no bells in the dome of
St. Paul’s.
“ Scotty the Wrinkler” to The Bulletin :
“ C.S.” talks of prostitution as a “ guild-organisation ”
in the Middle Ayes, and about the special protection of
the municipality, Crown and Church. Let me tell him
of it in the lDth century. In 1866, to be precise, Colonel
Walker Fooks was then commanding the K.A. atMooltan.
I was adjutant. One day the colonel asked me if there
were any public women (lal bebees) in the regimental
bazaar. T said no. Then the colonel—“ I am surprised
that you are unaware that it is your duty to ascertain
that there is a proper supply. There are four empty
houses, and you must see at once that they are occupied
by two women each. I will not have the men going to
the infantry and the sudder bazaars.” To a Mussulman
chuprassie (a regular bulwar or ladies’ man) 1 gave the
order to announce that applicants for the position of
artillery lady-helps should parade in front of my tent
next morning. When that arrived it found a circle of
some hundred shrouded forms (some accompanied by
male friends) awaiting inspection. They were an average
lot, so I chose the four fairest and the four darkest
(“ black but comely ”), and, for anything I know, they’re
in business unto this day.
A few of Queen Victoria’s Thoughts,
alleged to have been uttered to a Maid of Honor,
who gives them away in the latest number of the
Quiver magazine : “ When I was a child my dear
mother took me about a great deal, and I saw
people at work in all kinds of ways and in every
sort of industry. I have never ceased to think of
them. . . . See what they have done since I came
to the Throne by their thought and toil; they
have made the empire what it is. The work will
continue after I am gone, but I sometimes wonder
in what way. Sovereigns have their influence, and
when they die it stops, or seems to stop. In only
a few instances it is otherwise. King Alfred
turned the national mind to learning, and perhaps
the influence he exerted never wholly died. The
last Henry made the country Protestant. Eliza-
beth—the great Elizabeth—transformed it into a
nation of heroes. ... I can hardly hope to
leave such an influence, and yet, under my rule,
the people who were counted by hundreds have
grown to thousands and millions, and that has
come about because, for the most part, my reign
has been one of peace. There have been wars,
but they have been to establish peace. ... If,
when f am dead, the English-speaking people
honor me enough to think of what I would wish
and pray for on their behalf, I would have them
always associate my name with peace. ... In
what way could they please the Almighty more
than by promoting the ends which during my
reign have been the means of causing so much
general happiness ! . . . Nothing that I know of
would give me so much pleasure as to be assured
that my spirit could in any way watch over and
aid the accomplishment of that noble work.”
Merciful powders !
Some “BULLETIN" THOUGHTH.
Our Sovereign has influence for evil or for good ;
Anointed by the Lord she was, we’ve always understood ;
King Alfred made his people wise, Queen Bessie made ’em
brave —
So, how about Her Gracious, whom we pray the Lord to
save ?
What’s the bearing of Her Gracious
On her kingdom “ free ” and spacious?
Let’s be honest and veracious
In our calculations grave.
She became a wife and mother of the ordinary sort,
And the watchful Mrs. Grundy spoke no scandal of her
court; . ,
She has shirked the gaudy duties which pertain to royal
And preserved her mind and body from the strain of
working late;
And by placidly persisting
In the pastime of existing.
She has somehow been assisting
To make Britain truly Great.
Sing hey ! the modern railroads, where locomotives steam;
Sing hey ! the puffing ironclads—how wonderful they
s eein J
The telegraph, the phonograph, the telephone as well,
They all have been invented ’neath our monarch’s magic
spell.
Yea, she smilingly assented
When those marvels were invented,
And she sat at home contented,
Thinking “Ain’t I doing well!”
In Asia and in Africa and sundry savage parts
She has multiplied the number of her people's loyal
And her foreign land possessions, lo ! they rapidly in-
crease,
For Hingland takes the freehold, which is better than a
Fruitful savage-land possessions,
They are labelled as “concessions ”
For the blackamoors’ “ transgressions "
In the interests of peace.
Now, can the work continue when the Queen is called
away ?
Will the People of to-morrow toil as toilers toil to-day ?
Will science, arts, and commerce still as resolutely thrive
In the sorrow-stricken future when the Queen is not alive ?
There’ll be no more jubilating,
Eating, drinking, populating—
We shall simply all be waiting
For the Deluge to arrive.


r
TRY
IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
MICE SIMMONS.
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest CCt Prices.
CRICKET. LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, *c. Ac. The LARGEST awl Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING
r'AATkC! f
\JUUUO I
new shipment
JUST LANDED.
BAT-'. Special Line Youths’ All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,6/6
„ Special line Youths' Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4 4 6
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s (id
„ F. H. Ayres' ditto (International) 16s 6d
~ Bryant's Men's All-cane Handle (President) 13s Od
~ Bartlett’s Men's All-cane Handle 10s 6d
~ Bartlett’s ditto(Repercusive) . 14s fid
„ Clapshaw's ditto (Special) 6s fid, 7s fid, 9s Od
~ Clapshaw's ditto (Extra Spring) 12s fid
~ Clapshaw's ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH 11 \ 11, S.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s fid
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod 7s, 7s fid
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod .. ... 9s fid, 12s fid
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod ... ... 12s fid
~ Full Sire 4s fid
TAN Ll’.G GUARDS.—Youths’ ss, 6s (id
„ Men's 6s, 7s 9d, 9s fid
~ Men's Skeleton, best gold cape 10s fid
BA I.l.B.—Duke's Six-seam, 4s fid ; ditto Match .. 5s Od
~ Duke's P.K.1)., 5s fid ; ditto Best 6s 9d
~ Wisden’s Match 4s Od
CRICK K F M ATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
lull size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this if the first value in Sydney) 80s Od
CRICK KT N ICTsk—Complete lOsfid, I7sfid, 20s Od
~ With peg 3, runners, &c., &c. 40s, 50s, 00s Od
HATS. -Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s Cd, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto 6s 6d
„ Feltbam’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
„ Lily white's All-cane Handle 16s 6d
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) ... ... 15s 6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury's ditto 66, 9/6, 10 6,12 s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord's Drivet) .. ... 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle . 15s Od
„ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle ... 8s 6d
GAU NTLE I’S*. —'Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Or!
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
„ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
„ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair . 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, Bs6d, 10s Od
„ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS ... 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BA 1.1 .S.—Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo,—Nicholson's, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ „ Match, 5V(.0z., Is; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SET’S.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
„ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6<l, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches : 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
BOOKS you WANT!
Tklkphonk 2216.
r! - 1 WILL
ANDRADE.
MJICnEJXi.
PUBLISHER
*< IMPORTER. HJ
I N£3J:2O
—al
CHEAP BOOKS
ILL ANDRADE T\ ■' ,
T , r .u:
;;v;
Wife's Guide and Friend ;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the riifht to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaufrb, prose-
cuted work, Is; post-free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, postfree.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant's famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mar-
riage Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
(rravinßS and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1/9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Moll Flanders, Balzac’s Droll Stories, Zola’s Novels,
all cheap ed. How to Excel in Business. Post free, Is Cd.
Maupassant’s Spiced Tales, ninth series, Is.; post Is 3d -
Crisp Tales prom the French, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is; post Is 3d. Australian Crime and Criminals,
300 pages, 5s post. Robbery Under Arms, new complete
edition, Is; post Is 3d. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is; post Is 3d. Australian
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, wage earners, etc., Is; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or. How to Edu-
cate One’s Sell; post free, Is 6d. Friquette, French, 1/3.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free,
i Tommy Atkin's Mary, by Paul de Kock ; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is 6d.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d, post free. The
Same for Girls, Is 6d, post free.
Dr. Beaney’s Private Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
post-free, Is 2d. Phallic,or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
Wiiat to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle ; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated ; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron of Navarre, and
Works of Rabelais, all in cheap ed., illus., unexpurgated.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere .
WILL ANDRADE,
opposite Waxworka. 201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
et u-o-e Street.
yOU are Sore to get tbe Best Piaijo
1 At NICHOLSON’S in C
nONISCN FarpoOS Piaijos ogly to be bad
At NICHOLSON S in George Street.
Q€CHST€IN SOperb Piai>oS oi)ly
At N J CIIOI SON S in George Street.
mi<5NON Piaijos, World ReQoWQed, o Qly
■ At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
|JANON PiapoS WooderfOlly Cheap oi)ly
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
|dO Other NoOSeS are io with
NICHOLSON’S in George Street, SYDNEY.
"Agonising Spasms of Pain
"THAT MADE ME VELL.
99
“My present state of good health
i owe to CLEMENTS TON
The Case of
Mr. WILLIAM T. EATHER,
(From the Windsor and Richmond
«* Gazette ”)
(by our special reporter.)
A Gazette reporter, having frequently
heard of Mr. Eather’s case, made it his
business to interview that gentleman, who
lives in East Market Street, Richmond,
N.S.W.
“ Have you any objection to tell me
about your illness, and how you got cured,”
asked the reporter ?
“ Not the least,” answered the persoi
addressed. “ I suffered
From Poorness of Blood
and nervousness, and from a general
derangement of all my internal organs, with
the exception of my lungs. I don’t know
how it came about, but probably through
cold and damp, and an improper attention
to my diet.”
“ What was the first symptom ? **
! ‘A Blotched and Marked Skin
and intermittent headaches. I frequently
had heartburn, and nearly always an acrid
taste in the mouth. I didn’t care for my food.
My wife used to call me to a well-cooked
dinner, and I would just look at it, and
perhaps taste it, and then say
I can’t eat any now,
111 wait till tea-time. When tea-time
came my appetite was still wanting. I
could never eat anything approaching a
decent meal, and everything I ate gave me
pain and discomfort. The consequence was
that I
Lost Strength and Flesh.”
Any other sufferings ” ?
“ Pains in the head started. It eeemed
as though a load was strapped on my head,
and it felt so heavy that I had to support it
with my hands. Other pains came on in
my loins and back. Sometimes they would
fetch me up with such an agonising spasm
of pain
That I yelled again.
Then nervousness came on; and proper
sleep at night was a thing which I never
had now. Often and often, when, after
hours of lying awake tossing about, I fell
into a heavy slumber, I should wake with a
sudden jump, feeling as though I was falling
down from a great height. My wife often
used to notice me jump in my sleep, as
though I had been struck by something. I
think I told you my food gave me pain after
eating. \\ ell, sometimes I would wake
suddenly with
A Peculiar Suffocating Sensa-
tion
in my throat, and I really thought some-
times that I should strangle before I could
get my breath, but I suppose this was but a
symptom of indigestion. I got so ill and
weak that I could no longer carry on my
work. It was too much for me. The pains
in my back made walking almost an
impossibility, and I was only too pleased to
sit down to
Rest My Aching Limbs.
My liver now' gave me the most trouble.
Nothing would make it act. I tried all sorts
of medicines, and my wife often used to
bring me physic from the chemists, but all
to no purpose, and I got a bilious, yellow
colour. At last I called in a doctor.”
“ Did he relieve you ?
“ No, he didn’t. I soon got tired of
doctors and their medicines. I must have
gone to six or seven altogether, but not a
bit of good did I get from them all. I
didn’t know what to do, nor which way to
look for relief. I was completely prostrated,
and in a terrible state—a mere wreck of
what I used to be. I had just strength left
to wander about in a dull and despondent
way, in the vain hope of the fresh air doing
good.”
“ I am informed you successfully used
Clements Tonic. What first made you
think of it ” ?
“One day I was walking about in the
bush, when I saw a bottle and a little b<«>k
lying in the grass near each other, and I
have often since thought what a bit of luck
it was that my steps should wander in that
direction. The bottle was empty; it had
once contained Clements Tonic, and the
book contained a number of instances of
cures effected by that remedy. I tat d-wn
then and there and read it through, and the
same day I gave Clements Tonic a trial.”
“ With what effect ?■”
“At first, none ; it had struck a bad case,
but I persisted in the use of Clements
Tonic. I am not a man to do things by
halves. There was a rcinaiKahle change.
Somehow' I felt better all over, .and began
To Stand up Straight
in like a man. The periods of sleep
wnich I had at night grew longer and
longer, till I slept lhe whole night through
without once waking. In the morning I
felt refieshed. By st 11 keeping on with
Clements Tonic I was able to get rid of
indigestion, and once more came to my
meals with an appetite.”
“Jlow many bottles did you find ib
necessary to take?”
“I think seven bottles completely put
me on my legs again, cleared my skin of all
blotches and pimples, and rid me of my
nervousness and the other troubles to which
I was subject. The way Clements Tonic
drove the pains out of my back was a marvel
to me.”
“ Well, you look O.K. now.”
“ I feel splendid, and can work all day*
and all night for the matter of that, if it
was wanted, and not feel weak or
unusually tired. My present state of
excellent health I owe to Clements Tonic,
and it is not the only proof I have bad of
the wonderful recuperative properties of
that remedy. There’s my wife, she was
troubled with fearful headaches.
She Suffered Terribly,
I can assure you. Well, two or three
bottles entirely cured her, and she has not
had them since. Then my eldest son took
Clements Tonic. He got completely run
down, very thin and weak, couldn’t touch
his food, and was a mere shadow of wdiat
he is now. A few bottles put him as right
as a trivet, and now he can eat with an
excellent appetite, and weighs twelve stone
or more; he weighed far less than that, I
can tell you, when he was ill. If anyone
wants to know mote about Clements Tonic
let them come to me. It put me right
when doctors and chemists couldn’t even
give me relief, and consequently I shall
always recommend it.”
“ If you look in the Gazette, Mr. Eather,
you will see an account of all you’ve said
to me.”
“I don’t mind ; its but the truth, and
that can only do good.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William T. Eathkr, of East Market street, Rich-
mond, in the Colony of New South Wales do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of nine folios
and consecutively numbered from one to nine,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the same in
any way ; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Ma jesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual ahold ion of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lien thereof, and. for
the suppression of voluntary and 'sxtra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits."
Declared at Richmond this 29th day of Jnlv. one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight, b lore '"9,
W. MITCnELL, J.l*.
There is On/y One Genuine Clements
Tonic. See that you get it. Every
Genuine Bottle bears this signature.
Some Sydney doss-house literature. “Out-
cast ” to The Bulletin :
Gouli-Gouli" describes the Salvation Army People’s
Palace, but has bad no actual experience of it. Poverty
has given it to me. The 3d. doss might be imagined a
great comfort; It looks it. But think of 300 men sleeping
in one compartment! The snoring among that 300
would frighten the bravest man. Then there is always
an element of rowdy ism among the men. Many will dis-
turb for the mere love of it. The other night one stal led
a mouth-organ ; time midnight. A hundred voi'ses cursed
him, but only made the brute worse. Another .veiled an un-
scene request, and then pandemonium started. Army
men seized the first offender, who was naked, and tried
to put him out fliot followed. .Matters looked serious,
but at last the naked offender went.into the street in his
skin ; his clo:h-s were thrown after him. Then things
were lively till 4 a.m., singing and other “harm-
less'' amusement being indulged in. Three hun-
dred men in one «oinpaitinent opens the door to
riot. Lodging house keepers who have suffered
from Salvation Army competition could pack the
place and .in one night have it wrecked. I tried
sixpriiii.v doss for change. Worse than other, in some
ways. \ou get a spring mat trass, and sheets, &c., but
you are in the gallery over the 300 in the old Natatorium
sw minting hath. You re-brentlie the breath and exhala-
tions of 301. the noises from 1 a l l ow are always wit h you,
and, while there is a semblance of cleanliness, the attempt
at keeping the place sw cel is none too successful. : alva-
tion Army don’t believe in a minimum or even living
wage. They don't believe in wage at all. Result, poor
loan without shelter or food goes to them. They send
him to work for one p onyworth of soup and bread and
a doss on the floor. Not likely he will, or can,
do much for that accommodation. Blankets are not
fumigated daily, and are consequently getting vermin
into them. Shower-bath is very acceptable, but what is
one towel among one hundred? Food .You can get a
plate of porridge for Id., or cup of coffee, or tea and bread
and butter, same price. Then there are curry-and-rice,
and Irish-stew, made of cold meat, begged from largo
caravanserais in city for Prison Gate Brigade. Booth
said over £2OOO was spent on place, and expected public
to pay it. .Surely the price of beds, &c., is a handsome
return on the money laid out? Another thing, clean
your boots, penny weekly ; leave your parcel, penny
weekly; needle and cotton, Id. ! Salvation Army’s
creed seems to be “ bbg, take all, and start at one penny."
And here is another correspondent:—
Somewhere about 350 people sleep on the premises
every night, bringing in a revenue from this source of
£5 10s., or £33 10s. for the week;and its meals, which are
of the cheapest and coarsest, probably bring in as much
more. The beds certainly are at present cleaner
than the average run of even shilling doss-houses,
but, of course, everything is new ; the meals can
he surpassed at any of the city 3d. ami 4d. hash-shops.
If the beds, however, are cleanl.y there is not much en-
couragement given to their casual inmates to adopt the
same virtue. In this old home of swimming, the Natato-
rium, where in the cubicles the mattresses rest on disused
baths, there are but a dozen basins, with an equal num-
ber of towels, for the use of over 300 men, and otic
shower-bath, to get at which latter it is necessary to pass
through a urinal! As for dressing and undressing, the
demands of decency have been overlooked altogether.
Those who want to get to sleep need not think of turning in
before midnight, for every word spoken by the 250 three-
penny bunkers down below can be heard up above by the
sixpenny and ninepenny inmates, and for a choice selec-
tion of oaths and obscenity generally the conversation
would be hard to beat.
Lagos, the British colony to which Gov.
Macgregor, late of Papua, has been promoted, is
described in the papers as “the centre of the
palm-oil tract.’’ The palm-oil tract —the heaven
of politicians.


Arnott’s Living Pictures.
:
S3S
IS
-
- % -i:'
"': . . :
.
%
\
“W
*
■ -m :
- -A
. .*>•<•, - . w
.-XSSf
V M 'HBMI
£sv.- ■ .<-•■
•».4> • v ■
..
TESTIMONIAL .
Mr. W. ARNOTT.
Dear Sir,
I enclose a photo, of my little boy, one year and six
months old. I fed him for two months on artificial foods ;
but he suffered intensely with bowel complaint, and became
quite a shadow of his former self. None of the artificial
foods seemed to agree with him. Everyone that seen him
said he could not last much longer—he could not retain his
food. A friend said to me—“ Try Arnott’s Biscuits soaked in
boiled milk.” I did so ; and, to my great surprise, after a
few days his bowels seemed much better. So I continued
with your famous biscuits, and this is the result of your
biscuit—he is now quite a strong, healthy boy. I thought it
only fair that mothers should know the value of your
biscuits to feed their babies on. My little boy would prefer
biscuit to any food; still he was fed entirely on your
biscuits. It is with great pleasure that I send you this
testimonial with his photo. You can see he is the picture
of health. Yours respectfully,
Mrs. E O. DEA.
St. Kilda Terrace,
Marrickville Road,
Marrickville.
KED ON
ARNOTT’S Milk Arrowroot Biscuits!
The Children's Food of Health. Always ash for ArnotVs when purchasing.
Crime in the Bush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The average city mail’s ignorance concerning the
nearer bush—to say nothing of “Out-Back ” —and
the human life therein, is greater even than the
average new-chum’s, for the new-ehum usually
takes paina to collect information concerning the
land of his exile, adoption or hope. To the city
mind the drovers, the shearers, the station-hands,
the “cockies”or farmers, the teamsters, and even
the diggers, all lielong to one and the same class,
and are accepted in the street’ under the general
term of “ bushies ” —and no questions asked. The
city mind is too much occupied by the board-and-
lodging or rent problems, &c., to have any but the
vaguest ideas concerning the unique conditions of
the life that lies beyond the cities. And, in return,
the Sydney or Melbourne man is regarded Out-Back
as a jackeroo or new-chum —little or no distinction
being made between the Australian-born “ green-
hand ” and the newly-arrived cockney; which is
just. But it is with the farmer or “ cookie ” class
that the writer is here chiefly concerned, for it is
mostly in the so-called “settled” districts that
are committed the crimes which seem so brutally
senseless or motiveless to city people.
The shearer is a social animal at his worst; he
is often a city bushman— i.e., a man who has been
through and round and between the provinces by
rail and boat. Not unfrequently he is an English
public school man and a man of the world; so
even the veriest Out-Back bushie, whose metro-
polis is Bourke, is brought in touch with out-
side civilisation. But there are hundreds of out-
of-the-way places in the nearer bush of Australia
—hidden away in unheard-of “pockets” in the
ranges ; on barren creeks (abandoned by pioneer-
ing farmers and pastoralists “moving up country”
half a century ago); up at the ends of long, dark
gullies, and away out on God-forsaken “box,”
native-apple, or stringy-bark flats —where fami-
lies live for generations in mental darkness
almost inconceivable in this enlightened age and
country. They are often in a worse condition
mentally than savages to the manner born; for
natural savages have a social law, a social inter-
course —perhaps more or less inadequate, but
infinitely better than none at all. Some of these
families live from one year’s end to another without
seeing a face except the face of somebodyof theirown
class, and that of an occasional stranger whose char-
acter or sanity must at least be doubtful, to explain
his presence in such places. Some of these
families are descended from a convict of the worst
type on one side or the other, perhaps on both;
and, if not born criminals, are trained in shady
ways from childhood. Conceived and bred under
the shadow of exile, hardship or “ trouble,”
the sullen, brooding spirit which enwraps their
lonely bush-buried homes will carry further their
moral degradation. You may sometimes see a
dray or spring-cart, of antiquated pattern, drag-
ging wearily and unnoticed into the “township,”
and containing a woman, haggard and spiritless-
looking, or hard and vicious-faced—or else a sullen,
brooding man—who sells produce for tea, flour
and sugar, and goes out again within the hour,
without, perhaps, having exchanged half-a-dozen
words with anyone. This is the only hint con-
veyed to the outer fringe of God’s country —and
wasted on apathetic neighbors—of the existence of
such a people.
These places need to be humanised. There are
things done in the bush (where large families, and
sometimes several large families, pig together in
ignorance in badly-partitioned huts) known well
to neighbors; or to school-teachers mere lads,
going through their martyrdom in such places
—and to girl-teadhers too, God forgive us!—or
even to the police ; things which would make
a strong man shudder. Clean-minded people
shrink from admitting the existence of such things,
until one, bolder than the rest, and with the cer-
tainty of having his or her good name connected
with, perhaps, one of the dirtiest cases known to
police annals, speaks up for the sake of outraged
nature and reason, and “horrifies” Australia.
But too often the informant is one of the brood-
ing, unhealthy-minded ruck who speaks up only
from motives of envy or revenge.
We want light on these places. We have the
crime of the Dederers —the two brothers who killed
their father and burnt the body as they would
have burned a log, and yet seemed quite uncon-
scious of having done anything out of the common.
To those who know the conditions under which
many families like the Dederers exist in Australia,
their crime is neither inexplicable nor particularly
astounding. The Dederers, if I remember rightly,
were reported as never having been even to the
nearest “township” in their dark lives. No
doubt they were incapable of expressing, in any
sort of language, bush or otherwise, what they
felt; if, indeed, they felt anything.
Such dark ignorance is especially dangerous
because it is ape-like in its “ emotions,” in its likes
and dislikes. There are families in the bush with
the male members of whom an intelligent and ex-
perienced bushman would never trust himself
alone —if he had reason to be satisfied with the
natural shape of the back of his head; nor yet
with the female members —if he valued his neck
and the post mortem, memory of him. You might
be mates with a man in the bush for months, and
be under the impression that you are on the best of
terms with him, or even fancy that he has a de-
cided liking for you, and yet he might brood over
some fancied slight or injury—something you
have said or done, or haven’t said or done —any-
thing, in fact, that might suggest itself to an
ignorant, morose, and vindictive nature —until his
alleged mind is in such a diseased condition that
he is capable of turning on you any moment of
the day or night and doing you to death.
So the respectable farmer—too outspoken and
careless, perhaps, but good-hearted, and never
dreaming of the existence of an enemy—turning
to slumber again after the “ cock-crow ” hitch in
his sleep, hears a furtive whistle and the clatter of
retreating hoofs on slanting slip-rails, and thinks
it is some over-late or early neighbors passing
through ; but starts wide enough awake next time
to see the glare, sniff the smoke, and hear the
roar and crackle of fire, and, rushing out, white-
faced and with heart standing still, finds a shed or
stack —the stack of unthresned wheat, perhaps—
in flames. The crime of arson used to be very,
very common in Australia —and no “land laws”
or “ wrongs of Ireland ” to explain its prevalence.
Such malice is terrifying to those who have seen
what it is capable of. You never know when you
are safe, no matter how carefully you guard your
words, looks, or actions; and the only remedy—
for the application of which the law would
promptly hang you—would b* to sit up nights
with a gun with a chalked sight, until you got a
glimpse of your ape-minded and unprovoked
enemy, and thon carefully shoot him.
There are places iu Australia where the exist-
ance of the evil-eye and of witches is believed in ;
and where national, religious, and clan hatreds,
which perhaps have died out in the old-world
countries from which they came, are preserved in
their original intensity ; where is all the ignorant
suspicion and distrust of a half-savage peasantry.
The police, whose duty it is to collect returns for
harmless agricultural statistics, can tell you of the
difficulty they experience —and not in such out-of-
the-way localities either —and of the obstacles
thrown in their way when trying to obtain the
barest reliable information. “ Experienced great
difficulty in obtaining information from land-
holders ”; “ Declines to supply necessary informa-
tion”; “Still refuses,” &c., are common on the
margins and “remark” spaces of returned and
re-returned schedule-forms. Perhaps the cruellest
of all tbe bad sights of the bush is the case of the
child born to a family with which it has nothing
in common mentally (possibly physically)—the
“ throw-back ” to original and better stock —whose
bright mind is slowly but surely warped to mad-
ness by the conditions of life under which the
individual is expected to be contented and happy.
Such warped natures are often responsible for the
worst sexual crimes. There are brutally selfish
parents in the bush who regard and work their
children as slaves —and worse. Any experienced
bush school-teacher could bear me out in this, with
heartrending stories of child slavery and ill-treat-
ment almost past belief. I remember the case of
a boy who attended night-school with me for a
few months in the bush. His parents sent him
under pressure of “public opinion.” He had to
work from daylight until after dark, and do the
work of a man —or be starved and beaten to it.
He was 19, and an idiot. But some people said
that he was only an adopted son.
Democratic Maoriland, with its natural and
geographical advantages over Australia, is yet not
free from the dark spot I refer to. I have known
three white children at a Maori (native) school
who belonged to a family of (originally) seventeen
children. Two or three of the family were alleged
to be the children of the eldest unmarried daughter.
Of the three who attended school, two girls and a
boy, the boy was over fourteen; the girls eight and
nine. The boy was ignorant even of the existence
of an alphabet. He had the face of a weazened,
vicious little old man; and a good deal of the
nature. The girls’ faces were little masks of what
their mother’s might have been were she 20 or 30
years older. Both parents looked younger and
fresher than the children. Boy and girls rose at
daylight, cooked their parents’ breakfast (bacon,
eggs, &c.), carried it into them, had a meal of
bread and fat, and, when necessary, went into the
busb to cut and get together a load of firewood.
And the girls were eight and nine. The boy’s
physical development was naturally abnormal, but
his head didn’t seem to belong to his body. Sons
can be over-worked, starved, stunted mentally,
and otherwise cruelly treated to such an extent
that they are capable of turning upon and killing
a brutish parent—just as savage slaves will, when
they get tbe chance, kill their savage masters.
Then there is the unprovoked, unpremeditated,
passionless, and almost inexplicable bush murder,
when two mates have lived together in the bush
for years, until they can pass days and weeks
without exchanging a word, or noticing anything
unusual in the circumstance—till the shadow of
the over-hanging, brooding ridge, or the awful
monotony of the horizon less plain, deadens and
darkens the mind of one so that the very present*
of his mate, perhaps, becomes a constant source
of vague but haunting irritation. Then, one
day, being behind the other with an axe or an
adze to his hand, he suddenly, but dispassionately,
smashes his skull, and is afterwards utterly unable
to account for his action except by the muttered
explanations that he “had to do it,” or “ some-
thing made me do it.” Bush loneliness has the
same sort of influence on the blackfellow alone
with whites—as instant*' 1 the latest reported crime
committed by a blackfellow, who afterwards ex-
pressed sorrow for killing the “poor old man,”
but couldn’t understood why he did it—unless it
was because the white man, having stooped to
drink, was in “ such a good position for killing.”
Such crimes as those just instanced, and worse,
might be described as the ultimate result of a crav-
ing for variety— for something better or brighter,
perhaps, but, anyway, something different —the
protest of the outraged nature of the black or white
savage against the—to him —unnatural conditions.
Respectability only intensifies the awful mono-
tony of these wretched bush townships—till the
women are forced to watch for dirt and holes in a
neighbor’s washing hung out on the line, and men
to gossip and make mischief like women. Short-
comings in a neighbor are talked about and ex-
aggerated—and invented. Even a tragedy is
secretly welcomed —notwithstanding the fact that
the whole community is supposed, in double-
oolumn head-lines, to be horrified. Careless re-
marks are caught up, disturbed and magnified.
No respectable girl can leave the township on an
innocent visit without something discreditable
being discovered to be connected with her
departure from the wretched hole. City spielers
attach themselves to local pubs, and prey
with little or no disguise on idiotic cheque-men;
bush larrikins —who are becoming more con-
temptible and cowardly than their city prototypes
—openly boast of their “ successes,” and give the
girl’s name. And both classes are accepted as
oommonplace—the community never dreams of
giving them an hour’s start to get out of reach of
men, or stand the penalty.
Then there is the miserable bush feud which
arises (perhaps started generations ago—the
original cause forgotten) over a stray bull, a party
fence, a girl, a practical joke, a misunderstanding
or a fancied slight—anything or nothing ; and is
brooded over by men who have little else to think
about in the brooding bush. There is the threat
to “ pull yer ” and have satisfaction —the miser-
able court-case and cross-action brought on the
paltriest pretences that ever merited the disgust
of a magistrate—intensifying hatreds to a mur-
derous degree. And “friends” aid and abet and
fan the hell-fire in men’s hearts, till at last birth is
given to the spirit that sneaks out after dark and
cuts a neighbor’s wire-fences, or before daylight
and stands a gate ajar, or softly lets down the
rails that a neighbor’s own cattle may get into his
crop or garden, destroying the result of months of
weary toil and taking the food out of his children’s
mouths. The spirit that shoots or hamstrings
horses grazing under the star-light; that sets a
match to stack or shed.
Mischief breeds mischief ; malice, malice ; and
the tongues of the local hags applaud and chorus,
and damn and exaggerate and lie, until the
wretched hole is ripe for a “horror.” Then the
Horror comes.
HENRY LAWSON.


special valve in Tennis 'fliirts. We will
post to the remotest corner of this great colony one
of mu' Special Value Tennis Shirts (just the thing
for cool, comfortable wear) upon receipt of N.S.W.
stamps, postal note or P. 0.0. for 3s. 6d. (three
shillings and sixpence). Good unshrinkable
washing materials, plain whites or colored, stripes
and checks. Collars and pockets attached.
Address orders :—HORDERN'S, Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
i
•o> : >
✓
%
.
f
s
$5
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Thousands of Women suffer miseries with Aching Backs that
really should not ache.
A woman’s back ought to be strong and
o o
healthy—ready to help her bear the burdens
of life. It will if the kidneys are right.
But if the kidneys are diseased the back
must ache.
Backache is simply their cry for help.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills help to re-
lieve the kidneys and heal them.
They are helping sick, over-worked women
(and men) every day in these colonies, making
them strong and healthy and vigorous.
And the evidence of this is always near at
hand—-evidence from our neighbors and friends,
here at home—not evidence from Queensland
or South Australia. Fs not that honest and
straightforward ? For instance, Mrs. H. Smith,
of 9 Mary-street, Surry Hills, this city, says:
“ I have been a martyr to backache and pains in my kidneys for a
great many years. I could not straighten myself aft-r stooping to
pick up anything without suffering fearful agony across my back.
After experimenting with various remedies for years, which did me no
good, a friend spoke to me of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Having
f procured some, I took them, and since that time have been quite free
rom my former suffering. This was a happy result, and gratitude
urges me to mention it for the benefit of those who may still be seeking
a cure for ills like mine.”
THE KIDNEYS.
WHAT THEY ARE FOR.
The duty of the Kidneys is to take the poisonous
waste from the blood. Every drop of blood passes through
the body several times a day. When healthy, the kidneys
remove about 500 grains of impure matter daily. When
unhealthy, some share of this is left to poison the blood.
The whole train of kidney diseases results from poison-
laden blood. Kidney complaints result from the over-
work of the kidneys. Kidney diseases show themselves
by backache, unusual desire to urinate, greasy froth in
water, red and white brick-dust in water, fluttering and
pains in the heart, tired fe - i ig, abundance of pale or
scanty How of dark-colored urine, waxy skin, pulled eye-
lids, dizziness, dropsical swellings, and soreness about the
small of back and over the kidneys.
The symptoms given above are the earlier ones. Most
kidney diseases will run into Bright’s disease if neglected.
All kid i‘V diseases are dangerous, and call for immediate
care. The earlier the warning is heeded, the most certain
the cure. There comes a time, if kidney disease is
neglected, when the tissues of the kidneys becotne dis-
eased. That condition is beyond human remedy. It is
not within the province of medicine to replace the diseased
tissue. All that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills can do is
to relieve the kidneys before that condition comes, and set
them working right again.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS may be bad of Chemists and Storekeepers generally throughout the colonies for 2s. 9d. per Box, or Six Boxes for
15s. 3d., or will l>c mailed on receipt of price by any of our branches, as follows : Foster-McClellan Co., 76'Pitt-st., Sydney (Main Office) ; 292 Flinders-st.., Melbourne;
64 King William-street, Adelaide; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street,Brisbane, care Elliott Brothers ; St. John-sti*eet, Launceston, care Fairthorne & Son.
The Widow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A widow lived in Wcxford-street,
Of vice aud opium reeking.
Long hours she spent in doing work,
And longer still in seeking.
Yet still at dawn and dark, eon' nt,
Perused her well-worn Testament.
To woman’s lot these latter days,
Proud sir and honored madam,
Have added to the curse of Eve
The further curse of Adam.
Three girls the widow’s hearthstone knew ;
Eve’s curse took one, the other two.
The youngest fled from mastering toil,
From sickening life inhuman,
For money leads the man astray,
And want of it the woman.
Yet still less closely followed her
The luster than the procurer.
The other twain died sinless deaths.
And sinless, too, this other
Who walked the weary streets at last
For bread to feed her mother,
Yet died with hope unsatisfied.
“Streets, streets in Heaven,” she moaned aud
died.
The widow laid the Book aside
That spoke of love and glory,
Of palms and pavements formed of gold,
Long famed in Bible story.
She wept no more till break <>f day ;
The devil wiped her tears away.
”Twas day. The busy court was filled,
The dusty air was reeking ;
Outside the tread of heavy feet,
Indoors the raucous speaking.
When by the crowded railings went
A white-haired woman, old and bout—
Stole by the dusty parajiet,
Past constable and warder,
Up to the empty witness-stand.
The officer cried “ Order ! ”
“ What brings you here ? ” the justice cried. -
“ Tis breach of promise,” she replied.
A titter round the listeners ran,
Her withered figure eyeing ;
Trembling, she raised the sacred Book
Beside her elbow lying,
And laid the quivering hand of age
Upon the worn and open page.
“ I call,” she said, with straining breath,
“On God, the great Defendant,
Who vowed the widow s friend to be
When on His grace dejiendent—
A husband to the widow-, yes,
And father to the fatherless.
“H is letters—here they lie,” she shrieked,
“ Through weary years respected,
For help withheld, for faith forsworn,
For promises neglected.
I cite Him to appear before —
High God — ” Her laughing is not o’er.
Sydney.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
The “Dull Sickening Thud.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I havk heard itl It is the only one of the ghastly
conventions of the scaffold that I found there.
The firm step, the flickering sunbeam, the
strangling gasp, the noiseless gliding of the hang-
man in his stockinged feet, and his disguise—all
were absent, and only the Dull Sickening Thud
remained.
What most of all strikes the man who first sees
an execution is the utter absence of ceremony
about the whole affair. It is just as if somebody
had said, “Take him out and hang him” ; and,
when you come to think of it, that is exactly what
does occur. Still, in the executions of history and
of fiction, there is something impressive in the very
act itself, apart altogether from the idea that a
human being is deliberately killed by other
human beings. The executions of Charles 1.,
Marie Antoinette, Sydney Carton, Robespierre,
thrilled as we read them ; not, perhaps, altogether
by reason of our sympathies with the condemned,
but because there seemed to be something almost
supernatural about the man who is standing mid-
way between life and death ; and when, as boys,
we read of Robert Emmett and Andrd swinging
in mid-air, the incidents seemed to be invested
with a glamor that ate right into us.
What of the real thing which I saw the other
day for the first time? It was little more im-
pressive than the swinging of a bag of flour from
the hoist of a warehouse. As far as dramatic
effect was concerned, it was utterly destitute of
the quality ; the pithing of a bullock at a slaugh-
ter-house was ten times as strong an incident.
There were ten of us in the lodge at the gaol-
gat*-—four pressmen (one with a record of fourteen
Jirevious hangings); two justices of the peace (one
at, bearded, and prosperous; the other pale,
nervous, and silent—eloquent of the fact that he
was sorry he had come). A suburban hairdresser,
and a coffee-palace manager, the only two absolute
outsiders, were in the same condition. While in
th** yard a detective and a sub- nspector of jioliee
talked of the case beneath their breath. Every-
body, even the warder who collected our admis-
sion -tickets, Rixike underbreath—why, they did not
know themselves. . It could not have been for fear
of disturbing the condemned in his cell, for he
was far away, with three thick stone »alls
between.
Suddenly the warder asked one of the pressmen
the time. “ Five minutes to ten.” The warder
left his seat at the door and said to the scribe,
“You’d Vtetter come along.” The rest of the
waiting crowd rose to follow. The eleven piced
along a court into a building, up a few steps,
through a door of iron bars, and saw before them
an octagonal balcony, »ith a dozen warders, silent
and at attention, seal tered around it. The press-
men and the bearded J.P. knew that above them,
in that clear space where no warders stood, Death
was waiting confident and satisfied, but the rest
hesitated, stopped, and were about to walk further
%vhen the senior warder motioned upwards with
his hand. Our eves rose with it, and, cutting
down to the high balcony in front, running at an
angle from a low beam, we saw a thin straight line
—the rope. We had expected something so differ-
’cut—something like the pictures we had seen of
Tyburn tree perhaps; possibly a single tall post
with an arm and an angle-strut. Gallows 4t)ft.
high, Carlyle wrote about, and here was a beam
running scarcely two feetover the head of the man
it was to hang. No wonder the rope escaped our
notice. It was so short, so straight, so still ;
it did not dangle at all. The two visitors
seemed to think they had been cheated
in some way and that 4'tiis violation of
the canons of ’hanging was disgraceful. They
could see hardly anything of the man who
was to die and to see him at all they needed to
crane their necks and craning their necks made
matters feel too realistic We began to wonder
which cell it was There was a door on each side—
both equally guarded by warders-and there was
nothing to differentiate the sides except the legend
“Cook-house lift” to the right, and that was
foolishly irrelevant
The iron gate rkttled behind, and we turned
together to sfe three men in black suits with tail-
coats-a sort of uniform that was not a uniform,
They trooped in in singlefile, and while we wondered
who they were and why the senior warder didn’t
stop them, they walked through us, turned and
strode up the iron stairs. In a moment we could
see them again. They walked slowly and silently
around three sides of the octagon, and then at the
door on the left the leader stopped and said lie
“ demanded the body.” That was another sur-
prise. Had we not heard his words we would have
thought he was remarking that there was a nice,
cool change in the weather. We had almost
thought he would be preceded by a brace of heralds,
and wo certainly expected him to make the demand
in strong, impressive tones, such as the Judge’s
Associate uses when he asks a prisoner, “ Are you
guilty or not guilty ? ” But we had no time to
marvel. No sooner was the demand voiced than
there was a clatter of feet. A portly, red-faced
man dashed across the open space ; at his heels, a
younger man, pale, lean, gaunt, and spectacled,
Both wore heavy boots that clattered loudly on
the bare boards. Then arose another voice—a
strange voice that no one recognised but all knew
when it bettan “ May Jesus bless—.” The clergy-
man came, from the door and the hangman and his
spectacled assistant drew out a small white figure
between them, almost in their arms.
The figure seemed to have less to do with
the affair than anybody else. It seemed
so utterly insignificant and left the impres-
sion that - we could have got on with the exe-
cution just as well without it. Still we looked
at it with its head on a level with the chests of the
big warders on the platform, and we marvelled
how such an insignificant object could have all the
fuss made about it that there was outside. Here
before ns there was no fuss at all. It was just as
if we had come to see several men walk across a
fl or. There was nothing more thrilling or more
impressive up to the present. The grandeur of
the Robert Emmett and Sydney Carton business
we could still understand, but that anybody's
heart should beat the quicker because of the
trumpery affair being enacted before our eyes
appeared absurd. The figure wore a pair of white
trousers, a light shirt, and a face of the same color,
Its neck was scrawny, thin and long—ominously
long—and its arms were fastened behind its back
by an ordinary leather strap. The wonderful
pinion we had read about was nothing but
a strap, and the legs were left unfastened,
He could not have walked over that space
unassisted—that was certain—and the hang-
man and his assistant hustled him across the
few feet and stood him in the centre, while the
parson took up a position in front. The parson
was the only bit of romance about; his robes
almoxt made the function impressive. But the
parson started to improve on the Bible, and the
impressiveness went out of him. That was the
finishing touch, and the execution, which might
have been redeemed a little from the common-
place, relapsed further than ever. The figure,
still supported by the hangman and his mate,
was asked if it had anything to say. It had,
and, to the surprise of all, said it—short though it
was—in a voice so strong and clear that the
prisoners in the cells along the corridors must have
heard. “That Heavenly Kingdom,” he con-
cluded, slowly and deliberately, his voice rising in
a powerful diapason, “in which lam now pre-
pared to meet nay Hod.” There was another and
a quicker clatter as the hangman let go his arm
and dashed across the floor to the right, pitching
against the lever with his full force and sending it
back in a semi-circle. The yellow oblong of the
trap pushed out from below the floor-—then the
figure dropped. It was just like the dropping of
any other object. That it was a human Vicing
did not make the difference we had expected. The
figure shot down and stopped suddenly—so sud-
denly that we were almost surprised, and for the
first time I heard “the dull, sickening thud.”
Dull, it certainly was, but not sickening. Just
one soft concussion, and then silence. The leg of
the figure shook itself at us for a moment, and
forced upon our notice the broad arrow and a big
black “ 25 ” on the thigh, and after that there was
stillness. The man didn't seem to swing on the
end of the string like the man that Lord Tom-
noddy didn't see hanged. He fell straight, and
neither turned nor oscillated the fraction of an
inch that could be observed. “ Rest in peace ! ”
said the parson, but nobody answered him.
After a second or two, the senior-warder stepped
out and unbooked a cord, and a canvas blind, old,
ill-fitting and dirty, rolled down and hid the
motionless figure from our view. We stood look-
ing at it without knowing why, and, beneath the
roller at the bottom of the blind, we saw on the
stone pavement a dark patch that slowly swa ved
right and left. The shadow of the dead. The
figure must be moving, though it had appeared
still as the walls around before the curtain fell.
We watched that dark patch waver and dance, as
the crowd slowly melted from the balcony and
stood among us —all but he who remained beside
the rope that was his tool of trade.
Then the sheriff tapped us on the shoulder, and
we awoke and walked out. The pressman who
had told the warder the time looked at his watch
again. Only eight minutes over the whole trans-
action ! Outside the gaol, the kerbstones were
lined with men and women who had gathered
around to stare at the gaol-walls and allow their
own imaginations to thrill them as the actual
sight of the tragedy just enacted would have
utterly failed to do.
M‘G.


“Given up for Dead.
Restored to Perfect Health”
Only three bottles cure severe lameness from
rheumatism, flesh is regained, eyesight improved,
and natural health returns.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
A
\\\ V V
wlI
SssS
■S.y/'strs'.
XX'}'
r
\
f
“I have been a great sufferer from rheumatism and liver complaint, and
was very lame.
“My brother, who was very ill, was given up for dead by the doctors. But
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla put new life in him, and he and my father, hearing I was so
ill, recommended this medicine to me. Before I had taken three bottles I felt
improved. My lameness began to leave me and I began to feel like a new
woman. I also regained much flesh which I had lost. Strange though it may
seem, my eyesight, which had become weak, gradually became stronger, until it
was perfectly natural.”
This testimony from Mrs. Mary Bright (whose portrait is here given), of Cor-
nish Town, Cobar, New South Wales, must strongly impress all who read it.
It tells of the wonderful power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to drive disease out of
the system.
How could a testimonial tell more? How could a remedy do more? Put
your confidence in Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Because other medicines have failed should not discourage you. One great
medicine is left for you—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It acts directly on the blood,
takes out all impurities.
AYERS Saw 1 "*
It Makes the Blood Pure, Rich, and Red.
Ayer’s Pills are Gentle Laxatives, Produce Natural Action.
“Go and Tell tlie Olliers.”
Thkuk were eleven of us in all, four women aiul
seven men. We were passengers on board tlk:
sailing ship Black Squall, 909 tons, bound from
Loudon toCaleuUi. lhecnw had mutinied and
marooned us on Amsterdam island - a great,
bleak rock in tin* Indian Ocean. Ten days passed.
We had con-mined most of our provisions and all
our water. Thus far wo bad vainly sought water
on the island. No rain from the heavens, no sail
on the sea! Our tongues were cracking like up-
lands in a drought. You have read of the tor-
tures of thirst. May fortune confine your know-
ledge to that.
One more attempt; the last. Two of the men—
the least feeble - started. Hours went by, hours
thatsmote like li runners and burned like clots of
molten lead. Exhausted and despairing the men
lighted upon a spring half hidden under a remote
cliff. Each took a few swallows. Then one of
them fell fainting on the ground, just able to say
to his companion, “ Go—yo tell the others /”
People say that suffering is the mother of selfish-
ness. Often it is so; not always, thank God.
Anyway, the sense of relief ever glows with grati-
tude and pity. Head the following—a woman’s
story—and you will see why the two are paired in
my mind.
“From my childhood I have been subject to
headache and dizziness. At the ago of seventeen
I was very weak and ill. My tongue was furred,
my appetite poor. My food seemed to give me no
strength ; I was always tired. My hands and
feet were cold and clammy, and my skin of a
creamy hue. One day, whilst in service at Mrs.
Firth’s, Park Farm, Thornhill, 1 visited my home.
On arriving there I had great pain and fluttering
at the heart; I could scarcely stand. It so
frightened iny mother that she got some neigh-
bours to assist me to the doctor’s. He said, * Your
heart is in a shocking state.’
“ He gave me medicines, but I was not relieved
by them. Getting worse, I gave up my situation,
being too ill to leave home. Soon I was seized
with a nasty cough and irritation of the throat
and chest; I could got no sleep on account of it.
I would sit up in bed until daybreak coughing and
spitting, and was, of course, worse tired than
when I went to bed. My legs trembled so that I
could not stand or walk much ; I was not able to
wash or dress myself. In this condition I re-
mained month after month, growing weaker
daily. On one occasion I was so bad that mother
thought 1 was dying, and fetched Mrs. Senior, a
neighbor, saying, ‘ l)o come and help me.’
“In January, 1890, 1 went to the Dewsbury
Infirmary, where I was under treatment for six
weeks. The doctors gave me iron mixture and
other tonics, but they bad no effect. Other young
girls were there, being doctored for ailments like
mine, to as little purpose as far as I could see.
“I next tried change of air, and went to Hali-
fax, also to Jlatley, without benefit. I continued
to waste away, and people said I would never re-
cover. In May, 1891, I first read of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, in a book that was left at our
house.
“Mother got me a bottle from Mr. J. Day, the
chemist, Thornhill Lees, and 1 began taking it.
After taking only a few doses I found a little
relief, the heaviness of my chest and the pain
at tny heart were easier, and my food digested
and agreed with me. 1 now grew stronger
every day, and was soon able to go back
to my work. But I kept on taking the
Syrup stiU, and, to the surprise of every
one, the color came to my cheeks, and I have since
enjoyed the best of health. All my family were
delighted, as you may well believe. (Signed)
Miss Hannah Milnes, 18 Walker’s Buildings,
Brewery Lane, Thornhill Lees, Dewsbury, Oc-
tober 12th, 1892.
“P.S. — Jf ice could have afforded it, we should
have published all the particulars of my case in the
newspapers, that others miyht know where to look
for a remedy. —ll.M.”
There! that is it. She wanted to tell the
others. And by printing her story we help her to
tell them where to find a cure for indigestion and
dyspepsia and its dangerous consequences when
all hope seems to have faded away.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where -
ever si-lit a fail, trill greatly oblige by
informing the ilfaiLuging Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas gooker
Ma,v NOW BE OBTAINED from
The ! iistralini (la alight. Compatn/ hi/ payment
of £1 Cosh and lOs, Month!//, until paid ojf.
If yttS is in the room 1 ho Cooker will lie connected FREE
OF COST lo the Consumer.
i"if" five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUK
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at. 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
ALES OE THE SYSTEM.
PRICE Is. ; . . per Post Is. 3d.
,
A
@p(l
mill
Have been before tlie Public for more than
50 years, and liave now the greatest sale of
any Proprietary article. This has been achieved
without the publication of testimonials,
the convincing fact is, that Beecham s Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
TT
I
vf«f§
FOR ALL
BILIOUS £ NERVOUS DISORDERS,
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired digestion,
Disordered Ixiver & Female Ailments.
Annual Sale, SIX MILLION ifOXES.
Sold everywhere in ht .vcs, Old.
ard £ 0 each.
i* ,7
1. —Mary had a little lamb,
It’s tail hung down behind,
And when sweet Mary cut it off,
It didn’t stem to min !.
2.—“ Why does the lamb love Mary so?”
The eager neighbors cried.
“ Because it’s tail is now her boa,”
The gossips all replied.
Cures While Sleeping.
TBSTIMOKTIA.L.
Adainstown, September 11th. 1596
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
rough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified. ' *
1 remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION. g mplaints
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills


c= o
o "n d ■
/r»> mc«h#i
X) XI MTj p I
-i m ;*. T
</> 3d g !~
1 5 5 »
» O
f“H CO rn
S" Q
r-»
Established
1 84T.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
Ilead OJdce and Factories . Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq , rt’rs,lGS.imVil|ian'.-st. Melta.
New South Wales Address:
SS Broadway, Georjs St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost every wh; i->.
Illastrated Catalogue ires, oa *pp.ie„iioa.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
A.VD . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brooltman’s Building, Adelaide.
“OLEfIC
discovered by Christopher
Mudd. F.L S Botanist to
H.R.11, the f’rince o( Wales
Permanent
ECZEMA
\
Sell Applied.
Jars (concern*! 1, 6, post 4,10
depots ;
“OLEftC”
Sri>io!T-M. H. H oh witz, 81 Pitt Bt.
adclmdr— H\bris * Knur, 6 Bundle St
W*t. B oißs E -F B r.D. 3E. I'anxiw.sj? (£u ioB St.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE la per Post, la. 3d.
WortbiQgtoQ P(iii)piDg EijgM Conjpaijy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll Brothers. (A ustralasian Branch. I
32 Clarence-st
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARA*
Sydney,
-A-liS'esM.oleei :
N.S.W.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace *
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE. ADELAIDR
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARES & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATKMAN & SON, St. Johns-stroet, I.AUNCESTON
N.w Zetland: E. PORTER * CO.. Q»aa„.„treet, AUCKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES,
W-- O- ELDRTDGE &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STBEKT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
it *
Jupiter” Kerosene gas Stoves.
NO NOISE JN BURNING.
Latest Improvements : Burns Kerosene without a wick, convert-
So&Sfe'SLS&fi’S Stoves. 6 * C “‘ * 1/3 “»
Primus Stoves, 9/6 each; Price of Ovens, from lt/6 each.
BRANDT BROS.
An
Exhibition in Cooking takes place
LAMP and STOVE WAREHOUSE,
230 Pitt-st. (opposite School of Arts). SYDNEY
next Wednesday at 12 o’clock at our Warehouse.
the last of six;
ROBERTS’ I
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option, |
What is Health ?
JfJt ewm a t iam, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c,.
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
MA ItKKit, 145 Victoria Parade
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
in every family.
A } PILLS AND OINTMENT.
• There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grandmedicineshave not oeea
recognised by thou
ailments of humi
recognised. Full
in every disease,
factured only at
chasers should 1
ids of sufferers. In all the ordinary
nity their beneficent action is at once
?st directions are supplied for their usa
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mann-
-8 New Oxford-bt., London. Pu r .
.-Ok to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 628 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious. ’
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies) ; the Creamery System of Butter-makino-
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
on,v the Ver y Best Articles.
85 P «E&S&S all . the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Zisifc _
ARCADE— for AT* TER NOON TEA. (Note,
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for ~
CITY DEPOTS KINO STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARE for Al JLkNOON fft A. INoto.— Arrangements may be made at either of
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
)ERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION ’
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
S'X-rJJXTE'X'.
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
... Sole Agents for . . .
The New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Batho ’ s ßaking
Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co .
Melbourne, Qunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK : —l4 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, nox spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges'can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in anv of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO. St De
A
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
• MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Niokle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 0 cross. Steel’
Balls, (1/6 gross), Bun « ashers (SW gross), Dunlop Valves (10, - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/0), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/0), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke's Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Ilandle-tins
(6/11 dozen pairs). Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over Perrv's
8 3 gross. t/?, SEND I'OR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
percent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES un to
date, C 7, *B, if, i.lO, Cl 2, guaranteed 12 months. ’ *
°UAR.V.VIKKD 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
Hi Pi Gregory &
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street,
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
I. A. Fay & Co s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
FAY’S HAND-FEED PLANER.
IN STOCK :
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
V/ood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
&c., &c., &C.
