

McEWAN’S ALE* GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE-
USE
OCOA
COCOA. AMD extract oif- MALT.
107 Kent
Street, Sydney,
-FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2200 Hydro-Extract rs Sold and at work
CO XO W & CO.’S
SPECIAL CPPEH.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
■
Campbell's Gem MELO-
DEONS, Ids 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxnn’s Dulcet AOCOR-
DEONS, 6i 9d; ditto, 2
Stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, liidestructible
Bellovvs, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Aeoordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
tiend for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
w.
F. COXON & CO., LTD
745 GEOROE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
s
Ilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
se favorite seaside resort, Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
it by Mrs. Kihninster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
BEANI.Y BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
’
c ")
«c> ‘V*
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLF/S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kiida Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient fjotel.
oo
860,112 Bottles Sold in One month
THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
i «
SELT
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsnrp.assed for Durability and Cheapness.
XTsed *exclusively by the N.S'.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGTSc son, ltd.,
IT7 "aETcsrlc. Sfci*©©*,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING, DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THXT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
p.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan - Lam
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & EWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd_
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-sfcreet,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency-for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
Ltd. ? Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nsland Bepot—Central Buildings, Edward-st:, Brisbane.
UWUIWft. uJALUMJ imUHJIU,, J*wmuiLUU
SOLE AGENTS}
Plummer Lovo &z Co.,
240 G«ora» Street, srmvvnr.
The Bulletin
Vol. 20.—N0. 1020. J
[Saturday, September 2, 1899.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
and
Influenza
Cure .
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
2). A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Vuhlic
Speakers.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Sold toy all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or from the Proprietor—G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT—S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Queen's Place.
UNDER THE GUMTREE
Art versus Artists.
IN the High Court oi
Human Energy : Art,
plaintiff ; nineteen-
dozen - or - thereabouts
Australian painters, defend-
ants. A jury of the many-
headed Public was em-
panelled, and sworn to try
the case faithfully according
to its best brains and in-
stincts.
The plaintiff’s plea set forth
that she was a lady of good
repute occasionally resident
in Sydney. She alleged that
on many occasions and with
various pretexts during recent
months the defendants and each of them
had privily lain in wait for her and assailed
her, and that they or some of them had
grievously maltreated her. Loosening her
robe, she exhibited to the jury numerous
wounds and bruises which she declared had
been caused by defendants when constructing
certain objects which they called “pic-
tures.” She prayed that the defendants, or
some of them, should be punished for a
warning to evil-doers ; and, alleging that
the defendants, or divers of them, had pro-
claimed a desire and intention of repeating
their assaults upon convenient opportunity,
she demanded the protection of the honour-
able Court.
The defendants’ plea admitted that they
had commerced with the plaintiff, but denied
that they had acted unkindly or cruelly
towards her. It was further set forth on
their behalf that Art was no longer a person
of good repute and character, and that in
Australia in particular she had become no
better than a common woman. And they
pled that even if the assaults had been com-
mitted as alleged* they were such as were
condoned by her evil fame, and were the
ordinary and natural consequence of her
calling, which placed her beyond the pale of
the justice of the Court,
.Evidence was given on the part of the
plaintiff by many witnesses who had known
her in Europe and elsewhere, and who tes-
tified ttiat from very ancient times she had
been regarded as especially worthy of honour
and esteem.
The defendants called, among others, a
member of the staff of a respectable news-
paper. This witness, being duly sworn,
deposed that he was of great experience and
authority in matters connected with kennels
and with poultry, and was commonly known
as the dog-reporter. He declared that his
newspaper having been temporarily be-
reaved of its critic of paintings, he had
been commissioned to inspect and report
upon the pictures which defendants had
gathered together. He affirmed upon oath
that many of the said pictures were emin-
ftntly tactful, and were calctilated to reflect
the highest credit upon the plaintiff. No-
thing, in his opinion, could be better
adapted than such pictures to improve the
breed of dogs, and only a mixture of which
he possessed the knowledge would more
signally increase the fertility of poultry.
Questioned, as to the character of this
mixture, the witness respectfully declined
to communicate its ingredients, on the
ground-that they were a trade secret. He
said, however, that it included linseed. He
understood that many of the defendants’
pictures also included linseed.
Questioned as to what he meant by a
“ tactful ” picture, the witness said he did
not know; but he had been impressed by
another critic’s use of the epithet, and had
resolved to incorporate it in his evidence.
The .Court having summed up, the jury
found a, verdict of Guilty,” with a recom-
mendation of mercy on the ground of the
youth and innocence of many of the defen-
dants. ’
The sentence of the Court was that, seeing
the defendants were divided into two jealous
and hostile societies, there should be a public
admission by each society of the infinite
superiority of the other society in every
respect; and all the unsold pictures in the
exhibition of each society should be forth-
with bought by the other society and hung
permanently in its rooms.
The defendants, who appeared thunder-
struck at this judgment, were removed in
custody, weeping very bitterly.
Struggles veksus Results.
This is a dream, of course ; but it ought
not be all a dream. The critic of local
art is year after year confronted with a mass
of tyros’ work, students’ work, pupils’ work
—solemnly exhibited in the sacred name of
Art, claiming admiration and begging pur-
chase. And there are very few of the artists
who are not convinced that they hold a spark
of, the sacred fire, while as a matter of honest
fact many of them would do much more ser-
vice to the community by continuously sawing
wood. They have not an artist’s brains, and
their immature work will never mature on this
earth. If you look at results , and measure
results by the best —or even the second-best
that has been accomplished else where,
there is little for it but wholesale con-
demnation. Then the artists, who come
next to musicians in self-conceit (the poets
are a good third) denounce your stupidity
and refuse to take your drinks, or give them”.
On the other hand, if you look at the
struggles; if you remember how much
nearly every “picture” has cost its maker
in effort and aspiration ; how conscientiously
the incapable work has been done ; how all-
but-impossible it is to make a living in Aus-
tralia by painting, and what a poor living it
is when made, you have not the heart for
wholesale condemnation. This man has
shown you his broken boots; and told you
he can t afford a better pair ; this woman
supports her mother on the proceeds
°* a ler rare sales, and from the
profits of her occasional pupils, and
though you realise that at best she is
a manufacturer of pretty sketches, you can-
not tell her, at all events, to go and saw
wood—or even mind babies.
Let us try and steer a middle course, and
gloss the truth as kindly as critical con-
sciences permit.
The Beastly Other Society.
. Nearly everybody knows that there are
m Sydney two rival societies—“ The Art
Society ’ and “The Society of Artists,” who
glare at each other’s pictures with a green
eye and a jaundiced mouth. (This is no
figure of speech ; the mouth glares as well
as the eye ; they glare all over.) The rivalry
is made worse by the fact that the Society
of Artists is an offshoot from the older
society, and a disgustingly energetic off-
shoot. The old society lives in a rut of
landscape— it exhibits much good painting,
and few good pictures. Bound at the
Society of Artists’ there is plenty of blur-
blotch-and-splotch, and sufficient pink-and-
green ecstasy and lank, long maiden, but
there is exuberant life. The life warms
you : the life-in-death is tame. If you con-
sider : one is the Art Society—which sounds
a little vague and abstract and ponderous :
the other is the Society of Artists—which
conveys a sense of personality and indivi-
duality and humanity. There is a good deal
in a name.
Naturally enough, the Sydney air is thick
with remarks in cadmium and innuendoes in
gamboge. But the Sydney Society of Artists
was at least magnanimous, when an alarm of
fire was raised on its premises on judging-
day, and smoke came up through the floor :
it hardly waited a moment before rushing
round next door to acquaint the Art Society
of the impending conflagration. Art Soc.
President Lister led a retreat in good order.
Some of his henchmen wanted to remove
their pictures. “Not on any account,” he
waved. “Let ’em burn ! Best thing can
happen us. They’re insured full value.”
And vistas of trips to Paris flashed
before the palette-men filing out. They
didn’t come off: they never do. The fire
was easily beaten ; and the artists sadly
resigned themselves to the familiar telescope-
search for a purchaser on the N.W. horizon.
Then came the Minns mixture. Artist
Minns sent pictures from London to the
Society of Artists. When that body woke to
the knowledge, they heard—flame and furies !
—that Minus’s pictures were hung in the
rival gallery. Round rushed an impetuous
deputation. “ Give us our pictures ! ” The
Art Society was as bland and dignified as
nine dead Pharaohs. “ With pleasure, if you
show us Mr. Minns’s authority.” That
staggered the deputation : it hadn’t any
authority. ‘‘ A little cable, now ? : ’ suavely
suggested the Art Society. The Society
of Artists shook its blond locks, and retired
crestfallen. There was indignant hurrying
to and fro till a letter was produced which
made the Art Society disengage reluctant
claws from the booty. Then their cynic
rubbed it in: “Picture-framer’s mistake.
Sent to the wrong shop. Very natural.
Old-established tradesman. He never heard
of the new Society ! ” Death and desola-
tion !
The Picture op the Year.
The Society of Artists has the more inter-
esting show, and it has the picture of the
year—G. W. Lambert’s “ Across the Black'
soil Plains.” This is something like a pic-
ture. It is a large canvas, not a small
sketch ; and the same work put into a small
sketch would not be nearly so impressive.
Other things equal, space counts : a good big
thing is out-of-proportion better than a good
little thing. The subject is eminently Aus-
tralian and well chosen—a long team of horses
straining to pull a load of wool through a
soft patch every horse a study, and
“you can see the old gray leader
with his wise head turned aside ” in
a fashion to gladden the heart of poet Ogilvie.
That gray leader is one of the things in* the
picture which bear thinking over : he is at a
standstill while all the others are moving, as
if the team had stuck and the renewed
motion of the shatters had not reached him.
As it is a picture of motion, it would surely
have been better painted a minute later on,
when all the horses were moving. Or
would it have been better to leave
him out altogether ? And the horses
are a little too individual, as if every
one had been painted by himself, and
not as a member of the team. And, if it is as
bright a day as the heavy shadows under the
horses indicate, the sky is not bright enough.
But the vigour and sweep of the whole, the
way in which the load of wool comes round
the corner, the effective drawing and com-
position, put to shame such minutiae of
peddling criticism. The picture challenges
competition as the best in its kind which
has been painted in Australia.
Two Good Level Workmen.
Lambert’s picture the key of the sho
but on the same ring hang an uncommon'y
level lot of pictures by that laborious anc
conscientious artist, Tom Roberts —a m
with ideas and capacity to paint the
There is, his “ Circe,” a half-length fema e
figure with nudity accentuated by a veil o: :
gauze, the regal type of the triumphant fles 1.
Suggestions of victims fill the picture,
bowed old head and a fascinated young on
and clutching, despairing hands. Yet I mus ;
say that I see the idea without bein
dominated ; it does not master me and co
vince me : all the apparatus of conviction
there, tnd I see only the apparatus. “C :
course, ” said another artist, 4 ‘ I can pain;
pictures ; but I cannot give you brains to u
derstand them. ” And there we are. But I u
derstand enough to praise the way in whic 1
Tomßoberts has tried to paint and has paintec.
His “Dorota,” a wan woman with a ribbo
of blood in her hair ,* the flesh-painting o:
the portrait of Mrs. W. A. B. Greaves; tl
cleverness of the portrait of Mrs. St. Yin
cent Welch ; the characteristic expressio
caught in the portrait of Alex. Mon
gomery ; —these are some of the things on
remembers.
John LongstafF recalls his “ Lady i
Black ” with a similar portrait, “ After th
Rehearsal ” —full of charm, but not so haunt-
ing as the other. His sketch portraits o :
Julian Ashton and G. W. Lambert ar
masterly.
Successes and
Sid Long fails this year; so does Harr
Garlick. The former’s chief picture, callec
“Pastorale,” is kin with the condemnec
“Pan”—a colour-mixture with no discern
ible intellectual interest or imaginativ
quality. The blended tints have a certai
decorative value like that which makes
nurse-girl call to her charge to “ See th
pretty rainbow ! ” but there is nothing else
There is a suggestion of poetry in the lonely
figure “ Sadder than a Single Star ; ” but a
a rule Mr. Long seems to enjoy emotion
which he has no power to put into
his paintings. Mr. Garlick carries im
presaionism to the point of absurdity
There is still a suggestion of character anc
feeling in his horse-paintings, but some o: :
the animals have stepped right out of th
Noah’s Ark of the toyshops.
Sidney Cocks’s Avater-colours are among
the most charming pictures on show. Thev
have genuine feeling and truth : shoulc.
he not try a bigger canvas 1
Julian Ashton has a large picture callec
“ Dawn,” where a young girl sits up in bed
startled by the young day. Here again yoi
see quite plainly what the artist has meant
to convey, and see quite plainly that he has
conveyed nothing of his meaning. Howard
Ashton’s “Funeral March” is an array o'
clothes prop girls—nearly all on the same
model and nearly all expressionless. An
exception is the last girl, with a Rossettian
turn of head—
Ah, but the back look, lingering,
For old sake’s sake.
The rest of the picture is palette.
Dattilo Rubbo’s “ Veteran ” is an admir-
able study of an old soldier : is the muscle
from cheek to chin too prominent ? Miss
Meston paints grapes with the bloom on
them—real grapes : her portrait of Prof.
Stuart is a failure. When will she
paint such another portrait as that of
“ The Moderator”? Signor Nerli’s sketch of
a Bohemian is one of the brilliant pictures of
the show : it warms you like wine. P. Van
der Velden’s large character picture, “ The
Loser Pays,” spends much labor and talent
upon a subject which necessarily seems
somewhat alien to local eyes. Yet it is one of
the pictures worth looking at longest.
Arthur Streeton is seen in process of
being revolutionised, and to no particular
advantage. Florence Fuller’s “Molly” ik
an Australian girl I love. Walter Withers
and J. S. Watkins are to be mentioned with
some commendation ; there are some fine
examples of black-and-white work ; I would
like to own Fred Leist’s sketch, “ Bother the
Rain ! ” and this whole business of skim-
mingthrough a catalogue of 252 exhibits, and
attaching snippets of comment to pictures
which should be fully described—passing
over ever so many promising performances
without a word—is thoroughly unsatisfactory.
And still (I expose my flank to a hostile epi-
gram) the Art Society is waiting.
Leagues oe Landscapes.
The impression given you by a visit to the
Art Society’s show is that it is an artist
business to paint landscape a. d nmhiim bu
landscape, Three or four of. the socfetv
strongest members, like W. VV Lister an
W ' -i C, r n lgUe '' ifc ’ lrd } nt noth ing else; an
pupils follow in their train until one’s sou
abhorreth landscapes. Albert Hanson
‘ JNarrabeen ” has Australian atmosphere
anyway; and A. H. Pullwood’s “Lake Waka
tipu is attractive ; and Lister’s and Pigue
“it s pictures are painted with much technica
skill ; if they could be set apart by them
selves, or with only a few others, one wouli
find leisure and energy to admire them am
state the grounds of admiration.
Mary Stoddard’s large portraits are inferio
to her miniatures, which are really beau
tiful in their delicacy and skill. There is
line sweep and some suggestion in the
shrouded figure which threatens—or draws
back from ?—the distant city in Joseph
Gaut s picture ; but one is not very clea
what it is all about, J. A. Bennett paints
ceitain rocks, with a glimpse of sea beyond
and paints them well. W. A. Moir’s “Fish
mg Boats off Barranjoey ” seemed to me
one of the freshest and most natural picturei
in the show.
Alfred Coffey is represented by severa
excellent paintings from Maoriland scenery,
which one likes the more the more one looks
at them. H. Moore-Jones’s picture entitlec
“The Spirit of True Love Leadeth Up-
ward ” is an interesting attempt spoilt by the
title and the commonplace sentiment. Little
Eva dying in the limelight is own sister to
the upward-pointing maiden. Joe Wolinski’s
“Interior” shows careful work and gooc
work on a subject that is artistically amon|
the subjects least worth painting.
Frank Mahony’s “Indifferent Neigh-
bours ” is another picture in which horses
are painted about as well as they can
painted ; amd the picture ends at that.
His portraits are very promising. There
are a large- number of other pictures
of technical interest and achievement and
with no particular artistic significance. The
black - and - white section is particularly
strong.
The sculpture section includes models for
busts of Cardinal Moran and Victor Daley,
by Nelson Illingworth, which show uncom-
mon power. Mr. Illingworth is decidedly to
be congratulated. The Daley model is a
revelation. Daley in real life leaves upon
you the impression of a short, ruddy, genial
man with a billycock hat and a beaming eye
like Lesbia’s. Illingworth’s model wines
out all the distinctive colouring, and you see
a shrewd, cynical fellow with a good fore-
head and strong features—another man alto-
gether. It’s most interesting ; and line-for-
line true.
There are ever so many pictures which
cannot be mentioned : the public is exhorted
to go and see them : they are well worth
seeing—for various reasons. And if the
public will buy, so much (he better : there
are some pictures which deserve to he
bought. This is “ Finis ” ; and readers may
ejaculate their own “ Thank Art ! ” by way
of echo.
The Art fellow.
Bookfellow's Competitions.
VIII.—WANTED—A SPRING POEM.
Subject—Spring- in Australia or Australasia, or
any aspect of it. Length—24 lines or less ; metre
and verses as you please. Competition closes
September 19. Prize £1 Is.; payment at space
rates for all verses used.
Stray verses.—By W. T. Peters (Amer.)—
Before I looked upon the face of Grief,
Yea, long before Love ever came to bring it,
I wrote a little song of Love and Grief—
But it was Love and Grief taught me to sing it.
By Rupert Hughes (Amer.) —
There is a welcome in the morning mood of everything,
And in our ears our very blood
hums madrigals to Spring,
The dawn-eyed, sunset-mouthed, noon-bosomed,
laughter-luring Spring.
Reviewing the N.S.W. “Historical Records”
Loud. A tkeuteuM says : -'
We were agreeab'v surprised at the determination of
the N.S.W. Govt, to puhiish these volumes. Their recent
'action, about ten years ago, in destroying all the criminal
calendars, indicated a morbid anxiety to conceal the
details of the lives of many of the original inhabitants,
and was, in our opinion, a mistaken policy. Doubtless it
was caused by a sympathy with the more immediate
descendants of the convicts. After ail, New South Wales
and Tasmania are not the only places whQse origins .are
tainted. A larger number of convicts were transported
to our American colonies than ever were sent to Aus-
tralia; ygt who thinks of referring to it? “Sic fortis
Etruria crevit scilicet et rerum facta est pulcherrima
Roma.” The greatest empire in the world was originally
a settlement of outlaws.
And the Athemeurn might have added that the
genesis of the “true-born Englishman” is as
scandalous as anybody’s.


ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CILAIG & AITKEN,
6SO-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wi4ea<se6.
ss9leu) Wkcodery
“*£iymo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all Its forms.
BARCOO Rash, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ YVoolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in'that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the'best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon, —• August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M’Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only ■
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain youra
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.0.5., I*
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRy MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and Ts- 6d. Eacb..
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, SYDNEY ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture,' when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss— Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY 1
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated. Magnetic Elastio
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in, stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
C»
*ZP
OLD
RNS
SUNBU,
FINg
<£>
HA
y
„ Fetors
Co-Operative Wool*Produce Co
* T_TlVrT r nT?n
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Storks—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
|j!MMMIIJUIJUiJ<IIIIBIMWIi 111 IIiIMHI ill BIWIHIII i' llil II II IT Hill II lllllim'iTT"T"" TT—"T'"mnl-iiiir-rT--wn ■■ 1
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
/ Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, In addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assuranoe, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
J- which issues Special Policies granting— . „■ . ... ... .
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, ILL.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £ 218,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
ALL WHO DESIRE* TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&k
0
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT-WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers—M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
THE BRAND
ASK FOR
d.c.l^
SKY
FROM ALL HOTELS
at SPIRIT MERCHANTS
D.C.L. ONE QUALITY ONLY
e,C,O T C/y
EanHal
OF MERiT.
ASK FOR
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE
THE BEST,ALWAYS THE -SAME
BRUSH’S
nneconusTiuciiiD gedt's sidles.
6&US&
tfefcrr
VfOnci
Natural Saffron
4X9
Bark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
JB2*
V\4\v^
V'* >*•'*"'
No. 19.
No. 21.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, wit!
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
“Brusli, Malser, Sydney, Registered/
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit foi
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, £3 ss; A, £3 15s; B, £4
0,10 s ;D,£s; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired. ”/
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d.
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in N.S. W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired —No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send illustrations o!
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 403 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from'any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Goll
or Cycling Suits, 35'-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/0. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
FOREIGN STAMPS
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis*
ld ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs*
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differents (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. .
gj
E. V. FINCKH & CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants <fc Importers.
Our Specialities are—Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/0 eaolv
PLAITS end TAILS,
2tlin. long, ft/O. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
•orlted up, if B per o2,
\ve ore the cheapeitin Au*
trail a (or oil Hair Work.
Send Color ol Half. ■
w. H.wigz^ii;
110 William Stoket.
corner ot Palmer,street,
i SYDNEY.
Cable Tram a-IU stop at Door,
Seed stamps tor full Price List.
Prompt fcttentton'given to Country OkSm*
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract 9
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. aokkts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNK ENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST 1 CASE of' DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
fiiTR
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE '
GRADE FARM
NTS AND M ACH I N ERY.
(alcn’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Hud. Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents-
W. H. 6LEN & CO.,
359 Georg*e Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERS ALL’S.
Address s Care GEO.
ADAMS, Ho*bart,
Metropolitan S. September 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot m®.
-shares in tho above.
Name.
«
Address.
Demonstration EL October 2.
50,000 Sulbsoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name.
CAULFIELD C. October 21.
100,000 Subscribers at flw
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo s—aharea in the
Cnjx
Kamo
Address _____
£ a t ~
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at Ob
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares !n the above.
Name „ .
Address_ . '
£ « :
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subsorlbers at 20,
To TATTERSALI*
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Kama.
Address.
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Metropolitan S. ... 25,000 at 5
Caulfield C. 100,000 at 5
Melbourne C. ...
• ••
100,000 at 5
TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
the Special .
Name .... -
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


Anthony
Hordern’s
FOR EVERYTHING!
You can do it through the post.
Your order, either little or big, will receive
our best attention, and you will get .
mwrra BEST RESULTS
We can supply everything wanted
to carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in ...
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
TRY US !
AND TASTE OUR
QUALITY.
SEND FOR
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Fashions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydney.
BR6NI?
r
soundc
CpVGHS (pi°3 tf
[Beware of >
W /amtati°mS
Modern
Milling*
Machinery.
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMIN6,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
‘DOWRXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
RS&9R
IWHIJ4TBH
GO TO UELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SP
ECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCI ETY is prepared to LEND in any amounts,
at lowest current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES ; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bona fides on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 IBs.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3F Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of I,'; lit Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return pus;. >. r. ages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
f*ARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
MELUIHS
FOOD
Is not fe rinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
£ THi; 9IOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IK THE WORLD.
6'/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6c1., i/-, and 2/- eacli.
Proprietors: GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TH,I,OCK & CO., KEKT and UVERPOOE STREETS, SVDNEY.
plum
"IIPTD
Plum'
GENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Bein: practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“ Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d, cake.
Price
i Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
»ole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
IV.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Ma,nf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying: from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spnng Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. — Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
1 ent. more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUB SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a burglar breaks into a bank he
should not necessarily be accused of seeking to rob.
He may be only looking for a “ sphere of in-
fluence,’’ just as if he were a great Power.—
American.
Some people have a painful respect for the
law. A man rushed into Carlton (Melb.) police-
station the other midnight with the news that
his 17-year-old daughter had given birth to a
child, and hidden the body in a wardrobe at his
house.
The Test of Love.
“ Two I love, and two love me —
Blue-eyed Jean and brown-eyed Kate.
Which loves fondest ? (Her I wed.)
Prithee show me, Mistress Fate.”
Strolling by a restless stream,
Watched by twain, he thinks it out,
Heeding not the crumbling bank.
Hark ! —a plunge ! —a strangled shout!
Beating down the swollen stream,
Still for help he vainly calls.
Two have seen his danger. Ah !
Blue-eyes gasps his name, and falls.
Brown-eyes, with her trembling limbs
By her dauntless spirit stayed,
Flies across the reeling fields,
Brings her dying lover aid ;
Helps to hold the quivering rope,
Speeds the cry that bids him cheer,
Pulls with all her woman’s strength,
Sobs to see him fainting near.
Then, with lips to cold lips pressed,
Gives him of her laboring breath ;
Draws him, with her failing strength,
From that other river—Death.
Wedding bells ! With heart elate
Walks he, while his choice confessed
Paces faltering at his side—
She who proved she loved him best.
Waiting crowds admiring gaze
At her cheek, so soft and pale ;
While, with love and wonder blent,
Shine her blue eyes through the veil!
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
A Woman’s Farewell.
So with this farewell kiss I taste at last
The all of life; the future and the past
Upon your dear lips dwell.
L >ve will not come again, though I implore;
And in my heart a twilight evermore—
Farewell!
A man’s heart is so wide that I was wrong
To dream that I could fill it with the sOng
A woman loves so well ;
A woman’s heart is narrow, but I filled
Mine brimming with your kisses—none was
spilled—
Farewell!
.So fierce your love was, I was half-afraid.
The roses blossom and the roses fade ;
The withered petals tell!
So high into your heart you lifted me,
So far I have to fall, since it must be
Farewell l
Now all the world I fashioned round me falls;
And from the past one memory calls and calls,
Grieving, and like a knell;
Now all the days like drear regrets shall seem,
And all the nights—the nights ! . . I dare not
dream!
Farewell t
But what if I can hold you, hold you yet
Till all else but my lips you must forget:
If love could but compel!
No ! all the mystic hopes our hearts have heard
Must droop and wither to this wistful word—
Farewell 1
My love was like a little child to me ;
Now in my heart’t is crying piteously—
Hush, dear ! all will be well!
My lips on yours for ever! again
You love me—though it be not true —and then —
Farewell /
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Saint Passion.
Only the midnight stars dimly divine
The hidden sanctuary of my desire,
The dreaming earth trails far beneath the fire
That overflows this throbbing heart of mine.
Teach me the secrets of thine inmost shrine,
O Saint serene of Passion—throned higher
Than highest praise of the celestial choir;
Thine every ecstasy a sacred sign :
Each tear, a tribute to the flying hour,
Each failing sigh, a sweetly answered prayer,
Each joy fulfilled, a freshly gathered flower
Flung on thine ever-fragrant altar, ere
Thine opening eyes make dim the dawn afar,
And flush with mortal dream, the morning star.
D. O'R.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
“Donned,” London.
222
CANNON ST.
London,
E.O.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
. -A. 3XT ISZ J A.RVIS
h vf\ had 2 , 0 ye f rs ex Perience W , th - e Colonies )- atld is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country
and who has alieady succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agenoy termsf’
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. 00ERIE & 00., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
V toria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
SYDNEY’S PERFECT HOTEL
(y? 3 E*SJ G»a
M Q GE]
TTEtSIU’S
PITT STREET.
Tariff, 10s. per Day.
.£3 per Week.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
Faiuleaa Dentistry,
THE ....
Condon Dental
Institute.
Du. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mb. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Deffititnately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN—; —-
edward street, Brisbane.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from 0 - per Day. D. Swiss-Davies, Prop.
Telephn c7Bl. (Member Com. Trav. Club.)
Cr'catcsi demand
NOBEL-SLAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTITC.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof. Unaffected by Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
N 0^1?
ms
n
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING- BAILIa'Iii’S won over =£6oo at Gun Club, Netting Hill, in November
and December, IS9B ; or more than all other powders combined. —Vide Field, 14th Jan., ’99.
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes: “ Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time, heat, or damp.”
A GENTS: N~.S. W., Messrs. Balgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
PURIRI
A name to conjure with ,
and a water to drinlc!
/
£
HHTUML
DYSPEPSIA
GOUT
RHEUMATISM
nnneaat.
FOR
KIDNEYS
GRAVEL
BLADDER
UlITCit
IT
BUBBLES
UP.
Agents
E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
NOW READY.
220 pp. -4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
“ Fair Girls $ Gray Horses.”
OVER
lliok Lbs. Tobacco
450
Is the OUTPUT of
PIXSON & SONS’ Sydney
TOWS
Factory for year ending 30th June,
being tons more than any other
manufacturer
DIXSON’S Great Leading* Brand is
Yankee Poople
Yankee [Doodle, dark, is mild smoking and the richest
flavor.
Yankee. Doodle, bright or gold leaf plug and cutis increasing
by great strides with those who formerly smoked only the
well-known American and English brands.
(Dixson s leaf purchases in America this season reached £25,000).
CHABOrBIQ'^T—-the choicest gold leaf plug or cut.
CONQUEBOB, the working man’s great favorite for
smoking or chewing; rich and good, always the same.
BOMAHZA CIGARS—a marvel of cheapness—retailed
4 for 6d, yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco,
Sumatra covered, made with the latest machinery.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1020.
SATIT IiDAY, SEPTEMBER 1B99«
Prick fin.
Speaking of Kipling. According to a
London correspondent Rudyard does not
like Australia, but intends to “give, us
another chance.”
3)1 ED
AT
QUEE n SLAND
2"
Toor /Inti Fed
Lie s in t»os Beo
tfH B(7NFS wikt
n ROT
5(/rNF‘ER Forwr
His
Mothf R , |
Do come, Rudyard, and make a
j door-mat of us !
On dit that a member of the Royal
family is to be the first Gov.-General of
United Australia. Which spells the
poet Lome.
Gov. Beauchamp : “ Take my tip, old
man, when you send your greeting by
cable don’t quote Kipling, but give ’em
some little thing from one of their own
horse-poets.”
“ The Rev. W. M. Dill Macky, Moderator of
the Presbyterian General Assembly, spoke on
‘Our Enemy—The Liquor Traffic.’ The great
iniquities, he said, which,surrounded the drink
traffic were what made it such a problem. The
whole amount expended during these eleven
years was £49,654,526, or. in other words,
they could place a sovereign on every letter in
the Bible, and they would
still have several hundred
sovereigns left.”
The above bit of pictorial pathos
conies all the way from Queensland,
ana tells its own woeful tale.
“The Premier is still, he says, very
anxious to have, the relative strength of
parties in the Assembly ascertained.
Mr. Reid had something to say about it
to a Daily Telegraph representative
yesterday. ‘ I think,’ he remarked, ‘it
would be a most undesirable state of
things if Mr. Lyne did not test the
opinion of the House at once.’ ... 1 All
I know is that if the present Government
is to continue in office, we will not stand
this sort of thing.’ ”
... ,°u R Youngest (turning over leaves of Bible with a new interest): “Do you
think thats true, gran’pa 1 ” / ' J
Gran’pa (abstractedly! . “Ha ! I had no idea the Bible was such an interest-
ing work. I must read it.
& °<r \ %'
*£« % *
<V
needs///
Oom Paul : “ Better you look a
leetle oudt. I can’t hold heem much
longer. I’ve yoosed oop all mine
vindt! ”
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jllack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<k Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria., S. Australia,
West.ralia and Ataoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scrijition outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No neivspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Tjfc^&xxlZeZzfli.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1899.
Turner’s Income Tax.
In his budget speech, a few weeks ago, Pre-
mier Turner, of Victoria, announced that,
in view of the great improvement in the
revenue, he saw his way to reduce the in-
come-tax by one-eighth all round., and
thereby alleviate the excessive impost which
was preventing the investment of foreign
capital in the country, or something to that
effect. Victoria’s income-tax has hitherto
been built after this fashion : The first £2OO
of income goes free in every case. The next
£lOOO (from £2OO up to £1200) pays 4d. in
the £ if it is produced by personal exertion
only ; Bd. in the £ if derived from property.
The second £lOOO a year of income (from
£l2OO to £2200) pays 6d. if it is the result
of personal exertion; Is. if derived from
property; and all income above £2200 is
taxed Bd. in the £ if it is derived from per-
sonal exertion, and Is. 4d. in the £ if
it is revenue from property. The tax is
built on the strictly democratic idea that
the burden should press most lightly on the
poor, and that the man whose precarious in-
come is derived from his own exertions should
receive better terms than the one who has a
permanent revenue from property. Pre-
mier Turner, as already mentioned, pro-
mised, in his financial statement, to take off
one-eighth of these amounts (thus making the
tax on incomes derived from property 7d.,
and Is. 2d. in the £ instead of Bd., Is.
and Is. 4d. as at present) because he could
spare the money. And then in his Old Age
Pension Bill he announced that because he
couldn’t spare the money (because it was
wanted fgr the Pension Fund) he intended
to levy income-tax in future on all incomes
above £lOO a year (£1 18s. s|d. per
week), and to charge the tax on the
whole income when it was over £ooo
instead of letting the first £2OO go free.
So Turner is in the extraordinary position
of giving a very valuable concession to the
people with large incomes, because he doesn’t
want the money, and levying extra taxation
on the people who are making a bitter
struggle to live and keep their families on
£2 a week because he wants the money
something awful.
* * * *
The object of the reduction in the tax on
large incomes is not in any way disguised—
in fact, it is offered to public inspection as a
thing that the Turner Government is rather
proud of. Cornelius Job Ham, M.L.C.,
and Mayor M‘Eaoharn, and other large and
dreadful fossils, have found, and stated with
great violence, that the heavy tax on very
large incomes derived from usury tends to
“ prevent the investment of foreign capital
in the country.” And it is apparently
with a view to encouraging the influx
of foreign capital into the country
that part of the burden is to be
shifted from the man at the top to the
man at the bottom. Why the influx of
foreign capital should be encouraged while
the influx of small-pox and bubonic plague
is so much objected to, it is difficult for any
intelligent democrat to understand ; yet in
some especially drivelling quarters and
localities there is an intense desire to aid
and subsidise this disease —the worst com-
mercial disease that Australia has suffered
from up to date. The Turner Government
is grieved to see that there is a falling off in
the drain upon Yictoria for interest payable
to absentees (the inflow of foreign capital is
only a euphonious term for the outflow of
interest), and it feels called upon to encourage
the drain. It notes that the province hasn’t
been increasing its debts and embarrass-
ments of late with the vigour it used to
exhibit, and it proposes taking measures to
encourage the importation of debts
and embarrassments. Yictoria has been
exhibiting a lamentable tendency of late to
rely on its own exertions and on its own
capital, and to be self-dependent, and the
Government, actuated by the awful
M‘Eacharn and Cornelius Job Ham party,
feels that it is necessary to tread heavily on
this self-dependent spirit, and to take
measures for restoring the old tendency to
rely on Bull whenever a new industry is to
be started or anything important done.
♦ * • *
In Maoriland and South Australia, the two
most democratic provinces of Australasia,
the investment of foreign capital is specific-
ally discouraged, as a curse and a delusion,
by an absentee tax. In Ireland, which was
ruined by the influx of foreign capital
(largely the capital of English landlords who
bought up the soil) it was discouraged for
many years by shooting the agent, by the
famous Plan of Campaign, and by other
forms of agrarian agitation. And it was not
till the British Government interfered to give
the Irish tenant State aid to purchase his
farm, and thus, to a great extent, gave British
capital notice to quit, that some semblance
of peace came back to the distracted country.
The encouragement of the “ influx of foreign
capital for investment ” (as distinguished
from the influx of people who come with
their capital to be Australian citizens) is the
encouragement of absenteeism pure and
simple. Its other names are the en-
couragement of the outflow of interest,
and the increased importation of debts and
difficulties and foreign burdens. Yictoria
has already had a large experience of this
curse, for it was the glorious influx of foreign
capital which brought about its great down-
fall in 1893. A great inrush of money,
borrowed or otherwise, always forces up the
value of property, and its stoppage as in-
variably lets property down again. And
when the influx is very large prqperty goes
very high, as it did in Yictoria, and has a
fearfully long way to fall, and smashes
everything as it comes down.
* * * *
Old William Zeal, M.L.0., recently de-
clared that, to his own personal knowledge,
and in the narrow circle of his personal ob-
servation, fully £1,000,000 of foreign capital
that was sent to Victoria for investment had
been withdrawn . owing to that “vile
measure,” the income-tax. This is one of
the grandest testimonials that the income-
tax could receive, and should encourage Yic-
toria to hang on to it to the bitter end.
Owing to the income-tax, Victoria, to Zeal’s
certain knowledge, owes £1,000,000 less, has
£50,000 or £60,000 a year less interest to
pay, owns £1,000,000 of its country that used
to be owned by some foreigner, and has
learned to that extent to depend on itself
instead of being a slave and tributary to
Bull. And the withdrawal has done no
harm to the country at large. All Victoria’s
lands, crops, mines, buildings, cattle, sheep,
railways, and the like, are where they were.
The “ withdrawal of foreign capital ”
has shifted none of them. And Vic-
toria has actually more cash in its
banks now than it had in the glorious days of
1889, when the beautiful influx was at its
height ; in fact, the country at large has lost
nothing except an immense amount of debt.
But the Zox and Cornelius Ham and Zeal
push has lost something personally. The
absentee used to send his money out to them,
or people like them, for investment, and
they got commission on the investment.
They collected the interest to send to the
absentee usurer, and they got commission on
that. They lived to a great extent by being
the nigger-driver, and deputy-usurer, and
bailiff, and tribute-collector, and parasite of
the absentee, and if Yictoria decides that it
won’t be a slave to the absentee any longer,
it is their loss. So they preach the gospel
that the prosperity of Victoria depends
on its being mortgaged as deeply as
possible to the foreign capitalist, in
having as much as possible of its
lands and buildings and industries owned
by the foreign capitalist, on being in
debt, and on piling up liabilities, and on
having a ruinous interest bill to pay. And
the obvious reason is that the more their
country is in debt the more commission this
middleman push makes on collecting the
interest.
* * * *
One of the loudest arguments advanced
against the maximum income-tax of Is. 6d.
in the £ (on incomes of over £2,200 a year
derived solely from the investment of capi-
tal) was that the revenue derived there-
from was decreasing, though the total
receipts from income-tax have increased
steadily from £140,000 in 1895, to £186,000
in 1898. This means that since the great influx
was hit on the head by the present income-tax
less people are making enormous incomes,
and far more people are making moderate
ones, than there were a few years ago, for it
takes twice as much in small incomes which
pay Bd. in the £ to produce a given amount
of tax revenue as it does of large incomes
which pay Is. 4d. in the £. It is vastly
better for the country that there should be a
very large number of people earning moder-
ate incomes than a few with enormous for-
tunes, and so long as the total revenue keeps
up it is good news to hear that the people
who pay on the largest class of income are
growing fewer every year. It would not
be very bad news if they came to an end
altogether. Any individual who wants to
undo this commendable state of affairs is a
public enemy. And any Government which
reduces any tax because it discourages the
country from getting further into debt to the
absentee is ditto.
PLAIIM ENGLISH.
£5000 a Year.
There is one point which the people of Queens-
land would do well to remember till Saturday
is over : Every “ great ” metropolitan paper has
something like £5OOO a year to lose by Federa-
tion—therefore every big metropolitan paper
which is against Federation is probably a
sordid liar telling the public what it knows
isn’t the case in the interests of its own pocket.
At present the Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Hobart, and Perth dailies are only
expected by their readers to report the doings,
each of its own local Parliament, which meets
in the same street, or the next street. But
when the great political centre of Australia is
in a town which is neither Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart, nor Perth, these
dailies will have to report the proceedings of
the Central Parliament, or be cut out by more
enterprising rivals. That means that they will
have to keep reporting-staffs and correspon-
dents at the Federal city, and to have columns
and columns of the Parliamentary debates sent
along every night by wire. And the cost to
each paper of the size of Brisbane Courier or
Telegraph is estimated at £5OOO a year.
Therefore there are 5000 solid reasons per
annum why every metropolitan daily should
in its heart be shamelessly and horribly against
Federation, and there are 5000 good reasons
why the metropolitan paper which is against
Federation should be disbelieved from the first
line to the last.
♦
Taking the Bun.
Brisbane Telegraph has settled down to blast
Federation all it knows by the steady reitera-
tion of one foolish dull-brown lie—that the
Federal Parliament and the Federal Govern-
ment have resolved to put a tax of £5 a ton on
Australian-grown sugar. This is a sample of
the awful way the ox-like journal has been
going on for some weeks :
Why should the Parliament inflict on us any tax at all;
especially to raise so much more than we require ; and
more especially, why raise it on an article now practi-
cally free of duty to us? Words fail the mildest man-
nered man to express the indignation felt that sugar, a
product most peculiar to Queensland, should be seized
and taxed, the whole thing being treated by the Parlia-
ment as if it had a perfect right to tax this commodity,
as if it were a common product throughout Australia.
The whole continent, forsooth, is to be regarded as one
State for this purpose, although only Queensland can
produce sugar in large quantities ! Indignation breaks
all bounds, also, on seeing that at present rates Victoria
will save £50,000 a year on our sugar alone ; she will, in
fact, save very much more ; for it is certain that she will
buy our sugar at £5 per ton in preference to buying
sugar at £6 per ton.
The large stale bun for being the boss liar of
the anti-Federal cause is hereby awarded to
Brisbane Telegraph, and will be despatched as
soon as possible—carriage unpaid. There have
been great doubts about the final award of that
bun, but the matter is now settled beyond dis-
pute. The present bun-claimant assumes,
first, that Federation is completed; second,
that the Federal Parliament has been elected ;
third, that the Federal Government has been
formed ; and, fourth, that this loathsome com-
bination has proceeded to tax Queensland’s and
N.S. W.’s sugar and thus to do a horrible wrong
and injury. And as there is no Federation yet,
and the alleged Federal Parliament whose
alleged tax on sugar makes that alleged person,
the “ mildest-mannered man,” boil with indig-
nation, doesn’t even exist, and therefore can’t
have taxed or proposed to tax anything; and
as the alleged Federal Government Which is
alleged to have devised the alleged tax and
sooled the alleged Parliament on its evil way
hasn’t even begun to form, and no one
knows who will be in it when it
does form, the Brisbane organ’s howl
is a marvel of mendacity and uncalled-for pre-
viousness. The whole tale rests on the fact
that the Telegraph professes to know that the
sort of Parliament which the people are going
to elect will inevitably appoint the sort of
Government which will tax sugar—in other
words, it is weeping because its small son, when
he grows up, will have a son, who, when he
grows up, will assuredly marry the sort of
woman who will let the baby fall downstairs,
thereby causing it to be crippled for life. And
it asks Queensland not to federate in order to
save that infant from its pathetic fate. The
paper which invents a Government and a Par-
liament that can’t possibly be in existence for
another year, in order that it may allege that
these non-existent institutions have cieated a
tax which it has also invented deserves a bun
of no ordinary dimensions. In fact there is no
bun large enough to meet the case. And the
genius who, on behalf of Queensland, makes it
a bitter grievance that Victoria will certainly
buy “our” (Queensland’s) sugar if this in-
iquitous tax is imposed deserves 18 buns.
A Gridiron that Wouldn’t Float.
Pity the sorrows of the poor agent whose grid-
iron didn’t float. Great Western (Tas.) Land
Grant Railway Company’s promoter, W. H.
Palmer, wails up and down two columns of
Hobart Mercury in plaintive defence of his
failure to float the big grab in London.
Summed up, there seem to have been painful
differences between Palmer and his co-pro-
moters, and the general scramble for the boodle
wrecked the youthful prospects of the scheme.
But, “in the interests of those shareholders
who had throughout trusted me,” tne irre-
pressible Palmer went to London at his own
expense, and, despite the efforts of his co-
promoters to freeze him out, refused to be
frozen. By dint of bard work and great sacri-
fice he was able to assist the other chaps to
partially launch the co., but just then Brad-
don sent to England “ certain cables at an in-
opportune moment” (these were the cables
which reminded the co. that it had hung round
and quarrelled till its concession had expired,
and it had now nothing to float), and they
knocked a hole in what promised to be a magni-
ficent show. Finding they could not do without
Palmer the promoters agreed to become a
united family again, and now Palmer is back
in Hobart asking for a whole lot more conces-
sions, and he promises, on the honor of a syndi-
cate’s agent, that if Parliament grants the con-
cessions the float will, after all, eventuate.
Says Palmer :
We want to get the right to run a small branch line to
connect up with one or more of the lines that now con-
nect Mt. Lyell field with Macquarie Harbor, so that we
may set to work in constructing the line at three points
simultaneously, namely, from the Glenora end, the
Zeehan end, and from the direction of Lyell. We also
want the right to construct a short branch line to some
coalfields that we know of to enable us to supply the in-
creasing demand for fuel that exists on the West Coast.
And meanwhile Tasmania still waits. The
Great Western gridiron has hung fire for years
because the promoters wanted such a fearful
amount of plunder for themselves. Tasmania
has to do without its railway for years because
of the delays caused by the promoters wanting
so much plunder. And, when the line comes,
Tasmania is to give the private co. such an im-
mense grant of land that if it sold the land now
it could almost build the line itself with the
proceeds. Also, when it gets the railway, it
will have to pay about twice the freights and
fares that the State could have- done with, be-
cause the line will have to pay interest, not
only on its own cost (as in the case of State
railways), but on the promoters’ boodle as well.
And Tasmania is expected to grieve because the
gridiron didn’t float.
♦
More Sugar.
Beautiful specimen of anti-Federal effrontery
from Brisbane Telegraph :
When it was first announced in these columns that a
£5 per ton excise duty would be imposed on Australian-
made sugar, there were persons who wholly discredited
the statement. Some of them wired to their agents in
Melbourne to ask Sir George Turner if it was true. He
coolly said it was.
Now r as George Turner isn’t the 110 members
of the Federal Parliament—it isn’t certain
yet that he will even be one of them —he
couldn’t say that there would be any excise
duty on sugar. And, not being an absolute
fool, he didn’t. A man doesn’t climb to Tur-
ner’s position by being a prophetic ass of that,
sort. The Brisbane paper then proceeds to>
build a fearful and wonderful series of calcula-
tions on the imaginary <£s per ton excise, ami
the thing that Turner didn’t say, the most
fearful of the lot being this :
The above total amount of excise revenue does not in-
clude the output of sugar in N.S. Wales. The latest
return shows that the output for 1897-8 was 24,217 ton-..
At £5 per ton on that also the total revenue would be
£939,755. Our immediate neighbours having to pay Jth
instead of only £3 per ton on imported sugar, will enjoy
a protection of £2 per ton on their output; and Mr..
Fenton, Vic. Govt, statist, says that “of course it will
greatly encourage their sugar industry.” If they make
more on that accouut they may take less of us; and if so,
then for that reason also the new arrangement is against
us.
Fenton, being also a man of some horse-sense,
never said that there would be an excise duty
of <£s on N.S. YV. sugar, or that it would en-
courage the industry. He would probably have
been carried away to an asylum as a hopeless
case if he had. The astounding logic of the
Brisbane penny tatter is that a £5 excise duty
on Queensland sugar would ruin the Q. sugar
industry, and a £5 excise on N.S.W. sugar
would help the N.S.W. sugar industry in quite
a surprising fashion. Also that the N.S.W.
sugar-grower is to lose the protection of £3 a
ton which he now enjoys as against Q. sugar,
and he is to be taxed £5 a ton on his own
sugar, and thereby he will be £2 a ton
better off instead of £8 a ton worse off.
In other words, that he will be protected
against the Queenslander to the extent of £2 a
ton by losing his protective duty and being
himself taxed £5 a ton. Then it winds up
something to the effect that the scheme to tax
N.S.W. sugar at the same rate as Q. sugar
is a gloomsome conspiracy against Queensland,
and as sugar is food, and food and Federation
both begin with “f” and both have an “o”
and a “ d ” in them, the wicked machination is
proved beyond dispute. What kind of liquor
does that paper drink, anyhow ?
On the Importance of Being Well-
Connected.
Oscar Wilde once preached a sermon on the-
“lmportance of Being Earnest,” but recent
events have shown that, in Victoria at any


rate, it is much more advantageous to be well-
connected. The Bulletin recently commented
on the case of lawyer MTntyre —since sen-
tanced to two years’ gaol—who, being ordered
into “ confinement ” for non-compliance with
an order of the Court, hired sundry expensive
physicians and a costly lawyer to impress upon
his Honor the necessity of not sending him
there because of his bad state of health.
Whereupon he was released temporarily on
account of his bad state of health. And this
is just where the discrepancy comes in. In
Melbourne ill-health is a reason for letting the
influential person out of gaol. And it serves
equally well as an excuse for putting the unin-
fluential person into gaol. Compare MTntyre’s
case with that of Margaret Reilly. Mar-
garet was sent to gaol for six months, early in
March last, by the Melb. City Bench on a
charge of vagrancy—that is, for the iniquitous
act of being poor. Her term having expired
on 9th August, she was duly released, but
owing to an unfavorable report as to her
health made by the gaol medical officer,
the police were notified of her discharge and
she was promptly arrested at the gaol gates
and sent back for a further six months for
“ having no lawful visible means of support.”
Apparently this sort of thing can go on ad
infinitum, for it is impossible for any man
or woman to gain a means of support
while doing six months in Pentridge. But
observe the awful difference between the
treatment of Margaret Reilly and of Alex-
ander Grant MTntyre. The well-connected
Gent. One was simply to be “confined” —he
might provide his own food from outside, he
was allowed a fair supply of literature, and he
was not ordered hard labor. But, as regards
the woman, the Law, being notified that she
was in poor health, rushed around in great
haste and promptly arrested her, and sent
her back to the cold cells, and the hominy,
and the hour-a-day exercise, for six months,
notwithstanding the fact that a previous
half-year of the treatment had rather
impaired her health than otherwise. The
same law which wouldn’t let Alexander
Grant MTntyre undergo the mildest form of
detention because his health was weak sent
Margaret Reilly back into ihe coldest and
most rigorous form of imprisonment because
her health was ditto. And the principal dif-
ference between them (besides MTntyre’s
connections) appears to be that Margaret
Reilly had no property and MTntyre had
some, which the law has decided wasn t
honestly acquired. Victorian law has a great
and grovelsome respect for the man with <a’a-
honestly-acquired property.
♦— _
The Inaccuracy of Chief Justice Madden.
Chief Justice Madden, enthroned as presi-
dent of Victorian Full Court, had something to
say about the beastly Bulletin last week, and
by this time he probably regrets his remarks.
By way of explaining why the verbose person-
age should be sorry that he spoke, a paragraph
from Melbourne Herald is quoted herewith :
The Full Court was stirred to the depths of its tradi-
tions to-dav, when a party to an application sought to
read from the Sydney Bulletin a report of some prior
proceedings in the matter in another court. The Chief
Justice, when he had sufficiently recovered from his
astonishment, said: “The reading of the Sydney
Bulletin will not assist justice in any way. It is of abso-
lutely no value at all, and the reading of it would be mere
waste of time. This sort of thing ought not to be
encouraged. The paper referred to does not profess to
report these cases in anything like an authoritative way.
Some person sends a paragraph, generally ridiculous, to
support a particular point of view. The paper makes no
pretence to accuracy, and is, in fact, generally inac-
curate.”
The Melbourne evening newspaper took care to
avoid any disclosure of the particular matter
brought before Chief Justice Madden, and
which bad been a matter for prior proceedings
in another court, as stated. There was an
interesting connection between the
discreet silence on this point and his Honor’s
indiscreet disparagement of “ the paper re-
ferred to.” J. B. Gregory was the “matter.
The “ report,” which Judge Madden refused-
very properly refused —to listen to was a letter,
dealing with said Gregory’s recent attempt
at convincing Justice Williams that he
(the said G.) had been improperly placed
in a lunatic asylum by his wife. A
letter to the editor is not a “ paragraph,
anyway. The Bulletin took no side with
respect to the arguments of the letter-writer,
but it did publish other letters contradicting
them, and putting what appears to be the
truth of the J. B. Gregory case for the first
time before the public. Herein lies the secret
of Chief-Justice Madden’s splenetic outbreak.
As a baldheaded dandy who waxes his mou-
stache and ofttimes makes himself conspicu-
ously foolish, the amiable Chief-Justice can’t be
expected to have any love to spare for this
disrespectful journal, although, as he nidi-
rectly admits, he makes a point of reading it,
just to see how wrong it can be from week to
week But it was the Judge, not the dandy,
who snorted last week. The Bulletin gathers
from his burst of annoyance in this hull Court
case that Judge Madden knew something of
the aforesaid Bulletin letters whereby poor
Gregory’s alleged grievance was brought to
light, and inasmuch as lie, together with all
legal friends of the “ leader of the Vic. Bar
(Mr. Topp), had been desirous of keeping
Gregory’s grievance dark, Chief Justice Mad-
den considered The Bulletin even more wrong
than usual in giving the unhappy man’s sympa-
thisers, however misguided they might be, a
chance to talk to the public All the same,
Judge Madden, friend of Bar-leader lo pp ,
was not justified in his suggestion that Ihe
Bulletin misrepresented the truth re barrister
J B Gregory, the husband of Mr. Topp s
sister. And when he said “ the paper referred
to does not profess to report these cases in any-
thing like an authoritative way,” his Honor
might have been honest enough to mention that
no other journal of Melbourne standing had re-
ported Gregory’s case in any way, authorita-
tive or otherwise. The Melb. press suppression
of the Gregory case was a flaming scandal.
*
An Appeal to Beef.
The hollow moan of a certain Brisbane paro-
chialist organ that “ if we federate there will
be a poll-tax on cattle ” is an eminently stupid
appeal to the sordid passions of Beef. And
The Bulletin, in the Federal interest, a so
appeals to the sordid passions of Beet by a
statement of where the interests or Beet le .
(1) There are four poll-taxes on Queensland cattle now.
The horned animal from Queensland PoH-taxed £1
when he g;>es into S.A. ; £2 when he goes mto fasmama
£llos. when he goes into Victoria ; and 15s. when he
goes to Westralia. . .
g (2) Considering that there are four provinces ,whic
believe in an import duty on cattle and only one
(N.S.W.) which doesn’t, the chances are that (sup
posing there are only N.S.W., Victoria, S.A., ,
mania, and perhaps W.A. in. the Co.n.nonweal h) there
will be a good solid majority in favour of a duty
on Queensland cattle when they enter the Common
wealth, and there will be a tax on them everywhere But
if Queensland is also in the Commonwealth there can be
no customs duty on its cattle, for the Bill provides f
absolute Freetrade within the Commonwealth. ...
(3) If Queensland stands out of the Commonwealth,
the Commonwealth can tax Queensland s cattle by an
import duty without taxing its own. So it probably will
tax Queensland’s cattle to protect and encourage its
bull-raising industry. , K .„
But, if Queensland comes into the Commonwealth then
the other provinces can't vote for taxing Q r-nsland s
cattle without also voting to tax their own ,-ix millions
of them) for all taxes are to be uniform inside the tedeial
territt) •K' ueens j and stan( j s ou t 0 f the Commonwealth and
its cattle have a duty levied on them at the Federal
border, that duty will help along the cattle industry in
the other provinces at Queensland’s expense.
(6) And if Queensland comes in and the Federal Govern-
ment, in a moment of impossible insanity, decided to levy
that utterly impossible and absurd excise duty on cattle,
it wouldn’t help along the cattle industry of the other
provinces at Queensland’s expense, because the other pro-
vince’s bullock and poley cow would be equally taxed.
It would only raise the price of beef all round.
In view of which things the Brisbane paper’s
appeal to the basest and most sordid passions
of Beef is rather a poor invention.
♦
The Judge-cum-G-overnor System.
The worst possible use that you can put a Chief
Justice to is to make a Lieut.-Governor of
him, and at some future time or other Australia
will awaken to this important national con-
sideration. Recent official jubilations over
Baronet Chief-Justice Lieut.-Gov. Way, or
S.A., and Knight do. do. Madden in Vic.,
were only to be expected, for officialdom is ever
Tory in sentiment; but meanwhile the dull
silence of all the alleged radical politicians can
only be explained on the supposition that every
member regards himself firstly as a per-
sonal acquaintance of His Excellency the
Governor. It the member should happen
to get qualified for criminal prosecution, he
might, he thinks, feel the benefit of haying
been included in the Chief Justice s
social circle at Government House. Strange
that Australia, with its reverence for much
which is bad in Euglish institutions, should
submit to the distinctly un-English sys-
tem of associating the “fount of justice
with vice-royalty. For the comparative clean-
ness and impartiality of its legal administration
Great Britain is largely indebted to certain
rules of conduct for Judges in private life. I he
ermined potentates of the Law-courts are ex-
pected to keep themselves to themselves as
much as possible. They are not Society men,
neither do their wives run into the danger of
forming many friendships among the class that
has most reason for wishing to curry favor with
them. The result of this judicial exclusiveness
is seen at the occasional trials of influential
persons, whom the Judge is able to deal with
on their criminal merits, or nearly so. At any
rate, he isn’t in the embarrassing position of
being forced to admit that he has met them
and their relations outside of the Court, and it
is this power of social ignorance which makes
the British Judge a “ terror to evil-doers ” all
along the line. The Law often distinguishes
between persons up to a certain point,in the
allotment of sentences, but a criminal’s high
rank or position cannot preserve him from gaol
when once he has caught the British Judge s
eye. The eye that has never beamed upon the
prisoner at a social function does not hesitate
to glare at him in his hour of proven guilt. We,
in Australia, are encouraging a system where-
by the honesty of the Law is subjected to a
constant temptation a system which is
tightening the bonds of friendship between our
bell-toppered embezzling classes and the men
who sit in uncomfortable judgment upon their
sins. In all voung countries their Honors find
it difficult toavoid a personal knowledge of the
more “pushing” and gaudy citizens, though
they may try to hold themselves aloof. And
now we have allowed the British Govt, to
single out Chief Justices for billets in which
they are required to shake hands with, and
give entertainment to, every bounder who
schemes for invitations to Guv ment House.
A provincialist leaflet now circulating in
Queensland feels very bad indeed about this
matter :
The oloven hoof of military despotism crops out in
olause 119, wherein provisions are made that, during
domestic troubles, the Federal Government could shoot
down unarmed men, women and children (as the U.b.
Government did during the Homestead strike), and
which might occur with the strong feeling of the worker
population.
If Queensland doesn’t federate, the local striker
(who has no vote under the provincial system,
as a rule) can be shot dead on the mere order of
the Dickson Ministry, which is responsible
only to the local nominee Council and property-
vote-elected Assembly. And if the province
federates, the striker can only be shot dead
with the consent of the Dickson Ministry and
also of the Federal Government (which latter
will control the military, and which will be
responsible to a Parliament elected entirely by
the people —a Parliament where the striker
will have a vote). Under Federation, it will
reauire the consent of two Governments to
shoot the striker dead, because the Federal
Government can only move at the request of
the State Government; whereas now it only re-
quires that of one. And, at the worst, the two
Governments won’t shoot him any deader than
one. To the Queensland Fat Man, however, it
seems ridiculous that the Commonwealth should
make so much ceremony about shooting a mere
striker dead, so he implores “ all Democrats
to stand by the provincial system, under which
they can be shot quite dead enough for all
practical purposes with no ridiculous circumlo-
cution. _
“ Three Years,” to The Bulletin
Re your comment on the horrors of the Victorian penal
system, especially with reference to cutting off the gas at
Pentridge from all short-sentence prisoners, it may be
news to you to learn that not one of the umcountry Vic
gaols provides its prisoners with artificial light. When
that expensive lawyer pleaded so eloquently for the
fashionable first-offender, t’other day, and suggested, in
moving tones that, if his Honor could not see his way to
release the accused, he would at least order him to be
sent to Oastlemaine or Beechworth, he doubtless meant
well, but he didn’t know. Pentridge is a hell but most
of the country gaols are worse. No fires or heating appa-
ratus; no light through the long winter nights ; two
blankets only, on bare boards, in such a chilly winter
climate as Oastlemaine ; a library that would disgrace
a fortieth-rate mechanics’ institute —Pentridge has at
least a decent library ; church about once a month , the
rest of the Sunday, except for the hours promenade
round a 20ft. yardvegetating in the gloomy cell; the
final dish of hominy passed in at 3 p.m., and the door
locked at 3.30, and the inmate left to stagger as best he
can through the cold, dragging hours of darkness. -No
wonder the old hand prefers Pentridge, with all its
horrors, to a spell in a Victorian country gaol.
♦
A really unique anti-Federal reason from the
amusing Brisbane Telegraph :
Here are the positions—
West Australia (square miles) ... 1,057,250
Queensland ... ... -•• 668,224
Total 1,725,474
Now take the others—
South Australia... ... 903,690*
New South Wales ... •••
Victoria
Tasmania ... ••• ••• ZD >' 3 ‘°
Total square miles ... ... 1,334,269
Take it this way—
Anti-Billite States ... -• 1*725,474
Billite States 1,334,269
Majority, anti-Billite ... 391,205
Add New Zealand •• • 66,5/7,160
66,968,365
How is that for an anti-billite territory ? .
And now add this, that we are to put ourselves behind
a “ wall against the world ” under the union.
If we stand out we have to fight the tariffs of our evil-
minded neighbors, which on the whole cannot be worse
than they are now.
Truly it is an awful thing to have three ex-
parsons editing a paper. Queensland has
already a more massive tariff wall against all the
world than any other province of Australia—in
fact, there are only about lialf-a-dozen countiies
on earth which wall out the world more enthu-
siastically than Queensland does ; and it is
solemnly assigned as a reason for voting
against Federation that it will involve a wall
against the world.” And the other provinces
are “ evil-minded ” because they have tantfs
while Queensland itself lias the biggest tanfi
in Australia. And, on top of all this, the Tele-
graph, in adding up the anti-Federal territory,
reckons Maoriland is containing 66,577,1bU
square miles. All Australia, Tasmania and
Maoriland put together are only a little over
3 000 000 square miles, and the whole British
empire is only about 9,000,000 ! In fact, there
are only 52,000,000 square miles of dry land in
the world, so the Telegraph, in order to make
its argument look impressive, represents
Maoriland as occupying the whole globe with a
bit hanging over at the sides. Also, it sets
that little country down as 100 tunes the size
of Queensland ! For utter foolishness a paper
run by three ex-parsons appears to lick
creation.
Bill Lyne, the restored makeshift who again
leads N.S.W. Opposition, is understood to be
planning another censure motion. But Make-
shift Bill has already had more chances than
any other leader in Australasia and made a
wreck of them all, and he will probably wreck
this one also. The point where Premier Reid
is mainly open to attack is his utter neglect to
pass the democratic legislation he has been
promising for the last five years. A man who
would rise up and hoot at George on account
of his failure to reform the Upper House, to
provide his promised State Bank, his State
note-issue, his Local Government scheme, his
promised system of resuming land for closer
settlement, and who would promise to do all
these things, also to the land and
income-tax, to establish an absentee-tax, a
minimum-wage law, a really large and service-
able State Land Bank, to pay for all unreproduc-
tive public works out of revenue, and to establish
Old Age Pensions, could sweep George Reid
away lfke a chip on a tidal-wave. For Reid
is a weak man ; only he keeps in power because
Lyne is much weaker. And when Parliament
has to choose between following the short,
broad man, who promises reform and doesn t
give it, or following the long, spectral man,
who won’t even promise it—well, why should
it trouble about a change ? If a really strong
democratic leader would rise on the Opposition
side he could leave George Reid with about
two followers in a House of 125. But Make-
shift Bill isn’t even the ghost of that kind of
leader.
Apropos of N.S.W.’s deep indignation because
the Transvaal Government requires the foreigner
to put in two years’ residence before he can be
naturalised and have a vote for the Lower
House, and will not acknowledge that he has a
right to demand complete citizenship, here is
the N S W. law on the same subject as summed
up in the “ Wealth and Progress of N.5.W.,”
page 649
An alien in N.S.W. may hold and acquire real and per-
sonal property, but shall not be qualified for any office,
nor enjoy either a municipal or Parhamentary franchise ,
shall not be qualified to be the owner of a British ship ,
and shall not have any rights and privileges except such
as are expressly conferred upon him. After a residence
in the cokmy of not less than five years a foreigner may
apply for letters of naturalisation, which the Governor
mayor may not grant at his option. . . . The naturalisa-
tion of Chinese is no longer permitted. Oeßiflcates of
naturalisation granted in other colonies do not confer the
right of British citizenship in N.S.W.
N.S.W. steps with a pretty large boot of its
own on the alien’s corns.
4.
The Chief Justice of Victoria made the inevit-
able legal-fraternity speech before sentencing
lawyer MHntyre to two years’ imprisonment:
“ It gives me very great pain to perform the
duty I am called upon to perform towards your
father’s son, and towards one with whom I was
associated at the Bar when I was there. . . . •
You have received a long, laborious, and costly
education, and are practically losing jour
place in a profession which you have followed
with some distinction to yourself, and a social
position of a very prominent kind, which will
probably be lost for ever.” Somehow the
judicial mind seems incapable of taking an im-
partial tone where the punishment of a roguish
lawyer is concerned, especially when the lawyer
is a “well-connected” person who has spent
stolen money in keeping up social style. It
is enough for the public to know that law-
yers are to a great extent a mutual pro-
tection league without having the fact
proclaimed every time a member of the
league gets into trouble. Judge Madden
is paid a handsome salary to perform certain
duties, one of which is to deal with criminals as
he finds them in court without the least
regard for circumstances such as he spoke
of in the M'lntyre case. If he couldn’t
forget the M'lntyre and the father of
the M'lntyre he had known outside
the court, it was his duty to pretend to
forget them. They should be nothing to him.
In admitting himself moved by considerations
of social, not to mention professional friendship
for a convicted prisoner, he exposes himself to
criticism in his character of Lieutenant-
Governor, which brings him into touch with
the class who g i.in admission to Government
House. One may now expect to hear Judge
Madden maudling over the guilt of a young
man who has bumped against him at a vice-
regal ball. Why not ?
4.
A praiseworthy attempt to modify, in one re-
spect, the insensate severity of N.S. W: penali-
sation is the Bill, now before the Legislature,
which provides that (as already the case in
England) time shall be allowed for payment of
police-court fines ; that said fines shall be pay-
able by instalments, and that a prisoner who
can pay a portion of the fine shall be released
after serving the part of his sentence
equivalent to the portion which he can t
pay. Considering that according to N.S.
Wales Comptroller of Prison, two-thirds of the
summarily-convicted persons in the province s
gaols are merely non-payers of fines, simple
economy has as much to say for the proposed
alteration as have humanity and common-
sense. Also, The Bulletin sees no reason
why, in this connection, there should not be
further adopted the eminently rational
though humorous German and Dutch ar-
rangement by which a man sentenced
to imprisonment for a minor offence is allowed
to do his “ time ” in instalments of a day or two
now and again—holidays and Sundays, to wit
so that his family shall not be penalised as well
as himself by continuous deprivation of its
bread-winner.
Considering the freehand N.S. W. public has
given its law-makers, and the decisiveness with
which it has pronounced that primary educa-
tion shall be compulsorv, it is scandalous to find
from official reports that 69,788 children be-
tween the ages of six and 14 failed to complete
the minimum attendance of 70 days during the
first half of last year, and 62,156 similarly
failed in the succeeding half. The Department
plumes itself on having taken legal action in
597 cases in the first half, and 973 in the
second ; but these figures seem only to intensify
the evidence of defective law or defective
machinery. The year shows over 131,000
breaches of law, while something less than
1600 have been brought to account. And the
offence is among the easiest detected, and, with
a proper administration, should be capable of
prompt legal proof. The community has a
right to protest against this feature of educa-
tional administration.
Briefing by the Crown of M.’sL.A. in any
Australian Parliament is a scandal both to the
Member who accepts the brief and to the Gov-
ernment which offers it, and the law which
allows it, if in letter it does, should be incon-
tinently altered. Lawyers creep in through
every crevice of the constitution where the
promise of advantage to themselves is dis-
covered, and, like Garland in N.S.W. Assem-
bly the other day, they will avow themselves
ready to do it again and again while the letter
of the law lets them. This was one of the
reasons why the English House of Commons in
1307 ordered the shires to return “no man of
law as a member,” and further resolved that if
“ a man of law ” was nevertheless returned
“he should have no wages.” James I. issued
instructions warning the people against sending
lawyers to Parliament, and Bacon, himself a
lawyer, said they w r ere an undesirable class to
sit in numbers in any Parliament.
Envelopes franked to the extent of <£ls per
year are now available to members of N.S. W.
Leg. Assembly. Over a score of members say
they won’t touch them, but probably, as was
the case with certain members’ salaries, they
will appropriate the grant all the same. <£lo,
however, leaves members who say they spend
£4O or <£so on parliamentary correspondence
with very small consolation. It tacitly re-
proaches them for toadying to constituents, or
insinuates worse. If the men who spend <£4o
or £5O really know that all their letters are in
accordance with parliamentary duty they
should, now the principle has been conceded,
reject the <£ls and move for <£4o or <£so. All a
member’s parliamentary correspondence should
go free, or no part of it should be franked. A
limitation is a general impeachment of a mem-
ber’s over-toadying propensities or a covert
accusation that if he were given a free hand he
would behave dishonestly.
--
The supersession of Gen. Butler in the Cape
command seems to show that somebody in
Downing-street has been reading history in the
nude, and has found out that even British com-
manders will at times give effect to their
personal views. Butler’s opinion on the Trans-
vaal question is strongly adverse to Brummagem
Joe’s policy ; and if he were retained in com-
mand there might be a repetition of what hap-
pened in the American War of Independence
when Lord North’s Ministry was opposed by
the elder Pitt, and the two Howes, General
and Admiral (staunch Pittites) commanded in
America, and again and again let Washing-
ton’s disorganised army slip through their
fingers. Clinton, too, another Pittite, com-
manding at New York, refused to assist Bur-
GOYNE, beset with his starving army at Sara-
toga after the terrible march from Montreal,
and also refused to threaten Philadelphia in
order to draw off the French from beseigmg


AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY
m
Mh
m
.
"""
tm
Tix© Adlalse Camera
A Magazine Hand Camera, holding 12 5x4 Plates.
THE SIMPLEST AND BEST MADE CAMERA YET INTRODUCED.
Frioe, £3 lOa.
Fullest particulars on
application to the
Sole Australian Agents:
Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
876 George-street, SYDNEY;
86 Rundle-ftwot, ADELAIDE
260 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
81 Queen-street, BRISBANE!
STAMPER
BATTERIES.
American or Australian Type.
10 to 100 Head. From GOO to 1250 lb. Stamps.
FRAMING EITHER TIMBER OR IRON
PACKED IN PARTS
To facilitate Economical Transport.
CAMS, TAPPETS, SHOES, DIES, etc.
of Unexampled Durability !
CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Clyde Works, Granville.
/ . k*rl-
A
*-K'
.-V
• :
II
35
I
liUMi
id
m
isgsgaai
Cornwallis atYorktown. Walpole (himself a
Pittite) tells all this desultorily in his letters,
and exults over the trouble of the North
Ministry. What a lo\ jly institution is party
government 1
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Secret Service.”
Royal. “ The Gay Lord Quex.”
Lyceum “ When London Sleeps.”
Criterion “ The Indian Mutiny.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ A Stranger in New York.”
Theatre Royal “ For England.''
Bijou Cinquevalli.
Alexandra “Faust.”
Town Hall Mdlle. Trebelli.
Afternoon)' Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
Athenasuai Hall German-Reed Entertainment.
Exhibition Building.... The Aquarium.
The military drama which pounded the
kettle-drum of war and blew furiously on the
bugle of fratricidal strife at Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney) on Saturday has probably come to stay rather
longer than usual. “Secret Service ”is a drama
with many good situations, and the inevitable
love-story in it is of the kind which appeals to the
feelings of the multitude which has a best girl of
its own. The scene is laid in Richmond in the
last days of the unpleasantness which arose
between the Union and the Confederacy. The
Northern secret service man has got in with a
forged Confederate commission, and his purpose is
to do damage in a mean, underhand way. But he
mixes up love and business in the old ridiculous
fashion. A Southern girl who has learned to
grovel in ignorant faith at his feet gets poor
babbling Jeff Davis to place him in charge of the
military telegraph department ; and then he
doesn’t like to take advantage of his luck to send the
bogus orders which will break upall the Confederate
arrangements, because if he does the girl will never
look at him with the same expression in her bright
eyes again. He is called upon to assist in the
shooting of his own brother in order to preserve
his incognito, but he is worried about her bright
eyes all the time. When he is partially discovered
and shot at one end on spec, she saves him, and
thus he gets another chance to do his work, but he
keeps thinking. And in the end he crumples up
his precious forged despatch, and kicks it out on
to the sacred soil of the Confederacy, and doesn’t
send it after all. When he is captured and is
being taken out to be shot for sending the forged
order which he didn’t really send, his girl gets him
a last opportunity to escape, but she shudders at
him because she thinks he has ruined her country,
and he is too proud to tell her that he thought
better of it and didn’t ruin her country. He
is saved in an accidental sort of way, but by
this time the moral of the story is mixed beyond
redemption. The spy’s brother is dead—killed in
bringing in the forged orders which were thrown
away for a girl. Outside, the air is full of the howl
and clamor of war, and somewhere in the mud
and gloom the blue-coated Federals are dying in
thousands against the ramparts which ought to be
unprotected—they didn’t dream that their trusted
secret service man would turn dog on them for a
Virginian siren’s smile, and that made all the
difference. And Her Majesty’s audience goes
wild with applause when the Northerner decides
to go back on his salt and let his brethren in on
the ground floor at the shambles of Petersburg, all
because of the look in the Southern girl’s eyes.
This is a beastly illogical world.
* * * *
All the s une, “ Secret Service ” is a strong
drama—with a kind of strength that brings in the
cash at the door. The gallery always applauds the
hero when he forgets his duty to 100,000 men who
are not in sight, for the sake of one girl who is
visible. Williamson’s new star, Thomas Kingston,
makes a very successful first appearance as the
Yankee who turned such a gigantic dog (it is
large enough to be a bullock) on his friends ; he is
weak in some small situations, but in two big ones
he is excellent. Miss Henrietta Watson is also
wholly satisfactory, and as a side issue, her resem-
blance to sister Elizabeth grows more startling
than ever. Both sisters faint in the same way,
and when they faint they are so like that a police-
man who wanted one of them for assault and
battery would take either promiscuously. In fact,
there are moments when Henrietta is more like
Elizabeth than Elizabeth is like herself. Miss
Rose Musgrove does her best work up to
date as another Southern girl from across
the street; the company does good work all
round, but The Bulletin wouldn’t like to
swear that Miss Rose’s share isn’t the best
of the lot. Cecil Ward also pleases the
audience in a rather undersized part. Walter
Bentley has two very brief appearances, and
David Glassford only one. Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis
makes a fine old lady, and George Majeroni scores a
success as a mean Confederate in a long black coat
and a soul of the same color. There is nobody in
the long cast who can be described as a real
failure, but The Bulletin protests against the
excessive and unwholesome coffee-colored shine on
the bald nigger’s head. That bald nigger should
remember that he is a nigger—not a “ peerless-
gloss ” advt.
** * *
“The Gay Lord Quex,” by Pinero, was
not really written by Pinero, but by a much older
and more dispirited person whose shirt got mixed
up with his in the wash. At least The Bulletin
fancies so from internal evidence. It is mainly
the story of an old rake, and a young rake, and a
lady who was called out of bed suddenly and
hadn’t time to fully dress herself. There is one
very powerful act in it, and two slow acts
which lead up thereto, and one act of medium
velocity which tapers off from it. The velocity of
this last act is strictly medium. It is a good deal
faster than a board and not quite so fast as a cow
—if the cow is young and has an urgent appoint-
ment. And the really powerful act isn’t
especially healthy. The drama relates to a girl
who is engaged to the old rake (who has reformed)
and loves the young rake (who has succeeded in
keeping his rakishness dark). Her devoted friend
swears that she shall not be sacrificed to the
elderly garden implement, and for her sake
the friend demeans herself by listening
late at night at keyholes which the
elderly one should not be on the other side of,
though his presence there chances to be harmless
enough. And when the door opens suddenly the
devoted friend naturally falls head-first into a
bedroom where she shouldn’t be at that hour.
Then the elderly gentleman locks her and himself
in. His attitude is that, as his chances with his
own girl are blighted by the circumstances which
the friend saw through the keyhole, and which
she proposes to reveal, they will stay there for the
rest of the night and be found and blighted
together in the morning. The rest of that act is
mostly filled with the shrieks and wrath and en-
treaties of a partially-dressed lady whose character
is going to be Lost. They come to a compromise
at last after the friend has been dragged through
the mud of much abasement, and when all is over
she feels years older, and crushed and humble,
and goes back to bed with an impression that a
dray has gone over her.
* * * *
Mr. and Mrs. Brough are three-fourths of
the play—the former as Lord Quex, and the latter
as the devoted friend who listens at the key-
hole. Brough is a strong, clever, consistent
character. Mrs. Brough is probably ditto,
but the part she has to play is unsavoury
and leaves an unpleasant taste in the
mouth somehow. In fact “Lord Quex ”is more
or less unpleasant all round. It is called a comedy,
and the audience certainly laughs twice—once
when the lady pulls up her stockings in an exceed-
ingly public fashion, and once when she falls head-
long into the room in her yellow dressing gown.
The end is only moderately cheerful. Mrs. Brough
finds that she put in that awful night trying to
stop the marriage with the old rake to no purpose,
for the young rake is worse than the old one,
so she swears off eavesdropping at keyholes for
ever. Miss Noble has a colorless little part as the
girl who is between two rakes and nearly falls
to the ground. Miss Bessie Thompson, as a
casual lady who merely hovers round, is a bright
feature in the story; but Miss Thompson is
always bright and always pleasant to meet,
whether she is the whole show or whether she
merely looks in for a moment and hovers. Regin-
ald Dartrey, in another very casual character, is
also a notable success. W. T. Lovell fills a thin
part, and Mario Majeroni one that isn’t much
thicker, with about as good results as can be ex-
pected ; also Miss Temple does some good work in
places, and some good scenery gathers itself round
the unwholesome show like a valuable work
of art surrounding a serpent. On the whole this
writer doesn’t want to see many plays like “Lord
Quex. ” _lt is a clever production in its way—and
makes him feel as if he was wearing the day before
yesterday’s collar.
** * *
Nothing more than usually unusual has
happened this week at Sydney Tivoli. Sundry
new people have arrived, however, and the writer
hopes to go into further detail about them in next
issue.
** * *
True to its threat Sydney Lyceum called up
Boucicault’s ancient “Shaughraun” from the
vasty deep of by-gone plays. It is to run for one
week only ; the old whisky-and-treason play is a
time-worn stop-gap nowadays, and the manager
who tried to run it for a fortnight would get left.
The best part of the show is the scenery, and the
acting of Miss De Winton as Claire Ffolliott, and
J. P. O’Neill as Conn, the Shaughraun. The
latter brief fat comedian has a permanent lien on
the part now that poor Grattan Riggs has no
further use for it. “ When London Sleeps ” will
be revived on Saturday.
** * *
George Rignold re-opens at Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday with the “ Indian Mutiny,” a
new drama in which the horrors of war and the
wickedness of the black person in rising against
his Queen will be set forth in conspicuous colors.
Therefore the “Kelly Gang” will leave off its
course crude career on Friday night.
** * *
“ Faust,” at Melbourne Alexandra, on
Saturday, turned out to be a tame, colorless, crude
performance of Gounod’s opera, but inasmuch as
it didn’t actually break down at any point, and
was going with more courage at the finish than in
the first act, the show made a fair appeal for
mercy. The average strength of the production
couldn’t have been lower, yet it bore the strain.
To keep “Faust” going right to the bitter end in
any sort of style is a creditable achievement, and
the Alexandra toilers are entitled to all the self-
satisfaction they can get from dabbling in a great
musical work. This “Faust” is consistently
feeble all round. The chorus doesn’t disgrace the
orchestra, and the orchestra seems not too bad for
the principals, who are no rougher than the
scenery. Perhaps the amateur gambolling of the
ballet is a little more painful than it ought to be,
but the sixteen uneducated legs can pass. Among
the principals, theprima-donna, Miss Bertha Bird,
cut the poorest figure on Saturday, for she made
no attempt worth mentioning to act, neither did
she look the part of Marguerite, nor sing it
pleasingly. Miss Bird’s high soprano voice,
topped by some curious trick notes, is wanting in
tone, and very apt to be out of tune. Louis
Luscombe’s light throaty baritone is lost when the
Devil goes down the scale, but Luscombe has a
bold Mephistophelian nose, and a good idea of
posing as the gentleman in red. The Valentine
of young Rebottaro is satisfactory in all respects,
and the new tenor, Ernest Sullivan, gives the
name-character a good appearance and a rather
sweet little voice. As a vocalist and an actor
Sullivan is about 40 per cent, of Henry Bracy
diluted with 60 per cent, of Lord Shaftesbury.
Two Siebels have been engaged, and if the alter-
nate Siebel is as pretty as the damsel who came
along on the first night, she will help to support
the opera up for a week or more. The question
whether “Faust ” will live longer than one week
was unanswerable at time of writing.
Cinquevalli the Great made an astounding
re-appearance at the Bijou on Saturday. Previous
to the cannon-ball turn, Cinque, introduced sundry
juggles which were new to Melbourne, and when
be reckoned it about time to give the audience
one last miracle ere retiring for the night, he
started to play catches with two plates. A full
description of how the juggler caught one plate
would require more adjectives than The Bulletin
can afford. Baby Powers is a feature of the
present “ first part ” at Rickards’, and the preco-
city of that bona-fide infant is increasing every
night.
At Melb. Athenaeum Hall a mixed and
various entertainment of the German-Reed order
is testing public opinion on the matter, and public
opinion is likely to be favorable to the experiment.
The programme on Saturday was about twenty
minutes too long, but the ingredients came up to
the expectations of a full-sized audience, and The
Bulletin will try to say something genteel about
Robert Young, E. M. Alexander and Co. in its
next issue, provided that the encore fiend has been
put under reasonable control meanwhile. Also
further reference to M‘Adoo minstrels and other
matters is held over for a week.
** * *
This is show-week in Melb., when the
solemn apostle of fat stock prods the bloated
porker in his tenderest feelings preparatory to
putting in an evening at the play. Old stuff is as
good as new for business purposes until Saturday
night, anyway, and every theatre witli a reputa-
tion to go upon hangs out its bill -of - fare,
and sings Gorsave the agricultural producer.
At the Princess’s, the last nights of “A
Stranger in New York ” are happening,
but the final appearance of that irresponsible
interloper will not take place before Wednesday
next. Till then he will continue to get outside
the cocktails that never were meant for him, and
the discomfiture of I. Collier Downe will proceed
as usual. Also, the festive Stranger will persist
in asking “What for?” when I. Collier Downe
states his name, and Mr. Wright Innitt will
desire his friend Carroll Sweet to carol sweetly, all
of which is probably quaint and funny if one has
made up his mind to be amused. A revival of
“ The Geisha ” will follow on Friday (Bth).
* * * -&
“The War of Wealth” retires from the
Royal this Friday, and for Saturday (2nd) warlike
Bland Holt promises “For England.” This is
said to be owing to the interminable crisis in the
Transvaal. Although the story has nothing to do
with President Kruger, it contains a good deal of
dead Zulu and British valor, and is likely to fill
the house for a fortnight. Bland Holt has only
two more weeks to travel at the Royal. The long
engagement of Miss Elizabeth Watson ends with
the present season.
** * *
Mdlle. Trebelli, for whom Australia has a
lively admiration of some two years’ standing, is
to sing again at Melb. Town Hall to-night (Thurs-
day). The first time Mdlle. Trebelli visited this
country she had to show cause for “starring” as a
great artist, but this time she brings an Australian
celebrity with her, and the Melbourne public will
welcome her as an accomplished fact. The night-
ingale intends to give only four recitals in Mel-
bourne, afterwards taking the provincial towns
en route to Sydney.
* * He *
If Dolly Castles is the Castles who is said
to have “a finer voice than Amy’’the confiding
public of Australia will escape a boom in this case.
Amy Castles’s younger relative sang “ Told in the
Twilight ” at a Melb. Royal matinee last week.
Preliminary puff paragraphs credited Dolly with
“ gold medals ” for warbling this same ballad in
Bendigo competitions, and a considerable percent-
age of the audience had come with an idea of dis-
covering another “future Melba ” who was to be
even more so than Amy. The disillusionment
amounted to positive cruelty. Younger sister
Dolly has no voice worth mentioning at present,
nor any means of persuading people that she ever
earned even a putty medal on her merits. There’s
no music, taste, or feeling in her warble. The
writer has heard “Told in the Twilight ” (other-
wise “ Close to the Threshold ”) sung many times
since it was brought out by a young Irish tenor,
named Newcombe, at London Gaiety Theatre,
some 20 years ago, but he never heard it so badly
treated before. The Melb. audience, strange to
say, realised the true character of Miss Dolly’s
performance, and didn’t trouble to give her a full
half-round of applause. In the light of those puff
pars., the fraud was too outrageous. Miss Dolly
had all the necessary confidence, also a short frock
and a rather natty pair of young legs. The dis-
concerted Argus merely mentioned her name' next
morning, but the Age gave her “ a sweet and clear
voice, with admirable enunciation ” (in these
respects she didn’t approach the little Ranger girl,
of Rickards’ co.), and said, “Miss Dolly is 14
years of age, but looks younger,” which means
that she is 15, childishly dressed.
At Poverty Point.
A resurrection. Veteran Beaumont Read, now under
the wing of that other veteran, Wybert Reeve, re-appears
in Adelaide as one of the promoters of the movement to
send Meta Buring, a local warbler, ’Ome for training.
Peggy Pryde fairly let herself go in bidding farewell to
a Perth (W. A.) audience. “ Some blubbering idiots,” she
said, “circulated reports before I came here that my
business was smutty and that my songs were vulgar and
dirty. I’d gladly give 50 golden sovereigns out of my
pocket this minute to know who they were” she didn’t
say why, but she looked it. Then Peagydeliveredalectur-
ette on the purity of the modern music-hall stage. Poor
Peggy ! Certainly some people who had been East re-
turned with spicy yarns which they said were some of
P.P.’s gags. The result was that the house was full
nearly every night, but many men left—their wives at
home.
“ Albert the Good " : Countess Owbridge, in “ The Gay
Lord Quex,” is evidently a hardshell Baptist. One
marvels that she should invite ashe-manieurist to “ make
herself at home” at Faunce.v Court. Writer knows of
countessess of the Owbridge type (Bulletin is here per-
mitted a glass of water), and they wouldn’t allow a she-
manicurist within 10ft. of the garden-wall—in an unpro-
fessional capacity. Of course, the invitation is essential
to the plot, but this god jibbed when she took her young
man along—who made his uninvited self at home and
fired insults at the gay Quex. Writer also knows lots of
archbishops who invite the village blacksmith to the
palace, urging him to strike the grand-piano and make
himself generally musical. It would have been interest-
ing had Pinero put on a chiropodist’s establishment—the
spectacle of my lord’s salient feet being primed of in-
growing nails might have lifted the froth from the beer
of tragedy.
There is something guileless and calculated to make
the heathen smile in Bishop Wakefield’s explanation of
how he came to call “ The Gav Lord Quex ” the most im-
moral play that was ever put upon the British stage:
“ My statement before the Church Missionary Society
was exaggerated. I exaggerated purposely. It was the
only way to attract attention.” He then goes on to say
that he never saw the play in question, but thought it
was bad because “The Sign of the Cross” was bad. It
is observations of this sort that cause the modern sinner
to have hopes that perhaps Bishop Wakefield’s Deity
“purposely exaggerated” when He made those unpleas-
ant remarks about hell-fire.
They had queer ideas about the niceties of gentlemanly
behaviour in the time of Louis XIII., to judge by “ The
King’s Musketeer,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s. D’Artagnan,
ushered into the cabinet of the awesome Richelieu, ob-
serves a MS. lying Upon the table. Whereon he sits,
takes it up, and calmly proceeds to read it!! And
H miilton’s “Red Duke,” catching him in t he act, doesn’t
even pack him off to the Bastille for the liberty !
“ C. Clyde ” : “ Bendigo,” writing re Amy Castles, asks
why the Roman Catholics get “ narked” when their dis-
position to league together is commented on, whereas
Jews and the Presbyterian Scotch are rather compli-
mented by any observation on their clannishness?
“ Bendigo” forgets that, in the first case, it is a'-»fhestion
of religion, plus—very much plus—nationality. The
Jews look upon themselves as a race apart, not a cfeed
apart, as is evinced by the fact that they do not prose-
lytise, and rather hold the manufactured Jew in con-
tempt. In the case of the Scotch Presbyterian (the
modern Jew) the clannishness is for the Scotch, not the
Presbyterian, a Catholic Scotchman being nearer his soul
than a Presbyterian son of Erin. Hence the fact that
Jews and Scotchmen don’t get “ narked.” Patriotism is
recognised as a harmless imbecility ; sectarianism is a
disgraceful anachronism.
Emily Soldene, in Sydney E. News, criticises adversely
the new-fangled method of singing through the half-
closed mouth. Which is quaintly and perhaps con-
sciously humorous coming from niuckle-mou’ed Emily.
Melb. Princess advt. of “ A Stranger in New York ” :
“A typical Princess’s First Night Audience, in a manner
not to be mistaken, endorsed the verdict so freely
bestowed upon this excruciatingly funny comedy on every
evening during its 2000 representations in America, and
its six weeks’ run in Sydney.” Its six weeks’ run in
Sydney 1 Ye gods 11
The local “Georgia Magnet”— a lady who earns a
living on the stage by letting the audience try to lift her,
and find that it can’t do it worth a copper—was sued in
Melbourne recently for board, lodging, washing, and
other sordid details. In evidence it was alleged that the
Magnet had egg-flip first thing in the morning, ham and
eggs for breakfast, stout and oysters at 11 a.m., much
steak for lunch, and a good deal of mutton for dinner. In
fact, the Secret of her Strength, it appears, is not a
scientific application of hitherlo-unknown forces nor a
combination of latent elements, but just Vittles.
Reported that various members of the
N.S. W. Govt, have led friends of their own away
to a lonesome spot, and there breathed it into
their ears under a dreadful oath of secresy that
the Governor has promised a dissolution if Lyne’s
expected motion of censure is carried. These
friends, being leaky and garrulous, have breathed
it to other friends, and some members who might
otherwise have voted against the Government
begin to wobble a little. Of course the Govern-
ment couldn’t tell such a tale openly, else
His Ex. would probably give it a flat contradiction,
but a lot can be done by breathing in strict con-
fidence on a carefully-selected friend.
The Bulletin makes it a rule not to pub-
lish jam from its friends, but as this mixed testi-
monial (Hansard report) is from an enemy it may
pass :
This great Sanhedrim of the press is headed by the
Bulletin. The Bulletin supports the Constitution Bill.
The Bulletin —an infidel paper—a notoriously infidel
paper—a republican paper—a disloyal paper—delights in
the Bill because it is disloyal. Australia asked the great
Sanhedrim of the press : why must we federate ? And
the great Sanhedrim replied: “For the blood, for the
destiny, for defence,” and it was a very good answer.
When New South Wales asked the press why should New
South Wales he sacrificed that this federation should come
about, the great Sanhedrim of the press, the Bulletin at
their head, replied : “ We have a law, and by our law
New South Wales must be sacrificed that Australia may
federate ! ” That is the position of things with regard to
the mighty and intelligent press. lam sorry, at this time
of life, to see these grand old papers following in the wake
of an infidel paper, a paper that is disloyal to its heart's
core, and republican in its very essence. They have fol-
lowed that paper throughout the whole of this fight. I
say, also, with all respect—although I am bound to speak
plainly—that the articles in the Bulletin have been
simply intellectual, magnificent, and apparently, from
their point of view, unanswerable. That is the paper
that has fought this battle for twenty years, and which
has brought this country to the condition in which it is
at present; and when the Commonwealth Bill has passed,
it may chuckle and be certain that the division of the
empire is not far off. —Hon. N. Hawken, in N.S.W.
Legislative Council, 16th August, 1899.
And after all this Hawken voted for the Federal
address.


Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., mining engineer, of 434
Ooliins-street, Melb., is about to visit Western Australia
to report on a newly-discovered copper property. While
there he is open to investigate other properties.*
Chillagoe and Mt. Garnet.—The copper-
silver number of the Clarion describes the mines and all
about them —profusely illustrated. Posted to any address
for Is. -3d. in stamps. Address —The Publisher, the
Clarion, 25 King-street, Melbourne.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, Ptc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during- the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mi-. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or devetope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLIMER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing-, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
an d particulars apply
S. ZOLLNEK,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
umw*
m
The
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & CO.,—Sydney.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ;27 Eagle-street,
Brisk.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
B.G. (Charters Towers) : Bank of New South
Wales.
• * • •
A painfully amateur financier, one Armstrong,
M.L.A., is trying to demonstrate in Queensland that the
alleged possible saving of interest by a Federal conversion
and consolidation of the public debt is only a weak inven-
tion. Yet any person of reasonable capacity ought to be
able to understand such a simple process. When Aus-
tralia is federated, and the new Government has had
time to settle down in its office and hang up its hat, it
will probably take the public creditor by the button-hole,
and fix him with its glittering eye, and address him thus :
“ My friend, you hold £21,01)0,000 of Queensland (or Vic-
torian, or N.S. VV.) 4 per cent, stock which has still, on an
average, say, 20 .years to run ; also a lot of 3J per cents.
You have only the security' of Queensland (or N.S.W., or
Victoria) alone for the money. That security
doesn’t look so good as it did, for these provinces
have given up the right to raise money at their
own pleasure by customs and excise to pay the interest
with. We, the Federal Government, have the
sole right to decide what the customs and excise revenue
shall be. We offer you our bonds with 3 percent, interest,
an extension to, say, 40 years, and the security of all
Australia and all its customs and excise revenue and all
its other assets, if you will surrender these securities. If
you don’t agree you don’t get the extra security." And
in 99 cases out of 100 he probably will agree, and thereby
save Queensland from £250,000 to £300,000 a year in-
terest. And if Queensland doesn’t federate all it can do
is to fix its creditor with a very much smaller and less
efficient eye and say : “You hold £21,000,000 of 4 per cent,
stock with, say r , 20 years to run, and a lot of 34 per cents.
Will you agree to take 3 per cent, with no better se-
curity'?” And in 100 cases out of 100 the public creditor
will reply by expressing the opinion that the province
has been drinking.
* * * *
Mr. H. S. Scott, general agent for the First
Sydney and New South Wales Tontine Investment Fund,
writes : —“ In view of an inference which might be drawn
by some reader > of your last week’s issue, will you permit
me to say' that the position of the Perpetual Trustee Co.,
Ltd., in relation to the Fund is solely that of trustees,
and they are not in any way concerned in the foundation
of the Fund. All moneys are paid, by members joining,
direct to the insuring companies or to the trustees; my
position is simply intermediary as broker for the proposals.
Any' incentive to “ drop a brick on the other fellow’s
head ” is avoided by a term of the Trust deed providing
that if at any time during the Tontine period the number
of members in the Fund should be reduced to five, such
five members at once become owners of the accumulated
fund, pro rata as to the amount and age of their policies.
With regard to the commissions—certainly I get them.
My principal business is that of writing life-assurance
business, aud the fact that policies are taken out with a
view to applying them to a special purpose such as this
fund, does not affect my right to the commissions. The
person insured has no more interest in the commission
earned than an advertiser might have in the commis-
sion The Bulletin allows to the representatives of its
advertising department. Of course the rotten system of
returning commissions or part of them has become so
common here (whether in advertising, insurance, or any
other commission business) that the idea of the agent,
and the agent only, being entitled to the full amount of
his own commissions may strike some people as quite
strange. Your suggestion that some company might
start a Tontine Fund, and form the commissions into a
nucleus for after-division among the members, practically
would amount to insurers drawing the commissions on
their own cases for their own benefit. In the same direc-
tion it might be suggested that if the Perpetual Trustee
Co., or some other co., were to start, say, a new Bulletin,
the profits might be distributed among the advertisers
and subscribers, instead of the said profits being as now
divided among what I heard a Domain orator define not
long since (apropos of one of your contemporaries) as a
‘ grasping and greedy proprietary.’ ”
* * * *
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited, is yet another
Sydney wool and produce concern which is suffering from
bad times, though its sufferings this year are not quite so
bad as they have been. The last three years’ profits of
this co. have been as follows :
1897 .. .. £1,841 I 1899 .. .. £4,043
1898 .. .. 2,731 |
There has been no dividend for a considerable time, the
earnings being monotonously “ transferred to a special
reserve to meet bad and doubtful debts.” How much the
bad and doubtful debts are supposed to amount to,"and
how far the special reserve has got towards covering them
the balance-sheet doesn’t profess to explain. But the co.
has a paid-up capital of £50,000 and bank overdrafts of
£65,437, so it is heavily burdened. Its assets include an
item called “ goodwill, plant, office furniture, &c., £25,000.”
How much of this is goodwill doesn’t appear, yet the good-
will of a concern which is unable to pay dividends is of no
visible present value, and this paper item ought to appear
by itself in order to give a reasonable idea of-the co.’s real
position. In the absence of any information as to how
much of the assets consist of goodwill and how much con-
sist of bad and doubtful debts not yet provided for, the
balance-sheet throws very little real light en the state of
affairs. The information which it supplies is mainly to
the effect that, when the bad and doubtful debts and the
goodwill (whatever they may be) are written off, and the
big overdraft is paid, the co. will be fairly entitled, on
last year’s earnings, to pay 8 per cent, dividends.
* * m m
The Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. (Sydney)
has chanced the date for closing its financial year to 30th
June, and issues a half-year’s report to 30th June, 1899,
by way of getting the new arrangement fairly started.
The six months’ profits were £4321. A bonus of 20 per
cent, to policy-holders (£2149) and a dividend at the rate
of something over 16;) per cent, per annum (£2149) absorb
£4298, and the other £23, added to previous balance,
leaves £5BBl to carry forward. The co.’s profits since ’9l
have been as follows
1891 .. £13,885 1896 .. £12,136
1892 „ 13,691 1897 .. 10,989
1893 .. 13,097 1898 .. 11,714
1894 .. 11,571 iof 1899.. 4,321
1895 .. 8,265
The half-year just closed has not been an especially good
one as things generally go with the Mercantile Mutual,
still there are very few insurance concerns which can
show such good results just now. The paid-up capital is
£26,250, of which £7500 is capitalised profit, and the re-
serves and profit balance are equal to £45,881.
» * * •
The Farmers’ Co-operative Fire and Marine
Insurance Association of Canterbury (Maoriland), an
affair whose lengthy name is a disgrace to nomenclature
publishes a balance-sheet covering 18 months to 30th
June 1899. The reason of this clumsy circumstance is
that it has also been seized with the mania for chan<r*ng
its balancing date. The profits compare with some for-
mer earnings as follows :
1891 . .. £2,054 1895 .. .. £4,310
1892 .. .. 3,451 1896 .. •• 3,476
1893 . 1,210 1897 .. •• 5 > 042
1894 .. • • 4,104 1899 (U years).. 6,457
This covers the whole period of the association’s exist-
ence. It paid 5 per cent, dividend in 1891, 7 per
cent, in 1892, 4 per cent, in 1893, 6 per cent, in
1894 and 1895, 5 per cent, in 1896, and 6 per
cent, in 1897. Also, it has paid pretty regularly a bonus
of 10 per cent, to policy-holders on their premiums.
This year it pays 6 per cent, to shareholders, the usual 10
per cent, bonus to policy-holders ; adds 500 to reserve
fund, making it £4500 ; and, including surplus from last
year, it, has £l2OO to carry forward. The Farmers Co-
operative is, in its way, the most remarkable insurance
office in Australasia, and one of the most remarkable on
earth. It does a very small business as yet; though
there is a steady increase the net premiums, so far,
haven’t g-ot beyond £5OBO for a year. In eight years it
has accumulated £5OOO reserves (reserve fund 14500 and
re-insurance reserve £1100), which is more than a year s
net premium income. Also, it has a paid-up capital of
£49,3ll—equal to nearly ten years’, net premium income.
The Bulletin doesn’t know another fire office in the
world which is founded on such a tremendous rock of
financial solidity as the Farmers’ Co-operative of Canter-
bury, or which has so vast a mass of funds in proportion
to the business done. If there is any joy in being about
the strongest fire office in the world this little Maoriland
co. can have it, for it has got there right enough.
* * * *
Castlemaine Brewery Co., a Mel bourne-boom
beer enterprise, whose luck has been a little less dreadful
than the average, presents a balance-sheet which com-
pares with some of its predecessors in this fashion :
Profit. Dividend.
30th June, 1892 ... £37,962 ... 25 per cent. = £31,250
„ 1893 ... 23,749 ... 12J „ = 15,625
„ 1894 ... 18,647 ... 7 „ 8,750
„ 1895 ... 12,253 ... 7 „ 8,750
„ 1896 ... 8,389 ... 6 „ = 7,500
„ 1897 ... 2,854 ... Nil
1898 ... 3,348 ... Nil
„ 1899 ... 5,787 ... Nil.
In 1892 the Castlemaine Brewery had £BO,OOO reserve-fund
and £27,000 profit-balance—total reserves, £107,000. All
the reserves it has now are £3590, the rest, together with
ail the recent earnings, having gone into the bottomless
pit of “ depreciation.” Also, it seems probable that
depreciation will swallow the earnings for some time
longer, and there is a paper-asset of £5llO (debenture-
flotation account) to write-off before dividends come in
sight again. Still, there is a visible improvement since
’97, and the Castlemaine Brewery ought, to be one of the
survivors of the great beer-boom and the great beer-slump
that followed it.
* * » *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart) issues a
balance-sheet which also goes to show that beer isn’t
what it was. The half-year’s profit was £2668, and a 3
percent, dividend, and dividend-tax thereon, absorbed
£2658, so the co. only earned its 3 per cent, with £lO to
spare. The Cascade co. used to revel in 10 per cent, divi-
dends seven years ago, but since then it has gone the way
of most breweries —only it has gone not quite so far as
some of them. Under Federation there may be brighter
times ahead.
* * * *
Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co. for the year
ended 30th June, i. 899, shows a profit of £12,262, which
compaies with previous takings after this fashion :
1892 .. £8945 1896 .. £8935
1893 .. 10,039 1897 .. 11,028
1894 .. 10,667 1898 .. 11,886
1895 .. 11,380 1899 : 12,262
The usual 10 per cent, dividend absorbs £9OOO, and £3OOO
goes to the reserve for renewal of plant, making it £16,500.
* * * *
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co. (Castle-
maine, Vic.) is a conspicuous example of a brewery that
paid its 10 and 12.) per cent, dividends through the worst
time 3 of the Victorian slump, simply because it never
floated itself into a huge inflated co. in the booin-days, or
took to issuing £150,000 worth of debentures or similar
foolishness. It just stuck closely to its vats, and sold its
beer, and let the boom pass unnoticed. Last year’s profits
were £6456, and the 10 percent, dividend absorbs £4OOO
of this. The paper asset of “goodwill” is now finally
written off, and the co. finds itself with £40,000 paid-up
capital, £11,838 of reserves, and no liabilities worth men-
tioning.
* * * *
The Equity Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Co. (Melb.) reports for the half-year to 30/6/’99 a net profit
of £1176, so the great improvement of last half hasn’t
been maintained. A dividend of 7) per cent, per annum
absorbs £938. Earnings and dividends since 1892 have
been : . ~
Net Profit. Dividend.
June, 1892 .. .. £2S7 10 per cent. =£1250
December, 1892 .. 2195 „ ~ = 1250
June, 1893.. .. 152 „ „ = 1250
December, 1893 .. 99 Nil
June, 1894.. .. 361 Nil
December, 1894 .. 663 5 per cent. = 625
June, 1895 .. . 556 „ „ = 625
December, 1895 .. 46S „ „ 625
June, 1896 .. .. 826 ~ ~ = 625
December, 1896 .. 796 „ » = 625
June, 1897.. .. 759 „ „ = 625
December, 1897 .. 486 ~ » 625
June, 1898 .. .. 1006 „ „ = 625
December, 1898 .. 2770 7£ ~ „ 938
June, 1899 .. .. 1176 „ » = 988
£12,597 £10,626
There is a balance of ±238 after paying the dividend
which, with previous accumulations, leaves £3230 at
credit of profit and loss. Also the Equity Trustees Ex.
and Agency has a very obscure reserve fund of £1250.
Probably the wisest thing the co. could do would be to
promptly transfer ±3OOO of its profit balance to reserve in
case the'temptation again assails it to pay £1250 in divi-
dends when the earnings are only £152. Considering how
great and prompt the downfall is from the large profits
of previous half-year, it looks as if the decision to put the
dividends up to 7J per cent, might yet prove to be pre-
mature. And one of the quaint characteristics of this co.
is its frantic resolve to keep the dividends up to the last
gasp when once the3' have got up.
* * * *
The Bulletin office often has a lot of ore in
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
been encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value and treat-
ment of samples submitted. Arrangements have now
been made lor testing, by assay and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assays alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin correspondents
will not only give, a statement of metallic contents, but
owners also will be advised by an experienced, practical
metallurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in
bulk, whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation,
smelting, cyaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should
not be less than lib. nor more than 10lb.
* * * *
Silverton Tram directors are becoming ab-
solutely reckless ; at one fell swoop they have reduced
rates so that, if traffic doesn’t as a consequence increase,
they will lose something like £4OOO a year— i.e., they
will only make £82,575 this year instead of the £86,575
which they made last year, on a paid-up capital of
£200,000. No less than 36 lines have been boldly attacked.
For the future Broken Hill will have its pearl barley
carried 35 miles for 15s. 7d. per ton, instead of 21s. 5d.,
and it rejoices in the tact that it can have either Bar-
celona nuts or split peas at precisely 2s. lid. per ton less
than it has been payinur. On the strength of this, and of
the further far-reaching' reduction in the freight of lime-
juice and maizena, Broken Hill proposes to give itself up
to a period of wild rejoicing, and has invited Gov.
Beauchamp up to join in.
There are, however, three or four more substan-
tial lines affected by the co.’s new tariff, which is to come
into force Oct. Ist; but even as to these, here are the new
charges as compared with the S.A. Govt, tariff for 85
miles (the Silverton line is 35 miles long) :
Govt. Co.
Flour, bran, potatoes 4s. lid. ss. lOd.
Fruit and Vegetables ss. sd. ss. lOd.
Chaff, etc 4s. lid. Bs. 9d.
And this which follows is a comparison of the S.A Govt,
freight for the last 35 miles before reaching Cockburn
(the border station) on the journey from Adelaide, and
the co.’s freight for the 35 miles past Cockburn :
Govt. Co.
Flour, &c. .. Is. sd. ss. lOd.
Fruit, Vegetables 2s. 2d. ss. lOd.
Chaff, &c. .. Is. sd. Bs. 9d.
Compare with Victoria and N.S.W. Govt, rates (still for
a single 35 miles): —
Co. Vic. N.S.W.
Flour, bran .. .. ss. lOd. 4s. 6d. ss. 3d.
Potatoes .. . ss. lOd. 3s. 2d. 4s. sd.
Chaff Bs. 9d. 4s. Gd. 2s. lOd.
Fruit and Vegetables ss. lOd. 6s. Id. 4s. sd.
And of course any Govt., having carried goods 300 miles,
will carry them on a further 35 miles for approximately
one-third of the rates here quoted.
» * » *
The Occidental G.M. (Cobar) annual report
shows that, taking into account gold in transit and work-
ing materials and stores, &c., on hand, the co.’s indebted-
ness (incurred for extension of dam, buying cyanide-
plant, &c.) has been reduced to but a little over £lOOO.
The balance of profit and loss for the year (operations
were suspended for five months for want of water) is
£5034. Development now proceeds vigorously and the erec-
tion of 10-head additional stampers, for which driving-
power is already available, is contemplated. As 60,000
tons tailings remain to be treated, there is still two years’
work for the cyanide plant ahead of the battery. Average
yield free gold per ton, 3dwt. 16gr. ; average extraction
per ton of tailings by cyanide, about 2dwt. Bgr. Which is
interesting as throwing light on the prospects of the
Cobar Gold Mines, now beginning wholesale operations
on same line of lode.
* * * *
The Mount Hope Copper Mine, N.S.W., floated
into a co. of-24,000 £1 shares in 1881, has been worked on
tribute for the past 13 years, and has paid regular half-
yearly divs. of 6d. per share. This co. had a surplus of
£2600 in July last, and from that paid a div. of (id. per
share (amount, £600), carrying forward £20..0 balance.
The machinery at mine, greatly out of repair at the end
of last year, was thoroughly overhauled and repaired at
commencement of this, necessitating closing of the mine
for about three months. For the old Cornish jigs there
have just been substituted Hancock’s jigs, a recent trial of
which was most satisfactory.
* • * *
The trick mine, Lake George, has shut down its
smelters, “pending the discovery of payable sulphides.”
The construction of a 1200-ton-per-week cyanide plant, to
treat the gossan, proceeds.
» • • »
Wentworth Goldfields Ltd. (N.S.W.) cable from
superintendent : “Four weeks’ crushing, 160ozs. from
488 tons of ore.” An awful drop, but the average mine
has not a long life of richness.
* • * *
Victory Forest Reefs (N.S.W.): “It has been
determined to thoroughly open up the mine, so that a
long continuous run may be expected in future.” This
after two years of the other sort of working.
* * * *
Girilambone, N.S.W. : Half-year’s work, 1961
tons of ore raised, and 868 tons second-grade concentrates
jigged, producing 547 and 462 tons of first and second
grade concentrates ; 1288 tons of ore and slags smelted,
producing 50 tons Bewt. of copper, the product of the
small blast-furnace. Very indefinite, but that’s how it
reads, anyhow. Nothing to show whether the mine is
really working at a profit or loss. Thf. Bulletin has
heard a great deal of the work done by the experimental
furnace, but it was only the other day writer was reliably
informed that; it was brought about by the use of
“ roaster” slags from the reverberatory furnace, which is
a horse of another color altogether in reckoning treatment-
cost.
* * * *
Carbolite, produced from powdered coke and
molten iron-smelting slag, is expected to supersede cal-
cium carbide as an acetylene-gas generator. Claimed
that carbolite of equal efficiency can be made at one-tenth
the price of carbide. It is to be made on a great scale at
Newhausen-on-Ithine, the power for the necessary elec-
tric current being derived from 20,000 horse-power water
motors. A company is being engineered, or talked of,
in Sydney to acquire the Australian rights of the inven-
tion.
» * * *
Dredging for gold is indeed the order of the day.
On the Russell River, N.Q., all available area has been
pegged for dredging. The local syndicates reckon that
2 grs. gold to the cubic yard will pay.
• * * *
At Cape River vicinity, Ch. Towers, 25 dredg-
ing-lease applications are in ; also some for the Burdekin.
* * * *
The Insurance Agent, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society “ The report of
this progressive company just to hand is quite refreshing
from the buoyant, inspiring account it gives of a success-
ful year’s operations.* * *
Two big tin shows near Cairns have got into
working order. The present price of tin ought to
resurrect some of the old Wild River shows.
• * ♦ *
Some Q. mining items—Gympie Oriental and
Glanmire 811 tons for 812 ozs., 6d. div., mine looking well.
Phrenix Golden Pile 127 tons, 488 ozs., 6d. div. No. IN.
Oriental and Glanmire 371 tons, 127 ozs. No. 2 S. Gt.
Eastern 537 tons, 4298 ozs. amalgam. Rockhampton out-
side shows for quarter just ended crushed and cyanided
2,846 tons for 1,768 ozs. Kelly's 540 tons, 949 ozs., and
265 tons for 279 ozs. Day Dawn Gold Mines 310 tons, 392
ozs. Brilliant and St. George 1,332 tons, 1,626 ozs., 75th
div. of Is. Brilliant Extended 439 tons, 235 ozs. Div. ?
Brilliant 1,200 tons, 1,352 ozs. Victoria and Queen 260
tons, 304 ozs., 6d. div. Victoria G.M. Co. 300 tons, 507
ozs., 3d. div., the 64th ; shares firmed a little. Bonnie
Dundee 290 tons, 365 ozs.
* .* * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * *
Comparative reports from two big copper con-
cerns_Chillagoe Railway and mines : Griffith mine-
copper ore of good value met with to-day, which appears
to be development of importance. P.P.A. mine—veins
of copper showing in bottom. Otho mine—disclosing
boulders of copper ore. Ruddigore mine—copper pyrites
continue to show in small quantities at bottom. Boomer-
ang mine—shaft sunk 7ft. No change. Now come the
Mt. Garnet Freehold reports of same date : Bulk samples
from 124 ft. to 134 ft. in tunnel assay : 13.7 per cent,
copper, 21.750 z. silver. Mean of assays from No. 2 winze,
6.6 per cent, copper, 14.50 z. silver. No. 2 rise—carbonate
ore, mean value, 11.9 per cent, copper, 260 z. silver per
ton. No. 2 South drive, mean assay-value from 76 to
94ft., 6.3 per cent, copper, 13.750 z. silver per ton. One
of these concerns has more than three times the value of
the other, hut how many people without knowledge of
either would know which it was from reading these
reports ?
Mt. Reid (Tas.) in London asserts
that there is no reason whatever for depreciation in
shares. The 100 tons sample has not yet been treated by
the new process, and if it fails other methods are
available. ’Twas ever thus. Evident that the mine is
not exactly what it has been cracked up to be. Shares
often ascend on gas, but seldom fall without good reason.
* * » •
The Wilfiey concentrator has only been a short
time before the mining public, but has already demon-
strated its superiority, over 1200 being sold within the
past two years. This machine has a capacity of from
25 to 30 tons per day, and will save more sulphuretts,
float gold, amalgam or quicksilver, and make a cleaner
and better separation than any belt concentrator made.
It can be easily and rapidly adjusted while in motion, and
requires no expert attention. The Aus J ”al Otis Engineer-
ing Coy., South Melb, have been appointed sole manufac-
turing agents, and are now engaged constructing machines
for the colonies. The price of the machine is £ll5.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell The Aiigus correspondent works
out the profit of last month at £1 13s. a ton. Value of
ore, £3 Bs. Each day’s profit £1272, or for a year £463,000.
To this must be added profit made from treating ores
from other mines, the chief of which is the Tharsis. Ore
value 3 195., made up of 5 per cent, copper with a little
gold and silver. Deducting Lyell’s total costs, 355. per
ton, and the amount per ton paid to the Tharsis, and
there is a big profit left. But that is not all. The Tharsis
pays for delivering and mining its own ore, for manage-
ment and other expenses, and supplies Lyell with a flux —-
silica.. On the basis of last month’s supply, 2317 tons, the
parent mine must make a profit of over £20,000 a year
from this mine alone ; and it is only a matter of time
when this source of profit will be much greater.
Woodlark Island, a New-Guiuea scheme lately
placed with the Sydney public, may be all right, but
there is far 100 much newspaper “yabber” about it.
Writer has read many paragraphs about 14cwt. of con-
centrates treated at Dapto with a result equal to 220 z.
gold per ton. Also, “ Numerous assays have been made
in Sydney yielding from 3dwt. to 71oz. per ton, and some
of the tailings have gone as high as 13oz. to the ton.”
Which is all very indefinite. The 14cwt. of concentrates,
for instance, may have come from one ton or from 50. In
one case they would be of great value, in the other pro-
bably worthless. Anyhow, it is a safe thing to be cautious
about all assay-mines.
v '* * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
♦ * * *
Chaffers cable from mine to London: “Aver-
age assays for the week, sdwts.” And yet the mine has
still a market-value of half-a-million ! 1
» * » »
A warning from British Columbia. Dear
Bulletin. —Let Australians think well before coming here
in search of gold. The officials here (Atlin City)—like
those at Dawson City—simply worship the dollar, which is
truly “almighty” here. I was born near Bendigo,
washed dirt in Ballarat, was a pioneer of Ooolgardie, and
I have never seen anything to come near the rotten laws
of this province. The so-ca led Government treats the
people like Indians instead of British subjects. At present
there are about 6000 men on the field, only about 1000 of
whom are working, as the great majority of the claims
are the subject of disputes which the Commissioner says
he has no power to decide. They charge you 2£ dollars
for recording a placer claim ; but, if said claim be jumped
20 different times, they will take the money from, and
issue records to, each person. Work can only be carried
on here 5 months out of the 12 —June to October, in-
clusive ; rest of the year the ground is frozen hard. We
are at present waiting for the judge from Victoria ; and,
as he is not likely to come before Aug., there can be little
mining done this year. There are a good many Austra-
lians here, but most of them are looking forward to getting
home again.—M.B.K.
* * *
Dear Bulletin.—Herewith some facts re the
much-talked-of Mambare River goldfields, British Papua,
which can be chopped-up and served as beer or gall to
intending New Guinea miners. In the first place, the
field is stone-dead ; most of the men are ditto ; and the
men who crack it up ought to be. Half of those going to
come will peg-out on sight, and be a nuisance to the men
living here, giving them much extra graft in burying
them. There’s nothing to warrant a rush, and never
was, the biggest pile ever leaving the field, after a
year’s extra lucky work, was not 200 oz All men here
now are fossicking, and poor at that, barely making
tucker. If a new gully breaks out it’s rushed by
the men on the spot, and is worked out in a week or two.
Then you poor benighted Australians hear the news six
months after, and reach out with both hands for Papua.
This scribe was one of them, and seven of his shipmates
out of 50, arriving six weeks ago, have died, and the other
43 are two days a week in their tents, laid-out with fever,
trying to scratch enough together to get out of the
accursed place. The country is a real old hard one to
battle in. It is healthy in a way, if a man would only
look after himself ; but he can’t. The place is only fit for
frogs to live in, it’s their paradise—incessant rain ; im-
penetrable wet scrubs, and rushing creeks everywhere,
with mountains to clamber over that would" wither
Kosciusko. Tucker is dear —lib. tin of meat. Is. 6d. ; tin
of milk Is. 3d. ; biscuits Is. 3d. per lb. ; rice Bd. per lb. ;
flour 365. a 501 b. tin ; and everything else in proportion ;
no vegetables, and plenty of good hard tack at a bob a
nip. About 120 men on the field, and most of them
possessed of a big rat. No man should come to New
Guinea with less than £lOO,, and never leave Samarai
without recruiting a few boys as native carriers at £3 10s.
per head ; without them he’s useless and ought to go
back home. If a man can afford to wait in this country
and keep his health he may make a rise.— Kiriwina.
Mambare Goldfield, Papua, 26th June, 1899.
Recently-returned Samarai (Papua) gold-tniner :
“If I owned Samarai and hell, I’d live in hell and rent
Samarai cheap.”


CL
A NEW DEPARTURE
]n Orient Suit to measure at 63s
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE PIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
S3T We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES 8a COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
(°g p r“T)
SYDNEY.
PREMIO sr.
J-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &c., 255.
A FASHIONABLE PASTIME.
PHOTOGRAPHY !
For the coming season, NOW is the time to get your Outfits.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
Will be glad to see you, or will send their Illustrated Cata-
logue post free on application. It gives full particulars of
the NEWEST AND BEST of everything.
Cameras, Chemicals, Plates, and all appliances.
<3T Complete Outfits from 55., with every requisite.
Brisbane Branch —
34 Queen Steeet.
Melbourne Agents—
Harrington # (Jo. [td.
Ph oto graph, i
Merchants,
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st. Agents in all the colonies.
66 King’ Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
VERY OLD [?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
Said that the first Governor-Gen. of Aus-
tralia will be the faded Marquis of Lome, whose
spouse, the Princess Louise, is prepared to come
along and keep him in countenance for one year,
or longer, should she like the country. But she
is not expected to like it much, consequently
Lome, if he comes at all, will take the appoint-
ment for twelve months with the option of a re-
newal by his overshadowing Louise.
* * • *
Under Federation and a sternly-reformed
military system the N.S.W. aristocracy may be
less easily able to quarter its connections on what
(so it is announced) is henceforth to be termed the
“Royal” Australian Artillery. The Common.
THE BE A TEN TEA CK.
NEROUS CONTRIBUTOR: “ I
want to leave these stories for
the editor's consideration. What is
the usual procedure?”
THE OFFICE BOY (briskly): “Oh, you just leaves
’em, an' then calls round in a week 'r two 'n'
takes ’em away again.”
wealth will presumably require something like the
Royal British Artillery standard in its commis-
sioned officers. The aspirant is there required to
pass a preliminary exam, as follows :—lst, mathe-
matics, including differential and integral ealeu-
lus; 2nd, three languages; 3rd, some of the
experimental sciences ; 4th, history and geography,
and some optional subjects. When he has passed,
he must spend three years in Woolwich Academy
at his own expense or that of his friends (unless
ne happens to be the son of an officer killed in
action, in which case he gets through free). He
is then subject to a discipline stricter than any-
thing known to a soldier in barracks, and learns
all the practical and theoretical parts of his work.
When he has pissed all his exams., and becomes
a lieutenant, he gets 6s. lOd. a day and quarters
for seven years. After that he get* a shilling
more, and, if he is good, becomes a captain after
12 or 13 years’ service. The Royal N.S.W. lieu-
tenant passes no exams, to speak of, except as to
this “birth and parentage,” and gets £240 a year
(from the jump, with a chance of becoming a cap-
itain in seven years, and a colonel in 15 !
* • • »
N.S.W., in addition to (partially) franking
the letters of the M’s.L.A., franks all the letters
of Government House. This was a concession
made to Gov. Duff by Premier Reid soon after
attaining office, and it has been continued till the
present. Parliament was not consulted upon the
matter ; in fact, members knew nothing about it
for over a year. No estimate can be formed of the
expense as it is included in a lump sum supposed
to represent the stamps supplied to the public
departments.
* * » •
Melb. P.O. officials howled against neces-
sary work on the Sabbath, making “ conscien-
tious ” objections and pleading religion. Govt,
granted an extra half-day’s pay for Sunday work,
and a great and abiding peace fell upon the
department. After all, the breaking of the Sab-
bath is very often merely a question of damages. —
“ You broke the Sabbath ! ” Pet'-r cried,
“ Excuse yourself or you shall rue it.”
“You know,” the trembling soul replied,
“Dear saint, that I was paid to do it.”
* » * *
Jersey Lily Langtry (aged 47) has entered
Into matrimony with Mr. De Bathe, heir to a
baronetcy, who was born in 1871. —
The people of Perth (W.A.) have lately
discovered, or think they have, that their narrow
Hay-street was originally laid out as a
beautiful wide thoroughfare, something
like Melbourne’s Collins-street. But the
old proprietors didn’t see the use of so
much street going to waste, so they
quietly put their buildings out to what
should have been the outside edge of the
pavement, and the Sandgroper Govt, of
the day didn’t think it mattered. Con-
sequently Hay-street was reduced to a
lane with a row of vested interests on
each side, and it will probably remain
a lane indefinitely.
D. : The Bulletin is busily engaged re-
pairing and improving the Australian lan-
guage. Well, why not Mondnight, Tuesnight,
Wednesnight, Thursnight, &c., &c., for thefuture?
It would be a literary short-out, and prevent con-
fusion in spots and places.
* * * i
Writes the Argus :
The millennium of the beer-drinker has arrived in Mel-
bourne. He can get a pint-and-a-half bottle filled to the
cork for 3d. in any hotel, and in the jug even more liberal
measure is given. In 1898 there was an increase in the
consumption of ordinary beer of 700,000 gallons.
This has been reprinted in Sydney with a view of
showing how bad things are commercially in Mel-
bourne ; but the paper which reprints it publishes
in the same issue an advertisement showing that
at a very decent Sydney hotel you can get a three-
course dinner with a glass of beer or wine for
sixpence.
* * * *
S.A. Govt, experimented with women
does, as medical officers in residence at Adelaide
Hospital; but after a twelve-months’ trial gives
it best and sends to England (why still to Eng-
land, by the way?) for three more male juniors.
And yet the female members of the Hospital
Board are not only among the hardest grafters,
but also do some of the best work. The reason
alleged for the change is that nurses do not get
along so well with women-doctors as with men-
doctors.
* * * *
Dr. Ramsay Smith, the brains of Adelaide
Hospital Staff during the recent dispute, has been
made President of the Central Board of Health,
and it is now prophesied that there will be a speedy
return to old conditions at the first-named institu-
tion. Patients have persisted in getting better
under the new regime much to the disgust of the
striking doctors, but probably this will be altered
when the University signs a treaty of peace, and
young medical students are again sent into the
wards. During the fight the Adelaide Medical
School has been moribund.
“A.D.” : The ways
of some Sydney slaveys
are hedged with mystery
and peroxide. Saw an
anEemic Flossie stop near
a registry-office yesterday
and grai> a fuil-blooded
Cinderella who was about
to enter. “ Don't yer
know me, Clara ? How
yer doin’?” Cinders an-
swered that life was too
full of ashes and heavy
missus for her to smile.
Thereupon, Flossie, streng-
thened with the wrath of
undigested beer, gave her
opinion of heavy missuses
and cold vittles. “ You
take a rest, Clara; let
work go to ’ell. Enjiy
yerself like me.” Much
confab, and then a
adjournment to a near
pub. When they came
out Flossie was dressed in
Cinders’ funereal clothes,
while Cinders, in Flossie’s
scented harness, pirouetted
on the kerb as one to the
manner born. It tran-
spired that Flossie wantep
a housemaid’s billet in
the mountains to recu-
perate her health. Cin-
ders is taking a spell from
heavy missuses, and smiles
a brandy-and-peppermint
smile at the gents who go
down by the fish-shops in
King street.
* * *
A bit of leg-irony !
It is a moot query whether
the descendants of the-
old regime are the more
ashamed of their English
fathers or their fathers’
English !
* * *
Wellington (M.L.) is
still puzzling how to keep
its young’ folk off the streets after dark, and the
curfew-bell is suggested.
* * » *
Re the N.S.W. policeman’s inefficiency
with his “ gun,” his baton, which ought to be a
much more effective weapon at close quarters, is
also a delusion and a snare. .Tint when wanted
to suppress a powerful and savage larrikin, it
mostly flies off the handle into the clutch of said
larrikin, who then proceeds to give the trap a
NEVER INSPECT AN IDEAL.
S HE: “ But we do not know each other well enough
yet; ask me say next month.”
H E: “ Woman! have a care—in a month we may
know each other too well.”
gorgeous hiding with it. The baton is made of
“compressed leather,” a supposed special mate-
rial provided by somebody who has the ear of the
authorities. Might nearly as well be made of
“condensed milk ! ”
CONSCIENTIOUS.
DOCTOR : “ Well, did you take the medicine I prescribed for you the day
before yesterday?”
C LURMAN: “Well — um — no. The directions said ‘to be taken or
going to bed.’ Fact is, I haven’t been to bed since!”
The climax of Victorian illegal-Sunday-
trading absurdity came with a meeting of publi-
cans at Brunswick recently, to “ consider the
advisability of refusing to trade on Sunday.”
* * * *
The experiment of employing female lock-
up keepers at N.S.W. police-stations is only in its
infancy, but so far shapes well. There are three
such women at Sydney stations and one at New-
castle. 4s. per day is the present rate of pay.
* * * *
At a certain town down South t'other day
the police raided a Chinese gambling-den. Among
the European devotees arrested was a well-
known Sunday School teacher. When brought
before the Bench the man of hymns and
prayers promptly pleaded guilty, where-
upon the Magistrate ejaculated : “ But
Mr. , I refuse to believe that you, a
Sunday School teacher, were found
playing fan-tan with a lot of Chinese.”
Hereupon the pride of the Sunday
School begged to withdraw his plea
of guilty, and assured the Bench
he was only teaching the Chows
English.
“Jack Shay”: Observations
in King-street, Sydney, reveal that
men are not the only free lunchers at
the pubs. Each drunkery has its quota
of “ dog ” bummers, who know when
11 o’clock strikes as well as the human
munchers. They play Lazarus to the
dossers’ Dives-snatching and nosing
after the scraps that fall on the
floor. Some barmen have what
they call “ permanent dog boarders,”
which they have given up trying to
“ shoo ” away.
» * * »
S.M. Herald’s art-critic ought to
carry a stable-boy under his wing whenever
he casts his trained vision on horse-pictures.
Mahony’s study, “ Indifferent Companions,”
at N.S. W. Art Society’s show, is referred to
as a wicked-looking bay about to bite its
companion. Now, the bay in question is
merely half-aroused—turning with a
whickering playfulness to the pony
in the next stall—a clever study in
_ horse-emotion-eyes back and listen-
ing, after the manner of a lover about
to nibble his girl’s diaphanous ear. The
calm indifference of the girl-pony in ques-
„ _ tion negatives the Herald’s aspersion of
vice in the picture—horses don’t rest on their
hind-quarters when they bite. Also, Australians
are entitled at least to intelligent horse-criticism.
The officers engaged in Sydney Bank-
ruptcy Court buildings should get another location
or be reassured by the Health authorities that the
sanitary arrangements are decent. Chief clerk
Carroll died the other day. Jones, another clerk,
died a couple of months ago. When Justice
Manning died animadversions on the Court build-
ings abounded. Now the Registrar and a messen-
ger. are ill. These facts excite apprehensions
which,_ if erroneous, should be promptly and
authoritatively dispelled.
A SPRING POEM.
Now comes the stealthy bull-dog anfc
Our picnic-legs to vex,
And things from chrysalises pant
To crawl down maidens’ necks.
The wattle lanes green with gold
And feels her sap grow warm,
Just like an Irish Rifle bold
In his new uniform.
And bridegroom Earth leaps, full of joy,
To clasp the Spring again,
Who hides herself, demure and coy,
In her chemise of rain.
A blissful married state
When the boy is twenty-eight,
And the bride is plump and charming,
Though no longer in her prime ;
Contentedly he smiles,
For there’s wisdom in her wiles,
And he dreams no dreams alarming
Of his Lily’s winter time.
When a dozen years have fled,
And he not so newly wed,
With the ardour of a iover
Will he gaze upon his wife?
Will the old girl fill the bill
When she’s creaking down the hill,
And his roving eyes discover
Younger interests in life ?


War or no war, Zetz Spa Water is boom-
ing ; and even the Boers admit it is superior to
any imported to the Transvaal. See that you
get Zetz.~
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations*
Sore Throat.
“You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
“ Condy’s Fluid.
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers.
CONDY’S FLUID ’ * can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitations.
guntijjtt gn |> a |( e
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s..per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ ptii' Half-dozen, free by post throng ho tit
Australia.
. Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
In order to introduce our GOLD-WIRE JEWELLERY
to the Australian public, we have decided to OFFER one
of the greatest BARGAINS ever seen in the jewellery
trade—viz., the above handsome BROOCH (any name or
3 initials), made of extra quality gold-filled wire, with
bell or heart pendant; guaranteed 9 carat solid gold.
Complete, sent post free on receipt P. 0.0. or M. 0., 5/-.
Agents wanted to take orders. Illustrated catalogue
sent free. R. SIMS, Manufacturing Gold-wire Jeweller,
Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
A ” %3Kr b “ od sulphur pills
DEFINITELY CURES Fluttering or Palpitation of the
Heart; breaks up Chills and Fevers, Pains and Aches,
Kidney Troubles, Asthma, Soreness of the Chest and
Lungs, Neuralgia and Headache. Per post, Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
B. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Senior’s
Famous Pharmacy
All Business Communications to be
Addressed
FRANK SENIOR,
Chemist, 246 George Street, Sydney.
“ Shanghai ” : That paragraphist is wrong
in saying that Ohows put bad coins in the coffins
with their dead. Says my laundry man: “Put
urn bad money by-and-bye sometime come back
dead man and give plenty bad luck. No fear,
Oh inaman not fool.” And rally people who
know the Chin kies well say that a corpse is the
only thing a Chinaman has much real respect for.
* * * *
The traditional Chinaman who, when his
religious beliefs were magisterially investigated as
a preliminary to administering the oath, blandly
said, “ Kissee book ! blowee match ! killee loo-
stah ! allee same ! ” has a compatriot in Sydney
who at least equals him in happy-go-lucky broad-
mindedness. He has been “ welly good Clistian”’
for years and has evln taught in Sunday-school
and played at kiss-in-the-ring with “welly ni’ lil’
white gel,” but these facts did not perturb him at
all when he arose at a recent mixed gathering of
Chinamen and Europeans and recommended that
a Buddhist temple be built in Sydney with funds
provided by a self-imposed tax on opium and rice
to be collected by the Chinese merchants. The
speech covering this proposition was made in
Chinese. Then the speaker said in English, for
the benefit of the Europeans present, “ God bless
Quong Tart; God bless Gibbs Blight; God bless
Jim Philp ” (the Ingliseeman who runs the local
Chow paper).
* * » *
John Norton was last week sued for libel
by H. S. Prescott, a blind teacher whom he ac-
cused in Truth of divers disgusting offences upon
blind women committed to his charge. Plaintiff
did not go into the witness-box, or call evidence,
and eventually dropped the case and accepted a
non suit. Defendant’s counsel called evidence to
prove his allegations; and read among other
things a statement made by Prescott to a commis-
sion which enquired into his conduct. One of
Prescott’s admissions was that “ The girls had laid
their heads on his shoulder at times but they had
been warned to keep their distance in the hot
weather.” Also the frolicsome Prescott and his
ewe-lambs disported themselves much at “Sacks-
on-the-mill,” a truly arcadian game which appears
to have consisted of the piling-up of themselves
by the pupils upon their prostrate mentor, until
when crushed beneath too much accumulated
damsel, he would throw off the load and they’d
begin again. How charmingly idyllic !
* * * *
In the Prescott libel case, a blind witness
testified to certaih “criminal conversations ” —the
legal term for illicit love. She “ witnessed ” with
hands, not with eyes. Evidently, there is no
“blind side” to the optically-blind. The blind
are very sensitive—especially to the presence of
another lydy.
* * • *
“ V.” : Whatever dirty-minded saints may
say about danc-
ing, it is morally
beneficial by using
the sexes to close
contact, and thus
cultivating their
power of self-re-
straint. The danc-
ing bushman is a
hearty fellow, who
looks theother sex
in the face and
deals with it natu-
rally, whereas the
non-ditto ascetic
looks askance at
woman, and han-
kers surreptitious-
ly after some of
her. Survey the
low foreheads,
fioliy eyes, and
wide, sensual
mouths charac-'
teristic of pietetic gather-
ings- and put two and
two together.
A recent Melbourne
divorce suit revealed the
fact that man and wife may
long live “happily” together,
although the gentleman is all
the time wearing horns of the
largest size. It was only re-
cently that the husband dis-
covered that his wife’s little
game had been going on almost
from the start of their married
life', and that the children he had
cherished as his own were really
the other fellow’s. But the
principal irony of the thing lay in the fact that
the unconscious cuckold had introduced to the
wife as a stranger, the very man who was already
too intimate with her. How that pair must have
felt as they bowed, and grinned, and were
“ pleased to make ” each other’s “ acquaintance ! ”
* * * *
The fresh batch of C.L. clergy landed in
Queensland from England recently accentuates
Bishop Webber’s determination, expressed two
years ago, that if Queensland did not provide a
University for the proper training of native
ecclesiastics he would fill every vacancy from
England.
* * * *
Last week a young lady appeared before
the. N.S.W. Chief Justice and asked for =£2,000
damages from a recreant lover who had married
his cousin after allowing her “to get her things
ready.” This outrage moved the jurymen to such a
degree of indignation that they arose and rent
their beards and gave judgment for the whole
<£2,000. During the trial it transpired that de-
fend nit, who had once owned some property, bad
become bankrupt, and the injured damsel could
only r. cover a dividend from the estate. So he
naturally didn’t defend the action. He won’t lose
anything ; it is merely a case of the other creditors
getting their dividend reduced.
A characteristic little thing has just hap-
pened in Perth. They have a Dental Board there
composed partly of all-round .sawbones and partly
of tooth-pullers ; and until a few months ago it
was a thorough-going Groper institution, which
frowned haughtily upon the interloper from the
East. But an aggressive person named Potts
struck it, applied for registration, and was
promptly fired out. Sailing into still greater
notoriety in consequence, he continued his fight
with the Board, and the Supreme Court ulti-
mately upheld his claim to registration. The
other day a new Board had to be elected ; but,
instead of accepting the new conditions and mak-
ing the best of them, the members of the old
Groper Board went into their surgeries and
tooth-rooms and sulked—not a single one of them
permitted himself to be nominated.
• ■* * *
Only the advertiser and the gods know
why this should be put in the matrimonial column
of Melb. Age:
/GENTLEMAN, prosperous suburban Hotel, requires
Lady, young, musical, good address, to manage ;
previous experience not necessary. Provision, Aon
Office.
“ Provision,” by the way, is delightfully sugges
tive.
They talk of woman’s tact and her delicate
perception of the eternal fitness of things, and of
her propriety, and her desire always to look well
THE
SCORCHING
COOK.
HERCULES:
“ The joint is
burnt to a cin-
der, again,
my dear. The
cook must go
back to her
sender.”
OMPHALE : “I am quite willing, darling; since
cook has bought a bike she thinks of nothing
but scorching. ”
—even when she is leaving the earth in a hurry.
But there are exceptions. A Melbourne lady
who wanted to die at once the other day, skipped
quickly into a handy grocer’s-shop, seized the big
bacon-knife, and, spreading herself over the
counter, began to saw her throat. She had made
a decent-sized gash and was beginning to collapse
when the shopman noticed this unusual proceed-
ing, and proceeded to expostulate with her on the
vexatiousness of her conduct in thus spilling her-
self all over the fat bacon and the fresh store eggs,
and in mixing her life-blood with the prime
factory butter at 10|d. Just at this point a large
heavy constable happened along and rushed her off
to the hospital.
* * * *
Another instance of the superstition about
“waitingfor the police.” At North Melbourne,
recently, a man who had been dismissed from his
situation was discovered by his relatives in the act
of strangling himself with a strap attached to
his bedstead, but, instead of freeing his neck,
the foolish people ran off for the police, and
when a constable arrived the man was iust ex-
piring.
There is in Sydney a juryman who makes
no secret of the fact that he never consented to a
conviction, and he has been attending at Darling-
hurst for 30 years. There are jurymen in
Sydney, however, who never acquitted a
prisoner.
A LONG DROP.
“Now, my good fellow, here’s the third time this
week I’ve seen you in this awful condition.
Why don’t you drop the beer?”
“Sho I’ave—down me neck!”
Hobart's most exciting institution, “Satur-
day night,” when the whole population turns
out and wanders up and down Liverpool-
street, is about to be abolished. An Early
Closing Bill, which has been approved by a public
meeting of the shopkeepers, transfers the last
business night of the week to Friday, and closes
all shops at one o’clock on Saturday. At present
the Hobart half-holiday is on Wednesday.
* * * *
Tas. Assembly has just passed a law
against incest. And, if report speaks fair, not
before it was badly wanted.
Melb. Fire Brigade is considering
the subject of old - age pensions for its
members. At present the young ana
vigorous firemen unfortunate enough to be
damaged in doing their duty, are provided
for by an accident-fund ; but the man who
grows old in protecting property and
saving lives has nothing before him now
but 12 months’ hard for vagrancy when
his day of usefulness is over. Strange, in-
deed, that the old fireman has never yet
been provided for ! He is without doubt
the one official in a community without
an enemy. Nobody ridicules him, he has
no nick-name, and by all sides he is
treated with respect; yet he is neglected
in his old age.
* * *
“ Prohib ” : Not long ago I was
in a pub. in a M.L. West Coast town on
a Saturday night. Clock about to strike
12 ; bar and billiard-room full of jjeople,
when in walks a policeman, and says
to the landlord, “Look here, Harry—
that’s the third time this week you’ve
left that side-door open. If you’re not
more careful you’ll be caught 1 ”
A piteous tale from “ One of the Crowd ” :
Dear Bulletin.— Recently an advt. appeared in a
Sydney paper: “ Wanted, a tnan to clean a house.
Apply 11 a.m.” I walked there at 9 a.m., and found a
dozen men before me. When the advertiser arrived at 11
o’clook, there were nearly 100 of us waiting (more than
one told me he had not tasted food that morning). The
advertiser was apparently so astounded at the crowd that
he took refuge in the empty house, and sent out word
that we should choose one man ourselves to get the job.
Some walked off in disgust; but 64 of us drew slips of
paper from a hat to see who would be the lucky one.
While we were balloting, however, a late-comer walked
in and secured the job for twelve shillings; and he and
his mate set to work, while the rest of us tramped back
to the city. This fact will tell you what is the condition
of unskilled laborers in Sjdney at present.
Are you listening, Jolly and Fat ?
* * ♦ *
A correspondent of a Sydney paper states
that—
Glasgow, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, the best sanitary kept
cities in Scotland, never dream of destroying a whole
carcase of valuable meat because about two inches of it
has a tubercular deposit. This same in London, Liver-
pool, and Manchester, Paris, Berlin, and the chief cities
of America.
Which, if true, goes to show that Australia is in
this matter very much ahead of old-world usage—
or very much behind it!
“ L.J.D.” : Waiting in front of a George-
street (Sydney) shop recently, noticed a mild-
looking youth in blue goggles and a coat several
sizes too big for him, standing near a
verandah-post and glancing fur-
tively around to see if
he was being observed.
Having apparently
concluded that he
wasn’t he took a
small pieceof paper
from his pocket,
licked it, stuck it
on the door-post
and fled round the
corner. Wondering
much, I examined the
tiny affiehe, and read
scrawled in pen-
cil, “ The Sa-
viour "died
for yon.”
* *
A work
ing - man,
who Jecently
advertised in
a Brisbane
paper for a
housekeeper,
finished up, “as
a guarantee of
good faith,”
with “No
nonsense ”!
• *
A queer
train of
casuisti-
cal q ues-
tion is
raised by
the recent
Queensland
decision that
the police were
not justified in im-
pounding (on the
ground that they were
possibly stolen) certain
moneys found in posses-
sion of an alleged burglar.
Held that, if the cash
were the man’s “really
own,” a gross injustice
would have been done by
not allowing the use of it for his defence. And
some people are asking whether—if the money thus
used should turn out, after all, to have been stolen
the lawyer ought to disgorge his fee. The Bul-
letin dunno about the “ought;” but, as to the
“ would,” it should smile !
The scheme for consolidating the numerous
Sydney municipalities meets with much opposition
from paltry suburban aldermen who view the pro-
posed “ Greater Sydney Council” in thesame light
in which most of the anti-federalists in N.S.W.
Assembly regarded the proposed Federal Parlia-
ment. They know that in the larger sphere they
will have no place, and that their small voices, so
effective in their little Pedlingtons, will never be
heard or felt in a Council
which, it is hoped, will
attract a more intellec
tual class.
A SERIOUS CASE.
NEIGHBOR : “ You ought to see the doctor again,
Ned. You’re looking a terrible color this
morning.”
NED: “ He jus’ told me all the information’s gorn,
but it’s turned into brownchitis.”
“It will be another Briggs affair,” said
Giblett, the Ultimo (Sydney) homicide, in
threatening his lady-love. In other words, as
pointed out at the time, the newspaper notoriety
given to Briggs’s crime nourished the criminal
germ in weak heads, including Giblett’s. And
the lurid accounts of Giblett’s “tragedy” will
pass on the infection.
THE GIRLS IN THE PARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She wears a gown,
Straight up and down,
That nowhere fits her bony form ;
She seeks the shade,
And seems afraid
To venture in the sunlight warm.
And, through her specs.,
The powers of X
Engross her till the sky grows gray ’
Though young she’s old,
And pale and cold,
The girl who’s in the Park by day.
With darkness fleet
A damsel neat
Comes out the hungry park to fill ;
She laughs and strays
O’er all the ways,
And, reckless, ventures further still.
Beside her boy
She’s thrilled with joy—
Her bosom heaves, her eyes flash bright,
The while his arms
Enfold her charms—
The girl who’s in the Park by night.


Spring B(idS IjaVe BOrSt
at
MARK FOY’SI
A Riot of LotfliQcSS.
All Drapers Everywhere.
POST
FREE
TO
MUSIC
LOVERS.
The publishers of “As Your Hair
Grows Whiter," “I can’t think ob nuth-
in’ else but you, Lulu,” “ Sweet Rosie
O’Grady, ’’ etc., will send, on receipt
of one penny stamp a charming book
containing Words and Musio of over
20 song-refrains. Latest copyright pub-
lications. This offer for a few days only.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
Messrs. Stainer and Co., of Swansfcon-st.,
Melbourne, will make a second special display of
mantles, costumes, millinery, &c., on Monday next
and following days, to include many French
novelties which arrived too late for their recent
Spring show.*
“ The light that (never) failed ” is, without
doubt, given by the “ Albatross Lamp Wick.” Keep the
reservoir filled and all your work is over. “It requires
no trimming-,’’ emits no offensive odour, gives a more
brilliant light, saves your oil, and unless your lamp has
some material defect, an explosion is impossible.*
Rcn}eii)ber!
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
CUBE TEIS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 29, 1899.
My Dear MyEe,—-
With the wet last week everything got a little
mournful. For days there were no galoshes to be
had in Sydney. Inquiring at the shops you were
told, “There’s a shipful at the Quay but they
can’t be unloaded ; they might be damaged by the
wet. ” And one shopkeeper added the promise of
“anice pair, madam, as soon as it stops raining.”
Entertainments subsided. The Daffodil Show
postponed itself. Things that had to go on, like
the Fair and the Theatres, changed from places of
amusement to objects of sympathy. People began
to look for landmarks. “It began to rain the day
before Charlie was born. That’s four months
ago, ” and so on.
And the Fair is over now. The profi ts were nearly
£5OOO. Three thousand short of its anticipations.
The last davs were given up to raffles. You could
get everything from a grand piano to a tea-
pot in a raffle—or miss getting it. A sewing-
machine for sixpence. An eighty-guinea piano
for five shillings. Sydney is full of the people
who didn’t get these things. Plain, straight-
out buying was little indulged in. Every-
body bought by raffles, and as many as bought
were sold —or nearly. It wasn’t till the last day
that I decided finally on the ugliest thing in the
Exhibition. This was the curtain on the door of
The Bulletin’s Art Gallery. An artist chose it.
But he was evidently tired. It was the sort of
cretonne a bony female lies down on after a hard
day’s wash. The pattern is cruel enough to stick
into a cow, and the female gets up wearier than
over, after lying on those rearing lilies and angular
roses. But The Bulletin was not an active par-
ticipant in the Press Bazaar, so it ignores
and disowns that curtain. Saturday was the
record night of the Fair. Over twelve thousand
people came out, which points to the great success
the enterprise would have had in fine weather.
And on Saturday night Lord Quex made his
bow to Sydney. Let me say straight off that the
awful unspeakableness of the play didn’t decimate
local nerves as it did the English Bishop’s. The
D.C. breathed a big sigh and looked, “Is that
all! ” at each other. Certainly, Mrs. Brough
threw in a dangerous-looking bit of business —a
superfluous and stupidly vulgar action. It happens
in her manicure-rooms. She is going away on a
visit. Her assistants stand round. She puts on
her hat, takes her gloves and parasol, appears to
be ready to go, remembers something, puts up
first one foot, then the other, on a chair, raises
her skirts and pulls up her stockings. Why?
Unless to show that Sophie Fullgarney is
a vulgar person. Well, if Pinero cannot show
you that a woman is vulgar without requiring
her'to pull her stockings up in the face of the
house, his right hand must be losing its cunning.
The moral of the play turns on a chase after kisses.
Lord Quex, the bad old man, doesn’t kiss the
pretty manicurist. Captain Bastling, the bad
young man, does kiss the pretty manicurist. If
Lord Quex had kissed her, his fiancee would have
thrown him over. She throws up her lover,
Captain Bastling, because she finds him giving
Mrs. Brough one kiss. For neat little elemental
morals, commend us to a playwright who dips into
blue waters, raises risque situations, scatters
Plain Talk over every scene, and makes his name
out of the loudly accentuated dubiety of his play.
The frocks are lovely. From the programme I
learned that they came from our own David Jones.
Perhaps there’s a rather heavier to'uch about the
trimmings, a little too much braid, more strained
attempt at eccentricity than you will find in im-
ported frocks, but the local needle has done
remarkably well. On the whole, Emma Temple,
Duchess of Strood, gets the pick of the wardrobe.
There’s a clinging pale grey voile witli skin-tight
sleeves, and a clasping skirt that one has only time
to glance at. Voile is the material for our spring
frocks, evidently. The Duchess’ dinner dress is
another land-mark in yellow moire, with a little
guipure polonaise edged with dark fur coquettislily
drooping to one side both back and front. Miss
Grace Noble, who doesn’t come very close to her
portrait as a “Creamy English girl,” wears for
this dinner, in her own graceful way, a moonlight
satin and cunning little bodice of jewelled net
ending in coat-tails where the placket now is not.
But the much talked-of couleur-de-rose tea-gown is
not the most alluring rose-color robe one’s
imagination could picture. It is made in pink
brocade, with loose sides revealing green satin
lining and a draped front of pink chiffon tied over
with green ribbons. Every night the Duchess
cuts off one of those green ribbons and ties it out-
side her bedroom door as a signal for Quex to
enter, but even that doesn’t do away with them.
Now that paw-readings are so wildly indulged
in, Lovell’s “Valma”has extra interest. There
was cunning in his way of dressing himself, for a
fentleman palmist in a top-hat and frock-coat is
ound to resemble-a shop-walker on a fine Sunday
afternoon. Also, the manicure rooms are a moral
lessoii to everyone who bites his nails. They
ought to. give manicurists in Sydney a lift. The
girls in their long black frocks, all the scents and
soaps and manicure sets, and Mrs. Brough enun-
ciating professionally to Quex, “This is hacking,
not cutting. No gentleman should trust to him-
self where his nails are concerned, ” should bring
the- growing number of nail-nurses a rush of
business.
By the way, the biggest manicuring orders come
from bridal parties. The bride has her nails
clipped, painted and polished for an hour before
the ceremony, so that the finger that receives the
ring may strike the bridegroom and the clergyman
with its beauty. The bridesmaids also have their
fingers cleaned up carefully, so that the signatures
in the vestry may strike admiration into the hearts
of the best men.
Apropos of weddings. Miss Moss-Davies”
marriage with Mr. Robert Moss ran along ora
picturesque lines last Wednesday, with three tail,
slim bridesmaids in white flowered silk, flounced;
and inserted with fine white lace. A touch of
turquoise at the neck and waist, and huge sprays;
of pink roses held aloft by long white crooks,,
took off the monotony of the usual blank white:
Giving Away. The bride’s diamond necklace,
and long white satin train showed up well against,
the scarlet canopy wherein the wineglass is broken..
A reception went on at the Australia later,,
the lovely frocks were seen to advantage in a.
drawing-room setting. Mrs. Moss-Davies was ira
soft grey brocade with a little mauve toque. Mrs..
(Attorney-General) Isaacs, who is over from Mel-
bourne on a visit, was in a simple blouse-and-skirt;
costume, and her sister, Mrs. Harry Levy, wore a,
winter red, lightened with a white boa. Mrs.
Ernest Davies aired a fascinating confection of
pale tan voile, with a light tunic of guipure reach-
ing half-way to the knees, followed by a long suc-
cession of tiny tucks. The bodice had a smart,
little guipure sailor collar and square revers, from,
under which crept an artful moss-green tie. A
note of green at the waist belt and a white
chip hat with a high swathing of deep rose
silk and blades of grass set stiffly across the
front finished the costume. Mrs. “Dick” Teece
was also in tan, with steel trimmings and a flower
toque. A short white coat, worn with a black
braided skirt, deserves a word or two. For the
coat was of the latest design, scalloped all round
the waist-line, braided all over with white military,
and made doubly chic by a rolled collar of black,
silk braided in white. A white tulle toque with
black wings was the jacket’s lawful accom-
paniment. Miss George Michaelis wore a trained
frock of violet voile, with a yoke extending over
the tops of the sleeves —as all good yokes should
nowadays —of rucked chiffon. And after the
gowns in cunning came the immense wedding-
cake, transported from Maoriland. It was blessed
with a little door, that opened mysteriously, and
let the bride into the cake without the usual
desperate scrimmage with unyielding ice.
The Society of Artists started their “At
Homes ” with one given conjointly by Mrs.
Ashton, Mrs. Teece and the Mrs. Curnow. There
was music as well as tea for the big crush, Mr.
Beattie managing a nice little afternoon pro-
gramme. Between time 3 guests inspected the
Governor’s purchases, a young boy’s pencil-draw-
ings, a little green English Minns, and a small
picture of old Sydney by Watkins. Tastes differ
so much that it is no use taking notice of what
artists say whose pictures have not been Chosen.
The Art Society gives its popular Annual Con-
versazione on Wednesday, August 30th. Next
night the Society of Artists break into a ball at
Need’s Rooms. Other fixtures are The Coming
Woman Company in a play called “The Snow-
ball,” at the North Sydney School of Arts this
Thursday: Mrs. St. Hill’s lectures on palmistry
in the Equitable Building on Wednesday nights ;
and Miss Marie Narelle’s Concert in the Town
Hall, September 15th.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The new grand piano for Govt. House costs
the country £220. Cheaper, of course, than con-
tinued charge for hiring an instrument, which
charge also had to be disgorged by the national
pocket. Whenever Govt. House entertains any
section of the community, marquees, benches,
crockery, glass, &c., are supplied by the Publio
Works Dept, at the cost, not only of the guests,
but of outsiders who help to pay the piper for
vice-regal hospitality, without ever personally
participating.
“Gov. Brassey’s function to celebrate the
accomplishment of Federation seems to have been
the record quick and lively affair. All M.’sL.A.
were invited and turned up in carriages with due
solemnity to be ushered into one of the drawing-
rooms. Soon Uncle Tom (I am repeating the
story a statesman told to me) put his head in at
the door and muttered, ‘Um-um—glorious em-
piah—yah-yah gentlemen um-um—join me—
um—glass of wine, ’ leading the way to a distant
door. The first dozen that followed found them-
selves in a cold, bare corridor, at one side of which
stood a small four-legged table with about a dozen
glasses, three bottles of unlabelled fizz, one ditto of
whisky and one of soda-water. The leaders of the
bunch quickly closed on the glasses and sixty
legislators were still fighting their way out of the
drawing-room when the voice of the pro-consul
was heard: ‘ Gentlemee yah—yah—the Queen ! ’
The crowd at the back edged forward to grab a
drink, but—too late ! Gov. Brassey had proposed
‘Federation’ and s.secs, later he had grasped
Speaker Mason warmly by the hand and thanked
Parliament for its attendance. While 75 per cent,
of the Bourke-st. councillors were still glancing
wistfully at the table, the Baron gave the wink to
the waiter and the wine was whisked away.
People accustomed to attend his entertainments
call him Barren Brassey now.
“Young Gerald Macleay Browne, ‘ Boldre-
wood’s ’ younger son, whose engagement to
marry Gov. Jerry Smith’s daughter is announced,
is in business at Kalgoorlie—Kingston and Browne
is the firm. Like Everard, who married a Chirn-
side, Gerald (perhaps it was the name, pa’s name,
that captivated) is an assayer and mining man
generally ; and along on pa’s consent came an
appointment to the local management of Chaffer’s
mine. Sylvester, ‘ Boldrewood’s ’ big brother,
was one of the originals in the Broken Hill
Junction; and Everard, fresh from school—he
was one of Cosmo Newbery’s ‘boys’—was sent
up as assayer. That was the beginning of the
pile which mines have since brought into the
family.
“A melodramatio outcome of a recent well-
advertised law-case was witnessed by a small
audience at Elsternwick station, the other day,
when the wife of a clerk assaulted and battered a
heavy Melbourne magnate with her ’brella. The
angry matron had her husband lying in wait the
while to see that she got fair play at his ex-em-
ployer, but there was no call for him to come to
the lady’s assistance. The one-sided battle ended
in the victim appealing to a policeman to arrest
the assailant, but the myrmidon of the law told
him that his proper course —seeing as ’ow he knew
the lady’s name and address—would be to take out
a summons. After which she went her triumphant
way, threatening to repeat the same dose six
times a week until the victim fulfills his pro-
mise (whatever that may be) to her hubby.
“ A friend in London writes : ‘ Your Australian
beauty, Mrs. Maesmore Morris, has her photos all
about London, and is being boomed as a pro-
fessional beauty. She is engaged by Geo. Alex-
ander for St. James’ Theatre, where the leading
lady is now the beautiful Miss Fay Davis, beside
whom, I think, your Mrs. Maesmore Morris is
only pretty in a very weak, chocolate-cream-boxy
way. But she seems to have influential friends.’
“ At a recent wedding, celebrated at All Saints,
St. Kilda, between a keen yachtsman and a lady
whose name is a familiar word in every household,
an amusing contretemps occurred. _ The bride’s
gown was unusually handsome, but in walking up
the aisle something went wrong with the rear
works, and to the deep sympathy, but redoubled
interest of all present, her train hitched off.
“The one aspect of humor surrounding the
Melb. Hospital-doctors’election, t’other day, was
the arrival of Archbishop Carr. The kerb was
covered with the faithful when the Archbishop
stepped out of his carriage and as all respectfully
doffed their cadies, one of the candidates stepped
forward and, bending his knee within an inch of the
pavement, kissed the plump foot of Tom Carr
with a sounding smack.
“ Sophie Osmond’s benefit (Aug. 24th) overfilled
the big Theatre Royal. What with flowers,
thanks and a fat programme the crowd got its
money’s worth, and at the end of four tight-packed
hours trailed home in a chock-a-block com-
placency. There were all sorts and conditions of en-
tertainment, from ‘buck dancers’ to Miss Edith
Graham Berry, in quaint blue satin as ‘The
Vision of Youth.’ This young lady, by the way,
is only prevented by parental disapproval from
seeking her fortune on the boards. At same
matinee, Carrie Moore, in a little rub-a-rub skirt
and blouse, looked a work-a-day version of her
fas-and -glitter form. But her nigger lullaby, as
eretofore, was so convincing that infant hearers
in the gallery took it to themselves and gurgled
loud approval in the intervals of trying to swallow
lemonade-bottles.
“ After seriously observing a series of very cor-
rect and picture-frame figures of pretty girls in
the tableau at the Sophie Osmond Benefit, the
little, short-shirted boy who scratched his leg at
the critical moment when the flag was hoisted, set
the audience into roars of laughter. The subject
was ‘ His Only Pair ’ the mother (Miss Cora
Milne) sewing up a rent while the little fellow
stood waiting trouserless till the patch was
completed.
“ But the best joke of the benefit was the
frequent enquiry, ‘ Who is Sophie Osmond ? ’
heard in all parts of the house. A packed
audience, upstairs and downstairs, hundreds
of ss. ‘reserves,’ smartly-dressed women roost-
ing as high as the top gallery, and yet the
eternal question, ‘ Who is Sophie Osmond ? ’ Well,
Sophie is the buxom Salonite who worked up
the biggest ben. of the season ‘on her own.’ She
was the business-manager who scooped the pool.
Good old Sophie!
“Amy Castles’ ‘little sister Dollie, ’ another of
the matmee soloists, is, at present, a broad-built,
stout-ankled, baby-elephant type of girl, with
short, thick, tousled, auburn hair. Pa Castles,
’tis said, prophesies that vocally his younger
daughters will ‘wipe the floor’ with their senior.
The latter, however, with her refining halo of
dusky hair, holds more than her share of the
family’s available stock of looks. As a singer,
Castles 11. so far sports a boyish, unforced voice
and says her words distinctly.
“Coming Austral Salon shivoos are Miss
Osmond’s farewell tea to the Bland Holts, and
Amy Castles’ sing-song on Mrs. Saddler’s
afternoon. The Bendigo warbler volunteered
this attention as a mark of gratitude to the Salon,
her early and powerful ally.
“ Lady Bertha Wilbraham and co. kept them-
selves strictly to themselves during their recent
South Sea trip. And early in the trip they
despaired of the rough, rainy jaunt, and deserted
at Suva.
“It is suspected that the Melbourne Women’s
Franchisers carefully selected the feminine audi-
ence who packed the galleries for the debate on
their pet Bill in Vic. Assembly, Instead of
the awful crowds of hard-faced, spectacled hyaenas
in petticoats who have got in on former occasions,
there was this time quite an array of pretty
women. Consequently, the old argument of the
opponents of the Bill, ‘ look at the sort of women
who support this measure,’ was conspicuous by
its absence. The manoeuvre was clever and well-
worked. There were one or two beauties
amongst the fair listeners, and it was a remarkably
well-dressed show. Meanwhile, the old bald-heads
in the Council have been worried daily by agita-
tors, mostly young and pretty, who have been care-
fully chosen for the work. Every member of
Council has been waited on very many times, so
cow-seller Campbell cannot this time truly say he
has never met a woman who wanted a vote.
“Poor old ex-Crown-Prosecutor Walsh (just
dead) got his death-blow over that brief-lived
Judgeship. In the ancient’s then state of health
it was sheer cruelty to put him in such a position,
setting him up like Aunt Sally, just to be knocked
down again. Besides, his maunderings on the
bench were made the most of. None of their
honors would climb down smiling, maybe, if pil-
loried on the housetops by means of verbatim re-
ports of every chance remark in court. Deceased
was a voluble Irishman with a high-pitched Mile-
sian voice. ‘The old beggar that bothered
Kitty,’sa/id Deeming, in reference to the cross-
examination of Kate Rounsevell. Legal-sprig
Jacobs, brother-in-law of Attorney-General Isaacs,
and clever mimic of oratorical oddities, has lost
the best of his bunch of models by the death of
Mr. Walsh.
“Miss (Mars) Buckley, Mrs. George Chirnside,
and a host of Melbourne’s Naicest leave for
Sydney this week to join in the Sept, horse festivi-
ties.
‘ | The extraordinary stories of identification
which crop up occasionally make one wonder how
many innocent men, dead and alive, lie inside the
faol walls. A couple of weeks ago, Mr. Richard
little, an old man of 76, and perhaps the best-
known Melb. tailor, disappeared from his home.
Nothing was heard of him for three days ; then
an acquaintance came forward and said he
had seen and spoken to him only 12 hours before.
The clue was followed, and the relatives of Mr.
Little at last brought up against the old man who
had really been met. He was a complete stranger
to all, but his resemblance to the missing man was
so great that they completely excused the mistake,
adding that had they not been relations they
would probably have erred similarly. What about
the Suffield and other cases of the sort in view of
such facts as these ?
And in new music there is the “ Earl Waltz,”
by Montague Younyer, jun. (Paling and Co.), as
melodious a composition as its namesake; “ Gal-
way Bay,” by Sydney Hoben (Glen and Co.),
dedicated to Eva Mylott, in which Mr. Hoben.
takes advantage of H. P. Graves’ charming verses
to throw off his most ambitious and successful song-
setting up to date; and “ Mrs. Lofty,” by Sophy
Deloitte (Glen and Co.), a strange, inconsequent
little ditty, which tells you “her husband has
white fingers, mine has not,” and yet does not
profess to be comic.
“DeChaneet’s song, ‘First Love, ’ seems about
the most serviceable of several new publications
received from Glen and Co. Although ultra-
sentimental, it is a fetching thing, with a pretty
refrain, and altogether better than ‘As a Bird
from its Nest,’ by L. L. Lewis. The Castles-boom
was responsible for this cheap, twaddly ballad, and
artless Miss Amy is the high-soprano fledgling
who flutters from the nest. There’s nothing the
matter with the words of ‘Galway Bay,’a basso
ditty of the rollioking order, but the chief theme
is tiresomely repeated ; and Gillott’s Australian
Federal song (suggestive of ‘Death of Nelson’)
would, I think, be decidedly preferable to Mar-
shall Hall’s effort—if it were not so much longer.
‘ Narcissus,’a tuneful little piece for the piano-
forte, does duty as ‘ water - musio ’ at Dante’s
show, and does it very well.
“ The Marquis of Lome, the only Royal con-
nection who so far has accepted colonial office,
and who may possibly be the first Governor-Gen-
eral of Australia, is a dreary ‘Adonis of fifty,’
who writes awful poetry, and is at present
M.P. for South Manchester. The only other
Royalty apparently eligible is the Prince of
Wales’s son-in-law, the Duke of Fife. But some
people who are likely to know a little about the
matter say that undoubtedly Lord Hopetoun will
get the Governor-Generalship, if he cares to ac-
cept it.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia :
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted. General Manager.
GOOD HEALTH WITHOUT DRUGS.
4.—Mothkrs and Children.
Mothers who would keep their children in good
health should give them, morning and evening,
Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa made with hot milk. Deli-
cate men and women who have weak lungs, to be
hale, robust and' healthy, should use Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa morning and evening, and all men who
have to be exposed to the bleak uncertainty of our
trying climate, should fortify themselves before
they face their daily toil with Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, and they can then brave the fury of the
elements with equanimity. The writer speaks
from personal experience and from observation of
beneficial effects on others. Tea opens the pores
and temporarily excites, coffee stimulates the action
of the* hearty whilst Dr. Tibbies Vi-Cocoa gives
strength, stamina, and builds up and strengthens
the lung tissues. It. is indeed a wonderful food
beverage. Nothing has ever been discovered that
can approach it in giving lightness of heart, joy of
life, fleetness of foot, and that general feeling of
comfort which only comes from a full capacity to
enjoy * every pleasure, moral, intellectual, and
physical.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Merit, and merit alone, is what we claim for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and we are prepared to
send to any reader (a postcard will do) who names
The Bulletin a dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa.*
The Gay Lord Quex —grand success. So
is Zetz. “Mind, no tales, Sophy,” speak the
truth and drink Zetz Spa Water. Try it.*
Will Ogilvie’s book ol verses, “ Fair Girls
and Gray Horses o mues to sell splendidly. It
is y the most generally-attractive
poetry-book yet issued in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.,
post-free from Bulletin office.
Which is the easiest, to know or to find
out ? Every sensible person will answer “to
know.” Read on ; then you will know that there
has been another great invention discovered in the
manufacture of kerosene vapour stoves, which en-
tirely eclipses the Primus. Messrs. M'Lean Bros,
and Rigg, Ltd., of Melbourne and Sydney, have
just landed, and are exhibiting daily, the “ Jewel”
vapour kerosene stoves. This stove is constructed
on entirely new lines. The burner is connected
direct from the reservoir. It Kas no tubes to
choke up, and can be cleaned out in a moment by
the most inexperienced. With each stove are
supplied a duplicate set of washers and screw-
wrench, thus meeting the practical l’equirements
of those residing in the back-blocks and country
districts. For particulars write direct to M'Lean
Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., Melbourne or Sydney, the
home of up-to-date hardware novelties. Agents
for Razorine for dull razors, 6d. cake, posted 2d.
extra. The Primus Chief Cooking Apparatus
from-30s. The Royal Bath Heater, 70s. Write
for our new cat-a-log .*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SEND
YOUE
ORDERS
to
Punctuality
and
Excellence.
Tel. 2258.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
82 King Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
How would “ Cardinal Samoran” sound ?
Victoria is getting quite mature. J. M.
Rjed, its newly-appointed Surveyor-General, is
native-born ; he comes from Creswick.
Had Dan. O’Connor been caught young,
he might have made a rhetorician worth taking
seriously. He calls the recent copious rains
“ baptismal showers falling on the giant head of
Federation.”
When, at Dunedin, someone tried to in-
terview the late Prior Vaughan (the Archbishop’s
brother) concerning the relative merits of Protes-
tant and R.C. missions, he said: “Oh, no ; I
buried the vinegar-bottle years ago.”
Ex-Judge Foster, the only N.S.W. ex-
judge now on the Supreme Court pension list—he
has not been publicly heard of for years—awoke
to a spurt of activity last week in connection with
the formation of a new club at Newtown.
President Chaffey Baker, of S.A. Leg,
Council, is so anxious to be made President of
the Federal Senate that he is even trying to heal
his old breach with Kingston, so as, if possible, to
sweeten that influential opponent on the subject.
Died at Thames (M.L.), the other day,
Peter Anderson, a member of the first party to
peg-out a quartz claim in M.L. in 1856. Jerome
Cadman, father of Hon. A. J. Cadtnan, however,
was the holder of the first miner’s right issued in
Maoriland.
Has Louis Becke “found salvation”?
Once upon a time he apparently never lost a
chance of speaking contemptuously of South Sea
missionaries—nobody knew the tribe better. Yet
now it is cabled that he is championing them and
urging that Cardinal Moran be sued for libel.
Prof. Marshall Hall never misses a chance
of “getting one in” at the critics. The musical
scribe for one of the big Melb. dailies in an evil
moment confessed to a feeling of weariness during
Herr Scharf’s rendering of Brahms’ “21 varia-
tions on a theme of Handel,” (through no fault
of Scharf’s). At the final rehearsal for the Vic.
Hospital concert, chorus and orchestra were about
to worry Brahms’ “Song of Destiny.” Marshall
Hall, with that Mephistophelian grin of his—
“ Oh, yes, by the way, I see by the Age-gus
this morning that its critic got very tired during
this composer’s 21 variations yesterday. This is a
pity (sympathetically) as it might injure Brahms’
reputation.”
IN “PUSH” SOCIETY.—THE STRUGGLE
FOR SUPREMACY.
THE BLOKE: “So you’ve thrown me over for
Plunker Smith. Wot was yer blanky reason
for this? ”
THE DONAH: “ That's my bizness; but if yer
leant to know he’s got more ‘previous convic-
tions’ than you ’ave.”
THE BLOKE: “ Oh, that’s why, is it? ” (Sadly.)
“Well yer needn’t ’a been in sich a blanky
’urry; I’m sure I could ’a caught up to him !”
Apropos the first issue of the Sydney
Herald' (18th April, 1831), lately on exhibition at
the Press Bazaar in Sydney Exhibition Building.
Upon the day the bazaar opened there was to be
seen on Sydney Block the perennial George
Thornton (a native of the city and born in 1820)
who was Mayor of Sydney in 1857. Mr. Thornton,
then 11 years of age,'held a lighted tallow candle,
to assist the printer in the production of the first
issue of what is now the Sydney Morning
Herald.
Premier (and Attorney-General) Kingston
goes a step further and appoints a solicitor, J. H.
Sinclair, to harrow the affairs of people using the
Insolvency Court. Odd times will be filled in
Crown-prosecuting. So far S.A. has rubbed along
with one C.P., with occasional help from Glynn
and others in the country. The new man was
Kingston’s fellow-clerk; but while Sinclair took
to “local-preaching” and Christian-endeavoring,
the other stuck to politics and football-barrack-
ing. It would be hard to say which is the richer
—or the wiser. It is characteristic of S.A.’s
frugal mind, anyhow, that the new man’s screw is
only .£5OO a year.
Mortimer Menpes, writing recently, re-
ferred to the “ inartistic atmosphere ” he found
in his youthful days in Adelaide. Mortimer,
perhaps, was thinking of the unhappy day
when he was caught, as a mere boy, in an Adelaide
warehouse caricaturing the boss, and promptly
received the sack.
Gov. Oarington took his wife to a N.S.W.
Art Society’s show, and being almost due at a
dog-fight, or something, he said to President Col-
lingridge : “ Sorry we have so little time —I wish
you would show Lady Oarington the gems.
“Your Excellency,” replied the Frenchman,
“they are all gems.”
Some Australian birthdays for Sept. :
John Henry (Tas.) and Judge Bundey (S.A.) 61
on the Ist; Spofforth 44 on 9th ; Card. Moran 69
on 18th ; John Colton, ex-Prem., S.A., 76 on
20th; Lord Hopetoun. 39 on 25th; Sheriff
Boothby (S.A.) 73 on 26th ; J. H. Symon, Q.C.,
on 27tb, and Speaker Abbott 57 on 29th.
‘‘ It appears to be thought necessary by
N.S.W. Govt, to purchase all the busts and pic-
tures of the late Henry Parkes, which are to
be had as ‘bargains.’ ” The irony of Fate ! Poor
old-man Parkes, the champion art-bargain hunter,
who as a buyer of expensive shoddy was without
a peer, is being commemorated by a gathering-up
of rubbish.
There are still living two nonagenarian
native-born brothers of the Mrs. Carey who
recently died, aged 99, at Collector, N.S.W.
Which suggests the notion that each person js
wound-up, like a clock, to “ go ” for a certain
maximum time, which cannot be exceeded;
though a “ stop ” may be easily caused at any
shorter period.
It is proposed that Tas. Assembly be re-
duced, in view of Federation, from 38 to 32 mem-
bers, also that the electorates be re-arranged by a
commission, composed of Chief-Justice Dodds,
Govt. Statist It. M. Johnston, and little barrister
Waterhouse, of Launceston. Two of the trio are
self-made men. Johnston (by far the ablest of
the three for the work to be done) was a railway-
man in Scotland, and, later on, at Spencer-street
Station, Melbourne. He is one of the ablest of
Australia’s all-round scientists, and refused a big
N.S.W. Govt, offer the other day. Dodds began
life in Hobart in a smockfrock-shop in Liverpool-
street. Waterhouse is son of a Wesleyan parson.
He tried to practise in Melbourne 10 years ago,
but didn’t succeed, and returned to Tasmania.
Then he was made Recorder of Launceston, but
threw up the post to take a good private partner-
ship in a law-firm.
Editor Windsor, of the Age, is
one of the least-known men in Vic-
toria. Until the other day, when
David Syme held a reception of pro-
minent people to see his new offices,
there were scores of M.’sP., city coun-
cillors, leading lawyers, and merchants,
and public men of all sorts, who had
never to their knowledge ever seen
Windsor ; and many of them didn’t
know there was such a person, think-
ing that Syme edited the Age him-
self. Yet Windsor said in his speech
that Syme lets him have a free hand in
the editorial policy of the paper,
scarcely ever interfering. Windsor is
short, slight, with a thin, refined,
gentle face, very keen eyes, white hair'
and beard; he has a pretty gift of
satire, and a fine sense of humor. He
also wields a brilliant pen. Indeed,
Alfred Deakin has been heard to say
that in his younger leader-writing days
he used to think there could be nothing
more flattering than to have one of his leaders
pointed out as “one of Windsor’s bits of fine
writing.”
Vic. Dancing-Master-General Duffy, when
on a business trip recently, struck a miserable
one-horse township somewhere back of Bendigo,
aud put up at the local neck-oil establishment.
After dinner Bung approached flourishing a bulky,
dirty document covered with signatures,
and besought the P.M.G. to add his
to the list. Glancing over it, Duffy was
amused to find that it was a petition ad-
dressed to himself, praying that he would
grant increased postal facilities to the
district. “Just shove your name down here,”
quoth Bung persuasively. “But I’m not a resi-
dent.” “That don’t matter a button, everyone
that comes along signs it. In fac.k, all the signa-
tyerrs but about 20 is travellers!” That com-
munity is still waiting for the post-office.
Perhaps the most ancient of S. Australia’s
political enthusiasts is a woman —Mrs. Jane
Brock, aged 86. Old, and a woman, yet she is a
radical; and she says she has never been anything
else. She has a vote for each House of Parlia-
ment, and exercises it every time. Also, she was
a staunch friend of late Labor-leader, J. A.
M'Pherson, and was one of the promoters of the
Labor-paper.
At the burial in London of the recently-
deceased Queensland “ Billy ” Smythe, M.P.,
amongst the wreaths upon the coffin was one
legended “ Queensland gratefully remembers her
public men” a large way of putting it,
which empties the tribute of all personal
value, and makes The Bulletin wonder which of
her malodorous “ public men ” Queensland thinks
of burying next.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—My “huge pocket
book’’—mentioned in your issue 19/8/’99 —is
exactly 3 x 4in. On the contrary, the red-lined
tablet of my memory is illimitable.— George
Black.
ALWAYS! GLAD TO SEE IT.
THE DOCTOR: “ I'm thinking of forwarding you
my bill, Mr. Smith.’'
GRATEFUL EX-PATIENT: “Why, certainly; send
it round three times a day, after meals.”
Janies Heber Smith, who died in St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital, Sydney, last week, was grandson
of Bishop Heber, of “ Greenland’s Icy Moun-
tains ” fame. Cox was a law-clerk in Sydney for
many years, and, for a time, associate to the late
Judge Hargraves, but latterly devoted himself to
the commercial side of newspaper work. It may
be mentioned that Bishop Heber was also associ-
ated, in a sense, with Australia, as he was Bishop
of Calcutta when Australia formed a branch of
the Calcutta C.E. diocese.
J. H. Sinclair, just appointed S.A. assistant
Crown Solicitor, is president of the local Christian
Endeavourers, so that a new zest will be added to
tote-shop prosecutions. Sinclair was, 20 years
ago, a wild Bohemian ; he played football for
“ Sowth ” Adelaide with Kingston, and they were
clerks together in the office of Way (now C. J.) and
Symon. Nearly all the dare-devil companions of
Kingston’s irresponsible youth are now either
dead or rabidly pious, and, with the coming of
grey hairs, the S.A. Premier is, people aver,
rapidly becoming converted himself.
SOCIAL NOTE.
Prince Ranji gives a chance to the Australian XI.
A. J. Rose-Soley, formerly of S.M.
Herald, and husband of clever “ Rose de
Boheme,” is now doing dramatic criticisms for
’Frisco Argonaut. Soley, who might at any
time have been mistaken for Robert Louis
Stevenson, left Sydney to follow the dead English
writer in exploiting the islands for “copy,” but
his one book does not seem to have made any
stir to speak of.
Gilbert Probyn Smith, the Norton pam-
phleteer, assisted in a thrilling “situation ’’before
he was 12 months old. His father, Major Smith,
R.E., took part in the Indian Mutiny campaign,
and on the eve of the Cawnpore massacre Mr.
Smith’s ayah got the tip about the impending
slaughter, and concealed mother and child in a
dry well, where they remained for 11 weeks, the
ayah surreptitiously supplying food. At last the
faithful creature came across the Major in Cawn-
pore, and gave him the joyful news that his wife
and child were safe. Mrs. Smith remained blind
for six months, and the child’s eyes were long
affected. It was in afterwards accompanying his
father about India that young Smith acquired
his command of 12 dialects of six Oriental
languages.
The Dreyfus embroglio revives a story told
at the expense of Alex. Kethel, M.L.C., of
Sydney. During a visit to Europe he had seen
Paris in the throes Panama excitement,
and on his return was full of the scandal, the
bribery of the press, and the implication of the
leading French statesmen. He took his wealth of
information to a Sydney journalist, who, unknown
to Mr. Kethel, had also been" in Paris. The scribe
cut him short with : “ You can’t tell me anything
about it that I don’t know, Mr. Kethel.” Kethel
stared blankly and said: “ But I .have special
secret information about the awfu’ bribery of the
press!” to which the pressman .replied, with an
inscrutable smile, “Yes, and I know all about
that too ! ” and in a dramatic whisper added, “ I
had some of the money myself.”
Editor Bonython of S.A. Advertiser and
Editor Sowden of the Register both talk of
running for a seat in the Federal Senate.
Ex-Police-Supt. Sadlier, recently appointed
a member of the Queensland Police Commission
of Inquiry, was a schoolfellow,
at En.nis, Ireland, of British
Commander-in-Chief Wolseley
and of “Redan Massey.” And
while Wolseley was fighting at
Tel-el-Kebir, Sadlier was be-
sieging the Kelly gang at Glen-
rowan. Amongst Sadlier’s
fellow passengers to Victoria in
the Great Britain (1852) were
“ Reggie ” Bright and George
Robertson (the publisher). Upon
arrival, Sadlier (then 19) joined
the police-cadets, of whom Vic.
Chief-Commissioner Chomley is
the last remaining in the force.
Sadlier, who was removed from
Ballarat just before the Eureka
trouble, always held that Attor-
ney-General Stawell was princi-
pally responsible for the outbreak
because he couldn’t realise that he
wasn’t in Ireland. When Sadlier
was sub-inspector at Beech worth
his superintendent was Burke, the
explorer, and when Burke was set-
ting out on his transcontinental
journey, Sadlier volunteered to go
with him, but Burke told him he
had better stay with his young wife
and children. The ex-super, tells
many stories about the cadet-corps
of the early 50’s. One day in later
years a seedy individual with
an adventurous eye dropped
into Sadlier’s office in Mel-
bourne. It was an old cadet
comrade of whom S. had lost
sight for half a lifetime. “Look
here, Sadlier,’’ says this damaged
swell, “ I owe you <£s for the last
30 years, and I’ve come to pay
you.’’ “The devil you are!” says
Sadlier. “ I don’t remember it, but
if you say you owe me the coin, I’ll
take it, for times are hard just now.”
Then the visitor bent down and whis-
pered in Sadlier’s ear, “Lend us a bob,
old man ! ’’ The next time Sadlier saw this genius
he was a man-servant at St. Kilda, sweeping the
front step one morning.
Bishop Byrne, of Bathurst, is said to be
the man in Card. Moran’s eye as successor to Dr.
Higgins, his former assistant in Sydney. It is
unlikely, however, that Dr. Byrne, who is dear
to the hearts of his Bathurst flock, will be induced
to make the change. Another dignitary in the
running is handsome Monsignor O’Brien, although
it is thought the jovial “ Dane ” Slattery will be
the man for the vacancy if Dr. O’Brien is content
to wait for something more comfortable.
Colonel Roberts, the first Australian
officer appointed A.D.C. to the Queen, was
A.D.C. to N.S.W. Gov. Young in ’6B. He was
also secretary to Young, and was again secretary
in London to Charles Cowper when that poli-
tician was Agent-General there. Roberts saw
genuine fighting under Lord Raglan in the
Crimea, being several times wounded. He re-
ceived commendations and medals for pluck and
daring. Colonel Roberts is an Englishman, and
lately entered his 63rd year.
John Tait (of Allan and Co.) tells an in-
teresting little yarn about “ Ben Bolt.” Meeting
Regina Nagel in Paris last year, he got her to
sing the song into a graphophone, and on his
return to Melbourne he went around to the house
of Mrs. Nagel, at Carlton, bearing news of her
daughter and—a graphophone. The effect of
Regina’s “ Ben Bolt ” upon her blind mother and
the assembled family was something to see and
remember. They couldn’t have enough of the
old song. When Tait was about to pack up the
machine and go, Mrs. Nagel asked him to leave it
with her till next day, and the family sat up half
the night listening to the sound of the far-away
contralto voice as it issued from the funnel.
Edison’s invention has given the world a wealth
of new romance.


WOLFE’S
SCHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
A
Superlative
diuretic
ANTIDYSPEPTIC
AND
INVIGORATING
„ CORDIAL
NEW YORK-
Don’t
forsake
©ld friends
There can be
NOSUBSTITUTE
■for
Wolfes
Schnapps
a
6LENDOUR” SBSUTU-^
JOHN SOMERVILLE & CO., Distillers, LEITH, SCOTLAND.
SWIFT & COMPANY, Agents,
7 Spring-street, Sydney.
SOLD AT ALL
FIRST-CLASS HOTELS.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Australia has been built
to please everyone who desires
the luxury of living in the best
style, at a cost that is strictly
moderate.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“ A.8.G.”: The policeman', ,octal portion
Out-Back, as far as my observation goes, is simply
this—he is tolerated. The “mounted man,” I
mean—not the big-footed splodger who stands at
.”, F ® j c
street-corners, and wonders what he 11 do for a
“case.” The trooper is mostly chock-full of in-
formation about stock, crops, and such things,
and the squatter, by taking notice of him occasion-
ally (at times he won’t know him from a rabbit)
gets just vvliat he wants, cheap. Riding once
with an English squattah (I was “ tutah ”) we met
“mounted man”—a decent fellow—who pulled up
for a “ yarn,” and offered us a cigar each. Jum-
buck, J.P., was indignant, and afterwards re-
marked, “ You know we have to tolerate these
fellahs—but we draw the line. If we didn’t,
they’d want to be riding out with our wives and
daughtahs, doncherknow.” Don’t think Robert,
as a rule, is open to tip, though I have heard one
or two of him spoken of as “ a man you can get
along with.” Know a few well-educated men in
the force who would just as soon scruff the
smiatter ns bis o-rnmn nnd who won’t be
squatter as his groom and who wont De
tolerated. Why should they ?
* * * *
‘ ‘ Alba ” : A drunken circus camped in
our paddock last night. Was ignorant of the fact
until I stumbled on to a warm, heaving mass that
was chained to a post. I apologised vigorously,
but the warm mass grumbled from its innards,
implying that it wasn’t taking any, and hit me a
oushion-like punch on the back. Struck a match
and faced a No. 1 sized brown bear rocking at the
end of its chain—tame, of course, but .... I
put in a lot of decent foot-work between the bear
and house. It appeared that everyone at home
had carefully walked into Bruin. Mother was
slightly hysterical. “ Never mind,” said father,
“ Bill ain’t home yet.” Nobody suggested hang-
ing out signals to warn Bill—we were all anxious
to see what effect Bill would have on the bear,
We listened and listened and we listened. Then
father listened. “ Hear that!” he said, suddenly.
The noise of a terrific struggle reached us, a weird,
three-cornered sound that was full of bear-growl
and our Bill. Father gob up and stated that
the bear was getting what for. “ And serve it
right, too,” said mother. Just then Bill appeared
through the back-window looking as though he’d
been fighting a man with nine arms and a gun.
“Fine night, Bill,” said father carelessly. “Yes,”
said Bill wiping his forehead; “splendid weather.”
Father lit his pipe. “Anything wrong, Bill? ’’
he asked steadily. No, said Bill. On y that
thear Brian Mullins is camped in our paddick—
drunk, as usual. Punched me in th back when I
passed him. Didn’t want ter scrap, so I kicked
him in th’ face. Gan t y hear him swearm to
hisself in Irish ? I hate fightin Mullins, he
crawls all over ye an stinks awful. Bill spat
into the fire reflectively. “Never mind, 111 go
down when he s asleep an’ pinch his overcoat.
* * * *
“S.J. asks: Why does lightning never
strike the cypress-pine tree ?
“ Red K. ” : Be sheep as
swimming. Saw eight get into
the briny, when being tran-
shipped from tender to ss.
Wodonga, in Townsville road-
stead, and they swam so well
that it took a boat 50min. to
rescue the lot. Also, the
Sydney tug Leveret, some
time back, found a sheep
swimming in the ocean, five
miles east of Broken Bay;
and, as no ships were in sight,
the jumbuck must have been
natating for hours. [The
swimming - sheep subject is
now done with.]
* * *
“Curlew” (W.A.) : A
Clarence River darkey, up a
tree for honey, fell and was
badly smashed. The nigs,
gathered round, and after long
“yabber,” grabbed a young
fellow, who seemed to know
what was coming, and tried
to bolt. They gashed his breast
with a tomahawk and let the
blood drip on the injured darkey,
but he died, and the young black
was thereby disgraced : they reckoned
his blood had lost its healing power
when he flinched. This was in the
earlier seventies, and I have sought
parallel in Queensland and W.A. Nearest was
the Chinkie doctor at Mt. Morgan, Q., who bled
a fowl on his countryman’s broken leg. The
patient mortified and died.
A close-fisted commercial, staying at an
Orange (N.S.W.) pub., was questioning the land-
lord as to coach-fare to Lucknow. “Oh,” said
the publican, “ I’m going there in the morning ;
you can come with me, if you like; there’ll be
plenty room.” The bagman was profuse in his
thanks, but didn’t “fill-’em-up” either then or
while waiting for the buggy next morning. About
10 o’clock, seeing no sign of the horses, he got im-
patient. “All right,” at last said Bunghole,
stepping into the street and along it, “let’s get.”
“Yes, but—er—where’s the trap?” “Trap be
blithered!” answered the publican and sinner,
“ I’m going to walk. I told you there’d be plenty
room.”
“Touchstone”: Died lately in Wellington
(M.L.) an Australian magpie, aged 27 years.
Sometime before his death he conceived the idea
l“f J % £“s3
same to nest, and sat himself thereon for many
days. In fact “he sot and he sot till he nigh took
T 00 ?’” anc * people were obliged to take away
both nest and egg. He never recovered from the
ow
• * * *
“T.M’G.”: Native bear, or rather “Gun-
daroo bullock,” has no connection with “ Grabben
Gullen pie,” which is properly known as a pump-
kin scooped out and stuffed with ’possum, and can
be properly cooked by only a very few. Have
found it delicious myself, and have also eaten
iguana-stew; in fact, I have eaten pretty well
every sort of native animal, except “ bear. Gould
never take Aim on, somehow,
* * * *
To a N.S.W. State school teacher (ver-
batim, except names) :—■
Dere Maddatn.—l wuld not giv my Bidy a shiling to by
a Histry with if I had the ful of the grate Estern an I
wont have my bidy tort histry by no bluddy prodistan.
An you better stop warking along the beech with that
Biblioan as teachers in the boys skool as says the
irish isent olene nice taila my bidy brinffS me hoa.n about
you and him my man is a komitee an he soon will show
you wether or wich.—Mrs. P. Gooligan.
» • * *
The other day a youth named Larkin, who
had had a leg broken by a horse-kick, crawled a
mile and swam Shoaihaven River before his
000-e-e’s brought help. The Spartan race is nob
ye t dead.
* * * *
In connection with the cure of two
phthisical patients by an open-air life in the
M’Donnell ranges (including out-of-doorsleeping),
£) r . Martin, of Adelaide, mentions the curious
f act t h a t bushmen who have been travelling for
wee ks with cattle or sheep develop a kind of in-
fluenza as soon as they begin sleeping in a town
bed. He says he has often been consulted for
this by men whose ohests were perfectly sound.
* * * »
<< r> G ” ■ Tn far mil We<?fralia the
D.G. writes. In r ‘ .
dull monotony of life is often pleasantly rippled
by some brave action. All deeds of derring-do
were, however, eclipsed recently at Lake Way.
n {
T'vo white men are the owners of a couple of
black-gins. Some time ago these gins cleared
in terror from their “owners”—one with great
whip-weals across her shoulders. However, they
were rec aptured and taken back to brighten the
w j,jte man’s home. Last week one gin again
cleared . th j g time in charge of a blackfellow, who,
acoording to the ousto m of his race, banged her
about a good dea i by way of courtship. The
f oarn j n g and infuriated whites then armed them-
seives to the teeth and marched to the nigger
ca The advent of a gun caused a sudden
ske daddle amongst the darkies. A few of them
remained, though, and one old buck was seized
and flogged. Then there were some dogs shot.
The taste of blood now being on the whites, they
A CRUEL SLANDER.
NO. 1: “ Yes, that’s Ned Kelly. My ole man knew
’im —he died in the Melbourne ’ospital.”
NO. 2: “No he didn’t. Don’t run the blanky man
down. ’E was ’ung!”
tore around and collected all the blankets, shirts,
dresses, trousers, tomahawks, spears, kylies, flour,
sugar, “spuds,” and knick-knacks. These they
piled into a heap and with the lust of battle upon
them, set fire to the lot. All the boys who are
members of the “ Aboriginalities ” page will be
proud to know that the Lake Way heroes re-
covered their gin. Also that the weather at Lake
Way is extremely cold—hard frosts every morn-
ing—so that the courage and humor of burning
the savage’s blankets will at once appeal to them.
THE POETRY OF BEER: A
REMINISCENCE,
BULLOCKY: “I drove bullocks with
Bill Wentworth when he was a
single man. That’s twenty
year ago. Now he's married
and got sons older’en me.”
“ Alia ” : Re water-cure for jib-
bing horses (B. 29/7/’99). A friend
of mine had a horse that used to
squat on his hind-quarters when left
tied up for any length of time, to
the great damage of harness and
shafts. Took him at last to the bank of a
waterhole, backed him close to the edge, and
tied him up to a convenient tree, the halter being
cut through except one strand ; and when, after a
time, the moke sat down, the rope parted, and he
did a 6ft. back-drop into the water. When he had
swum out on the other side he wore a pained ex-
pression of countenance—but he never sat down
any more.
Overheard from a N.S.W. coun-
try policeman : “You see old Groggins
reported me to the Inspector, and put
me to a lot of trouble, so I thought
I’d get even with him. The old fellow
used to visit a pub. every evening, and
generally reached a bridge on his way
home about midnight. Well, I waited
one dark night for him, and just as he
staggered on to the bridge I gave him a
regular woodener on the jaw and
stretched him. Then I gave him a
couple of kicks in the ribs, and left.
About four o’clock in the morning, I
crossed the bridge with another trap,
and we picked Groggins up, and took
him home. My mate wanted to lock
him up, but I wouldn’t have it. It
isn’t my dart to show spite. The old
fellow would do anything for me now.”
* * * *
Paddy B , a fairly-lucky
N.Q. digger and hard-case in his time,
was asked by Warden St. George, of
Cooktown, to come and see him.
Paddy got drunk same evening and
was haled before the Warden. Next
morning latter said he was surprised
to see Paddy there. “ Surprished, is
it?’’said Paddy, “ shure didn’t ye ask
me to come and see yez ? ” He got off
with a caution.
* * * *
Cairns might truly say, in the
words of Falstaff, “ Men of all sorts
do delight to gird at me.” Rev.
Thos. Eykyn, in his recently pub-
lished book, writes : ‘ ‘ The town
(Cairns) stands 6in. above high water,
and its rainfall is measured by feet. It
is a wet hell / ”
“ Ben Sun ” : Close to spine
In cod and blackfish is found a worm
about thickness of sewing - cotton.
Larger proportionately in blackfish than in
ood. Don’t know of the worm’s existence in
any other Australian fish. There’s a bush
belief that only boiling fat will kill it, and that it
is very injurious to the human stomach. Anyone
enlighten ?
* V * *
“ Yar.” : Young bush school teachers of
both sexes need to be tough to bear the strain on
their constitutions. I knew one young fellow who
had to sleep in the dairy on a plank, 20in. wide,
fastened to the wall, and had to hitch his shirt-tail
to a nail in a slab to keep himself from falling
overboard. On other side of dairy on a corres-
ponding plank were the dishes of milk and cream.
In one corner was the “ harness ” cask, and in
another a heap of decaying onions and a hide or
two. He had also to sit down to eat with about
18 kids —mostly twins and triplets—and when he
turned his head to talk to the old man the eat-
ables would be promptly grabbed from his plate, so
that he got the name of being an incurable glutton.
Result was that when, after a row with the land-
lady about letting a sock fall into a dish of cream,
he left, he couldn’t find anybody to board him at
any price. Last time 1 saw him he was cawned
in the school-house living on tinned-dog.
* * * *
“Alia” : More casualness of the Young
Australian. In a small N.S.W. country town I
recently met a young couple strolling home after
VICTOR DALEY , 1899.
Bust by Nelson Illingworth.'] [Photo., Talma.
being married—the bridegroom, hat on back of
head, pipe in mouth, the bride under one arm,
and a bag of fruit under the other.


SOLID SILVER, 2/-.
The
6i Fx and R 99
Popular Pencil .
Is Solid Silver English Hall-marked. It carries an indelible lead that lasts for years, and
can be replenished in any part of the world. There is nothing to break or get out of gear.
c 1 They are a marvel of value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
httt Hi OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY,——
23 Hunter Street (only).
One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
this success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney —who own the Willson patents for
Australasia —are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. This co. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
“The Patentees— Macmven and Cameron, Ltd.,
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen The Pickwick Pen
The Owl Pen The Hindoo Pen
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
WATSON’S WHISKY.
“Bandicoot”: Some
of your correspondents seem
to infer, from a few glaring
exceptions, that immorality
is the rule in the bush.
Have been 15 years in it
and am well acquainted
with its denizens, from half-
clad scrub-fighters to the
affluent cookies on the
fringes of towns. Families
feed out of one dish, are
put to bed in sections on
washing-day ; are reared in
log-huts without partitions;
yet I can honestly credit
the bush with higher aver-
age morality than cities.
But lapses, if few, are all
the more glaring, and so are
made much of.
* * *
The N.S.W. detectives
who went hunting for the
notorious Clarkes (and were
all shot dead) took the rdte
of surveyors, and attracted
instant attention by moon-
ing around Clarkes' place
with a theodolite minus a
plumb-bob, which none of
them could adjust; also by
running lines across sur-
veyed roads and through
private property. The day
before they were murdered
a strange man rode up to
the bogus boss surveyor,
and, pointing to a mountain
peak near by, asked what
the bearing to it was. A
surveyor would have told
him in half a minute ; the
unfortunate detective didn’t
even know what he meant.
Next day, slaughter !
* * *
“R.A.”: He deafness
of white cats. I know of
a pure white cat (eyes grey) which oan’t hear a
gun fired-off alongside.
* » * *
Even now the battle with the bush is not
a walk-over for man. At Kiewa, on the Murray,
a father and son were making breakfast in the
bush. The boy was standing before the fire, and
the father was close by. Suddenly a tree crashed
down, and a branch struck the boy down on the
fire and pinned him there. The father was so
injured that he could not release his son, and
had to crawl away for assistance. By the time
help arrived—well, what the rescue party saw
when it arrived is better left unsaid. Both father
and son are now in Albury Hospital.
* » » *
lie big pigs (B. 12/8/’99). Pig recently
killed at Armidale. (N.S. W.) scaled 6151 b., dressed
—the head alone weighing 471 b. ! It was an-
nounced that this carcase would be given to who-
ever should guess its exact Weight; and, as four
persons struck the figure within 51b., they each
received a quarter. The two best guesses (one a
woman’s) were both 6201 b. In Maitland (N.S. W.)
was killed lately a pig weighing (dressed) 6401 b.
An Ulladulla (N.S.W.) man killed a pig which,
headless, weighed 6361 b. ; and a Melb. butcher
recently exhibited a porker scaling 7151 b. !
* * * *
“ P.T.F.” : Have heard it at last—the
Music of the Solitudes ! Was crossing, recently,
a bit of scrub-land in the dim light sent through
the rifts in.the low-flying scud by the lustreless
Miss LILI SHARP, the Bendigo Soprano.
Photo., T. Hunrphery, Melbourne.
Btars. Suddenly it came, soaring above the
rustling of the bushes and the moan of the turgid
creek near by. Booming like the surf on the
rocks ; vibrating every leaf till every leaf repeated
the melody with sweeter purity; swelling and
climaxing in a thrill of sound excelling the most
exquisite music ever drawn from a violin-string.
Miss ALICE CRAWFORD, a new “ Recitress” (from Bendigo).
Photo., Johnstone O' Shannessy & Go., Melbourne.
Humming, throbbing, lingering, dying—resonant
with a wail of human misery; appealing with a
note of the harmony one hears in dreams. Fas-
cinated, I stepped ecstatically around a clump of
obstructing bushes to get a better impression, and
—was struck across the breast by something tense
and vibrating. I had run into a tightly-stretched
steel-wire fence which was doing the aeolian-harp
business with the fitful west wind.
* * * *
A white dingo was recently killed at Hurra-
jong (Windsor, N.S.W.). First of that color seen
in the district:
“ You may be a little tin-god, but you’re
damn badly soldered.”— Yankee election remark.
Grimwade, M.L.C. (Vic.), is bringing for-
ward his Bill to regulate crematoriums “as the
best method of disposing of the dead ” does not
seek to despoil the Leg. Council of any of its
functions. Dead politicians will continue to be
disposed of in the old way.
The Melbourne newspaper efforts to boom
Miss Lili Sharp as “the Bendigo soprano ” would
be funny enough if they were not unfair to other
and better singers who have to get along without
the aid of special paragraphs. Miss Sharp is just
a fairly clever artist, possessing a clear, pleasant,
unremarkable soprano voice of uneven quality.
Her top notes are not nearly as fine as Amy
Castles’s, but she has more taste and training than
the damsel in the more abbreviated frock.
The unexpected does happen
in a pleasing sort of way now and
then. At Prahran (Melbourne) a
ruffianly citizen was rebuking his
wife with a broomstick and a flat-
iron, when her screams attracted
the attention of two passing stran-
gers. They loafed into the premises
in a tired sort of way, hauled the
husband off, kicked him about 46
times, cut his face badly, broke one
of his ribs, and went away. The
gradual policeman arrived after they
had gone, and locked the justly-
damaged householder up. After
four days confinement the bench let
him off on his wife's entreaty, and
he departed saying he wanted to
find the two strangers who had
left their footmarks upon him—
and take a horrible vengeance.
But as they did their work well
and departed leaving no address,
and as Melbourne is a large place,
and even if found they may sim-
ply break another of defendant’s
ribs, these humble instruments of
Providence seem to have most of
the chances in their favor.
Henry Lucy writing from
London to S.M. Herald, tells a
story on the authority of General
Evelyn Wood (Mrs. Kitty O’Shea’s
brother) that casts a curious light on
Transvaal history. After Majuba
Hill, Wood succeeded the deceased
Colley in the South African cam-
paign. He now says he wanted the
Cape Ministry to cut the telegraph
cable so that he might have a free
hand in dealing with the Boers,
whom he could have smitten hip
and thigh—at least so he said at
the Authors’ dinner on July 2.
Curiously enough, the correspondent
says, the statement was only re-
ported, and then in a bowdlerised form, in one
London paper, and adds that Wood’s suggestion
to the Cape authorities was made “by way of
jest.” Not likely. The modern Major-General
doesn’t joke about such things. Had Wood been
a great soldier he would have found means to get
the cable out without “ suggesting ” it to anyone.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on .l/S.
No liability is undertaken in any case re conti Mu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post o 1
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Mechanic (Bal.): It is the volatility of liquid
air that gives it commercial value by making possible its
use as a power-generator. It is 100 times more volatile
than steam. Your objection that it cannot be stored
also applies to steam, which has to be used immediately
it is made. Yet steam is extensively used in this and
several other countries. And liquid air can be preserved
for some time, which steam can’t be ; it is sent hundreds
of miles by rail in America Eucalyptus : The false
names don’t disguise it in the least —they would only
aggravate the libel-damages. Besides, it is no possible
use exposing a great swindle unless you are prepared.to
say straight out whom you are exposing. A thing like
that wants solid legal evidence behind it, else the paper
that publishes it merely gives the swindler a chance to
prove his spotless innocence in the law courts . D.K. :
“ Wouldn’t it have been as easy for the inventor of man
to make him straight off, as to build a gorilla and modify
him into a man?” The question is not of the possible
powers of a purely hypothetical “ inventor,” but simply
of the logical interpretation of concrete facts
Ululo : We understand the people chiefly responsible for
the exclusion of The Bulletin from M. L. Parliamentary
library are recreant Labour-Member Hutcheson and that
absurd person Dr. Grace —or Grease. However, The
Bulletin doesn’t want to be in the Parliamentary library
—or in any other more or less public reading-room
Horatio : Many deaf people can hear well in any con-
tinuous, more or less, level-toned noise, such as that of a
train under way. Present writer knew an old lady who,
though stone-deaf in a room, could plainly hear a
whispered conversation while travelling by rail. Übi :
The determination of the Boers “ to make Dutch the offi-
cial language of the Transvaal ” only follows British pre-
cedent, anyhow. When Britain annexed the Gape from
Holland an order was issued that proceedings in courts
and all official documents should be in English. The
Dutch speakers, who were seven-eighths of the population
at the time, remonstrated —but in vain. . A.J. : The
statement is probably rubbish. Save to a small extent in
Java, Eastern peoples don’t bother in the least about
leprosy Scotty :“ A Good Shot ” evidently has a very
dangerous personal application.... 1.0. :In a word, the
Reid Cabinet, by buying up busts, statues, and portraits
of Parkes on the bargain principle, are preventing a
national expression of admiration for Parkes in any of
these directions Worero : When the “daily press”
said the N.S.W. Art Society’s Show was “more solid”
than that of the Society of Artists it probably meant that
it was more deadly-dull and daily-press-like— Canda :
But then we have no time to write private letters
criticising MS. submitted. Neither would you have if
you received 1,000 letters or so every week.
Amigo :As to the Jap. question—the Jap. is a nice,
polite little man who will pass the mustard to you with
about eleven times the alacrity of any European, but he
is even more insincere than other markedly polite people.
Con. S. : “ She has developed into a stout matron
with that settled-down look that adds more to one’s
years than even grey hair.” Well, that’s pretty malig-
nant, anyhow C.P. J. : If, as it would appear, the street
flower-sellers are merely the minions of big florists, no
enthusiasm can be pumped up over the matter Mac.
G. : Pooh ! Why in every Australian State, every day of
the week, some policeman or detective gets a big reward
for restoring to the owner (“no questions asked”) a
watch or other valuables stolen from him in some ques-
tionable resort A.P. : Nonsense: There has been no
Bill to annul Kinsman marriages. Some sort of defence
as stated was raised in an English petty court, and it
bluffed the honorary magistrates. That’s all Allen
J. : Well, we are told that, among others. Rev. W. R.
Hepburn, of Coolamalong, Cooma, N.S.W., tried the
whale-cure for rheumatism — (i.e., being buried, bar his
head, in the flesh of a dead whale) with very satisfactory
results, some years ago at Eden, N.S.W Wurrym :
Fact is, the interviews published in Australian dailies are
mostly suggested by some tin-pot, local self-important,
who hiving been absentfrom his rubbish-heap for a month
or two, writes to the office to “kindly arrange for a reporter
to interview Mr. , he having returned from,” & .
The note, significantly enough, is always addressed to
the business manager, who sends it “ upstairs ” endorsed
—“Blank advertises largely.” That’s the inwardness
of 99 out of every 100 Australian press interviews .
Wil: Come, now, are you the mysterious bush-creature
who says hoo, hoo, hoo in “ Aboriginalities?” M.J.O. :
Three poems—equal two pins and a broken needle. Make
it three pins next time W.H.R. :We get our Purga-
tory in this world sure enough W.G. : The lawyer was
hugging his first client when the asylum keeper reclaimed
her—three pages .. D.F. :Be modest; plain Fis enough
for you B.D. : “Sleep” happened to be last of the
day’s pile. So we slept J.B.D. : Eat more beef and
much more mustard Pan : The obvious is always the
unnecessary Y.D. :If we understood that we’d un-
derstand the dogma of the Trinity—H.B.S. : It made
our ink run cold Melb. : Don’t remember if that tale
is translated. But you can get seven or eight execrable
volumes of Maupassant-translations at any bookshop
almost J.T.S. : Richmond Thatcher’s brother com-
posed interminable doggerel—most of it a splendid thing
to forget Y.: It does an M.P. no harm to write bad
poetry. His co-mates enjoy such a superior, self-
gratulatory glow when they laugh at it that
they excuse more serious offences W.J.C. (Towns-
ville): It was Disraeli who, in 1878, referred to
Gladstone as “a sophistical rhetorician, inebriated
with the exuberance of his own verbosity, and
gifted with an egotistical imagination that can at all
times command an inconsistent series of arguments
to malign an opponent and to glorify himself.”.
A.L. : The fact that he had been a teacher, preacher, &c.,
explains why he was of no particular importance as a
musician... .O.M.A. : Flabby Nobody :“ ‘ The Agony
Column’ often ‘meets the eye’ without touching the
heart.” R.J.C. : Story of two honorable thieves. One
lent t’other his mackintosh in order to steal and conceal
some shirts. T’other didn’t steal the shirts ; but he stole
the mackintosh M.O.S. : Lines on “Prosper,” of the
billiard-tournament are too late and too rooky. One
small specimen, polished :
When they saw the red ball driven
From the start that had been given
All the Jews said —“ Are we live’n,
Are we dead ? ”
H.C. : Sorry not to care for last verses......A.F, :
You must have a head like a balloon. Prick it
Eubank : The practice of conviction upon “ reasonable
suspicion ” is a gross outrage upon justice, anyhow.
What may be “reasonable” enough to a conviction-
hungry constable or an addle-pated magistrate may, to
other perceptions, be quite compatible with innocence...
Baloo: The legs of the Melb. Scottish Volunteers have
lost their novelty T.B. (Waitara, M.L.): Making
inquiries R.R. i Merely amounts to the statement
that a disappointed man suicided ; which, unfortunately,
is an every-day happening P.T.F. : Small-cheque story
old. Reduce the wording of your pars by from 60 to 90
percent Dodo: No necessity to “ give you rats, but
you should always give date of items referred to. No
interest, anyhow, in a plain “drunk.’' W.H.F. : Pol
cupine too late in the day Gus 11. : “ For everj' bard s
at heart a rover.” Wish you had roved somewhere else !
Rock H. : Lies, os lies, have no Bulletin interest ...
J. : And a very bad job, too Rasp : Not at all. To
answer that sectarian paper’s frantic inouthings would
be to give it the advertisement it’s playing for Von
K. : The old maxim that you can’t get more out of, a
machine than you put into it is nonsense. If you don t,
what is the good of machinery ? The use of machinery is
the use of a little force to set in action more potential
forces, which would otherwise remain latent. On a bike,
you turn your driving-wheel once with the same expendi-
ture of energy as you would have used for one stride;
the driving-wheel turns j our bike wheel four times and
carries you four times as far as you would have walked
by the same expenditure of energy .....Collins : If the
poetry were only half as good as the grievance—- .....
J.H.P. (Auckland) : Thanks ; will try to deal with the
matter. John Quill: “Naval Episode” makes us very
tired ...W.K.A. : Do, please, write larger and more
widely D.G. :We didn’t necessarily quote “ with
approval ” Kaiser Wilhelm’s aphorism about a big navy
being the “ best Peace-Conference ” ; we simply quoted
it J.H.L. (Mount Morgan) : Don’t give way to needless
excitement H.V. : Many thanks for letter •'•P. :
Turkey story not astonishing enough Per aspera ad
astra : Seems from your letter that you really made the
remark, and complain because this paper said you made it.
...Tug: The lunatic and the game of “tig ” are an old lie...
Alone : Not “mostly.” There are lazy hypocrites, of
course, amongst the missionaries, as amongst every other
class, but the bulk of them are merely amiably-mistaken
enthusiasts . Geo. S : You don’t seem able to hit usiin
the right place Pinkun : Not ill put together, but
hardly in Bulletin line.. .A.G.W. : Would need screw-
ing up a bit; will consider P. : “Nothing in It ;
well, hardly enough, at all events .... Rod : All that just
to lead up to an unclean remark ! Couldn’t you be
dirty straightforwardly ? .... W.L. : “ Microscopic—which,
translated, stands for small. It also stands for the merit
of your verse... L.M.D. : Possibly fact, but too trifling.
Dorothy E. : Touch rather feeble for subject
J.ti.G. : Curious little study. May possibly use ....
J.A.K. : Lacks crispness and movement—Mussel : Not
too bad a yarn, not too well told. May modify E.S.S.:
“Bendigo” rather shaky in places. Will consider.
“Courtship” neatly versed—and that’s all Ben Sun :
“Joy" very unequal; may or may not do something
IN THE STORM: PATERNAL
CONSOLATION.
MISS REBECCA : "Oh, father, father, the ship is
lost ”
MR. GOLDENBERGg: “ Veil, my girl, don't make
such a fuss about it. I don’t own her !”
with it ....Stone B. : May trim-up and use Bro. :
Yarns to hand N.H. (Tas.) : Thanks; very funny
Psappha : Will use ; but please get a less-suspected pen-
name A.E.C. : Take up thy swag and walk Alone
12: Not fire enough Ben: “Rover” won’t do.
"CITIZENS’ BULLDING."
The Head Offices of the Citizens’ Life at the corner
of Castlereagh and, Moore-streets, Sydney.
open on the Ist inst.


THE BLIND LEADING THE BLIND.— THE N.S.W. OPPOSITION.


4e’^r uW^ ;
p|||p;
/under th n ° tecJ w/tfi to ' v cd. n ° y into!
prz&Zaf+X s3xl
ire^J 1 - o® them T d V&V/
gf/
/Vv * B «tg t, tL.%*.j?*t ,s>-'
to .. Vie;
aßiii pf
WUmL fsl I f *v m£
fHjpif ri\/
■W
_ _ r
‘mßmm
fa crhs6
|£ j /
ck** ■
Mr. MURRAY SMITH said He was
strongly impressed with the fact that there
was a large class of women who were abso-
lately at the present time, whatever they
might be in the future, unfitted to exerpise
the .vote, and, if given it, would not k
what to do with it,. M
m
J fs \
W “SYDNEY' BULLETIN ” f
m IN THE I'ULL COI’RT!
f The Full Court was stirred to the
r?depths of its traditions te-day, when a
j party to an application sought’ to read
from the "Sydney Bulletin” a report of
l some prior proceedings in the matter in
I another court. The Chief Justice, when
She had sufficiently recovered from his as-
tonishment. said: "The reading of the
I ‘Sydney Bulletin’ will not assist justice
Sin any way. 11 is of absolutely no value-
ltd all, and the reading of it would beJ
(mere waste of time. This sort of thing
•ought not be. encouraged- The paper re- i
if erred to does npt, profess to re- !|
jport these cases In anything like ■
;tin authoritative way. Some her- i
(son sends a paragraph, general- j
g’’v ridiculous, to support a particular i
oint of view. The paper makes no pre- ’
pence to accuracy, and is in fact generally %.
MELBOURNIANA.


OTTO HERZ &CO.S SHOES
are celebrated for their quality.
OTTO HERZ & CO-'S SHOES
are well known for their elegance.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
never lose their shape.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
fit the foot to perfection.
OTTO HERZ & CO. S SHOES
have a 40 years’ reputation.
OTTO HERZ & CO ’S SHOES
form the most comfortable footwear.
OTTO HERZ & CO. S SHOES
are sold by all of
JOHN HUNTER & SON'S (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
LAND SELECTION under New Act (Vic-
toria). The undersigned, 25 years Oipps-
land, is prepared to show areas of Ist and 2nd
class country in various portions of Oippslanci,
convenient to railway, and abundantly watered
rich onion and potato soils, and prune open grass
lands. Terms on application, enclosing stamps
for reply, to JAMES MoDONALD, agent,
showing Crown Lands, Laongatha, South Cipps-
land, Victoria. __
A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1530
TJS7E HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
W FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady's or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
I O*E P*OP*E O* E D'S’NY. |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
Wesleyan Parsonage,
Port Fairy, Victoria, 29/4/’99.
Dear Sir.—l beg to acknowledge receipt of Watch and
Chain, and am pleased to state that both are very
satisfactory. Yours truly, M. COCK.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
Sheepshins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
iKT MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. 0. YOUNG & CO.
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
• from
£5 lOs.
WINDMILLS
The First. Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. 1 make
WINDMILLS a Special Line ; not a Side Show.
m
A FRIEND IN NEED
IB A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE
foreign stamps
*
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, ls6d; 16 Roumania; 6d ;
8 Bosnia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Chili
Telegraph, 3d; 16 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d ; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
6d; 50, Is; 100,256 d; 150, ss. Re-
mit by P. 0.0. or P.N. Illustrated
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Oollins-street, MELBOURNE.
KEMP’S Patent sbeep-Brai)diog Liquid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Black, Red, Blue. 3s 6c3. Per Melto a.nd Sydney; 3a &c?L ga.11.. in Brisbane
Manufacturers—
Felton, G-rimwade & Uo-,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E. RICH &00. LTD I
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Heame’s
ichitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COU6HS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA AND CONSUMPTION.
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in Australia-
THOSE who have taken this Medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, throat’
experience delightful and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most comforting ina Jaymg ion in the fthroat,
and giving strength to the voice, avid it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where Coughs have been
properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
Prepared Only and Sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor,
w. G. HEARNE, CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small Size, 2/6 i Large, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address, when not Obtainable locally.
Presentation Silver-plate & Jewellery for ||]6(ldßHj) PfGSGIItS
A. Saunders’ Stock is Bright, Effective, and Reliable.
Kindly send your orders to us —we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display.
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, Pure Silver-plated, 17s 6d.
Others charge you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver Hand Mirror, velvet back, 30s. Ohased
Silver back, £2 6s, £2 10s, £2 16s.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 30s. Similar styles, 21s,
255. Silver-plated, 18s 6d. Mirror, 20s.
m
m
m
m
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled cases),
£2 10s, five years' guar-
an tee, extra quality;
£4 48, 15 years’ guar-
antee ; ditto, 14c, Gold,
patent cases, £6 6s, 20
years’ guarantee, “the
same strength as a £2O
watch." Ladies’, beau-
tifully ornamented, same price. Mind, “ the above watches are guaran-
teed with a written certificate from the makers, and we will make them
uphold it." Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Saunders’
HANDSOME and USEFUL PRESENTS.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 16s,
strong and pretty. Silver, 6s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d; 8 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
Oak Butter and Knife, 7s 6d ;
with cover, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s 6d ; Fluted Bands,
20s ; Shield only, 12s 6d.
22 £
A. Saunders.
First-class 4-botile Cruet, 30s
similar styles, 21s, 255, 35s ;
6-bottle, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut-
glass Puff Boxes, 15s 6d,
very cheap.
18c. Gold, pure Double
Cub Diamond, £5 ss;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
18c. Gold, 5 pure Dia-
monds, £4los and £5-
3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds,
£3los. Send for book.
I
JL. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Sugar Scuttle,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Large Diamonds, £3
15c. Gold, 20s, 255, and 30s.
18c. Gold Band, Pure Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
C.
v/jk
if
i*\K>
A. Saunders.
4 o’c. Teaspoons and Tongs, 15s, 20s, 255;
Spoons, without case. ss, 7s 6d half-dozen
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255; with
Tongs, 30s and 355.
<*
A; Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding (Biscuit), £3,
£3 10s, £4 ; handsome present.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 156. Gold, £2.
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3. Any Name or
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar.
%
A. Saunders.
Silver-plated Butter, Cut Glass, 8s 6d ;
Larger, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.


SECOND-HAND
° AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
buy from us and
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
' £1 Saved ia equivalent
to £6 Earned i
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of beat
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKHA COB3YORK ST, SYDNEY.
RTIFI C I A L
TEETH
OP BEAUTIFUL LIFELIKE APPEARANCE,
LIFELONG DURABILITY,
AND PERFECT MASTICATING POWER.
DETECTION IMPOSSIBLE.
OTHERWISE NO FEE.
PULL SETS, £2 10s. COMPLETE.
Up-to-date Modern Dentistry legitimately practised.
American Plumpers for thin faces. Artificial Teeth
without plates or wires. Gold and Porcelain Crowns,
Bridge and Pivot Work, Gold Fillings. All fees strictly
moderate. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Also, ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS and
STOPPINGS, OTHERWISE NO FEE.
Telephone, 2167 Consultation Free.
J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon
(The Original and Old-Established Firm),
28 Wynyard Street (Only), Sydney
(Two minutes from G.P.0.)
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send for a FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIGHGDHS.,LOHOON,ENG.
Braio at)dHerVz Food.
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “ quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Arnold’s Balsam of prehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
NOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold's Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Hilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1/6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
Doctors Tak® It-
The Value of BEAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
SAUCE.
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice.. •
/ y. V; -V'
-y.?' :-/ L '
m sf
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by-
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy : —“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free; or
send order direct to
Hon?e Catarrh C6r€ Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Cramps
i Colic,
\ Colds,
Croup, \
Coughs,\
Tooth- \
ache,
V
Cuts, \
Burns, |
l Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
(BEBBY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALES AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
&c., &c., for
HOMOCEA
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
AND SOOTHES THE AGHBNG PART ,
*or ail Deep-seated and Persistent Pains use HOMOCEA
EMBROCATION. Sold in Collapsible Tubes.
Of all Storekeepers, Seneral dealers, arjct Chemists.
BLAKE STEAM PUMPS,
Por EVERY PUMPING
. , PURPOSE KNOWN.
SOLE
AUSTRALASIA: H• P« GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS and GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Important to Parties Furnishing 1 !
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
or time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
. . . The Cash Furnishers . - .
KST Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Artiole sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Pyery
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD ONLY USED.
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saving of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL’S give Value for Value — 20s. for the JB.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods. r
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
How Wonderful!
Not at all. It is merely a case of
cause and effect. The cause was an
LAW
ll
OAC
m
V!
Allcock’s Porous Plaster placed right over
the small of the back. The effect was the disap-
pearance of the lameness so suddenly
that “lost” was the only term which
could fairly be used. But it is not
lameness only that thus disappears
under the touch of
POHOVS PXASlfia
It is equally effective in sprains,
stiffness of the joints, sore muscles, pain in the chest, any
trouble arising from taking cold from accident or over-
exertion.
REMEMBER when you need a plaster
Alleockts
POROUS
PIASTER
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S
NICHOLSON*Co.’s PIANOS
«
RONISCH PIANOS
WONDERFUL INSTRUMENTS OF
WORLD-WIDE FAME.
BECHSTEIN PIAXOS
The GREATEST Achievement of
Modern Times. Superb Pianos.
MIGNON PIANOS
AT THE PRICE, this INSTRUMENT
IS WITHOUT A RIVAL.
NANON PIANOS.
FOR £35 OASH. THE CHEAPEST
PIANO ever Made Anywhere.
WE STOCK only THE BEST MAKES of PIANOS.
Seven Years. LOW PRICES for Cash,
Every Instrument Guaranteed for
or on EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNTEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.


SECOND to NONE!
Best Food Products of the Century.
G-raxiuma and FodLa,li.
Most popular TEAS of the age.
BILLY TEA . . . GOLDENIA.
Purest Liquors Anyhow !
WHITE HEATHER WHISKEY.
MEUKOW’S CHAMPAGNE BRANDY
NICHOLSON’S DRY GIN.
Finest Wines in the World.
COMMENDADOB PORT VINE.
JAMES . INGLIS & CO.’S ’ SHERRIES,
CLARETS, etc;,'Golofiial and Imported.
JAMES IN GETS & Millers,
Manufacturers and Importous,
DEANS PLACE,,SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE.
COLENIANE AND SONS I
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT
THE ONLY PURE IN T H HE‘ WORLD.,
ASK
FOR
6®^brandy
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
The Art of Letter Writing.
The business man of to-day recognises the value
of this art, as it naturally enters largely into his
daily life. The first essential is brevity; the
second, comprehensiveness; the third, absolute
accuracy. Perhaps our readers may be interested
in a sample letter (which we herewith attach) from
the ex-Mayor of Brisbane, B. H. Babbidge, Esq.,
which incorporates all the qualities necessary for
guidance, and indicates clearly how much thought
and fact can be conveyed in a few words.
“ I have been asked by some of my friends if I
have ever taken Warner’s Safe Cure. I replied :
* I have, and have found it a most excellent medi-
cine for general debility, and for toning up the
constitution, and I have always recommended it
for the same.’ ”*
WHISKY AND HEALTH.
Whisky.of the right sort, such as the “D.C.L.”
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is
good for body and mind. It preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. N'ote
“D.C.L.”*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY f CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Hoornb 321 G-eorgo Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
t»hp> Perfect Slieep-MarlEer.
In Three Colors — BLACK, RET) and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MAR KING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
. KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
S.A. Oppositionists, most of them poor
men and office-hungry, admit that the Kingston
Govt, will easily last out until Federation. Of
the present S.A. Govt. Kingston, Holder and
Jenkins will all be Federal candidates, and their
retirement from local politics will be certain to
disrupt the Ministry.
Premier Turner reckons that, after dis-
qualifying'as many of the old people as possible,
his Old-Age Pensions will cost J 1150,000 a year.
He provides £92, 000 a year by extra taxation and
“trusts to Providence ” for the rest. And that
weak, shiftless, half-hearted trusting to Provi-
dence is just where the trouble comes in.
“ To vote for Federation,” moans a Bris-
bane paper, “ is to make a humiliating confession
of our inability to manage our own affairs.” Put
it the other way : “To vote against Federation is
to make a humiliating confession of our inability
to help at managing the affairs of Australia, and
to acknowledge that we are only fit to potter away
in a corner by ourselves.”
One argument that really weighed a
good deal with Vic.' Leg. Council when it at last
consented to pass the One-man-one-vote Bill was
that long resistance to the measure had made
it the most—and most-deservedly—hated Legis-
lative body in Australia. “We are un-
popular,” said member after member, and sorrow-
ful “hear-hears” dittoed the wail.
Premier Turner, of Victoria, is carrying
the religious-instiuction-in-schools joke to the
bitter end. He has circularised the heads of all
the Beets in Victoria asking them to meet and
come to some agreement about what religious in-
struction they want, and then he'' will proceed
further. If they do meet they are much more
likely to come to a hospital than an agreement.
Having got the One Man One Vote Bill
through, the Victorian Government is making a
great effort to establish One Woman One Vote
also, so that the province can start its Federal
existence on a thoroughly democratic basis.
Despite the most enthusiastic opposition by that
pelican-in-the-wilderness, Murray Smith, the
measure was carried in the Assembly by a vote of
nearly two to one. Then the.ladies in the galleries
applauded enthusiastically, and the enraged
Speaker informed them that they would- be forcibly
thrown our into Bourke-street if it happened
fegain.
Whispered by a well-informed
M.L. correspondent that should the Aus-
tralasian Federation movement, initiated
in Auckland, prove abortive, the northern
province will seek to clip the wings of
Wellington by agitating for the removal
of the seat of government from Cook
Straits to a site on the railway line be-
tween Christchurch and Dunedin, the
cost of removal being provided for by the
retention by the State of the freehold
of the new metropolis. In the early
eighties Bathgate, an Otago member,
tabled as an abstract motion a very simi-
lar proposal, and it was only beaten by
one or two votes. The Aucklanders
complain that railways to connect the
northern city with her natural territory
are voted down consistently by the Wel-
lingtonians, who have, however, suc-
ceeded in tapping country topographically
belonging to Auckland.
Henry Chaplin, a subordinate mem-
ber of the British Cabinet who is probably
a straw thrown up to see how the wind
1 lows, suggests a small protective duty
on grain, proceeds to go towards an Old
Age Pensions Fund. Britain has lately
knocked another small hole in the Free-
trade fetish by subsidising the West
Indian sugar-industry; and the Indian
Govt, has lately begun fooling with pro-
tective duties. Britain still professes to
grovel to the clay-footed idol of freetrade,
but it grovels half-heartedly nowadays.
And the time is coming when tenders
will be called from marine-store people
r nd dealers in scrap iron for the complete
removal of the Joss.
Barton did the cleverest act of his life
when he resigned the N.S.W. Opposition leader-
ship after Federation was. assured. To stay on
and scramble with little wobbler Reid for the
little fag-end of local authority that remains till
the larger Parliament assembles, to quarrel about
culverts and grants to cow-shows, to try to pre-
vent Meagher calling Norton a liar—it wouldhave
been a woeful falling away for the Federal leader.
So the big lion, Barton, says to the small lion,
Lyne : “You can run after that mouse by your-
self if you want him —I don’t.” And the small
lion promptly replies that any mouse is large
enough for him to run after, and scoots for all he
is worth.
Queensland electoral-rolls at present date
contain 107,265 names of persons qualified to vote
on September 2nd. Of these Charters Towers has
4,863 electors (two members); Fortitude Valley,
3,907 electors (two members); South Brisbane,
3815 electors (two members). And little country
constituencies with only five or six hundred voters
return a member to the Bananaland Assembly.
Within a month after Victoria’s acceptance
of the Federal Constitution it secured One Man
One Vote in local Assembly elections —which it
had vainly struggled after for seven years —partly
because the anomaly of having One Man One
Vote at Vic. Federal elections, and a plural pro-
perty vote at Vic. State elections, was too ridicu-
lous to last. Queensland will also find that the
shortest way towards a democratic State franchise
is through Federation.
The vote on Federation should convince
the various “ labor-parties ’’ that they can no
longer command the support of the masses by
simply yelling that they are the Labor-party.
The people want up-to-date democratic legislation,
and if politicians calling themselves Fatmen or
Cast-Iron Tories offer the genuine article, and the
Labor-party opposes it, the workers will support
them, and the Labor-party can go hang—as the
N.S.W. Labor-party is going hang now.
Westralian Premier Forrest admitted in
Parliament, with the cynical frankness cf a big,
dull, ox-like man, that his Truck Bill was devised,
not so much because of the wrong done to work-
men by compelling them to take out their wages
at the boss’s store in goods sold at the boss’s price,
but because the storekeepers in his own town of
Bunbury found their trade injured by the Truck
system !! Bunbury is the beginning and end of
the universe to Big Parochial John.
Melb. Age gleefully records that Aus-
tralia’s first Governor-General is to be a member
of the Royal Family, if one of H.M.’s relatives
can be spared—which is doubtful. Here’s an
argument in favor of the old Egyptian system of
dealing with dead royalties.—
Q. Worker, which says it “isn’t against
Federation,” cartoons the Federal G-ovt. as a fat
man driving a half-starved Labor donkey with a
bunch of carrots under its nose. The leading article
in same issue (Aug. 26) is an appeal to Queens-
landers to vote against the Commonwealth Bill;
and later on a poet (who appropriately signs him-
self “G. A. 8.”) writes about “ The Federal Bur-
den” in lines like this :
After that, the Worker’s attitude re Federation
is like Paddy’s when he rode the-pig:—quite im-
partial, till he fell off. And the Worker has
fallen off on the wrong side. -
IN SUNDAY-SCHOOL.
TEACHER: “What is the chief reason for going to
church?”
BRIGHT PUPIL : “To put threepence in the plate, miss!”
John Darling, jun., S.A., Tory M.P., on
Household Suffrage :
Even if the country was not totally against the Bill, the
referendum showed that they were apathetic on the
question.
At the referendum referred to the “country”
yelled for Household Suffrage by a majority of
over 15,000 votes. If Darling saw 15,000 people
yelling themselves hoarse over a cricket century
scored by his brother, Australian captain Joe, he
would probably describe that as “apathy.”
After all the bitter yell raised in N.S.W.
provincialist circles about the alleged continuance
of the Victorian bounties under Federation, and
considering the further yell now being raised in
Queensland about the same alleged continuance of
the Vic. bounties, it is curious to note that
Queensland itself is the most lavish bounty-offering
province in Australia. I-t has a butter-export
bounty, cheese-export bounty, bounty on the
export of chilled meat, a bounty on wool sold by
auction in Brisbane, and a huge bounty on locally-
grown cotton, and it has helped- along the local
sugar-iuiclustry with assistance to the extent of
.£500,000. Yet Brisbane Telegraph is hurt in its
inmost soul because tho Federation Bill does not
immediately extinguish all bounties, and therefore
(so it alleges) Victoria will undue advan-
tage’over the guileless Bananalander !
STRANGE ANIMAL IN THE NOSE.
“Say, Bill, why didn’t Clem ’lllplay more? ”
“ Oh, he’s bin laid up with a platypus in ’is nose!”
The £350 disbursed by N.S:W. Treasury
for expenses incurred in Europe in obtaining in-
formation for a report on old-age pensions, chari-
ties, and State insurance, is not grudged. But
when the Treasurer was asked in the House
whether J. C. Neild’s fanfaronade mission abroad
would cost N.S.W. anything, why did he not in-
timate this instead of announcing that the mission
was wholly a voluntary adventure on the part of
the Major, ahd would entail no expense to
N.S.W. ?
The cable
August 24.
The Transvaal during the past three years has imported
via Delagoa Bay, 149,000 rifles, 6400 revolvers, and 398 tons
of ammunition.
The bold statement looks formidable till you pull
it to pieces. If all the rifles were military arms
they would be useless without cartridges, and if
all the ammunition was made up of cartridges for
those rifles, the 398 tons would only give, say,
14,250,000 cartridges for 149,000 rifles, or 95 per
rifle—hardly enough for one day’s fighting.
In Tas. Assembly a motion for a select
committee to inquire into the charge of bribery
preferred by Cameron, M.H.A., against Captain
Miles, in his capacity as master warden of Strahan
Marine Board, was rejected by one vote. Con-
sidering the stinkful things said against the gal-
lant master mariner whom Braddon lately took
into his Ministry, it might have been expected
that he would stand up in his large sea-boots and
demand the most complete inspection possible.
Anyhow, to escape from inquiry by one vote was
a rather tight fit.
How N.S.W. anti-Federalists must now
kick themselves for so loudly applauding their
Leg. Council for insisting, last May, upon those
impossible amendments on the Enabling Bill!
The new members then appointed to ensure the
passage of that Bill voted solidly for the Federal
Address to the Queen; but for them, Want-
MacLaurin would have succeeded in defeating the
Address. Things are getting so mixed in the
Assembly that the Council, by bringing about a
dissolution, might have found occasion for another
fight against the Bill.
Says the anti-Federal Toowoomba Chron-
icle as a reason why Queensland shouldn’t
federate: —
~lf our cattle are taxed it means an enormous advance
in the price of meat in the other colonies, and will the
working classes there be prepared to pay perhaps up to
one shilling' per pound for their meat or to tolerate a
Federal Government who support such a thing ?
And Brisbane Telegraph says Queensland
shouldn’t federate because—
There will be a poll-tax on cattle.
In Other words, anti-Federal rag No. 2 says
Queensland should stand out because otherwise its
cattle will be taxed, and anti-Federal rag No. 1
says it should stand out beoause it doesn’t matter
whether its cattle are taxed or not.
Toowoomba (Q. Chroni-
cle, as some kind of a lop-
sided reason against Federa-
tion, tells its readers that
“ the Victorian Parliament,
in order to encourage the
discovery of coal within the
colony, not only put on a high-
protective duty on imported
coal, but offered a splendid
bonus for every ton of coal
produced from Victorian coal-
mines.” It would probably
surprise this ill-in-formed
paper a good deal to know
that Victoria has no coal-
duty, and offered no bonus
for coal produced. And as
Victoria reckons it can face
N.S.W. competition under
these circumstances, Queens-
land, where the industry is
much longer established, may
contrive to do likewise with-
out the absolute and horrible
ruin which the Chronicle
thinks it sees ahead.
The very, very old
wheeze about “Melbourne
money being sent up to be
scattered broadcast in the
Federal interest,” which did
so much duty in N.S.W., has
now started in Queensland.
As usual, the identity of the
alleged sender doesn’t ap-
pear. The money is said to
come from “ a leading club ”
—name not given, either be-
cause there is no club or to
avoid hurting the club’s feel-
ings. Victoria, it seems, is
a poor, dead-broke place
whose only hope of salvation
is to join with rich and pros-
perous Queensland; and, at
the same time, it is a glori-
ously rich place where they
pour out gold with shovels to
corrupt the poor but virtuous
Bananalander.
Johnny Wallace, the old
gentleman with the terrible
walking-stick, had some more
to say against One-man-one-
vote in Vic. Leg. Council.
“ The measure,” pleaded
Johnny, “is brought in sim-
ply because it is a popular cry
at the present time, but the
legislator who suits his views
to the cries of the time is not
the one who inspires confidence and lasts
longest.” Which, coming from a man whose
sons lately expressed such a profound want
of confidence in his management of their
estate, was most impressive. Vet Johnny was
consistent even then. The popular cries of the
time on that occasion were the cries of the young
Wallaces for their money, and old Wallace didn’t
suit his views thereto till he could hang on. to the
cash no longer.
What really troubles Australian labor
parties in re Federation is the N.S.W. Con-
vention plebiscite which carefully left Labor
candidates among the rejecteds. That’s what
sticks in their crop. Yet, if they only had the
brains, they would see that massed Australian
labor, organised as it is, will probably exercise a
greater power under Federation than it can
possibly do when split up into sections and con-
quered in detail, as at present. But it will
certainly find greater men to lead it; and that
doesn’t please the ruling bosses. “D n the
people ! where will we be? ”
Attorney-General Pennefather, of Wes-
tralia, raving against Federation in the Sand-
groper Parliament, drew a horrible inference
from the U.S. civil war and the “ hundreds of
millions” of lives that were lost therein. The
East had no particular use for a man of such ex-
tensive ignorance, but Pennefather seems to be
good enough for Westralia. Vosper, Jones,
Tommy Walker, and Pennefather are four obscure
political scraps from the East who have risen to be
anti-Federal gods out West. Westralia imports
even its anti-Federal gods—like the African who
gets his brass deity from Birmingham.
If they’ve not got a living prince,
They need not worry. Truth to tell,
There’s no occasion for it since .
A mummied one will do as well.
Kneel for your Federal burden,
Receive from vulture bands
Fresh taxes for your sruerdon,
New gyves to bind your hands.
Renounce vour irlorious birthright,
Your children bind as slaves,
Enjoy your “ mess of pottage,”
Then seek dishonored graves.


you CAN (SET
SOMETHING
» - ■ ■ ■--=»
FOR
NOTHING at
It’S tb'ir NEW
BRT PIAHO
CATALOGUE.
* 0
Q 0 0 0.0
PALING’S
It Coptaios
Illustrations of all the BEST PIANOS
and a fund of useful information. Call or Write for one.
<C\?©C®Sim mo mj P nB S
Send for our
I
It’s yours for the asking.
111. H. PBEIIIG *1 CO. [td., Importers of pianos, Organs and musical Instruments
* * 338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Brisbane and Newcastle.
U|e Have 500 patterns in Bold Cuff [inks.
Solid Gold Extra Strong
Japanese Good Luck, 20/.-
Sola, u old and Real 0pa1,17/6.
With Ruby or Sapphire, 20/-.
9c., 1 7/6, 20/-; 15c., 35/-, 40/-
Wi’H Monogram, 2 6 extra.
.4
9c., 20/-; 15c., 37/6;
Silver, 4/6 pair.
Gold Boomerang- and
Eea! Opal Heart, 407-
pair.
* « ft
Federation Shield, Solid
Gold, 13/6; Plain, 11 6.
9c., TO 6, 12/6 ;
15e., 25- pair.
9c., 19/- ; 15c., 35
Silver, 4/- pair.
Wild Boar’s Tusk, Gold
Mtd., 10/6; Silver, i'6.
Solid Gold, 14/- pair. With
Any Monogram.
9c., 11/6, 12/6; 15c., 25/-
Oe., 20,'-; 15c., 37/6;
■Silver, 4/6 pair.
Good Fortune and Enamelled
Chrysanthemum, 27/8 pair.
OC., 13/6; 15c., 25,- ;
Silver, 3/- pair.
9c., 17/6; 15c., 35/- pair
9c., 19/-; 15c., 35/-;
Silver, 4/- pair.
THE ABOVE FOUR PATTERNS, 9c. G ; >ld, 12,6; 160. Gold, 26/-; Silver. 2'6 pair.
9c., 22/0 ; 15c., 37/6
Silver, 4/6 pair.
ALL
ARTICLES
SENT
POST FREE
TO
ANY
ADDRESS.
9c., 22/6; 150., 40/-
Silver, 4/6 pair.
PLEASE
SEND FOR
OUR
Illustrated
SLIPS
OF LATEST
NOVELTIES
9c., 21/-; 15c., 35/-
Silver, it- pair.
<O7",
XOTE—Our ONLY Australian AcULrosu— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Tl)f ROlf of tl)€ Road
is to ride
MCiltiflcx
Speed,
on account of their
Durability.
V Ease Of Attacbn>e«Jt
Beware of IrQitatioQS.
Dunlop Tyres are only genuine when the
cover and tube are embossed with this
TRADE
43-
MARK.
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Australasia jjtd.
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &0.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
Mont de piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEREAG-H ST., 74
SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
3F-JE3J Ft MOKtTH
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin * Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. 1 ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer’s Liability and Publio Risk Depart-
ments.
Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Accident-
Disease Policy. E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M ‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciihy, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farouhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
A Good Spec. 60s each.
Allotments, 50 x 150.
Adjoining Bishop Gibney’s Estate, Berth,
West Australia. Easy Terms. Torrens’
Title. A Genuine Investment.
Plans, E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under the Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Queensland Smelting gorapy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
& Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New Jr o a^h7 ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
EIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
Authorised Capital, A 500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to ita.responsibilities to the P iblic,'is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Ansi ralia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
The Bank of Barth Queensland
limited.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
, !:ipita Paid-up £loo,oof
11 'serve Liability of Share-
holders 250,00 C ... £350,000
banking, Public Companies, &c.
"ffeg Trustees* CicccGtorS,
AND
ftgSOCV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Eslates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 1 6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairmah ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BO,RROYVMAN,;* Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government ’ .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. ' .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commemal Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4.50U,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. £3,123,555 15 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thorn ley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector; H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool, Arthur
Walker, arid Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 lil.shop.sf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadeuhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOitGE STREET.
Manager; John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyongl, New-
castle ; with Brandies throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western' Australia, and in Brisbane.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Es p
Resident Secretary ; A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, F '4-1,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL^^
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £,20,000.
T\7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
vv Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, siihjeci. to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Brydk, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
. , A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1,950,0.10 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Uottek, Esq.
Sir James Reai Fairfax.
The Hon. Charts K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
United Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of 1
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Bents also assured.
Marine Risks
Rates very Row.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights,. Passage
Money, etc.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping
THE H OWARD SMTHTTINL
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian <fc Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE',
GEELONG I
PORTLAND /
WARRNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 2, 12 Noon.
Buninyonir, Tues., Sept. 6, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 9, 12 ISioon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong’, Tues., Sept. 5, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong-, Tues., Sept. 6, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE )
MARYBOROUGH }
ROCKHAMPTON \
Tyrian, Sat., September 2,12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., Sept. 5, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 9, 12 Noon.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GEKALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Tyrian, Sat., September 2, 12 Noon.
-Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 9, 12 Noon.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIKKENT FAKES TO ALL VOItTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Win. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Erancisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked'to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Hound the World on
most favorable terms.
P' r time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
ad other information, apply Union St>:m Ship Co.
of N.Z., Lt 1 1., Equitable buildings, George Si n et,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Sfi' i ts, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn Ss Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Banking.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 P|TT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KEHR, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, ChairmanG. J.' Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C. ;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors ;
Hon. F. T. Hdmphery, M.L.C. ; J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office; 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Business Announcements.
Re a. German Hollow Ground
m
,41^Sg^
ISTV-R REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADF IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLACEi
IN BLACK AMD IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale ; OS3ORNE, GARRETT, & CQ. e LONDON- V.
Deab Sir.—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and expensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the cure
to all sufferers. I do this-entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIM IT MIX
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Paroo, Friday, September 1.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Sept. 9.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Paroo, Friday,
September 1.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Sept. 9.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. AHinjra, Friday,
September 1.
Best <U Cheapest Haute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N
Company at all ports.
(■». N. VUIU, and CO., I/t'D., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AMD O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at iirindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 4 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-monev can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ go’s [ine
—TO—
Melbourne, ho mart,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to i. 70
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais,
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
YIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
ME N MUI R
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co. , Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
“A*
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS-
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S- IM. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamshipb as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance, and
Cuisine tinrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE -British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


STEWART DAWSON * CO.
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS I Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
No, 319.-—Silver Button Hooks and
Shoe Lift, 10/6
nail
No, EQ46.—Morocco Case, con-
taining Solid Silver Shell Pattern
Butter Dish and Knife, US/-
DAW SON
Sr: Co
No. Solid Silver Tea
Spoons, in Morocco Case,
£1 lO O
No. E 4058 —Case containing Two
Silver Electroplated Peppers,
Assorted Designs, 14/6
No. IGS. —Eour Solid Silver Salt
Cellars, with Spoons, in Morocco
Case, £2 10
No. 299 a Silver Afternoon Tea Pot, Sugar,
Cream, and Tongs, in Case, .£l2 10
No, 292 a.— Solid Silver
Napkin Rings in ease, 15/0
ES
No. 336.—Twelve Silver-Plated Tea Spoon;
and Sugar Tongs, in Case,
517 6
No. 304.—Tw0 Solid Silver Hair Brushes,
and Silver-Mounted Comb, in Case,
£4 0 0
i
No. 146.—Pair Solid Silver Bon-Bon Disl.es,
and pair Tongs in Case,
£2 12 <5
No. E3F6B.—Case containing 6 Best Quality Silver
Electroplated Tea Spoons and Tongs,
21/-
No, 267a.— Solid Silver Embroidery Set in 0a.,3,
15/6
wf!
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife,
Jam Spoon, and Sugar Sifter, in
Morocco Case, £l5 0
No. 321. —Silver Glove Stretcher, long,
Shoe Lift, and Button Hooks, in
Morocco Case, <£l 10 O
------
.
No. 403. —Case containing 6 each Dessert or
Fish Knives and Forks, Electro-Silver,
£3, £3 10 O
m
No. 301a. —Solid Silver Afternoon Teapot,
Sugar and Cream, in Case,
£6 17 6
No. 269 b of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments ; Two Pairs
of Scissors, Tweezers, Cuticle Knife, Box, Nail File,
and Polisher in Case, JS3 10
No, 333.—501 id Silver Christening Spoon,
in Case, 15/6
Silver-Plated, 6/6
No. 300 a Case, con-
taining fine Silver - Plated Putter
Knife, Jam Spoon, Sugar Spoon,
Pickle Fork and Sugar Tongs, 22/6
mwso* Sc>
..y, LONDON ' -A*
mm
No. 322.— r jKvo Finest Cut-Glass Silver-
Mounted Knife Bests, in Case, 18/6
mw/rn
No. 305.—Solid Silver Salts and
Spoons—2 in Case, J5l 15;
4 in Case, £3 7 6
■ns
V
No. 167. —Solid Silver Sugar, Cream, and Tonga
in Morocco, Velvet-lined Case,
£5 10
BESS
No. 323.—Child’s Presentation Set; Drinking Cup, Egg Cup,
Serviette Ring, Knife and Fork, and 2 Spoons.
Best Silver-plate, in Morocco Case, £3 10
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet oe Specialties (80 pages) Post Ekee.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
E. J. Brady’s book of verses, “The Ways
of Many Waters,” is receiving many compliments
from nautical men. Among others, American
Admiral Dewey writes to the author: “ ‘ The
Ways of Many Waters ’ has given me sincere
pleasure, as also the thought that at the other side
of the world I have an admirer in one capable of
such good work.”*
Ladies who are about to purchase a piano
should take careful note of the advt. of Messrs.
W. H. Glen and Co., of Melbourne and Sydney.
This advt. appears on page 1 of The Bulletin.*
The
Authoress of
" BOOTLE’S
BABY /'
says
“ Most
decidedh
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myseif. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
Hair Falling-, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i/-, 2/6 and 4 6si7.es, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO.. LTD.
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
THE RECORD of the past makes
the MASSEY-HARRIS the Bicycle of the future.
Our fifty-three years of experience and fair
dealing is the guarantee.
Factories—Toronto. Canada.
Branches—Melbourne, S.v
Agencies almost everywhere
New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
duev. Dunedin. Brisbane, Adelaide.
Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
The Gold Options m mineral Development
COMPANY. LIMITED,
Capital - - £20,000 in £1 Shares.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. A. J. GOULD, M.L.C.; HARRIE WOOD, J.P., Esq. : JOHN J. HORROCKS, Esq.
I
S established to secure DESIRABLE MINING PROPERTIES for Development and Flotation.
Prospectors and others hciviug claims of undoubted value, which will bear investigation should
communicate with the .Secretary, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The Company will INVESTIGATE ON BEHALF OF PURCHASERS and furnish Expert
•Rfitinris and advise as to the management of properties; and undertake the preparation of Plans,
Estimates? and Specifications for DREDGING PLANTS and other MINING MACHINERY.
SYDNEY:
Bquitalble Buildms-
MELBOURNE:
245 Collins Street
OUR FACTORY has been running twenty-two (22) hours per day for the
past twelve months, turning out over 150 wheels every twenty-four (24)
hours. Notwithstanding this, we are unable to meet the demand for
“ RED BIRD” CYCLES.
We sell more cycles in Australia than any two firms put together.
It’s the quality of the goods that creates this demand.
Have a Catalogue, or call and 6ee Local Agents.
THE G-OOLD BICYCLE COMPANY LIMITED.
Australasian Branches
Factories—
Brantford, Canada.
{64 King-street, Sydney;
261 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic. ;
Ed ward-street, Brisbane, Q.;
Victoria-street, Wellington, N. 2.
Bundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Joe Darling, chief financier of the Australian
team, writes dolefully that the trip isn't going to pan
out anywhere near the £lOOO per man originally antici-
pated. “ More like £500,” says Joe, and the reason of it
is that the team doesn’t share in gates from the stands.
County clubs everywhere erected temporary stands and
collared hundreds of pounds.
• • • •
Home papers are bound to raise the question
whether M’Laren, with his policy of quick-change bowl-
ing, and his early nervousness at the wicket, is a good
captain for an All-England eleven. The first time Mac.
came to Australia he proved himself a cocktail batsman,
so much so that Stoddart pegged him back after a while
to fifth place on the batting list. At the outset he was
sent in first with Albert Ward to break the bowling, but
he funked visibly and rarely stayed there long enough to
get set. On his second visit M ‘Laren took charge of the
team in four (if not all five) of the test matches —Stoddart
standing out. And here, as in England this year, captain
Mac. was much too fond of remarking that the Aus-
tralians were the better men on a hard wicket. He
hasn’t a big enough heart for the position. Also on paper
he looks to be a poor manager of the bowling. Take the
figures for the fifth test. Lockwood, who had bowled
splendidly in the first innings, was not given a fair show
to recover his lost form in the second innings. He got no
wickets, hut only 33 runs were knocked off him, and
Bradley’s figures were 0 wickets for 32, whilst the second-
rate howler, Jackson, came out with 0 for 54, and A. O.
Jones with 0 for 43. The mismanagement in Rhodes’ case
was palpable. The Yorkshireman was chosen solely for
his bowling, yet because he had failed in the first innings
he was not given a reasonable show in the second. The
Australians scored 254 for 5 wickets (one of them a “ run-
out") and Rhodes’ average was 3 wickets for 27, two
clean bowled and the other o. and b.
* * • •
“A stale crust is better than no bread,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent; “ but a stale
cricketer isn’t worth a muffin, for he does—muff. This
sage deduction being the result of Surrey’s well-earned
conquest of the ‘ Darlings,’ and Ranji. and Co.’s big total
for Sussex in this present week (July 28). Four ‘tests’
and a hotly-contested tour up to date have tried some of
the cracks very hardly, and it would not come as a great
surprise to some peripatetic Australs (new name for
the Federated Antipodes) if another defeat or two turned
up before the tour is toured. M.C.C. Monday next
have practically an All-England XI ready—excepting
O. B. Fry, whom they never would or will accept as a
member. ‘ I can’t tell why,’ unless it be because
people will call him Charles Bounder Frj% though he is
the best run-getter here in ‘ top-price ’ cricket. At
the Oval on 14th prox., the woady Britons intend, by
‘ hooking ’ and * crooking,’ to get a ‘ little of their own
back.’ Iredale was so weak at the Oval that he had to
leave the ground, and couldn’t bat in the 2nd innings,
just when a man was wanted to stay with Trumper, who
got his 67 like a little hero, and well indeed has
he justified his last-moment’s selection. Clem Hill,
a pillar and buttress of batting strength, took the
field (after his illness) for the first time at Sussex
and under the strain of seeing 389 knocked off Jones,
Trumble, Noble, M‘Leod, YVorrall, Sid Gregory, and
Laver, retired in the afternoon, and the other sick man,
F.A.1., came out. Frank thought if he were well enough
to field he was well enough to be in the team, but the
selection committee rested (?) him. Clem looks thin, and
has undoubtedly had a bad time. The team missed him
muchly, for he is a universal favorite. Of the others, at
present there is a lack, in the field especially, of that
sparkle that dotted their work with frequent ‘ super-
human efforts.’ Their coats lack lustre, and the Titan-
action has disappeared in staleness. Certainly other
teams have had nearly as hard a programme,
but no other team has done so marvellously well
by sheer determination, grit, and hard labor. The
chances missed in the field of late have crippled
the team terribly, and although the catches, etc.,
have not been anything more than ‘possibles,’ yet up till
now these ‘ possibles’have been taken, and victory has
followed. Fry’s 181 at Brighton should have been 3,
o Worrall, b Noble, and nearly every ‘ Sussexor’ had his
‘life’ early. Killick 106, shouldn’t have had a tenth, and
there were five others. C. McLeod bowled splendidly,
getting Ranji at 5 with an off ball that came in 18 in. as
the batsmen tried only to‘knee if with his bat in the
air. Joe Darling has now lost the toss four times in suc-
cession, thus entailing a certain day or so in the field
under a blazing sun, and in the atmosphere of the ener-
vating English summer. At a general meeting the boys
decided to go straight back to Australia to peg out build-
ing allotments at Federation City. Perhaps a match or
two at Colombo, but no S. Africa or America for them.”
* * * *
Re young Collins’ biggest score on record (628),
curious to note that the first of the “gallant four hun-
dred ” was E. F. S. Tylecote, who made 404 in a House
match at Clifton College, the same school that the pre-
sent record-holder hails from. Tylecote’s score was made
on several consecutive half holidays, and Master Collins
took four afternoons to knock up “ his little lot.” The
cricket value of this mammoth score is nil, but as a
curiosity ’bis interesting in this age of records.
» * * *
N.S.W. Rugby premiership for ’99 was practi-
cally decided on Saturday, when Wallaroo beat the
hitherto invincible Randwicks by II points to nil. The
visit of the English team lost Randwick the game, for
whilst, during the suspension of club-football, the Rand-
wicks loafed and enjoyed themselves, the persevering
Wallaroos trained hard.
* * » •
Blundering parson L. M. Isitt has been putting
his foot in it as vigorously as ever. His last attempted
esclandre was the denunciation of the Wellington foot-
ball team for alleged drunkenness on the way down to
Otago to play. Considering that M.L. footballers have
reduced training to a fine art, this was a bit too steep-
even for Isitt 1
* * * *
The Newminster - Zuleika chestnut gelding,
Kobold, carrying 8.10 won Vic. Club Handicap at Caul-
field on Saturday by five lengths like a race-horse in
1.47. Previous Saturday he got away with the Show
Handioap (6fur.) at Flemington, having 8.3 up; time,
1.15 J. Young Foulsham rode him splendidly on both
occasions. Prior to the two victories mentioned, Kobold
(6 years old) had not won a race since l/l/’96, when he
showed Newhaven and Bright Eyes the way home in the
Normanby Stakes. Seems to writer that this nag is
worth considering for Caulfield Cup ; there is no reason
why he shouldn’t stay, and the weight (7.8) is not too
much. His brothers, Rebel and Arzim, were fairly good.
Quite on the cards, though, that Kobold, not being over
sound, may fail to see his preparation through.
* • * »
The late Caulfield and Adelaide G.N. races
beautifully illustrate the sweet reasonableness of Ikey
Mo, and the profits of the bookmaking indusi ry as com-
pared with the tote. For the six races at Caulfield there
were 64 starters against Adelaide’s 83 ; prize-money,
£2425, at Caulfield (including £l6OO for the big race),
against £1525 at Adelaide. Starting prices from Ikey—
2£, 8,3 J, 3,2, and 2£ to 1. From the tote—lBi, 4, 2£, 4,
16i and 3£ to 1. A S.A. punter, starting with £1 and
playing up his winnings on each race (supposing he
backed all six winners), would land £132,693 against the
Victorian’s paltry £5952. No wonder Ikey drinks fizz
and wears diamonds.
* • • •
“ Buckless ” : “Tattersall” will not lose any
sleep if the “ Special Sweep ” experiment is unsuccess-
ful. Writer held a ticket in “Special ’’ on Spring Handi-
cap. Sent in for one in “ Ordinary ” sweep on same race.
Received one in the G.N. Hurdles, with the usual red
slip : “ The sweep you applied for being closed, we have
taken the liberty of forwarding you a ticket, in next sweep
to be drawn.” As this was five days before the race, and
I did not want an interest in the Hurdles, I returned the
ticket, and requested that one in the “ Special ” on Spring
Handicap, in which I already had an interest, might be
sent me. By return post the Hurdle ticket came hack,
together with a letter, stating that the sweep I applied in
was closed, and “consequently we followed our usual
course, viz.: placed you in the one next drawn.” There-
fore, if the sweep one applies in is closed, applicant has
no right to state what sweep he would prefer as an alter-
native, but must accept whatever King “ Tattersall ” likes
to send along.
*' * * *
Adelaide Racing Club has carried a proposal re-
commending the committee to consider the wisdom of
paying two-thirds of the tote-div. to the first horse and
the other third to the second horse. The matter has been
pushed to the front through the wrong horse of two from
the same stable winning a recent biggish local event.
But it is feared that the Act will not allow it; and, while
the anti-tote party remains so strong, it is whispered that
there is wisdom in letting sleeping dogs lie.
• • * *
S.A. Jockey Club, now 11 years old, has paid
away £76,000 in stakes and £21,500 for course and
improvements ; and it now owes £5,500 besides on the
latter account. Without the totalisator its president, R.
C. Baker, declares this would have been utterly impos-
sible. It has improved the attendances, it has improved
the racing, and it has improved the conduct of the crowd ;
so that “ there is no place in the world where racing is
carried on more respectably and where it is freer from
what some people call * the evils of the course.’ ” Baker
is President of S.A. Leg. Council and Ex-Chairman of
Committees of the Federal Convention.
* * * *
Fitzroy (Melb.) pony races management (unreg.)
which lately re-opened that course, has struck an idea
that ought to do something towards persuading the
disingenuous mannikin with the strong arms to give his
moke whatever show it may possess, regardless of
orders. In a £5O race are offered prizes of £7, £2, and
£1 to the jockeys of the first three horses ; and,
seeing that a winning jock.’s fee never amounts to much,
and that most of the time it is a precious shaky debt,
this plan will not bring joy to the “ cronk” owner.
• * • *
“Cuscus”: The true inwardness of the A.J.C.
committee-bookmaker dispute, arising from that tribu-
nal’s refusal to allow layers who kept a shop in town to
bet in the sacred enclosure at Randwick, has not so far
been touched on. The A.J.O. committee may pose as a
mentor for public morals —smile here —but the milk in
the cocoanut is differently accounted for. Many owners
who are pals of committee-men bottle-up their mokes
for a big coup, and the inevitable stable hangers-on get
to know, and snavel all the doubles with the good thing
at the shop, and make it a favorite. Then the forestalled
owner uses vigorous language when the stable-money has
to go on at about half the odds it would otherwise have
secured. If the beastly shops were done away with
owners could go to Randwick with a lamblike expression,
secure in the knowledge that the riff-raff had not upset
their little pot, and that they had a mortgage on the
cream of the market.
* * • *
The moans of the “ books ” when Kelso’s bay
nag Dandy snared the Welter at Randwick on Saturday
were piteous. After first favorites getting home in four
out of the first five races, backers were out for a “ punt ”
on the last, and they accordingly let loose on Dandy,
with such effect that he started with odds on in a field of
14. They didn’t make much mistake, either, for he was
lengths past the judge when “ the field” arrived. Dandy
is by Martini-Henry out of Vain Glory, so is a near rela-
tive of “ Sam” Fielder’s favorite Vanitas, now champion
in India.
* * * •
Orlando, an average-looking chestnut gelding
by the Condobolin sire The Broker, had no trouble in
taking Rosehill Hutdle Race on Saturday. Whispered
about as a “dead bird” he started first choice, jumped
hard-held with the leaders all the way, and cantered
gaily in with his head in the air lengths clear of every-
thing.
* * * •
S. A.’s chances of winning V.R.C. Derby hasn’t
looked so bright for years. Gungadin, a colt greatly
fancied by Rupert Clarke, who offered a big sum for him,
has already swept the pool in Adelaide. The weight of
local money waiting to be put on him will probably make
him a leading favorite for the big Melb. event.
• * » •
The other day, with countless chances to one
against the happening, M‘Master, the Sydney sport,
drew his own mare, Cremona, in a Tatt.’s sweep on Syd-
ney Tattersall’s Club Spring Handicap ; hut the blind
goddess, having thus established a record, decreed that
the fortunate Mac should remain in blissful ignor-
ance of his good luck till after the race. So M‘Master,
the horse-owner, waited with muoh yearning for
M'Master, the ticket-drawer, to come to him and lay him
“ a bit out of the sweep.” But as he didn’t come to him-
self and use golden arguments with himself to induce
himself to start his own horse in the interests of his own
ticket, he finally came to regard himself as a close-fisted
person who wouldn’t come up to scratch and do the need-
ful, and laboring under that hallucination he drew the
scratching pen through Cremona's name. As the mare
just missed winning a fast-run Welter on the same day,
in ail equine probability she would, if started in the
Spring Handicap, have run into a place ; so M’Masterhas
now to bear the bitter reflection that he has done himself
out of from a thousand to a couple of thousand pounds.
* • * *
It would be hard to equal Vie. Mounted Rifle
Clulow’s bit of horsemanship at Sale, lately. Whilst
a horse harnessed to a buggy, in which was seared a little
boy, was bolting In the main street, Clulow raced up
alongside, and, whilst at full gallop, jumped out of the
saddle into the buggy, and pulled the horse up.
* * * *
Ex-jockey Jimmy Hayes seems to have gone
near to getting his precious iight put out for ever. Hayes
has so often been in trouble for assaulting somebody that
it comes as a pleasant surprise to find the nice young
man on the defensive. Jeremiah Heffernan was charged
at Caulfield (Melb.) court last week with the crime of
shooting at Jimmy Hayes and wounding a valuable race-
horse, but the lawyer engaged to prosecute on behalf of
the police felt bound to withdraw from the case, and
Jeremiah would have been discharged without the option
of a fine but for his misconduct in damaging the gee-gee.
On that minor count in the indictment the. shooter was
committed for trial. The horse had done him no harm,
whereas Jimmy Hayes had said things in public which no
right-thinking Jeremiah could be expected to patiently
endure. Therefore it is satisfactory to know that Jimmy
was more or less “stoushed ” by Jeremiah on two occa-
sions previous to the bombardment of his dwelling-house
by the same righteous foe. The stoushing may possibly
do Hayes a little good, and anyway Jeremiah had better
retire from the feud on his laurels lest he again vent his
fury upon an innocent quadruped instead of shooting
the other animal in moderation.
* * * *
Saturday last saw N.S.W. “cross-country”
championship a real cross-country race —for the first time
since ’92, so Metrop. Harriers (mostly harriers in name
only) found the task of running over rough roads, up
hills, and through sand-tracks and thick undergrowth
much too stiff. Very few of 60 starters finished the five
miles ; most dropped out en route, while others, barely
hanging on, helped to form the longest of long tails. R.
M. Gibson, winner in ’97, passed the post first, 40yds.
ahead of swimmer Harry Smith, thus annexing the indi-
vidual championship. Forrest Lodge Harriers won the
team-supremacy for the second year in succession ; War-
ringah (N. Sydney) second, one point behind. Re remark
that Metrop. Harriers are mostly harriers in name only.
Season is closing, and the championship is the first c.c.
event they’ve had ; of distance-races there have been
none, and paper-chases have been few and far between.
Why call themselves barriers ? Why not ordinary athletic
clubs, which they really are?
• A * *
Cable records another Australian victory “down
under.” Champion “Freddie” Lane, following up his
recent win of 220yds. championship, got away with that
of 440yds. last Saturday. Venue was Blackpool, Lanca-
shire, and course, the open sea, which accounts for slow-
ness of time (6m. 30 3-ssec.) as compared with world’s
best (5.43 1-5), and Lane's Australian top-time (5.54 1-5).
Last year England’s speediest amateur (Jarvis) appropri-
ated same event at Weymouth in 6.30, but conditions
were most favorable—perhaps they were not so on occa-
sion of Lane’s triumph. Description of race between
Jarvis and Lane for half-mile supremacy made the quar-
ter look a good thing for latter, as he led at that distance,
and had some weeks longer during which to prepare.
• • • *
The Cavills (Percy and “ Turns ”) will probably
be in Sydney for ensuing swimming season. They are
disgusted at their failure to arrange matches in England.
Percy challenged Tyers, July 22, whereupon latter
straightway got married and opened a pub., vowing that
he had done with the game. Champion of the world
“Joey” Nuttall has just quitted beer-pulling, and
doesn’t seem to take to water with the same zest as pre-
viously.
• * * *
“Old Timer”: Past-master L. Foley says, in
his opening lecture to every fresh pupil : “ Better stop a
blow with this than with this” —indicating right forearm
in first and nose in second instance. Writer saw a novice
fighter at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) on Saturday night
last who begs to differ from the great Australian maker of
top-notchers, for he (novice) fought six desperate rounds,
stopped every punch with his face, and didn’t mind the
gruelling a bit, though sent reeling dozens of times. A
gamer lad never stripped. In one round he swung his
right six times in succession on to his opponent’s kidneys
or ribs, and a deep-drawn “Ooh!” from hundreds of
throats accompanied each swing ; this in face of the fact
that the enemy kept jabbing the left home incessantly.
Name of pug referred to is Grono, and a better type of
the human bull-terrier has rarely been seen; built on
lathy lines, and sinewy from head to foot, he reminds one
more of a gamecock than aught else. The fighting all
through second round of G.G. Co.’s 8.7 novice competi-
tion was fierce and fast, and wrought ringsiders to
frenzy. One pair hung on to each other like catamounts,
furiously punching the while, and defied the referee’s
efforts to sunder them : ultimately all three (referee and
fighters) went sprawling in a heap. Writer has had. a
long experience, but never saw so much fury and fun in
a single night’s boxing.
* • * *
Crack ’rastler Harry Dunn and brother
“ Jimmy ” were in Sydney on Tuesday, en route to M.L.
The big fellow has had four months in Tas. mines, and
looks years younger and hard as nails. He’ll be back in
January to meet all comers at one or more, or the whole
seven, styles, and failing business means to visit Yankee-
dom and England again.
* * * ♦
“Wrestling” promises to boom in Brisbane.
Lorenz (middleweight-champion of N.S.W.) recently beat
Maximilian in Q. capital for £7O (purse and stake). Same
pair meet again shortly (£5O a-side and £5O purse); and
Lorenz has undertaken to make a match with Pagel after-
wards. Last-named is identical with “ Williams,” who
licked Harry Dunn at Sydney St Patrick’s Day sports
this year. Lorenz, Max and Pagel are pronounced
Teutons. A good Britisher like “Jack” Connots, ora
Yankee of the calibre of Dan. Stewart M‘Leod, who left
his mark in Melb. a few years ago, would go through the
lot on one mat, and think the effort nothing more than a
“ breather.”
* * * *
The mining boom, which has recommenced since
the Boer scare comparatively died down, has distinctly
benefited the Sj'dney Safe Deposit. Brokers and buyers
alike see the folly of keeping valuable scrip either in office
safes or private residences, and there have been large
numbers of visitors to view' the massive strength of the
Deposit vaults, with a proportionate increase in the
number of clients. We are requested to state that the
management freely invite a visit. The Deposit is situated
in Ash-street (back of Paling and Co’s), off George-street.*
At Sydney Press bazaar, Cardinal Samoran
won three raffles in a single evening. Now tell
us —was this the Devil’s luck?
At the trial of an Albury publican for
having music in his hotel at a social without a
police permit, the defence set up was that although
there was playing of instruments at that social
still it wasn’t music within the meaning of the
Act. The P.M. is taking time to consider the
point. A nice question for the Full Court.
A peculiar fact re the payments to General
Jawbone Neild is that he applied to N.S.W.
Treasury for his “expenses ” on January 16th of
this year, and was paid on the 18th ! Some un
fortnnates, contractors and others, are kept out of
their money for weeks and weeks, but, although
he emphatically asserts that he used no pressure
on the Premier, General Neild could secure hie
little whack in two days !
According to British small-arm experts,
the British military (Lee-Metford and,Lee-En-
field) rifles are not “ in the same street ” with the
Mauser (with which the Boers are armed) for
power, accuracy, and reliability of mechanism.
And when to this are added the considerations
that the Boer artillery is also superior to the
British, and that the British “ Mark IV.” ammu-
nition (from which so much was expected) is an
utter failure—the campaigning prospects of Bull
in Safrica are none too rosy after all. Britain’s
great advantage is the fact of the Boers being
utterly shut in and unable to get further war-
stores.
In reply to the charges made against him
in Tas. Assembly, Minister Miles made a capable
defence, but considerably weakened his case by
the stand-and-deli ver tone of his peroration. His
argument boiled down : “ If I said to the candi-
date for the billet (Morrisby, M.L.C.), ‘Oh, 1
don’t want the salary, you may have it,’ it was
not intended as a bribe for his vote, but was said
simply to show that I did not value the emoh
ments of office as much as the office itself. Mor
risby and I have been enemies since 1802. Was
likely to publicly give him a weapon to kill me
with ? If Morrisby took my words to mean at
offer of bribery, why did he not denounce me ti
the Board? Why did he vote for me as Chair
man ? ” His peroration, also boiled down : “Only
God and myself know what was in my mind when
the alleged offer to buy my opponent’s vote wa;-
made. God knows I have spoken the truth, and
I expect this House to believe me. If members di
believe me they will reject the motion for a specia
committee ; if they don’t believe me then .1 shah
have to resign my place in the Govt, and the
House. There is no other way.” Then the indig-
nant ex-sea-captain stalked dramatically out of
the Chamber declaring his intention not to re-enter
it until the motion was decided—which it was, by
one vote (16 to 15) in his favor. Bluff won that
time ! But the extreme narrowness of the major-
ity forces Premier Braddon to promise that the
Govt, itself will move for a special inquiry.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
t'i Gr. HATTB, of Newtown, invites the at-
J • tention of gentlemen to his newly-imported
stock of Spring clothing. It has been carefully
selected by his Home buyers, and comprises the
newest and most fashionable material, just adapted
for the present season, and in quality and work-
manship surpasses anything of the kind ever
before offered, whilst the prices' are lower than
ever. You will get every kind of garment at
Hatte’s, whose stock is so large and varied that
you may depend upon obtaining any article you
require. His two-guinea suits to measure (with
extra pair of trousers) continue to be all the rage,
no such value being given at any other establish-
ment. You can select from the most comprehen-
sive assortment of the best material, and the style,
cut and finish leave nothing to be desired. Thou-
sands of these suits have been sold and have given
the utmost satisfaction. Write for patterns and
self-measurement forms and you will be as satis-
fied as though you made a personal visit. Hatte’s
Spring and fashion book is just issued and will be
sent to any address post free. Carriage paid by
rail or boat to any part of the colony on parcels of
.£1 and over.
ROUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST, BRONCHITIS,
ASTH MA and CO NS CM FT I ON.
THE FAMOUS REM EOF,
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in Australia.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse-
ness, pains or soreness in the chest, experience delight-
ful and immediate relief ; and to those who are sub-
jected to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronio, nor
consmnpi ion to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly
treated by this medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally suf-
ficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron-
ch.tis Cure without delay, as 1 find it to be a most valu-
able medicine. —Mrs. J. SLATER, Warragul, Vio.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—CL
II RADFORD, Casterton, Vic.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.YV.”
“ Your medicine for Asthma is worth £1 a bottle—W.
LETTS, Hey wood, Vic.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.— S.
S f EELE, Yanko Siding, N.S. VV\”
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine ;
l. it I can truly say that I am astounded at my present
fi eedom as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.YV.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good : but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well. —H. WOOD, Brook-
-1 mds, Avoca-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN,
ozone House, Lome, Vic.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me great good. This
is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously took
made me much worse. X am satisfied that the two bottles
of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled me through
a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD,
Alma, near Maryborough, Vio.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects. —CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Vic.”
“ J used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses. —P.
F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Vio.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have sorqe of the
medicine yet ; but am sending for another bottle in case
I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A.
B. SIMMONS. No. 7 Renny-street, Paddington, Syd-
ney.”
“My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad
to inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us
both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford, Vic.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me. —(Airs.) JOHN RAIIILLY, Glenmaggie, Vic.”
*' I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medi-
cine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipion, Vic.”
“ I have now finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent,
and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The
difficulty of breathing has ah gone.—J. HARRINGTON,
Bingegong, Alorundah, N.S.W.”
“ My cold, had as it was, disappeared after two doses.
—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure
to a son of mine with splendid effect. The cure was ab-
solutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quigra, Neutral
Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.—Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.”
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small size, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
N Business Announcements.
COLLIN S’ EXCHANGE HOTEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
‘ ‘ Imperial ’ ’ Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGIITLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &. FROST CO.
BEATTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDLY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealem supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine .<■ ■
on approval to any part of the colonies where not esc.
lished. Wheels tilted with any Tyres or Rims to »u.i
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. I<\ McDermott,
General Agent, for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Olfioe.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Books! Books! Books!
Popular Educator, £5, for £1 ss; The Home Physician,
£2 10s, for 20s; Universal Instructor, £1 15s, for 15s;
Webster’s Household Dictionary, 255, for 10s. I have the
Largest Stock of Second-hand Books in New South Wales.
Write for Catalogues. I have also Three Choice Books,
Is 6d each, or three for Is (can only be procured by post).
All books sent post free. Telephone 3043.
Second-hand \-
Book Arcade, /.
E. W. Skinner
/105 Castlereagh-
\ street, Sydney.
Amusements.
XTHENJ3UM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Saturday Next and livery Evening.
** FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALASIA »*
of the
German Reed Entertainments
As produced for upwards of 36 years at St. George's Hall,
London, under the Management of Mr. Alfred German
Reed and Air. Corney Grain.
Box Plan at Messrs. Glen and Co.’s.
CLEMENT TAYLOR, Bus. Manager.
“From Brain to Keyboard.”
MISS WILKINSON,
A.R.A.M. (Rome),
NOW FORMING CLASSES
Tickets (which must be taken immediately ) and all
particulars at
GLEN’S, George-street, Sydney.
Miss Wilkinson, A.R.A.M., Rome, the organist of St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, announces in our adver-
tising columns that she will be in Sydney in the early
part of September for the express purpose of giving a
course of lessons in the Macdonald Smith system of piano-
forte technique, termed by its inventor, “ From Brain to
Keyboard.” The object is by a series of gymnastic exer-
cises for the fingers, wrists, and arms to do away with the
long hours of technical study which must be undertaken
by the modern pianist. Some years ago Mr. Macdonald
Smith, whose position in the world of music brought him
into dailv contact with students straining every nerve,
and literally working themselves to death to retain their
technique, set himself to the task of simplifying matters.
For years he devoted his spare time to the exhaustive
physiological study of all the muscles, sinews, and nerves
brought into play by pianists and organists. The result
of this was the invention of the practice of free gym-
nastics, which is now in extensive use. Many eminent
musicians have expressed great admiration for this exer-
cise, which has brought forth splendid results, not only
from the young and middle-aged, but from persons of
advanced age. The course of exercises attacks in turn
fingers, knuckles, forearm, wrist, &c., and all the various
exercises can be gone through in ten minutes, producing
a result not usually obtainable by hours of daily practice
at the piano. Sir Frederick Bridge, the organist of West-
minster Abbey, calls it “ the most valuable weapon in the
hands of the modern teacher,” and an eminent London
critic speaks of it as “ the most striking discovery of the
present century.” Full particulars regarding Miss Wil-
kinson’s forthcoming course may be obtained at Messrs.
Glen and Oo.’s music warehouse, George-street.
Town hall, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of F. VERT.
Mdlle, Trebelli
Mdllc. T rebel I i
SONG RECITALS
SONG RECITALS
SONG RECITALS
... ON ...
Thursday Evening, August 31,
MDLLE. TREBELLI
Will give the FIRST of a Short Series of
Song Recitals .
Prices of Admission : 35., 25., and Is., with a
booking fee of Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
H. MUSGROVE, Business Manager.
RIDERS
WHO PUT THEIR MONEY AND THEIR
FAITH in a “ PERFECT ” Bicycle
WILL NEVER BE BETRAYED.
Buyers of the “ DOMINION ”
MAY SAFELY REST IN
HOPE OP ENTIRE SATISFACTION, and devote
the £6 saved to that
CHARITY
which begins at home, and stays there
The “ PERFECT ” and “ DOMINION ” Bicycles may be obtained through
any Dealer or Agent who is free to handle the best.
FRANK GRIMLEY
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET,
. • SYDNEY • •
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
OF
Bicycle Goods, Carriageware, Saddlery and Harness.
Amusements.
Treat he royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
LAST FOUR WEEKS OF
the BroGgb Conjsdy Co.
TO-NIGHT, at 8 O’CLOCK,
“ The Gay Lord Q,uex.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
gYDNEY TOWN HALL X/- “POPS.”
SATURDAY EVENING at 8 o'clock.
| NEWBURY-SPAPA X/- “POPS.” |
First Appearance of the Maori Chief, RANGITJTA,
Who appears in Maori fighting dress and plays original
selections on the pianoforte and guitar.
Wiegand, Voll.nar, Perry, and the Musical Elit<§ of
Sydney. Reserved seats at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove..
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING, at 8. WED. AFTERNOON, at 2.
SECRET SERVICE.
A Drama of Absorbing Interest, written by. William
Gillette.
(Produced by arrangement with Mr. Chas. Trohman.)
Plan, Nicholson’s. (t?* PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
TWO FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
Powerful and Popular Dramatic Company.
Last 2 Nights of Dion Boucicault’s Great Irish Drama,
“The Shaughraun.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
Tivoli theatre, sydn e y.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception of those Great Artists,
SPRY agd AUSTIN.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of PAUL PELHAM.
Alma Gray, The Farley Trio, Virto and Irene,
George C. Dean, Florrie Ranger, Keenan Bros., Howard
Chambers, Neva Carr Glynn, Jas. Mooney, Rayston
and Rayford, CHAS. W. COGILL, and all our Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
FAREWELL SEASON OF THE WORLD’S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
First Appearance of the Marvellous YALDARES.
HOWARD and ST. CLAIR, R. H. DOUGLASS,
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Hamilton Hill, Lulu
Zesch, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, and all our
Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, September 1, LAST NIGHT of
Th.e War of Wealthi.
SATURDAY, September 2,
Final Production of Season, the Anglo-African Melodrama,
12 NIGHTS r. „ | 12 NIGHTS
ONLY! rOr fcQglaQd. ONLY!
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovk.
LAST NIGHTS ! V LAST NIGHTS !
Mr. HARRY CONOR
And Messrs. Hoyt and M'Kee’s Company in
A Stranger iQ Mew York.
SATURDAY, September 2—A TRIP TO CHINATOWN.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan's and Menzies’.
Town hall, Melbourne.
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
Scbcrck’S Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA OF 45 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Mr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES —2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ST. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
Every Evening!
Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Orpheus M. M‘Adoo.
FOR LIMITED SEASON ONLY.
Continued Success of Mr. ORPHEUS M. M‘ADOO’S
Genuine Georgia, Minstrels and Orir/in.il
A labarna Cake Walkers.
Entire Change of Programme. "ia
Popular Prices : Stalls, 3s; Family Circle, 2s; Gallery,
Is. A few rows of Reserved Orchestra Stalls at 4s. at
Allan & Co’s, Collins-street. No Early Doors.
SPECIAL MATINEES Every Wednesday and Saturday.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUA 111 UM !
THE MUSEUM!
THE FEIiNEIIY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10—5. Daily.
Admission —ONE SHILLING ; Children—SIXPENCE.
DANTE THE GREAT.
South Australian Tour.
CRYSTAL THEATRE, BROKEN HILL,
Saturday, 26th August, to 2nd September
PORT PIRIE, September 4th to 6th.
WALLAROO, September 7th and Bth.
MOONTA, September 9th and 11th.
KADINA, September 12th.
CROWDED HOUSES EVERYWHERE.
Manager L. J. LOHR.
.
—>.
'
dsr
:•;
S 3
; , .'S" i
These fine store premises are being erected for the CO-OPERATIVE WOOL AND PRODUCE CO., LTD , at Pyrmont, after a design by the well-known
Sydney architect., Mr. HERBERT E. ROSS, Equitable Buildings, George-street. They are to have a capacity of 30,000 bales.
H€ CO-OP€RATIV€ WOOL & PRODUCC COMPANY, Lin>it€J
12 Jis 1-4 O’Oounell-atreet, Sydney.
Srojutlarx : WALTER BROOME. MAiuaiHQ Duibotor : PETER LESLIE. Wool Managbr : WILLIAM ROBERTSON.


/Iyer’s Hair Vigor
M A dn
SSKSS 81**54
yJJ»*
What does
it do?
It causes the oil glands
in the skin to become more
active, making the hair
soft and glossy, precisely
as nature intended.
It cleanses the scalp
from dandruff and thus re-
moves one of the great
causes of baldness.
It makes a better cir-
culation in the scalp and
stops the hair from coming out.
It prevents and
it cures baldness,
Ayer’s Hair Vigor will surely make hair
grow on bald heads, provided only there is
any life remaining in the hair bulbs.
It restores color to gray or white hair. It
does not do this in a moment, as will a hair
dye; but in a short time the gray color of
age gradually disappears and the darker color
of youth takes its place.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAYAIS
FER BRAYAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
Of the blood,and ena-
blingtht'constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
| Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
' general debility.
I Highly recommended
■ for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/«ftas all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOLO BY CHEMISTS AM. THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Peripatetic phrenologist to loving mother
of little girl standing at door: “Have the little
girl’s head read, mum ?” Little Girl: “ Carrots ?
No fear ! ”
What will Love not do? A German
leper, isolated in the hospital at Halle, escaped
lately with his nurse over the Dutch border, and
there they were married. The nurse had got
mashed on her leper and facilitated his escape,
and now she and her living death have got away
together to parts unknown.
“WVG.W.”: Have known severe beri-
beri amongst soldiers at Hongkong promptly
checked by the addition of pork to the dietary.
Medical authorities do not trace the disease
directly to lack of fatty foods, but consider that
said lack induces a bodily habit specially favor-
able to the b.-b. infection.
“D.J. ” : “ What’s in a name ? ” Lots !
Writer once required board and lodging, and, sick
unto death of the stereotyped ad. that “ young
man desired, &c., with a Christian family,” he
boldly advertised: “Pagan gentleman requires
board and lodging with a heathen family.” Coun-
ter-clerk looked at it sideways, and then referred
it to manager.. Manager, a humorist, said “Let
it go.” Called round for answers two days later.
Office full of them. Every Trilby-villa in the
city had replied, enclosing the choicest assortment
of photos, ever seen out of Sheol. On another
occasion wagered with companion that he was
not game to take the following personal advt. to a
Very Respectable big daily, and that if he was,
he wouldn’t succeed in getting it in: “Pagan,
male, wishes to correspond with brainy heathen
lady with view to making fortune.” Friend boldly
took it in, and set it down squarely on counter
with shilling. Clerk counted it, and was about to
grasp the shilling when he gasped and darted to
other side of office, and referred it to libidinous-
looking individual, who sniffed once or twice,
held it up to the light, thought hard, and then
whispered something. My mate was requested to
see manager ; manager not available ; see
clerk ; chief-clerk opined it was immoral. Friend
protested ; requested to wait and see manager.
Waited an hour. Saw manager, who read it care-
fully, put it down, wiped his specs., looked at
friend, who was wishing he was dead, and burst
out iri mingled grief and disgust that he was
.sorry to see such a promising-looking young man
taking to such horrible practices. He could not
hand him over to the police, but he would beg of
him to get out of the office as quickly as possible,
lest his presence should bring down upon the
whole holy show the wrath of an angry Deity.
My friend crept out.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
London Daily Chronicle on Kipling :
The morbid novel is dead. Imperialism did the
really good service of killing it—lmperialism and
Rudyard Kipling. He came along with his
swinging step of the “ Road to Mandalay,” and
I the neurotic novel crawled through the first hedge.
It went out in a night like a bad dream.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION - .
WINES SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
POPULAR, MEDICAL, and SOCIAL SCIENCE.
PLAIN t ome TALK.
10 Plates. 36 Cliromos. 800 Illustrations.
A Sensible Book for Sensible People-
By the Most Celebrated
Medical Author,
Dr. E. JB. FOOTE.
H|en $ Ujanen
Married^
AND
UNMARRIED
Are tempted to ask thousands of questions of their physi-
cians, but are deferred from so doing by the expense.
This work answers just such questions so fully and
clearly as to leave no one in doubt. Remember, it contains
nearly 1000 pages and 200 illustrations. A well-made, clearly
printed, finely illustrated and substantial cloth-bound book of
inestimable value. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Com-
plete, unabridged, cloth-covered edition of this great work,
Plain Home Talk, for only 7s. 6d., post Free.
iTHHXVai
Sfflfi
{norm
m
mm
NOTE.— STR EOBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING- AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIS ROBERT BEAR,
SYDNEY-
xe
PARK ST.
DR. J. COUI3 BROWNE’S
f HLOROPYHE.
XiSc-i
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHIEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
&&
H©
iTTER.
MSTS."-
-London Medical Record.
* nf”the" Infill*
IS”"* !">^ r#^drffcrl"*««“
Fooithoush MM fou „j to
and Younsr Child""- ,„ d r ntr.O°»*
be of great value ‘•» ® !csce at», and
diet for Invalid* Co""
tho Ag©d« —— —- w j.a
MEW STYLE.
THE
Allcnburgs Foods.
A Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers from birth upwards.
Tib© 59 F®©4 Hoo 1
Tib© ** It\llh F@®4 H©<> 2
/halted Food H° *3
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Foods,
needing the
addition of hot
water only.
hitherto known as "Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
Food,” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
The Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire.
la
D_A.PTO (LEike Illawarra), near
SMELTERS.
• • • •
REFINERS.
• • • •
PRODU CERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
*
V *, < ljj§g|r J
MAKERS OF
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAREA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAR and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbebg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Recop d
FOOD
INFANTS
<sas
9
Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“ ‘ Benger’s t ood’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Hi r Alfalii)€ Herbal RenjedkS.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been, before the IPiablac for over 14 3-fears.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPEOTAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT,
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug-
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Host Effectually
A. Great Cure at the Xvanhoe
Mine.
m
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness of the virtues of the*
Axfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898;.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and!
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE'.
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt,
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL. PILLS,,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blbod,.
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER',,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and mode the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also-
recommended your Remedies for a number ofi different
complaints and I have never known them to fail,, but to
do all that was claimed for them,.. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House,. Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen..
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your"
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney..
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your hooks in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, ail of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely curtd me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very trulv,
TOM 'ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillurnbah, Jan. 4, ’99..
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir, —Having justt
Snished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline;
Liver ana Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish t his short,
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
•or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST OFF t
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
AiFAiraE VITALITY PILLS
:are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long 1 standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
ALF ALIKE BLOOD PILLS
■will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
AX,! 1 ALIKE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying’ the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- ••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Hwr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
.Herbs anywhere.
‘mm
> :
Herr Rassmnssen, Tlp-to-Hate. Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alf aline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr JJassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVK€ FREE.
Offi.ee, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS HaSSHIUSSeiI.
letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
HI., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
And Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
«F«
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i ouirhs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning ttrey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in C lildren and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples arid
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
A faline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
SUDDEy,
•>
and important branches as follows
l6O Queen-street (meai Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp.’.F.ast. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Run clle-street (ne&r foxk Hotel)
N.Z . WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... Shenton-street (opposite F. 0.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


Besson & Co. [td.,
Manufacturers op
Brass Band Instruments.
Tbade Mark “ Prototype.”
BANDS and BANDSMEN residing in the
Colonies of
VICTORIA
TASMANIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Are hereby NOTIFIED that they oan obtain
SUPPLIES of the abovementioned cele-
brated
“ Prototype ” Instruments
from the undersigned, who is the Authorised
Agent of
Besson & Co- Ltd.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
Catalogue forwarded on Application.
A. P. SYKES,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT IMPORTERS,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Publications.
SEND FOE A
BOOK CATALOGUE
op RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney,
A MUSICAL EDUCATION FREE.
A Complete Self-1 nstructob, enabling any one to play
Piano or Organ at sight, and without difficulty brilliant
accompaniments to any song ever written. Pratt’s Chart of
Chords for Piano or O. gan embraces nearly every major and
minor Chord u&ed in music, and is a short cut to harmony. It
IS THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE YET SIMPLEST CHART EVER PUB-
LISHED. Endorsed by teachers and musicians everywhere.
FF? The price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55., but to in-
-4 troduce it into every home, we will send free the
Giant Album of 184 .-tongs, words and music, containing many
old and new favorites, together with the Chart for ONLY
2/6, posted 2/8, stamps 2d. extra. Address: Anglo-American
Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Men-
tion this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Cataiumie, ss. Money Order. Beware poor imitations
of my High-class Art.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
VALUABLE BOOKS
No. I.—Man, Know Thyself.
No. 2.—Woman, Know Thyself.
No. 3.—Boyhood and Youth; Its Snares and
pitfalls. The simple truth.
No. 4.— Nature’s Mysteries.
Cheap edition of any one of the above valuable, books
posted for 6d. in stamps of any colony. Write for
particulars and catalogue post free.
W. H. JENKINS, 41 Stephen-st., Melbourne.
The ways of many waters.
By E. J. Brady. Price 4/6.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone.
Price, £7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
Headquarters
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
in Australia— EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
W. J. y. Oldershaw, Manager.
National Cash Registers.
HOTELKEEPERS*
- - SPECIAL BAR MACHINE. - -
47 E.B.
Saves
Time 9
Money,
Worry .
f AMOUNT
I'PURCHMEDc
<s>
Oi
Prevents
Mistakes,
Dishonesty
Bankruptcy.
€XP€RI€NTIA DOC€T.
“ I have used 23 of your NATIONAL
CASH REGISTERS. Now I would not
conduct ray business without them.
“J. J. POWER,
“ Hotel Victoria.
“ Sydney, N.S.W.
“No hotelkeeper (even where his
own family are the only cash receivers)
should be without one.
“0. J. HUGHES,
“ Unicom Hotel.
“ Ballarat, Vic.
ENatioijal Casb Register
COMPANY.
Full particulars, prices, etc., on application to
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE:
383 GEORGE STREET, SYDKTEY.
W. A. LIN GRAM, General Manager.
Vitadatio
THE GREAT HERBAL R€N|€DY
YOUR FRIEND!
IS
READ THIS AND ACT PROMPTLY!
:
Hhb
THOMAS JOHNSON.
TWICE TO ENGLAND I S
SEARCH OF HEALTH.
10 Princes Street, Kew, 15th May, 1899.
Mr. S. A. Palmer, General Agent for “ Vitadatio.”
Dear Sir,—ln sending you this testimonial, I feel it will
no more represent my case than a St. Bernard pup
represents the size of his great parents ; still, small as it
is, it is the truth, and that’s the main thing.
You know I have been twice to England to try and get
ease from my sufferings, and was there treated by some
of the best m'edical skill in the world, but all to no pur-
pose. They told me at last that nothing could be done,
even to ease my pain (except to inject vnorphia), so I had
to go on suffering, with no hope of ever getting better.
No one but a man like yourself can realise the gloom and
misery, yea, agony, of such a state, but you, having been
in a similar plight, know how one in such a case longs for
death, and often feels inclined to do some desperate aot
to be rid of such an existence.
I had tried all different treatments. Allopathic,
Homoeopathic, Hydropathic and Electropathic. I have
also tried Russian, Electric and Turkish Baths, and
others too numerous to mention. One gentleman in
Sydney had me under the Crisis Treatment for six
months, and when I would not let him torture me any
longer, he declared that if I allowed my sore, raw body
to dry, I should soon be a dead man. I told him that
death would rescue me from suffering, so I would face it.
I parted, telling him that if Satan was hard driven to find
some special torture to punish his most hated victims, I
thought that he was the man that could teach him
(Satan) some wrinkles.
When returning from England three years ago, God
knows that I never expected to land in Australia. I had
then given up all doctors, and just meant to let myself
die. I thought, surely I have tried enough and spent
enough, so will try no more. Thus I was just suffering
on till death should release me. Everything I did,
whether eat, walk, talk, or sleep, was a burden to me.
Many who read this will remember how I then some-
times screamed with agony night and day. I went over
to Tasmania. Here I first heard of VITADATIO, and I
may tell you that (if it had not been for reading the de-
claration made by four gentlemen, who signed their
names, referring to the genuineness of your cure of
Hydatids, in Invercargill, New Zealand) all the people in
this world would not have induced me to again start
taking physic, as I had been taking medicines for 13
years, and was getting worse.
I could not get “ Vitadatio ” in Burnie (Tasmania), so
had to wait till I came back to Melbourne. I procured
my first bottle at the Mutual Stores, Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne. I took five large bottles. It certainly strength-
ened me, but it did not take away my severe pain, so,
like many others, I gave it up.
About four months afterwards, Mr. Button, of Oat-
lands (Tasmania), introduced me to you (Mr. Palmer), and
your remarkable case, being so much like my own, led me
to go in for “ Vitadatio,” if it should take my last penny.
1 drank, as you know, two bottles weekly, yea, one day I
drank a large-size bottle. I found it was food and every-
thing to me.
A well-known doctor, with whom I was friendly con-
gratulated me on my improved looks each time he saw
me, so I kept on taking “ Vitadatio,” and, as you re-
member, I came every other day to your Head Office ;
and so, by seeing you, got your encouragement, which
kept me taking the medicine. I endured the pain, and
drank the remedy, until the disease began to come away.
Soon it came away so fast that I have got bottles full of
the disease three or four times a week, which I brought
to you.
This, that had puzzled the doctors, when inside me,
now puzzled them as they saw it in the bottles ; one even
said that it was the “ lining of my bowels " coming away.
In fact, I understand one of the doctors sent a letter to
a leading morning paper to that efect. I should think he
would now withdraw it. I said, “I hope I shall soon be
free from all such * lining,’ as it is taking away the pain,”
and since the time 1 lost the “ lining of my bowels” (as
the doctors called it), I have put on a stone weight of
flesh, and, “ Hallelujah,” I can now sleep, eat, talk, and
run, and that with pleasure ; should the same doctor see
me now instead of wanting me to make my will, as he did
then, I think he would pass me for any life insurance
office.
I have been cured of the following :
1. Running sores in the legs, of over forty years’ stand-
ing. To show the thoroughness of the cure, a small dog
bit me on the very place five weeks ago, which caused me
some alarm, and two days of pain, but it is now
thoroughly sound.
2. Piles, that for years were a trouble to me, are now a
thing of the past—from them I am perfectly free.
3. Singing in my head, which was a constant nuisanc#
to me for seven (7) years, has completely left me.
4. Some small growths on the skin, which often
troubled me, have withered away, leaving only a stain on
the skin, which in every respect is as sound as can be. I
did not take the “ Vitadatio” for any of these complaints,
but only for the dreadful agony which I suffered, on
account of the growth in the pit of the stomach, and
which you now have in so many bottles, but I am glad to
say I can bring you no more, as it is ail gone, “ yes, all
gone.”
I intend to write a pamphlet on the different things the
doctors have called my disease, and which they could not
touch, but Vitadatio” has driven it from my poor old
body, which is daily getting stronger, as if going back to
y ° Uth ‘ THOMAS JOHNSON.
22nd May, 1899.
VITADATIO INSTITUTE, Melbourne.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—There is not a shadow of a
doubt regarding the Wonderful Cure here described.
There are hundreds of well-known people who have
watched Mr. Johnson’s case very carefully, professional
gentlemen and others. Mr. Johnson is a worthy man,
and Mr. David Beath, merchant, of Melbourne, has sub-
scribed the testimonial as to the character of the grateful
patient, who is a living witness to the merits of Vitadatio.
Yours faithfully,
S. A. PALMER.
P.S.—Mr. Johnson’s case stands out prominently as a
“ Star of Hope ” even to the most apparently hopeless.—
S.A.P.
Mr. F. W. HOIINE, who has been a clerk in the em-
ploy of John Perry, timber merchant, 160 LOnsdale-
street, Melbourne, for nine years, sends his photograph
to show what VITADATIO has done for him. Read what
he sa3's: “For the last five years I have been a great
sufferer, and I did not know what it was to be at work
for a month without having to have two or three days’
leave of absence. I became so despondent at times that
I began to think of suicide, as life was only a burden to
!v
■ ■■
_
MIMMI
MR. F. W- HOHNE.
me. I consulted my lodge doctor (I am a prominen
member in the Druids order) who said that I had very
bad bilious attacks. When I had the last attack of ray
trouble a particular friend of mine, who is a great
believer in VITADATIO, came to see me, and would not
go away until I promised him to go in for a course of
VITADATIO. I did so. I purchased six bottles, and
before I finished the first bottle, I got so bad that I con-
sulted a doctor. From what I told the doctor on that
occasion, he said : ‘ Why, man, you are suffering from
Hvdatids.’ I said: ‘Oh 1 well, that is all right, I have
got the cure.’ He said: ‘What is it?’ 1 replied.
‘ Vitadatio.’ The doctor said : ‘ I have heard some good
reports about that remedy.’ After persevering with a
course of the medicine, which I took in ten weeks, l am
thoroughly restored to perfect health. 1 will be glad to
answer any inquiries about my case, addressed in care ol
above firm. Yours very gratefully,
FRED W. HOHNE.”
Past District President, United Ancient Order of
Druids, No. 1 District.
heap quarters’ iwstitute: 45—47 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branch Institutes at Adelaide, Perth Brisbane, and Wellington. Depots in all principal Cities and Towns, and from Chemists and Grocers everywhere.
Fixed Price, large bottle, 5s 6d j small, 3s 6d; One Doz. large bottles, 60s. S. A. PALMER, Agent-General for Australasia.
Sydney Institute - ~ ~ 184 Street.


D.S.MAIR
SP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Best. English Mainspring, 2 6; Cleaning and Regulating,
2/6. Guaranteed 12 months.
D. S. Mair for Silver Hunting Rotherham English
Levers, oapp< d and jewelled. Guaranteed 5 years. 35/-
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ Gold Hunting Keyless Watches.
Guaranteed 5 years. £2 10/-
D- S. Mair for Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches.
4 Jewels. Grand Timekeepers, 15/-. Guaranteed 3 years.
Note address— 6B4; George Street, Sydney.
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phonograph
(Albert & Son, 118 King-st., Sole Agents) Co.
PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest Stan-
dard. Best Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT & SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/- each. English HAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CEAIG & AITKEN,
680-652 George St.,
SYDNEY.
New South W ales’ Barbers * Supply House .
WC
THE ACME of Mecha-
nical Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “Home, Sweet
Home,” “There’ll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/- ; Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1/2 extra,
any other Colony, 2/2. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, nionev refunded.
H. POTIER AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
/a
HEADACHE
CURED!
A Headache Cure should be
instantaneous, safe, certain,
and effective, however often
it is used, and free from dan-
ger of evil after-effects. The
public should know that some
so-called headache cures are
dangerous, and ought not to
be used except under medical
advice. A headache cure, free
from every objection, is ob-
tainable, and known as
BISHOP’S
Citrate of Caffeine
It immediately cures the
worst headache, and dispels
all feelings of exhaustion and
weariness. Supplied by all
Chemists at
i/iJ4 and 2/-, or
of ALFRED
BISHOP, Ltd.,
Mfg. Chemists,
Mile End New
Town, London.
✓'"theN
RAIN,
QMII
TELL?
Medical,
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address— L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box 16G, Sydney, lie will direct them
to‘a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERYE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
The Life of the System.
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
DODD’S KIDNEY PILLS.
11l 11
aSai^V
i, „„ . a, ‘" 'Hull 011 l lIUIIH if* ItiM
Hill,.''"" «'«i in ii n min amwfl" 1 'fr-, of* 1 *,T»" ,
V 0 mm iimiMi hhhi bub*^
» huh iwiuni Itmii " uU * »
— ——
EtSCrx
The ONLY CERTAIN
cure for
Rheumatism,
Bright’S
Disease,
Diabetes,
AND ALL IMPURITIES OF THE BLOOD,
TESTIMONIALS have been received from ALL PARTS
of the WORLD.
Price, 2/9-
fop sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Or will be sent (post paid) on receipt of price by
The Dodds Medicine Co., 17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The London & American Supply Stores
LxSas
r
Er-
LONDON &AMERICAN
UPPL
ORES
• _ ...
■
. . FOR . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W. FERNE & CO.,
Directors.
WILL
HI ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
CHEAP BOOKS
i>ill WILL
ANDRADE Fl'
PLAIN NOME TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition JOO Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
MMißHifn' 7 « 6 n't Th,s _ wor £ contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Oonvuring Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
De\ d s Own W 'zard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6 Tiik
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 1,6. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (ilhis ) 2/6-
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is : post is 2d ’
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d. **
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Mmimi
Money, 6d Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping \ s How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs etc Is 3d
How jo Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dinin- etc is. ’
Otr List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL ATJDHA rtTT!
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL suspensorv belt™ ■
GENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 davs before payment,
which is fully exnlained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address:—
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Neighbor Wolff and Others,
Almost every afternoon in pleasant weather I see
my neighbor Wolff sitting in an easy-chair in the
shade in front of his own door. Sometimes he
kills time by reading the paper, but oftener he
does nothing but watch the people and the vehicles
that pass. I frequently stop and talk with him a
few minutes, and he appears to be grateful for the
trifling attention. He is a man of about fifty,
strongly and sturdily built, and to look at him you
see no reason why he should not be up and about
as actively as the best of us. He is intelligent and
well-informed, has travelled considerably, and is a
man in every way worth knowing. His ideas on
finance and business seem to be clear and practi-
cal, and it strikes a stranger as odd he does not
grapple with his opportunities and pile up a big
fortune. Yet he never makes a motion in that
direction. He lets the chances all slip by, and
just sits there as though the world were no more
to him than the Klondyke goldfields are to the
resident population of a cemetery. Yet my neigh-
bour Wolff knows what money is, and appreciates
what can be done with it. Then why doesn’t he
“get a move on” as the Yankees say, and make
hay while the sun shines? Take a peep at him
about nine o’clock at night, when he takes his cus-
tomary exercise on the pavement—the way being
mostly clear of pedestrians by then—and you will
need no verbal answer to the question. Stocky and
strong as he appears when in his chair, he makes a
poor show on his legs. Slowly, heavily, leaning
hard on his thick stick, he goes to and fro a few
times between the corner and his house —a dis-
tance of 200 feet may be—and then with a sigh
sinks again into his chair like a man who realises
he is out of the race. A paralytic stroke two
years ago, and the constant fear of another—that
explains it. He is orie of the multitude who are
in the world and not of it—as this woman was a
while since:—
“From my girlhood,” she says, “I way always
oppressed and hindered by weakness; I was
habitually tired, weary, and languid. Like all
such persons, I lived a kind of life to myself. All
pleasures or pursuits which called for energy and
vitality were closed to me. I had a feeble and
fitful appetite, and what I ate gave me great pain
at the chest and back, and a sense of coldness,
deadness, and weight at the stomach. At times
there would be also a gnawing, sinking feeling.
“ As I grew older I was much troubled with
palpitation of the heart and loss of sleep. Year
after year I dragged along in this miserable way,
and, being tod weak to walk, was drawn from
place to place in a bath chair. Every effort was
made to obtain a cure. I consulted doctor after
doctor, and took many kinds of medicine and
treatment, but got no more than temporary relief.
One doctor said my heart was diseased.
“My sister urged me to try Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. Without any great hopes of its effect
in my case, I nevertheless procured a bottle
from the Stores in High-street, and began to
take it as directed. The result was a decidedly
improved appetite, and I relished and digested
what I ate without any pain or distress following.
As I continued to use this medicine the heart
trouble was less frequent and finally ceased alto-
gether. My nerves soon became stronger, and I
conld sleep well. In a few weeks more I was
letter and stronger than ever before in my life, and
have enjoyed good health ever since.' My friends
were almost as much surprised and pleased as I
was at this remarkable result of taking Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, and you may make my statement
public if you think it will do good.”—(Signed)
(Mrs.) Mary Ann Welch, 1 Constitution Hill,
Luton, Chatham, February 6, 1895.
My neighbor Wolff may or may not recover
from his paralysis, but all cases ■like” Mrs. Welch’s
—indigestion, with consequent weakness and ner-
vous debility—should be curable by the remedy
which cured her. It opens and renews the diges-
tion, which is the fountain of life, and puts a
wholly new aspect on the world around us. From
having been laid aside as cumberersof the ground,
we become once more workers with others and
sharers of their pleasures.
Haarfager
is the Finest Hair Dressing in the World
NATURAL CURLY HAIR.
. HAARFAGKR curls the hair naturally and pernianently
m a few hours without curling tongs or pins. Will make
w ?« hair curl beautifully without trouble.
HAARI'AGER restores the hair and will prevent the hair
from falling out. All chemists. Price 3s. 6d., postage Gd
extra. Wholesale Agents, ELLIOTT BROTHERS "Ltd ’
O’Connell-street, Sydney. If not obtainable at your
chemist, send stamps or P. 0.0. to The Ariryle Apothecary
Co., Old Canterbury-road, Lewisham, N S.W. '
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb
' inff interest to every MAX
A perfect HEALTH fiL'IDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, U.8.U., SYDNEY.


D. Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SPRING SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
I AHITc’ AT reform
L ADI CL O “ ■ PRICES
EXPERIENCED **|" All O I IVI
CUTTERS ! lAIL Cj K lIN (J
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and HOUNO.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring’
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, verj' superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address In Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 Georjje-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
u
the
>;
RAHERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
USE
Spooler's
?oO
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 8t SHOES
; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRbC I lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
THE
HEAR
“Common Sense
* « Ear Drums”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient....
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many users mailed free
WILSON BAR DRUM CO A pent,
CHALMERS, 229 CollinsSt Melbourne
THE DRUM
IN POSITION I
(INVISIBLE) II
Mention “The Bulletin" when writing.
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUGRASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURE, AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be given in Coffee, Tea, or Food without detec-
tion Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address —
HEADQUARTERS: THE EUCItASY CO„ 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
371 Gellins-itreet, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND.
The Thermal Springs District.
THE
grand Hotel, R0T0R01.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
In Hew Zealand.
M, V. Gardner
(late of the P. & O. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
8. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest," “ Rachel,” “Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
nfj
M
:!!*i
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
“I’ll Try It.” Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Ait ken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
NEW DISCOVERY!
tVSH
Brandts]
I ACETVUKtI
ftiGEHtRAtO
A convenient portable ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR,
for Household, Shop Windows, or Lantern vVork.
Price (Generator only), 255. Pillar Light,, with shade
and )4-ft. burner, 17s. 6d. Rubber Tube, 6d. per foot.
Calcium Carbide, and all accessories stocked.
BRANDT BROS.,
Acetylene Lamp Manufacturers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Too Much Meat
Too Much Tea.
DYSPEPSIA
Arrives and Departs-
The Case of
OCTAVIUS L. COWAN, Esq.
(For the “ Kiama Reporter.")
Proceeding according to instructions in
the matter, ourreporter called at the “School
of Arts,” Kiama, N.S. VV. On Mr. Cowan
making his appearance, and being informed
of the business in hand, he gave the news-
paper man the following highly interesting
particulars.
“I suppose,” said Mr. Cowan (who is
Curator) “ there is no part of the globe where
indigestion and its various resultant troubles
are so rife as in these colonies.”
“ Yes—how do you account for that ? ”
“ Too much meat, and too much tea, too
much frying pan and generally too little
attention to the art of cooking. You see,”
pursued Mr. Cowan, in an explanatory way,
“ tea and meat don’t agree together. We
take them together it is true, but, as a
consequence, we Australians are the greatest
sufferers from derangements of the digestive
apparatus in the world. ”
“Did you ever suffer from indigestion
asked the newspaper man.
“Indeed I did, and very badly, too, and
I’ve little doubt its predisposing cause was
inattention to my diet. I received significant
warning of the approach of the complaint
by a peculiar oppressive pain which made
itself felt in the chest after meals. A kind
of a dull ache. It felt just as though my
food was sticking therein a lump, and would
not budge. I tried all sorts of things, but
nothing would rid me of this distressing pain;
and I was very careful what I ate and drank.
Very soon a great many other symptoms
showed themselves.
“ Tell me of them,” said the reporter.
“ Well— I was troubled very badly with
flatulence. Everything I ate took an extra-
ordinarily long time to digest. Sometimes
it wouldn’t digest at all, but fermented and
generated a sour gas. This would cause
distension and acute suffering. Then my
head ached very badly at times; indeed, I
always felt heavy and languid, and, though
weary, my sleep was much disturbed, and
always uneasy and unrefreshing. Many
nights I obtained no sleep whatever, owing
to the acute pain I suffered.”
“ Were you all right in other respects ? ”
“Oh, dear, no!I lost considerable weight,
and I was much pulled down in every way.”
“ What about the medicines you say you
tried.”
“ Oh, these much vaunted indigestion cures
are so much time and money wasted—they
only give the stomach so much more foreign
matter to dispose of, and they weaken one, too.
I got no relief till I found a powerful restor-
ative in Clements Tonic. This remedy had
a most wonderful effect upon my indigestion.
Even after half a bottle or so the hard lump
which I continually felt in my chest appeared
to soften and began to go away, and I com-
menced to get a decent appetite again.
During all my illness I could hardly eat
anything, but Clements Tonic as good as
forced me to eat. It made me quite hungry.
And sleepy, too, I believe, for I slept right
through the nights after the dose which I
always took at bed time.”
“ And the flatulence ? ”
“That went, too, in quick time, and I
started to put on flesh again, and you may
be sure it wasn’t long before I got as right as
anything, for Clements Tonic, naturally
enough, performed a thorough cure. After the
way Clements Tonic pulled me round I can
unreservedly recommend it.”
“I ask permission to publish your case ? ”
** You have that permission.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Octavios Lcthrr Cowan, of Kiama,
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of three folios and
consecutively numbered from one to three, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way ;
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily, and
without receiving any payment, conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the pro-
visions of an Act made and passed in the ninth year
of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled “An
Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affirmations taken and made in the various Depart-
ments of the Government of New South Wales, and
to substitute Declaiations in lieu thereof, and for the
suppressionof voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits."
(y CX- C’tsCn&VL,
Deolared at Kiama, this lfthdayof January, one
thousand sigh hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
VUU * O. KENDALL, 3
Indigestion
RESULTING from
INFLUENZA
COMPLETELY CURED
The Case of
Mrs. MARY JANE HINTON.
(From the “ Evening News,” Sydney.)
[n response to a special request, our
reporter stepped up as far as Mrs. Hinton’s,
who owns a neat grocer’s shop in Darling
3t., Balmain, Sydney Mrs. Hinton was
behind the counter.
‘ ‘ Can you spare a few minutes to chat)
about Clements Tonic?” asked the reporter.
“ With the greatest of pleasure,” replied
the lady, and our reporter took out his note
book and seated himself.
“ You know I had influenza,” explained
that lady, * ‘ and that complaint pulls one down
terribly—not so much the illness itself, but
what it left behind, gave me the most
trouble. In my case it left me with indiges-
tion. The doctor said my liver was
deranged, and possibly he was right. On
many occasions I was seized with frightful
headaches, and continually felt so heavy
and sluggish that I was hardly able to
stand. At night I missed the regular sleep
I had been accustomed to, and so in the
mornings was very ill-fitted to commence
my day’s duties. My food was distasteful to
me, and many times I rose from a meal
unable to get down a single mouthful.
Somehow nearly everything I ate made me
feel sick, and an uncomfortable feeling of
tightness in the chest would remain for
hours after eating. On some occasions when
I was particularly bad this tight feeling
would increase till the pain was unbearable.”
“ I expect your bad health was a draw-
back in your business?” v
“You are right there. All the strength
was taken out of me, and I felt so low and
worried that I could take small interest in
anything.”
“ Did your liver affliction betray itself in
other ways ? ”
“ Well, sometimes directly after eatifi'g I
was attacked with severe cramps in the
stomach. It was a strange startling pain,
and was very terrible whilst it lasted. As
may be expected, I didn’t look my usual self,
but gradually got yellow and haggard. I
tried lots of things—all sorts of medicines,
but nothing had any action on my liver, or
did me any good in any way, till I obtained
a bottle of Clements Tonic, and that remedy
soon made a great change in the state of my
health. It had a fine bracing effect upon
my worn-out system, and took away that
heavy sluggishness in a very short time.
From that moment I could take exercise,
and mended remarkably quick. I could eat
my meals with a healthy relish, without any
suffering or inconveniences afterward, and,
thank goodness, I was able to get my regular
sleep again and wake up bright and cheerful
in the mornings ready to attend to my
business. Clements Tonic soon put me into
a splendid state of health. Nor am I the
only one in our family who has received
benefit from that excellent remedy. When
my husband was weak and ill we flew to
Ciements Tonic to restore him, and it braced
him up in quick time. I also gave Clement*
Tonic to my two growing girls with the
best effects, especially the younger, who
suffered from nervousness for a long tim&
after having had the measles. Clements
Tonic, however, strung up her weakened
nerves, as she can tell you herself, (here Mrs.
Hinton called her daughter—now a fine
strong looking girl—who was good enough
to confirm what her mother had said), in
fact, continued Mrs. Hinton, Clements
Tonic has always come successfully to the
rescue in our family, and, in all seriousness, I
really don’t know what we should have
done without it.” .
“ You will permit me, then, to put this in
the papers?”
“ Yes,” replied Mrs. Hinton, smiling.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
Mary Jane Hinton, of Darling St.., Balmaiu.
iey, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
only and sincerely declare that I hayeeareful./
the annexed document, consisting of three folios
consecutively numbered from one to three, ana
it contains and is a true and faithful account of
illness and cure by Clements Tonic and also
ains my full permission to publish ..he
" in any way ; and I make this solemn
iration voluntarily, and without receiving
payment, conscientiously believing the same
e true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
made and passed in the ninth year of the reign of
present Majesty, intituled “An Act for tl ? e more
trial abolition of Oathsand Affirmations taken and
e in the various Departments of the Government
few South Wales, and to substitute Declarations
5 u thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.
breme! * ALFREb HANCOCtSp:
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD JPOWDEJR.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EBBS, I* tE |f TIMPANO ATjT^LF^THEJR'eE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stowed Rice. all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to MSSffltK.s „«
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmos mnfidence in the article, and canreconi-
implic?tly followed. 'l'heproprietors entertain the Giveita trial.
mend it to housekeepers generally as a usefu agent ni the preparaj EEDS, ENG.
8.,. .OC “TS STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each


THE OWL
CUT RATE
Consulting- and
tp
K
£
a
RUG CO
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRA3Y CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, JSI; Cut Price, 1&. 6d.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGrORATOR.
A Concentrated, VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT: a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonic for the NERVES
it is unequalled. It is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
READ THESE FACTS.—Its action in recuperating
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply elec-
trical. The REINVIGORATOR is as necessary in brain-
work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
from the condition of the normal cell during health and
vigor.
WATER ON THE BRAIN.—The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being filled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substanoe has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON’S REINVIGORATOR, by its action
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco’-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
. FOFIJI'-AJfc FALLACY.—PeopIe run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. _ While exercise may rest the mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
REINVIGORATOR eXerdse Can take the P lace of this
_ f 100 —We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTKIC BANDS
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST PRES
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Electric Belts. No more GOLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCIENTIFJCALIA MADE. - This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-»al-
vanic current from this BELT passes through the-body
and along the nerves for hours at. a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent manner.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conv eyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH AND LIVER.—The remedy most re-
quired to afford speedy and effective assistance to the
di-restive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Electro Band. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather than a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy—in fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy for many of the most common
complaints.
WORTHLESS BELTS.—Don’t throw money away
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You will
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your health and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Postpone old age.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Pr. NU<SN€S’S FITSEPILCP.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the atre
So successful has it proved m these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative eftects-
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free enects
PYRAMIP J’ILE CURE.
b?x™loT *b^ e SrB
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give
ADYICE to ALL OUR PATRONS FREE OF CHARGE.
On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Deduction.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney,
COUNTRY TRIAL ORDCR RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
A Blind Man’s Holiday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" He who, outside of pure mathematics, pro-
nounces the word Impossible, lacks prudence.”
—Arago.
Dkuhmond was taking his young wife to Lower
Egypt, beyond the track of tourists. Men told
him that she was pretty ; and one day his dearest
friend hinted that she was something which only
one’s dearest friend is ever permitted to hint. Eor
three minutes after, Drummond spoke with his
shut hand under the friend’s throat.
“ But it’s the truth,” choked the dearest friend.
“You lie!” growled Drummond; and went
away aiter the manner ot men to brood if it might
be true. Was it indeed all for love that she had
wedded him—the lucky miner, but the blind
man ? . . .
* * * *
The Araluen’s search-light wheeled across the
lakes, and lit up the dingy levels of Port Said. A
heron flew out against the blinding glare, beat the
darkness overhead, and flapped into the near
reeds. A man on the upper deck laughed—at the
bird. Thereat a turbaned serang bobbed from the
funnel-stays, and addressed the open hatch.
“Didst thou hear him, Nana? He has not
laughed since the Leuwin, and that night a woman
died. Here, at the canal-head, he laughs again.
I have forgotten his name, but he was known to
thee over there. ” The serang’s fist briefly indicated
Asia.
“ His name is Yelarney, ” said Nana, in the hold.
‘T knew him at Benares; he was a chemist, and
there is not a fakir-wallah in India who can out-
trick him. He is a friend of the blind passenger.”
“The blind passenger has a wife, Nana? ”
The invisible Nana spat into the bowels of the
ship.
“Yes, and all men are her friends. Her feet
are smaller than your palm. She laughs, and by
Allah ! her breasts move up and down. The hus-
band was blinded in the gold-pits at Bendigo.”
A Jew-faced, ear-ringed man stole across the
saloon lights and listened. Three sing-song
words happened in the vernacular, and Nana in
the hold was silent. The ear-ringed man peered
down the saloon stairs : a half-naked woman was
screaming in the passage. He drew back.
“The heat has choked her whelp, and she will
low for a week, like a sulking calf.”
“ She is a mother,” said a near voice.
“ Exactly,” answered the Jew-faced man j “and
for that reason I’d gaol her for anarchy; her music
destroys—me, for instance.” He lit a cigar, and
prowled along the deck, exhibiting a cat-like
preference for the shade. Another figure was
groping near the gangway, groping silently and
with much craft. The Jew-faced man touched
his arm.
“Drummond ? I didn’t know you in the dark.’
Drummond laughed, and adjusted his pith hel-
met clumsily.
“ I’m looking for my wife.”
“ Looking, eh T * The Jew-faced man suppressed
a laugh.
Drummond straightened his bent shoulders and
sighed.
“I forget sometimes, and flounder into the
beaten tracks of language. Have you seen her ? ”
“ Yes, she has gone to the Quai Eugenie, with
other women, to hunt for the heathen with bric-
a-brac. The heathen with bric-a-brac is a snag.”
Blind Drummond turned his face to the saloon
and listened. A woman’s sob broke the stillness.
The punkahs whined monotonously. His lips
twitched :
“M’f! the place smells like a circus full of
Arabs. Let’s go up the Marino ; I’m tired of this
palatial hooker.”
A crowd passed them near the gangway; women
called to each other fretfully, and above the pre-
dominant hysteria came the drastic language of
sailor-men. The Jew-faced man took Drummond’s
arm, and swore through the crowded thorough-
fare until the wing of a terrace shut out the acrid
smell of the port. Lights flared across the open
water; a deep-freighted tramp headed in-shore,
muzzling the rime over her heeling bulkhead
light.
“ Let’s smell the world, Yelarney ; let’s take a
holiday from the sea.”
Velarney grinned, and his ear-rings trembled.
They had halted before an open door, and from
the fern-laden corridor came the soft wailing of a
violin. The blind man touched Yelarney’s sleeve.
“ Listen, a woman plays ; her touch is supreme.”
“Lotus enter,” said Velarney. “Oh, legion,
legion, thy name is bagnio 1 ”
The music ceased, but a voice took it up.
“ Come in out of the desert, messieurs ! ”
The musk-drenched tapestry heaved; a siren
beckoned from a pile of azure velvet.
“ Come in out of the desert! ”
She leaned forward, wrist thrown up to shade
her eyes. Velarney bowed, and the incandescent
lamp lit up his gipsy profile, its lank strength, its
trembling ear-rings. The siren’s hand flew down
to her unlaced wrapper, drawing it about her
naked shoulders.
“We have met before. Thou art—Monsieur
Meph., citizen of the Pit! ”
Velarney lit a cigarette, and the match streaked
flame-red from his fingers.
“ Your teeth are excellent, mademoiselle, and
you always make clean work of your chops. We
have met before—in Gehenna or Dan ; I think it
was in Dan. You were a bar-nymph then,
strong-armed and frothing the beer of human
kindness. What are you now?” He sighed.
“ Nothing but an oasis in the desert of morality ! ”
The “ oasis ” laughed softly.
“We met at Cairo, in ’79. You came as a con-
juror to make fun for the women of the palace.
You made apples grow on Arabi’s candelabra.”
Her brow creased ; she fell amongst the cushions.
“ But for those brigand war-ships I might have
been queen of Egypt. I wish all Britishers were
in hell! ”
Velarney laughed sneeringly, and linked his
arm with the blind man’s. The siren crouched
over.
“Arabi tried to pluck your apples from the
candelabra and burnt his silly fingers. You were
bastinadoed; I saw your wounded heels. Do not
laugh at me, Meph., citizen of the Pit.”
“I had forgotten those wounds,” murmured
Velarney, “ until your red lips recalled them.”
A short-legged Zouave stole forward from the
silken background.
“By Kismet! You shall not taunt Imogene.
Your business?” he demanded.
Imogene made a stiletto-thrust with her fan.
“He has come to smoke. Do not strike him,
Alberto, until the opium has quelled his spirit;
then I will watch you kicking his ribs.”
Velarney grinned, and threw down a sovereign.
“ There are cushions on your housetop,
Alberto; we would rest awhile. My friend here
is blind.”
Alberto, breathing apologies, led them along the
passage. He explained that Imogene had supped,
and Imogene was always volatile after a heavy
meal of English ham. Under his breath he said,
“I will hold this sovereign very tight. Velarney
is a conjuror-man.”
He left them on the roof, and felt his pocket for
a touch of the sovereign; it was there; he smiled.
* * * *
“Here are the pipes,” said Velarney. “Will
you smoke ? ”
Blind Drummond wriggled over the mat and
laughed.
“Anything for a spell. I suppose I shall see
dragons and hear the tread of innumerable
armies.”
“Don’t smoke if you are not inured. Don’t
smoke if you are happy ; and you are happy, aren’t
you ? You have a wife.”
“Oh, yes ; I’m pretty happy, thanks.” Drum-
mond’s breath came in sharp expulsions. “If it
hadn’t been for her I’d have snapped the thread
long ago. You don’t know what she’s been to me,
and ... I think I’ll let the pipe alone. ”
“H’m ! You are rich ; your wants are nil.
Lucky dog! ”
“I know it.” Drummond squirmed, and
brought his chin to the level of the coping. “ But
one can’t help a thought of the things around one
—the look in a woman’s face, the sun, and this
desert that reeks of camel and Pharaoh. A blind
man misses a lot of good things. ”
“And some nasty ones,” Velarney purred
softly. From his silver-mounted pipe came a
preliminary slaver. A faint drip , drip causrht
Drummond’s ear ; he leaned forward.
“ What’s that ? ”
Velarney put down the pipe and swore softl>
“ Water from the cistern ; what a damned
nuisance ! It’s enough to wear a man away. Can
stand most things when I’m smoking, but I bar
the sound of water just when I’m going down to
hell.”
He lifted himself painfully, and looked into the
street below. Drummond sighed, and groped to a
divan. A strain of Gounod’s “Faust” blew up
from the Casino, but the wind veered suddenly,
checking it in mid-octave. Silence again, and the
dripping in the spout became of surpassing inter-
e?t‘, Velarney spun round from the parapet, and
choked back a lunatic laugh.
“ What’s the matter?” said Drummond, queru-
lously. ror heaven’s sake, keep quiet.”
“I saw a woman on the pavement, and she
doesn t know whether to come in or not. There’s
a man, of course.”
-Drummond’s face was screwed-up in thought
and the words were only half-heard, but he felt
the strange man leaning over him, felt the hot
breath on his cheek. The drip, drip from the
cistern cut his qumme-laden nerves ; unconsciously
le began to count the drops. Chin thrust out, his
white bps followed the accumulating units until
each drop seemed like the peck, peck of a sparrow
at his brain. He whimpered feebly, closed his
ears, but the now terrific drip would not be shut
out; the pecking stroke became a clank that
vibrated in trip-hammer smashes on the zinc floor
below.
1 his is an enfilade !” he gasped. A silence
caine that stung him like whips, and sharp upon it
an explosion that seemed to test the limits of
sound. The blind man quaked, and clutched his
forehead. Suddenly a gleaming centre - piece
seemed to shiver the black roof above him, spilling
a myriad stars about the empty darkness. One
luminous disc shot down to his forehead; he
screamed, threw up his guard, but the flame struck
him where the pecking had been.
‘ ‘ Oh, God ! I can see ! ”
“What!” said Velarney. “No! .. . but it
is possible,” he muttered.
Drummond leaped upwards, but Velarney caught
the frail body and held it like a vice.
“Be still, thou jumping-jack, and . . . if it is
really so . . . be glad ! ”
Drummond clutched the strong wrists that
pinned him against the parapet.
“Let go! I can see— see!— do you hear ? I’ve
been shut up in darkness for ten years. I won’t
move a limb, I promise you. Let’s look up, old
man ; even through your fingers I see stars : look
at em !—look at ’em ! Was it the water—or you ?
The doctors told me the nerve had been simply
paralysed by that cursed explosion a shock
might ...”
He fought to catch a glimpse of skv, but Velar-
ney locked him mercilessly to the roof.
, “ Never mind the stars ! Poets call them stars ;
they are merely tears, frozen tears of the unhappy
blest. Be still! ”
Velarney shook him angrily, but the hand that
caressed his face thrilled him like a woman’s
touch.
... c ?' n se . e how strange!—l never knew you were
like this—it is not your conjuring, is it ? We’ve
been pals, Velarney, and I’ve helped you a bit.
Don’t take away the light; eh, you shan’t! my
God ! you shan’t! ”
It seemed to him as though an iron band had
been shaken from his eyes; the light had come
with a crash, and presto! the world took shape
again ; the formless void became spans of sea and
shore overhung by a luminous Eastern night. As
thirst-tortured men drink their fill, so he drank in
the sights around him. The near town was a
crimson flare in the desert. The Quai Eugenie
was aheave with black ships and lantern-lit poops
—white-beaked galleons smelling of grain and
fruit and alive with Norsemen, Lascars and bull-
throated Danes. Yesterday, all sense of color was
dead within him ; now his vision was crowded with
illuminations as sudden and bewildering as though
a myriad lamps had flashed across a rainbow.
. Velarney’s quick hands held his temples sooth-
ingly.


Every lady should call or write for one of
our new Fashion Sheets of Spring Goods. Thirty-
four pictures. Posted free anywhere. Ladies,
you will miss a good thing if you don’t get one
of these; given away free by Hordern
Brothers, No. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street, Sydney. The fashionable drapers.*
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
Solely for Tosist Soap was obtained by
Hk
'4
eRAHgAI
A. &F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
EDWARD
w
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
•si
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
6 HARLENE'
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle •
■*/“> 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD.’
DRAWING AS OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OnIFET"
m
&
Late Hours, Fag\?ed, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing’ Impure Air, too rich food, Aleoholie
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomaeh, &e., &e.Use
ENOS ‘ FRUIT SALT ’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
IN HOV OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact.
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.-See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without'it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT.
“It is true, he sees ! . . . But be still, they’re
talking below. Here’s the trap-door, take a peep.”
Drummond whimpered hysterically, and scram-
bled to the opening.
“It is blurred a little,” he murmured, “but I
see t ”
“ Sister Ann,” laughed Yelarney, “ what do you
see ? ”
Drummond’s whisper was sharp and clear.
“I see the woman Imogene, with a bottle of
wine. She is ”
A heel clinked on the tiles below. Imogene’s
voice followed the pop of a cork.
“Come in out of the desert, monsieur ! ”
‘ ‘ Look towards the end of the passage, ” whis-
pered Yelarney.
“ A ship’s officer, and a lady,” said Drummond.
“He is our skipper—skipper of the Araluen,”
droned Velarney.
Drummond rubbed his hands and chuckled.
“ The lady hangs back as if afraid. I cannot
make her out. Is she a passenger ? ”
“She is.”
Velarney’s voice was strangely calm. . . .
* * « •
The woman shrank from the painted siren, from
the wine-filled tumbler offered in such haste. The
siren’s peal of laughter filled the corridor.
“It is good wine, girl, see; tawny and beaded
like a nun. Drink ! ”
Her left eyelid dropped to the gilded officer.
He stepped forward and wagged his thick beard
after the manner of Bacchus m the cheap prints.
“ Blessed juice of the berry ! ” he said hoarsely,
and wagged it again.
The woman recoiled, frightened and irresolute;
her hands went back, groping for the tapestry. She
looked at Imogene, but Imogene dodged the
glance, and pulled the captain’s sleeve.
“ Sailor, thy mistress flees ! ”
The captain swore in surprise as the woman
turned swiftly in the passage and disappeared.
Imogene put the tumbler into his fist. He swore
again, but drank.
* * * •
Drummond, with shut lips, watched the comedy
below. Then he thought of the woman who had
checked herself on the threshold of the bagnio.
And she was one of the Araluen’s passengers,
some foolish woman who had become enamoured
of the gold-laced libertine commanding the' ship.
He wondered if she had ever fraternised with his
wife—Louise. . . . Louise !
His thought stopped for a period of six heart-
beats. He put up his hand to blot out the painful
light, to wipe the sudden moisture from his lean
temples.
Velarney had seen her over the parapet. He
would ask Velarney her name. He coughed.
Velarney turned and reached for the pipe.
“Feel queer, eh? You look as if you’d seen
God —or the Gentleman from Gehenna. Better
have a smoke ; it’ll steady you. Or, no; shut
your eyes and keep quiet. Mustn’t use them too
much ; or you’ll deprive the medical profession of
a curio. These sudden cures are deadly. ”
“ I’m all right, thanks. Things have been a bit
sudden—the light, I mean ; . it, seems to have
skewered the nerve—l can’t believe it’s true; I’ll
be very careful. By the way, who was the girl
that ran out? I was wondering if I knew her—
that is, by name. ”
Velarney pondered. Should he tell him, or
would it be better to let the end shape itself ? The
world had been miraculously re-created for this
writhing atom; but how booh came the pain i
He sighed; the problem was beyond his philo-
sophy ; this night was very wonderful.
Drummond spoke again nervously:
“I’m an awful cad to ask such a question ; but
one can’t help one’s animal curiosity. Perhaps I
can guess. How does Mrs. Minthorp hit you ?
She was always gadding with the officers.”
“ No,” said Velarney.”
“ The Creston woman, then ? ”
“No.” . ..
Drummond rattled off a score of names in
feverish haste, and Velarney answered sadly.
“No-no-no.”
• • - * •
Drummond lay back: a little repose might clear
his brain. He had named almost every woman in
the saloon, every woman except his wife. There
were the steerage-passengers, to be sure, but . . .
He must go back to the ship and meet her face
to face, thought Velarney ; even yet he is not
convinced, he is not sure: he will catch at any
straw to save himself from the truth ; there are
such men.
“And, if you won’t smoke,” he said, “we’d
better go.”
Drummond shivered under the desert wind.
One star showed clear against the dawn, and the
sea stretched like a floor of cloud all over the wide
hollow in the east.
“Look ! Day is creeping through Asia. Your
wife will be waiting: she may catch cold. ”
Drummond heard him as one man hears another
through a stone wall. The woman who had fled
the bagnio might be waiting to greet him—her
face would tell tales; and—he opened his eyes
cautiously to make sure—he could see; he would
know, know 1 He steadied himself against the
coping. . . .
“Velarney!”
Drummond’s voice was sure and full of strength.
Velarney trembled.
“ This light hurts, cuts me through and through;
put it out. I’ve got money; ask it, but put out
the light.”
Velarney thought—and approached him gently.
“It will hurtand ... if I can . . . remember! —
this time it will be out for always. Are you sure
it is best ? ”
Drummond never quavered. “It is best. Put
out the light ! ”
“Out it is!”
“ Heu /”
Drummond crouched under the shock of the
blow—the shock of the darkness that struck him
like a slamming door. “Wait!” . . . he mut-
tered. And, after a while, “I am blind, lead
me ! ”
“Friend, thou hast indeed taught me philo-
sophy,” whispered Velarney. “We will return to
the ship. ”
“I am ready.”
Velarney took the groping hand gently, very
gently. They passed down the stair.
ALBA DORION.
Lord Charles Beresfqrd asked Kinder, an
Englishman, Engineer-in-Chief of Chinese Rail-
ways, why he used American locomotives instead
of English. He replied that the English charge
was J 52500, the engine to be delivered in two
years, whereas the Baldwin Co., U.S., delivered
it in five months for .£lB5O.
After the Horses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have they ever waked you early
While the shadows lingered yet,
Ere the gray light gathered fairly
And the drowsy stars had set ?
Have you heard the wagtails chirrup,
Felt the dawn-wind creeping cold ?
Till your foot was in the stirrup
And the whole world turned to gold !
Ah ! the joy of daybreak riding !
How it makes the warm blood start,
With a good horse striding, striding,
To the music of your heart!
And the morning’s welcome olden,
With the magpies all astir,
When the long wet grasses golden
Wipe the dry blood from the spur 1
How they gather from their feeding
In the white mists far and near,
Take the track with Sunflower leading
And old ’Possum in the rear !
How the bare hoofs rattle under,
For the Cowrie fillies know
When they hear the snake-plait thunder
It is time for them to go !
Ah ! the joy of it, ye riders !
When the old gray horse takes hold
Through the bushes where the spiders
Are spinning threads of gold !
Down the box-flats where the grasses
Dip silver with the dew,
And the last brown shadow passes
As the Fairy Dawn steps through !
On the sandhill hear them muster ;
’Cross the roadway see them swing;
In the lignums how they cluster !
Down the netting how they string 1
Rolling fat, yet lithe and limber,
Shoulders creamed with sweat and foam;
Head them at the river timber—
Rush them up the flat for home 1
Gone for ever yon glad hour is ;
When the sunrise floods the plain ;
I shall never run the Cowries
Down the blue-grass flats again.
Drop the slip-rails in their places,
Take the saddle from the gray;
Foamy shoulders, white-starred faces,
Fade and fade and fade away !
But if you have fought the forces
Of the Drought and Dust and Sun,
If you’ve ever tailed the horses
On a far-out western run,
If you’ve ever heard them neighing
As they gathered to the whip,
You will understand me saying
I would let a fortune slip
Just to take the old malacca
From its place upon the wall,
With a foot of silken cracker
And a yard of greenhide fall,
And be down those watercourses
Where the ten-foot lignums are,
Bringing up the station horses
On a reefing “KS Bar ”!
WILL H. OGILVIE.
A Vignette.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a middle-aged British citizen of the upper
middle class, and just like any other B.C. who
is ready on the slightest provocation to write to
the papers. But he was singular in that he had
no growing boys and girls to wonder what he
would do with.- Only a young and pretty wife.
Presently, far away down the long street, he
heard the tinkle-tinkle-tinkle and the call of the
muffin-man, and looking at his watch he saw it
was past 4 o’clock. “Gad, some crumpets would
go well. I shall tell James to get some, my dear.”
He called his young wife “my dear”—a fatal
thing- to do. She wasmqch too young and dashing.
She called Arm “a dear old thing,” and he told
her. all sorts of interesting stories. No doubt he
thought he knew all about the game of husband
and wife. But this is by the way.
Presently he strolled to the window, looked out
upon the street, and saw a bedraggled jnan and
woman trudging along the pavement, wreckage
from a sluinmier quarter. “Come here, my
dear,” he said, “and.have a good look at this
miserable couple, and I will tell you a story.”
“ Pooh ! About that wretched old woman?
Couldn’t be bothered listening, thank you ! ”
“ She was not always repulsive, my dear. She,
too, once, felt all the soft changeableness of the
olimate of Love.”
“ Which accounts for her weather-beaten ap-
pearance to-day, I should say; you dear, sentimen-
tal old thing ! But was she really ever pretty ? ”
“ Not merely pretty ; she was magnetic, and as
much sought after as a woman could wish.”
“Well, tell me her story ; or, rather, the first
part of it —since I know the end.”
“The beginning, my dear, was on her wedding
morn. She looked pale and irresolute, and they
gave her a stiff glass of brandy to give her courage.
She has sought courage in the same way ever since.
That is her story. The man
“ I don’t care about the man’s part, thank you.
Is that her husband with her ? ”
“ No, my dear. He is the interesting part of
the story. ”
OZ.


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Sleep, No Appetite, Loss of Flesh,
Physicians Could Give no Relief. Was Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
!
///
///.
A
vm
/////.
,\\
\
sScv
✓5
/S
Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
ana was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
ill that I would have to go into a neighbor’s house until I was fit to walk again.
I cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
for months.
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
another, and still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
like a Trojan.” *
This is the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
portrait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of the multitude of such cures that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“ Ayer’s is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind.
Sarsaparilla
That "Cures.
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK EOE
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
JVo Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold iti bottles, at Is. lid., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6d. t
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corraiaHi'.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
P&echaM’S
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
&?*? U k °V lnagic ~ a feW doses will work w °nders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
aronshS with fhe Sp™ long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the kfen edge of appetite and
are ?£££»^admittedhv ?hnn«? a AL ™ ‘u® f H ° LE 1 HVSiCAL Energy of the human frame. These
Nervousand all , ? f «>oiety, and one of the best guarantees to the
>u:°z. rnifdKsiViiSictsr* 4 “ the LanK “ ** « »•»**»
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHO MAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9i<l, Is INI, and 2s 9d each.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ c. ZEIGIDIIBIEIDO-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltK STKIJIJR, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post /ran all the colonies promptly
attended to.
i® 1- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY. ffcJH
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
outside '*bt;e£JsJp:e b ;e;r
of every Bottie of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOJs, ttOR, &, CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY
m
2m
Pen,
IMGDOH AVE
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
cK e
ue
r i is Hn
THE MARVELLOUS CURE FOR
WINTER COUGHS
BRONCHIA
INFLUENZA.


SOME POINTS
Aiow oya
Waterproof Coats.
EVERY GARMENT GUARANTEED ABSO-
LUTELY WATERPROOF.
TAILOR-OUT and SILK-STITCHED IN
EVERY SEAM.
WILL STAND EXTREME CLIMATES.
FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN.
NEWEST SHAPES.
Prices: 17s. 6d. to 70s.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANCIE ACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
Mammatt’s
SPOONS
FORKS
AT
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MAnK.
f®®Sil§©
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping:
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may-
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
■
a
St!
■
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
PHTEiIT BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales daring the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Wm, Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
jy o the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
Jrloll©ers Ol of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration * Ice-making.
Tire Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CTTY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING- STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARC ARE—for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP
STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND
HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR
E PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY HOUSE IN THE WORLD.
m
SIS
im
. a ■
3f3K
mem
-"■ ~~r.
GATES’ IiOCKBIvEA KEK
Company Limited,
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
a t.T. TTTTMna OS’ MODKH.IM MACHINERY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
FREMONT STREET,
San Francisco, U.S.A.
60 CLARENCE STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
27 CLEMENTS
London, E.C.
“Tbc R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & AttwoodL. Sole Proprietors.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner LUt,le Collins and Lluabell
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel _
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
i'B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. B ' ee ™ ' 0 o a ' ll "^ rl Xte Usual price ±.lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners eomp ■ reboundim' locks, snap action, left-hand
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engne-turned r.b cartridge’ machines
barrel full choke bore, barrel modified choke, . 18 g Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
and cleaners complete. U sl * al reducedP q unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
solid bar action, highly finished, with all-The complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
cleaners complete. Usual price ±2l, reduc ,d - Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
•sjaarajaint «-*-• po,t om “ orders ' ° r B " kdr,, “ mo!t
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO. —, IM ..
g
k
B.S.A,
__. r ... | | ad nil o pam DA l\| V 137 ELIZABETH STREET
T H MELBO°RNE°teolu?e^Chhp e st Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCE S S 0 RIE S , Tange n t S p > oke s 6 )f Brake tskfe
(6/11 dozen Genu* n^ n ? { ;aIIUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
£« aX£L pneumatic-tyre ...cycles, „„ »
51»0«* CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
SIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Engine Co.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends,
. . Send for Catalogues . .
