

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC W
. i
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
USB
GtJARA.]XrTEED PURE COCOA
MALTED COCOA
A.TST3=> DE33C TRACT OE' MALT.
R* Car. WA.TK.ms «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
i LOSJVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Twill w
JEFFREY
Keller, Sf**l and Special CHAINS
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
&T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
203 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CSa pm street, SYDNEY.
~-* e A?ents for The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating ana Conveying- Macliinery . . .
Detachable Chain Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Klexator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
Urain Handling Machinery, Power Transuiis'ion Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
n
ES^
aZb
S3ii
m
JETOBART.
JWfr*
Hadley’s Orient fjotel.
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
w l IVTI’OMi'S GEO RG E H OTE L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams, hardest Hotel
Accommodation ill Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, Us. per Hay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
a/&,
oo
t
860,112 Bottles Soli in One Month—THE
CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
Belting
The Leading Belt of Australia
Unsurpassed for Durabilitv and Clißftpness.
Used exclusively by fclieN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to »y address.
J. C. LUDOWICF& SON, LTD.,
IX7 YorTc Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, yueenslund; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adulaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang* Brandy.
THE ■ WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDI SWAN I =
r
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
te iss & im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WifWYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nslund Depot— Central lJiiildirurs, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHER’S “HIGHLAND CREAM”
SOLE AG BNI'S }
Jfe Co.
24!) Geari/e Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vo] 21.—50. 1038.)
[Saturday, January 0, 1000.
Kegstered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnfipsr.


For the
the
the
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure .
A
nm
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tuties of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
rublie
Speakers .
" A
SUITABLE FOR OLI>
AND YOUNG
HUDSON’S EUMENTHQL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain JVO cocaine or other poisononx Oran ...
Sold l»y all Chemists. Tins. is. 6d. Or from the Proprietor 6. HUDSON. Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland, tor Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT S. TAYLOR, 5 ami 7 Queen’s Place.
THE RED PAGE.
Verses by Stephen Crane.
J I HOU art my love,
8 And thou art the peace of sundown,
J- When the blue shadows soothe,
And the grasses and the leaves sleep
To the song of the little brooks—
Woe is me.
Thou art my love,
And thou art a storm
That breaks black in the sky,
And, sweeping headlong,
Drenches and cowers each tree,
And at the panting end
There is no sound
Save the melancholy cry of a single owl-
Woe is me !
Thou art my love,
And thou art a tinsel thing,
And I in my play
Broke thee easily.
And from the little fragments
Arose my long sorrow—
Woe is me.
Thou art my love, - ~ »
And thou art a weary violet,
Drooping from sun-caresses,
Answering mine carelessly—
Woe is me.
Thou art my love,
And thou art the ashes of other men’s love,
And i bury my face in these ashes,
And I love them—
Woe is me. . .
Thou art my love
And thou art a temple
And in this tern pie is an altar,
And on this altar is my heart—
Woe is me.
Thou art my love,
And thou art a wretch,
Let these sacred loves-lies choke thee,
For I am come to where I know your lies as truth
And your truth as lies —
Woe is ine.‘ - ’ * ••
Thou art my love, . , ■
And thou art a priestess,
And m thy hand is a bloody dagger.
And uny doom comes to me surely—
Woe is me.
Thou art my love
And thuu.art a skull with ruby eyes,
A nd I love thee— '
Woe is me.
: Thou ant my love, ■> •
And I doubt thee. .
And if peace came with thy murder
Then would I murder—
Woe is me.
Thou art my love.
And thou art death,
Aye,,thou art death.
Black and yet black.
But I love thee,
I love thee. —
. Woe, welcome woe, to me.
What?
You define me God with these trinkets?
Can my misery meal on an ordered walking
Of stirpliced numskulls?
And a fanfare of lights ?
Or even upon the measured pulpitings
Of the familiar false and true ? i
Is this God ?
Where, then, is hell ?
Show me some bastard mushroom
Sprung front a pollution of blood.
It is better.
Where is God ?
When the prophet, a complacent fat taan,
Arrived at the mountain-top,
He cried: “ Woe to my knowledge !
I intended to see good white lands
And bad black lands.
But the scene is grey. ”
A little ink more or less I
It surely can’t matter ?
Even the sky and the opulent sea,
The plains and the hills, aloof,
Hear the uproar of all these books.
But it is only a little ink more or less.
A slant of sun on dull brown walls,
A forgotten sky of bashful blue.
Towards God a mighty hymn,
A song of collisions and cries,
Rumbling wheels, hoof-beats, bells,
Welcomes, farewells, love-calls, final moans,
Voices of. joy, idiocy, warning, despair,
The unknown appeals of brutes,
The chanting of flowers,
The screams of cut trees,
The senseless babble of hens and wise men—
A cluttered incoherency that says at the star :
“ O God, save us! ”
A newspaper is a collection of half-in justices
Which, bawled by boys from mile to mile,
Spreads ite curious opinion
To a million merciful and sneering men,
While families cuddle the joys of the fireside
When spurred by tale of dire long agony.
A newspaper is a court
Where every one is kindly and unfairly tried
By a squalor of honest men.
A newspaper is a market %
Where wisdom sells its freedom
And melons are crowned by the crowd.
A newspaper is a game
Where his error scores the player victory
While another’s skill wins death.
r, A newspaper is a symbol;
It is fetless life’s chronicle,
A collection of loud tales
Concentrating eternal stupidities,
That in remote ages lived unhaltered,
Roaming through a fenceless world.
“ Have you ever made a just man ? ”
“Oh, I have made three,” God,
But two of them are dead,
And the third —
Listen 1 Listen !
And you will hear the thud of his defeat.”
Ah, God, the way your little finger moved.
As you thrust a bare arm backward
And made play with your hair
Arid a comb, a silly gilt comb.
—Ah, God —that I should suffer
Because of the way a little finger moved.
From “ War is Kind."
Chopin.
CHOPIN is the most intimate of the pet
composers. So sympathetic and subjec-
tive is he, that he will mirror any complex
mood, shot like silk with opalescent,
incompatible emotions, of that strange thing
whioh is assuredly not the soul, decidedly not the
heart, above all not the mind. He belongs to the
interpretative order of creative artists. He is an
exquisitely sensitive psychological magnifying-
glass through which the dilettante in emotion may
study the almost invisible microbes that eat the
poet’s heart--that infinitesimal delicatesse of pain
and of passion for which the blunt majority has
no eyes. To interpret Chopin, one must be a
virtuoso in passion. Yet Chopin is no sen-
timentalist in the accepted term ; he is too
exquisite for sentimentality, which has for
me a Teutonic ring, a suggestion of home-
liness, of Schumann or even of Mendelssohn
—in short, an inextricable-element of slowness
impossible to lyric grace. Chopin’s fiery Slavonic
blood saved him from sentimentality ; he is a tiny
tiger rather than a pussy eat. Consider the
delicious Savagery that informs.his violent, splen-
did Polonaises, or the idealistically mordente
afietuoso feeling in his fifth Chant polonms, so
kindly set for the piano bv Liszt. But Chopin
misses the amiable sentimentalism with which he
is popularly accredited, chiefly by reason of his
impersonality. For he was not a conscious Will,
but rather a medium through which all the polite
passions expressed themselves in delicate inevit-
able art of a sugary femininity, a polished soul-
mi rror that reflected fine emotional phase? with a
dainty, unerring instinct for selection of the
prettiest.. None but Chopin could be so elemental
in miniature. In his iVutsic is pictured a whole
wild'liitle world of poet Led passions incuriously
dramatic scenes, each vivid or nebulous dream
perfect in its own completeness. He was essen-
tially a ton - painter, not a tone poet. For which
reason he does not demand intellect of his ex-
ponents so much as a fine sense of colour. His
dwn colour instinct was miraculous. Through
the cool white medium of the piano he produced
tone colours of infinite variety and intensity, of a
quite jewelled brilliancy—clear, sharp, and deli-
cate. His chaste devotion to the piano kept him
of necessity narrow and limited of resource in re-
gard to effect, but he left no recess of the piano’s
possibilities unexplored ; he was the Nansen of
the arctic, glittering piano.
He had a quite feminine love of musical em-
broidery and ornament. All his more fanciful
tone pictures are decorated with leaping, fantastic
arabesques of ethereal Jack-in-the-box-like runs—
pearled lightning, magic-strung, with a kind of
radiant spray of grace notes, a brilliant affecta-
tion which creates an atmosphere of fairyland.
Chopin’s music is ever ideally elfish and remote.
And there is in it a certain ecstatic quality, a faint
insistent intoxication which never fails. This one
feels most in the Nocturnes. Those warm dark noc-
turnes, fitfully moonlit or starlit, are like the tran-
scribed dreams of an inspired opium-eater. Each is
a tone picture wrought with a kind of enchantment;
the whole series is under an occult spell. Curi-
ously elemental in feeling, those nocturnes give
windless trees and shindig water and the summer
night, lime-sc’ented, with such a velvet languor
that they can hypnotise a winter afternoon into
softness. To me, the E-flat nocturne always sug-
gests Keats’ “Ode to a Nightingale.” The
F-sharp nocturne is quite Persian in style : it
paints the palm and the cypress and the rose
thicket, and the great stars burning low in the
Southern sky. Needless to say, Chopin is in-
tensely Oriental in feeling. His most expressive
and individual music has a perfumed gorgeousness,
an exotic grace, and a multiplicity of modulations
that breathe of a subtler notation and of a glowing
tropical climate. Yet he can be semplice in the
extreme : many of his tone pictures are wrought
with slight vigorous strokes ; but this impression-
ism results from sheer refinement of style, and is
the outcome of centuries of elaboration—indeed, it
is merely the disrobing of a melody which we are
wont to see go in tissue of gold. Chopin was a
master of detail, but he was saved from pettiness
by that fundamental Slav impetuosity and ferocity
which no French polish could smooth entirely
away.
Barbarism and civilisation war even more
piquantly in Chopin than in Tschaikowsky. It is
this lion-and-unicorn struggle for the mastery in
.his nature that gives such keen life to his music ;
without it, indeed, ha might easily have drifted
into a William Morris-like meandering among
lovely cadences, a dallying with delicious chords.
As it is, he only “moons” adorably in unearthly
music of Keats-like beauty of tone-diction (for this
once permitting him to be a tone-poet). And yet
they say that Chopin is Tike Shelley. When lie is
thoroughly awake he may be, but contrast the
sustained swiftness of Shelley’s lyric flight, alert
as a humming-bird’s, with the dreamful motion of
Chopin, who falls trancedly asleep witli the casual
ease of the Dormouse at the Hatter’s tea-party.
There is the vivid fire of life at first hand, spite of
all the hysterical idealism, in Shelley’s strenuous
verse : all the life in Chopin’s music is a reflection,
idealised, devitalised as a Burne Jones picture.
Chopin’s motto is the dreamer’s motto Jam
yesterday and jam to-morrow, but never jam to-
day.” And especially jam yesterday ! The mad-
dening memory overshadow's the intangible hope.
Jam yesterday, a dim, strange yesterday, trans-
cending limits of mere mortal time. You may
read this legend in the G minot Ballade,
and in the first movement of the B minor sonata,
as also in the F minor concerto. Chopin revels in
the luxury of sorrow ; his dreams die gorgeously
as ashes of sunset into a velvet night of gloom—
and they take an unconscionable time a-dying!
Sometimes the starry articulated notes of his
melody seem to float like water-lilies on a rhythmic
tide of harmonies that loses itself in a sea of deli-
cious sadness. That section in the G-flat which
comes just before the Funeral March in B-flat
minor sonata suggested this to me.
One of Chopin’s compositions has never ceased
to puzzle me. Under what alien influence did he
write it—the Ballade in A -flat ? It is so pecu-
liarly unlike himself in its boyish swagger and its
gallant light-heartedness ; it is so young, so cock-
sure, and so successful, drawing to a logical happy
close instead of ceasing gloomily in the customary
manner. The other three Ballades are perfectly,
even markedly, Chopinesque ; this one is a cuckoo,
a bbld, jolly cuckoo in the nest. Moreover, it is
most gaily masculine; while nearly all Chopin’s
works incline to be feminine, as indeed he was
himself. Witness his Berceuse, a little wrought
ivory piece of exquisitiveness, just sufficiently
trivial, whioh is, however, so delicately and ecsta-
tically amorous that it misses its mark as a cradle-
song. Indeed, Chopin never contrives to be any-
thing but amorous, whether in his dances, his
sonatas, or his nocturnes. His love (of course he
had none) was certainly his whole existence.
A n l, like every true Platonist, he had the instinct
of passion for publication. Of what use is Love
but as a soul for Art ? Love should ever move to
measure of music in delicate fetters of rhyme.
Chopin thoroughly understands the value of
passion for publication ; he sorrows in beautifully
rounded periods. And he has created a passionate
tradition of his own, a sweet individual note of
passion—a cobra without the poison, Heine with-
out the irony. This tradition is, strictly speaking,
a little bit rococo ; in the grasp of an old-fashioned
pianist it can even be Victorian. But nothing is
easier than to bring it up to date by encouraging
the tigerish element that sleeps so sweetly under
its surface sentiment —a charming savage instinct
which is bqth ineradicable and irresistible. We
may not like it, we may not choose but love it.
In Chopin’s music this semi-barbaric instinct is
the phoenix undying, refined, spiritualised. While
people continue to have hearts and senses and
tempers, Chopin will never be outworn ; for he is ,
too deeply elemental, spite of all his misleading
graces, to be ever out of touch with the Zeitgeist,
which is after all merely a phoenix. Indeed, so
splendidly can Chopin keep up the pace, that in
skilful hands he runs neck and neck with Tschai-
kovvsky in the expression of our more exqusite and
degenerate humanity of to-day.
So poignant a voice is his, that everyone has
heard it, or, at least heard of it. He is the gracious
catchword of the unmusical. Though Rubinstein
might be a Rhine wine, and Grieg a cheese,
Chopin is without doubt a musician. How rudely
his delicate self-centred romanticism has been
misinterpreted by mediocrity ! Mediocrity loves
Chopin—sincerely, I think. His leading traits
are so obvious and easily grasped, that the meanest
musical intelligence can detect at once whi< h end
his head is (so to speak)—a case widely different
from that of the hedgehog Brahms, or of the Skye-
terrier Schumann. This surface lucidity is his
misfortune. It insures his being taken au pied de
la lettre, and that is fatal: for the curious mocking
arribre pensee which it is the sacred duty of his
interpreter to find in him. whether it be there or
not, is the crown of Chopin. Personally, I think
it is not there. For his seemingly too luscious
sentiment is never quite overripe, never malici-
ously sweetened ; it always.takes itself seriously.
Wherefore fie requires an exponent with a sense
of humour, one who'can add the touch of malice,
which is indispensable to his feminine■ charm,
inasmuch as it puts a little sharp edge on his
sweetness, and makes him “ sweet as ci.vet ” ; one
who can mingle laughter with tears for yesterday’s
jam, and modify the conclusion of the whole
matter—So far from having lost my illusions,
illusions are all that remain to me.
IsRAt'EL, in The Dome.
—♦ ■ —
As we were recently on the track of similes,
here are some from a recent book by B ;rnard
Capes, an English stylist. The excellent criticism
is by the Academy writer whose article on “ New
Books ” was reprinted Dec. 23.
The close air prickled with a multitudinous platter of
voices like blisters of fat breaking on a grill.
The immediate fall of temperature took him by the
throat like a shower bath. 1
She was skimming cream from a lire ad pari with her
fingers. Tie tips of these -budded through ifie white,
like nibs,of rhubarb through melting snow.
[This simile is absolutely bad. It is like producing a
rabbit from a hat. It is no office of a simile to s turtle, or
to exhibit a writer's cleverness, but graciously to interpret
one idea by another. And mere resemblance between two
remote things is no test of che aptness of the simile in
which these things may he suddenly allied by a literary
athlete. In fact the simile whioh springs from unusual
information in the author, and presumes it in the reader,
should be charily used. It would he quite wrong to say
that it must be never used. To forbid a writer to trawl
the deeps of spe%ch for new locutions would be absurd.
Only—he must use tact. When Edward Murk leaves the
social kitchen of the Landlust Inn at Merieourt and re-
tires to his bed we are told :
In the distance the voices of his late companions
droned like hornets in a bottle.
Now this simile is better. Its unexpectedness is not too
acute,, its call on the reader’s knowledge is not exorbi-
tant, and to the imagination it is distinctly apt aud.satls-
factory. Again, when Th6roigne tells Nieette that Murk
has left the village for Paris and will not return until the
spring, the poor girl conies round to her “ with a face
like hard ivory.” This simile does its work without fuss ;
it is brief, natural, effective. It is the antithesis of one *
in which Mr. C ipes describes the attitude of a waitress
who is rebuked for her peytness :
The girl stood as solid on end as a pocket of hops.
Here we are back to parlour manic.]
Our young writers are recommended to learn this
passage by heart.
A Notes and Queries contributor quotes Words-
worth’s “Ode to May,” where he speaks of
streams as •
Gurgling in foamy waterbreak,
Loitering in glassy pool.
and perhaps ironically suggests that it is
a mere coincidence natural to the subject that
subsequent Tennyson’s “ Brook includes one of
each pair of nouns, adjectives, and verbs :
And here and there a foamj, flake . . .
With many a silvery waterbreak . . .
I loiter round my ’cresses.
Hm ! in view of Tennyson’s motto, “Je prends
inon bien lk oh je le trouve
A Dumas story. After his son’s great success
with “La Dame aux Camlias,” Alexandre
Dumas wrote to him as to a stranger, congratu-
lating him on the book apd expressing a desire to
make the author’s acquaintance. “ 1 myself am a
literary man,” said he, in conclusion, “and you
may nave heard my name as the author of
‘Monte Cristo.’” Dumas fils was equal to the
occasion. He wrote immediately in reply, ex-
pressing the great pleasure he would have in
making his correspondent’s acquaintance, princi-
pally on account of the high terms in which he
had always heard his father speak of the author
of “ Monte Cristo.”
Other erses.
THE UNREALISED IDEAL .
MY only Love is always near,
In country or in town :
I see her twinkling feet, I hear
The whisper of her gown.
She foots it ever fair and young,
Her locks are tied in haste,
And one is o’er her shoulder flung
And hangs below her waist.
She ran before me in the meads,
And down this world-worn track
She leads me on ; but while she leads
She never gazes back.
And yet her voice is in my dreams,
To witch me more and more :
That wooing voice ! Ah me, it seems
Less near me than of yore.
Lightly I sped when hope was high
And youth beguiled the chase,
follow, follow still; but I
Shall never see her face.
Frederick Locker.
SHE CAME AND WENT.
As a twig trembles which a bird
Lights on to sing, then leaves unbent,
So is my memory'thrill’d and stirr’d :
I only know She came and went.
As clasps some lake, by gusts unriven, l
The blue dome’s measureless content,
So my soul held that moment’s heaven:
I only know She oame and went.
As at one bound our swift Spring heaps
The orchards' full of blooni and scent,
So clove her May my wintry sleeps :
I only know She came and went.
An angel stood and met my gaze
Through the low doorway of my tent, —
The tent is.struck, the vision stays:
I only know She came and went.
O, when the room grows slowly dim,
And life’s last oil is nearly spent,
One gush of light these eyes will brim,
Only to think Slue came and went.
James Russell Lowell.
THE LAST SCENE.
Here she lieth, white and chill :
Put your hand upon her brow !
Her sad heart is very still.
And she does not know you now.
Ah 1 the grave’s a quiet bed :
‘She will sleep a pleasant sleen,
And the tears that you' may shed
Will not wake her, —therefore weep !
Weep ! for you have wrought her woe;
Mourn ! she mourn’d and died for you :
Ah ! too late we come to know
What is false and what is true.
William Winter.
SHE WAS NOT FAIR.
She was not fair, nor full of grace,
Nor crowned with thought or aught beside,
No wealth had she of mind or face,
To win our love or raise our pride ;
No lover’s thought her cheek did touch,
No poet’s dream was round her thrown r
And yet we miss her,—ah ! too much,
Now she hath flown.
We miss her when the morning calls,
As one that mingled in our mirth ;
We miss her when the evening falls, —
A trifle wanted on the earth ;
Some fanoy small, or subtle thought
Is check’d ere to its blossom grown,
Some chain is broken that we wrought,—
Now she hath flown.
No solid good non hope defined
Is marr’d now she hath sunk in night;
And yet the strong immortal Mind
Is stopp’d in its triumphant flight.
Stern friend ! what power is in a tear,
What strength in one poor thought alone,
When all we know is—She was here
And She hath flown !
Bryan Waller Procter.
DIRGE.
What shall we do now, Mary being dead,
Or say, or write, that shall express the half?
What can we do but pillow that fair head,
And let the Spring-time write her epitaph
As it will soon, in snow drop, violet.
Wind-flower, and columbine, and maiden’s tea*:
Each letter of that pretty alphabet
That spells in flowers'the pageant of the year.
She was a maiden for a man to love,
She was a woman for a husband’s life,
One that had learn’d to value far above
The name of Love the saered name of Wife.
Her little life-dream, rounded so with sleep,
Had all there is of life—except grey hairs :
Hope, love, trust, passion, and devotion deep,,
And that mysterious tie a Mother bears.
She hath fulfill’d her promise and hath pass’d.
Set her down gently at the iron door !
Eyes ! look on that loved image for the last:
Now cover it in earth—her earth no more!
Thomas William Parsons.


Second-hand
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 I’ER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
&Ain Wi6ea6e6.
s9leu) WkeoOery
“*£igmo{{iene. u
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
gir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
savs it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
sunerlieial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
PU lJgmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each] stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.”. Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRY MALYON,
1)1 amif<i during Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. E*,xxcS. 7a. 6ci. Eacla.
jv?" Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
GR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPVNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAREHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of al
others, I should say Chlorodyne I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of > simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.’
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlii constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
| Invaluable in all
i cases of anaemia and
I general debility.
I Highly recommended
, for weak and
I debilitat d children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL .-“It has all
the good effects of iron ivithout producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth "
'O'll BY CHF.MIST9 All. THF WOIU.D OVF.B.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
THE
Co-Operative Woo! & Produce Co,
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes -Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Loud on.
E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London by
UT" lE=t -A. 3NTISZ J" -A- RVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wales HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria-JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
ou?»*v
rtSK FOR
n
COMBINES
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
m
et»
oOt ‘n
44
II
mr
FRIEIiD
RAHERVEY.
171 C LARENCE. 5 T
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
nm
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
in o *, roaring, and buzzing noises
in'the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post card to-dny for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Doctors 7ske |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
and LOZENGES.
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
•*>
; :
•1" - •
■J
J. A.. WILKIMSOKT’S
COOL ALTA VINEYARDS.
Offices : 347 George Street, Sydney.
—London Medical Record.
WM
.
,£i r ‘
F"" 9 54 sr^Mt
-
W»«!|S , »S2
■**,,.tap&7’- W)IL * —r=ss-^3S-»*
NEW 6TYLS.
£ Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers from birth upwards*
/halted Food H°.3
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Foods,
needing the
addition of hot
water only.
hitherto known as “Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
Food,” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
Tlit Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENT'S, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire.
n
A
m
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN. ~ '
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE ’
V AN
Blutlmer
PIANOS
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
j/ianos
and
Organs
—ON —
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
BLUTHNEB
pianofortes
Grand and Upright.
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price, 2s. 6d.
Post Pree.
Tlie
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed free to
any address.
Sol*
Bgeijts-
■1
359 George Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins St., Mellioui^.


TATTERSALL’S
Aaaress: Care GEO.
ADAMS, Hobart.
GEELONG C. January 17.
25,000 Subscribers at 5
To TATTERSALL.
above.
Please allot me
shares in the
Name
Address
Anniversary H. January 26.
£O,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allcl me.
.shares in the above.
Name,
Address
Launceston C. February 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address 1
Hobart C. February 13.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
-shares in above.
Address
Newmarket H. March a
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in above.
Name,
Address
Newmarket H. (Special) Drawn Morning of Race
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name
Address
£
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart,


Never HAIR
Look'
Old
'
There is no need
of it. . You can
look at thirty as if
you are sixteen.
Then why look as
if you are sixty ?
Thick and glossy hair belongs to
youth. Thin and faded hair to old age.
L
mu
Hair
visor
will make your
hair soft and
glossy, rich
and abundant.
It will keep
your scalp free
from dandruff,
and will surely
prevent your
hair from fall-
ing out.
It Never Fails to Restore the
Natural Color to the Hair
It gives to the hair that soft, glossy
appearance so natural to early life. For
men, this means the look of strength
and power. For women, it is the one
ornament of youthful beauty.
Remember that pimples, rashes, and like
disfigurements of the face may be thoroughly
removed by taking a course of treatment witlj
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It will make the skin
smooth and the blood rich.
Prepared by Dr. .1. C. Ayer & Co.. Lovell, Mass., U. S. A.
<*
* *00
*p
s©
o*
d e< *
1 ROYAL testimonial.
ROYAL testimonial.
i Qju
'KW
' 4iCWt ;
j &en/t oWtAA+**
;
| -fajxOt
!
i <***£*
| £a^cXCj®^C*
; &
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Palling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Cleat;,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hajr. i/., 3/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO,, LTD.,
16, Be vis Marks, London, England.
Tbs B. ai)d N.Trcatn^cQt
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
1 ,1 efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility.
r° ss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing- memory, and Premature
Decay, it i s especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “ quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
i- n v becomes important to emphasise a really
tellable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with tli■
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar
niieist. Jt ig recommended with unqualified confidence.
10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS * STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Swvyyw;
CSS-O TO HELL-
-IGOI/AND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st„ Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
C ECU RE a Sbare of tbc Profits
Of THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY by effecting
a Policj* with that Office before the close of the year* ALL POLICIES ISSUED before the end of the year
WILL PARTICIPATE in the BONUS TO BE DECLARED AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1899 (all bonuses vest
immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). The amount of Cash Bonus distributed among tho
participating Policy-holders for the single year 1898, was £479,742.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR. ;
Intending proposers should note the above carefully and send in their applications early either direct or through the
Society's Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
Directors :—The Hon. Sir J. P. Abbott, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman;
A. W. Meeks, Esq. ; Joseph Abbott, Esq.; J. T. Walker, Esq.; R. J. Black, Esq. ; and B. Short, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
n
mn
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send for Price List. lEk
H. HILIiIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
158
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE’S PLAN.
Hi
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
m PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELON’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
0
&
V
ftn
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- &. 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
This is the Latest Typo
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, It is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
THE TAEKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
TF- ’T. N. OlrfersTimr, Manager.
asism ri
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel: *he
safest and most gentle
medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
m
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
iVT.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf- Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-slrcet, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying: from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A's; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
I Os. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every'description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
sent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL > T o. 2
£8 18/6
eg
RoHrered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Elopement.
The desert winds are blowing,
The desert sand’s afloat,
And comes a plaintive lowing
From dead-strewn lands remote ;
This barren waste around us,
Those granite hills so gray,
Shall now no longer bound us,
Our pathway trends away—
Beyond the long dark ranges
The glinting north stars lit,
The haze-world that so strange is
The nectar nymphs have quit;
T’where twilight world’s a-quiver
With willow wands on high,
We’ll cross the distant river,
My own true love and I!
Our faces to the south’ard,
What have we now to rue,
When western plains are smothered
Far from the lone Paroo ?
Look up, my blue-eyed beauty,
Look forward glad and free !
If not the voice of Duty,
’Tis love that calleth thee.
If some to west may wande 1 ,
And look with frowning brow,
With pleasure we may ponder,
Those bonds are broken now ;
And if the world deride us,
What’s all the world to this ?
E’en kith and kin may chide us,
These lips are ours to kiss !
Then hey for fountains flowing !
And ho for rivers wide !
Where briny winds are blowing
Across to Sydney side ;
T’ where autumn skies are clearest
We’ll cross the border line,
Tour hand in my hand, dearest,
Your sweet lips pressed to mine !
We’ve plighted, Love, for ever;
We’ve pledged in ruby wine ;
And nought but Death will sever
The bond that made you mine !
So if I be a rover
Thou'lt roam with me for aye,
And still be my true lover
When all is turning gray.
N.S.W.
EDWRD S. SORENSON.
Spring.
In the third season of the year
The weakling calves die fast;
Their luck withstood all previous shocks,
But Spring’s shock is their last.
The farmers all begin to boast
What harvests each will reap ;
The squatters call the shearers round
To tomahawk their sheep.
But soon the caterpillars swarm
Grasshoppers eat the feed ;
Farmers and.squatters, impotent,
Heave curses at the breed.
No rain descends ! The insect pest
Grows fat and multiplies.
The sad-eyed agriculturists
Gaze hopeless at the skies.
Grass, herbage, crops, now withered up—
Hope,cherished disappears.
The squatter finds he cannot sell
His wethers “off the shears.”
The “ mortgagee ” and “crop lien ” birds
To crops and lands fast cling ;
Though neither ever sang before,
Both warble in the Spring.
N.S.W.
E.D.S.
The Note that is Never Despised.
y.
O, singer of songs that are solemn,
Why chant us a joy-killing lay ?
Leave dead bells to dead men to toll ’em,
And grief to a gloomier day.
Strike notes that are living and true, man,
And themes that are simple and grand ;
If the key-note be only a woman,
A chorus is yours to command.
The rhythm of a sorrow may jingle
And linger awhile in our brains,
But love-laden numbers will tingle
The blood that is hot in our veins ;
So fashion your song old or new, man,
And trim with the magic ©f art—
If the key-note be only a woman
’Twill quicken humanity’s heart.
We don’t want the lay of the purist
In sentiments sampled and trite,
Nor the dull, loaded logic of jurist
In syllables solemn as night.
We long for a lay that is human,
Warm-blooded and wicked and bright,—
If the keynote be only a woman
We’ll catch up the tune with our might.
We’re thrilled by the throes of ambition
And moved by the moans of regret,
And touched by the tears of contrition
On faces grief-saddened and set,
Responsive to chords that are human,
Preferring the wild to the vvise ;
If the keynote be only a woman
We’ll chorus the song to the skies.
BEN SUN.


No discovery in recent years affects the pockets of the masses in Australia as
tl t fact that a roofing from 2/- to 12/- per square cheaper than Iron is already at our
doors. The best endorsement is the fact that its insulating and enduring properties
are recognised by the Government of New South Wales,
who are using it in the roofs of the Customs House, the General Post Office, on the
tram-cars, etc. Its name is
P. &B. EUBSEOID ROOFING,
and it is successfully Laid over Galvanised Wire Netting.
E. MICH & CO. LTD, SYDNEY, BMISBANE.
TattcrSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney,
W. J. Adams, Mauager>
Four Minutes to Leading 1 Theatres
and G-.P-O.
This Hofei has been built for
this purpose -To give visitors
to Sydney the best cuisine,
accommodation, attention, and
facilities in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
raN<^>
B 0C^ E
TANCENTS7TEL REEDS
PATENT
ufcfj
THU S39MEEANG.—The Best, Finest,
loudest, and Strongest Mouth Organ,
ever invented. Price, 2s. 6d. Post Free.
The special process of the alloy the Reeds are made of,
as well as their shape, gives that wonderful tonality to
the instrument.
A. & SOW,
/1 V King Street, Sydney,
Manufacturers of the famous Boomerang Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
CATALOGUES of Violins, Cornets. Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Pol.vpnoue Music Boxes Posted FREE.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
nm
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH&COB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
Oj*catest fesmand
Cameo c
ion
$>
Because, the Best.
NOBEL-SLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
n
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
all cartridges branded.
HOBEL’S Sporting BILUSTIT€.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
£8
r
" y Wm
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPOUTING BAIL.I.ISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899 ; or over <£looo more than any other powder. —Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PARVO 2-ineh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N.S.W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.;
Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.
Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
OVER
obacco
DIXSON & SONS’ Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being 904 Tons above any other manufacturer.
00DLE.
Dixson’s Great Leading* Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION - - ,*-
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS - -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of G-old Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 2L—No. 1038.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, 1000.
Price Gd.
i (O IS
hif-cirae.
ujis isnot' an animated discussion upontfit Con-
dncl'of- ftit mr mjlfrm, hut a rancorous
dispute kbhdw'c] tnJo joutij cihizns as to
kHjpttjtr Up y or y ijol - tiji fwqtiiQj foyfuiy .
Cjetvv'clHy fye&HitSerjior.
officers of' petite klill See Iffatffe
cictis Corrjptied riitfj.
Hi :
%
ja) r c >ck
ftgk&S
1 CQtej; ybuwfa^)/
~v/d/\T rf/hHI . ,
"K.e/“ £■ C ht cK of- Mojitv&n- cforje fo Africa IViflf /\. hrj aj ch^^l 1 )-
Jfs a ‘pifos Ifut fje did ijoh faK.£ fljaf dreadful, <Wly fcefif wil^fjuy-
'Talk about Lydirf zhell s !
SOME SYDNEY FANCIES AND FANTASIES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 6
Quarterly... ... ... 0 b b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal aote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F-
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for 'same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a' good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
raid I'or as a suggestion only. The conditions under
whicli such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, /?.(’. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
.fc Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Cajtetoirn; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria. S. Australia.,
Westralia, and MaorUand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Neivspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
Cs. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Outing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s, 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exactedby the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TT^^xzlle&n.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, 1900.
Our Australian Usurer.
A FEW days ago this paper happened on the
particulars of one of the ordinary cases of
usury which occur every day in every Aus-
tralian city. It was quite a usual case, and
there are hundreds and thousands like it, or
worse; still, the particulars are more or less
interesting. The borrower was a widow—the
usual kind of widow’, whose husband had
always attended to financial affairs, and who
knew about as much of business herself as any
other plain or colored female. She had
probably seen a cheque half-a-dozen times in
her life, and knew as much about the need for
a 2d. stamp on a receipt as Hannibal did.
She was left with a house worth £3OO and
some pressing debts, and she wanted to raise
£5O to pay the debts. Any building society
or insurance office would have lent the money
at 7 per cent, or less, but, like many other
widows, she didn’t know. She looked at the
advertisement of a loan-and-discount company
fiend, and w’ent to him. The alleged company,
by the way, consisted of one spidery individual,
so the lie and fraud started even before his office
was entered —it was w aiting outside on the door-
plate. He offered to lend the money at about
5 per cent., which looked reasonable enough.
So his client signed a vast confused document
which was utterly beyond her comprehension
and it panned out thus : £6O to be advanced in
cash less £lO deducted for interest in advance,
making the loan really £5O ; £36 to be charged
as a year’s interest on the £5O, and about £6
for costs of mortgage ; money , to be repaid by
12 monthly instalments of £3, and then, at the
end of the 12th month, the w’hole balance to fall
due. In other words, the borrower received
£5O on security worth £3OO ; and in return for
this she was to pay £36 by 12 monthly instal-
ments of £3, and after paying the £36 she
would still owe £56, including the “ costs of
mortgage,” which would be payable in a
lump. And if she couldn’t pay it either
the £3OO worth of property would be
seized, or else she would have to execute
another mortgage with probably £8 costs this
time, and agree to pay, perhaps, £5O for the
next year’s interest. And at the end of the
next year, and after paying 12 more monthly
instalments of £3, she would owe about £7B,
and it would be necessary to execute a third
mortgage, which would also cost a lot of
money in alleged law expenses, and start paying
larger monthly instalments to keep the interest
from swamping her altogether. In fact she
about sold herself, body and soul, for life in
return for £5O. And the unfortunate little
woman didn’t know, till it was fully explained
to her, that this wasn’t 5 per cent, or that she
had done anything unusual. She actually
believed that 12 instalments of £3 each would
pay off the whole £92, because the loan-and-
discount institution told her so, and she
thought that £36 was 5 per cent, interest on
£5O for the same reason.
* * * *
There are multitudes of people, mostly
women, who never reach the age of consent in
financial matters ; who never really know the
multiplication-table ; who hear about 5 per
cent., and are no more enlightened thereby
than if they heard of the plesiosaurus and the
differential calculus and the Fourth Dimension.
On questions of arithmetic about half the
population even of this enlightened community
ought to be in a lunatic asylum, though it can
be safely let out of the asylum on most other
matters. The Bulletin presumes, in default
of any better explanation, that they are that
way because Providence made them that way.
The theory of those who object to rigid anti-
usury laws is that every adult person who
doesn’t go about with visible straws in his hair
ought to be capable of self-preservation in
financial transactions, and if he makes a ridicu-
lously bad bargain he ought to take the
consequences. And by the same lucid method
of reasoning adulteration laws and laws
against the sale of diseased flesh should
be abolished ; the person who is foolish enough
to buy poisonous liquor and cancered meat
should stand the consequences. Also the laws
against murder should be wiped off the Statute-
book ; the person who is so utterly dull and
stupid as to let himself be killed deserves to be
dead. As for laws against embezzlement,
plain theft, and fraud of any kind, they are
obviously absurd. Anybody who is so un-
speakable a fool as to let himself be defrauded,
or to keep his money where it can be stolen,
calls for np sympathy when he loses it.
• * * •
The Bulletin believes in rigid anti-usury
laws for exactly the same reason which makes
it believe in laws against adulteration, the sale
of fatal meat, murder, embezzlement, assault,
plain robbery, and all other crimes. It could
never see how any person’s inability to defend
himself is a reason why the law' should refuse
to defend him. The law has already gone
back utterly on its own plea of individual re-
sponsibility. The ignorant woman who signs a
document making herself the monetary slave of
a money-lender because she doesn’t know' any
better, would be quite as likely, for the same
reason, to sign a paper making herself his per-
sonal slave and chattel, after the good old
fashion When human beings were saleable pro-
perty. Yet, in the first case, the law doesn’t
protect her against her own ignorance and the
swindlers who trade thereon ; it simply says
that she shouldn’t be ignorant, and she must
take the consequences. In the second case it
certainly would go back on its own doctrine of
personal responsibility, and would say that she
must be protected against the evil results of her
ignorance, and that she must not take the con-
sequences. The law hasn’t the courage to fully
accept its own doctrine. In cases of usury it
holds that every person must scramble for him-
self or herself ; that it is nobody’s business—
not even the law’s —to protect anybody else ;
that if the strong get the better of the weak then
it is the fault of the weak—they shouldn’t be
weak, and they deserve no sympathy. And its
practice in almost every other matter is a direct
reversal of this theory.
* * * *
The Federal Constitution provides that mat-
ters relating to bills of exchange, promissory
notes, banking, and trading and financial cor-
porations come within the scope of the Federal
Parliament. If sufficient strain can be put on
these clauses to make them cover anti-usury
legislation then this paper lives in the glad
belief that it may shortly see this matter dealt
with by Federal law'. It puts its trust in the
Federal Parliament because that institution is
built on a democratic basis, and because the
Fat element in the State Parliaments is too
strong. It hopes to see it enacted that no inter-
est shall exceed (say) 10 per cent, on the money
actually advanced, any attempt to charge
more than that, either by way of interest,
bonus, expenses, or under any other pretence
whatever, to be punishable by forfeiture of
both interest and principal —the interest to be
wiped out altogether, while half the principal
goes to the State and the other half to the
informer. The money-lender is one of the
great army of non-producers, and, as every
non-producer must live on the producer in
some shape or form, his extinction will make
life a shade easier for the actual worker. The
term producer is certainly a very w'ide one. It
covers everybody' who supplies the community
with anything to eat, drink, wear, or live in,
with mental food of any kind, with rational
amusement, with information, with aid in
sickness or with anj means of averting sick-
ness ; this paper would hardly even say
definitely that it doesn’t cover the black-
clothed person who produces a more or less
delusive hope about a hereafter. But it doesn’t
include the burglar, pickpocket, defaulting'
trustee, forgerer or usurer. No amount of'';
straining can spread the term over them.
Barking up the Wrong Tree.
Mr. A. Brittlebank, a well-known Aus-
tralian, formerly of Lane’s Paraguayan colony,
writes to The Bulletin from Bloemfontein,
Orange Free State :
It was with amazement that I read of the workers of
Australia volunteering to invade the South African Re-
public, where democracy is just striving to rear its head
in defiance of the threats of the money-grubbing and
land-grabbing aristocracy which now directs the destinies
of the British nation. Shame on ihe Australian people
in making an exhibition of their mean sycophancy and
contemptible toadyism to jingo Imperialism ! The demo-
crats of Europe and America will think that Australian
working-men are still wearing swaddling-clothes if they
are so easily led to believe in the humbug of a hireling
press and the Brummagem cheap-jack clap-trap served
up to a gullible public at £3OOO a year by mercenary edi-
tors hot out of the oven of British conservatism. Such
are the men who have been employed by the capitalists
of Johannesburg to create a crisis by constitutional
means, after their buccaneering raid had miserably failed
in its object.
The Jameson piratical attempt to seize the Transvaal
had in it the element of courage, and although it happily
failed, it was to some extent admirable because of the
pluck of the unscrupulous thieves, many of whom wore
the Queen’s uniform.
The present manufacturers’ crisis is devoid even of that
quality which gave tone to the previous attempt to steal
the goldfields of the Transvaal. The capitalist clique
which has amassed millions out of the soul of Africa can
only be likened to cormorants who, having eaten the gar-
bage, want to devour the platter.
The history of British rule in Africa is replete with
instances of broken conventions and fraudulent transac-
tions. The British annexed the Orange Free State, and
then abandoned it and declared it independent, because
they thought it not worth keeping on account of the cost.
When retiring from it they covenanted to supply the
Boers with gunpowder to light the Basutos, but the pro-
mise was never kept.
When the diamond-fields were discovered to be in the
Orange Free State’s territory the British authorities
promptly seized the land. Then they acknowledged that
the Diamond Fields were Free State territory by offering
£90,000 in payment for the stolen property —£90,000 for
a district which has yielded about £4,000,000 a year for
the last twenty years.
* * * •
The Boer farmers trekked north of the Vaal and
founded the South African Republic, which was also
taken from them but again given back by the British for
the same reason—it was not at that time thqught worth
holding. Unhappily gold was found on the Witwaters-
rand, and forthwith the land-sharks and adventurers,
diamond-buyers and unconvicted thieves, invaded the
district and started eompany-mongering on a gigantic
scale. They floated companies for hundreds of thousands
of pounds share capital, but the hundreds of thousands
of pounds were mostly swallowed up in promoters’ shares
and first robbers’profits. The ultimate results exceeded
the wildest dreams of the promoters and a city sprang up
which now rivals Australian capitals in grandeur and
magnitude. The thieves’ market or Stock Exchange
surpasses anything in Australia. But notwithstanding
the fact that the most liberal gold-law in the world
obtains, and that the customs duties are less than in the
Cape Colony, that many licenses are granted for the
nominal sum of ten shillings per month and that the size
of the claims is larger than in Australia by 150 feet along
the reef and 400 feet wide, and that the average yield is
almost constant, still these easy conditions are not
enough to satisfy the rapacity of the vultures who
exploit the mines. The strangers were welcomed to the
Boer domicile and now they want co steal the house.
Anyone two degrees removed from a fool knows quite
well that the franchise question is only a stalking-horse
in the main. Lust for political power and supremacy has
accompanied the gain of vast fortunes. The real grievance
is the rapid growth of Republican principles as repre-
sented by the Africander Bond. The Rhodes party is
disgusted because it has not political dominion over the
richest gold-spot on earth, and the power of might over
right is again endeavoring to assert itself by every device
which chicanery can invent and capital purchase. The
arch-enemies of democracy are all behind the scenes.
They own and control the press, with few exceptions.
They send lying telegrams all over the world about the
tyranny of the Transvaal Government. Malicious sophis-
tical statements have been imported into the leading
articles of the press till people at a distance actually
believe that the inhabitants of Johannesburg are living
under a reign of terror, and that life is not worth living
in the Golden City, whereas the place is as safe as any
town in Australia.
• * * *
The South African Republic is not perfect; it is too
easy. The gold-mining regulations are far too favorable
to the companies. There are practically no regulations
to safeguard the lives of the miners. There is not one
fearless-enough Government-inspector to see that the
few mining regulations are carried out. There are no
laws relating to ventilation or sanitary arrangements in
the mines, and there is an entire disregard on the part of
the companies to establish anything like hygienic condi-
tions. Everything is subservient to record-dividends;
the worship of mammon gives place to every other con-
sideration. Notwithstanding 50 per cent, dividends,
many of the gold-mining camps neglect even to provide
bathrooms for their employes, and these men when they
come up from the mines, begrimed with sweat
and stonedust from the rock-drills, have to wash
their bodies in hand-basins. On man3' of the outcrop
mines there are no sanitary arrangements whatever, and
the pestilential state of things below, where from 600 to
700 are employed from 7 a.m. till 4 or 5 p.m., can better
be imagined than described. Still worse, the mine water
is often contaminated with sewage and is used for drink-
ing purposes and culinary necessities when other sup-
plies fail, the result being disastrous outbreaks of
typhoid fever amongst both white and black employes.
It would be tedious to enumerate all the squalid condi-
tions which have grown out of the insensate greed of the
millionaire capitalists, such as the prohibition of football
and other sports on the ground that such exercises ex-
haust the energy of the men and take too much out of
these human machines and unfit them for the next day’s
work. But the Transvaal Government did not make
these conditions. They arose out of the greed of
the crowd which professes to be striving to secure liberty
(of all things in the world) for the British inhabitants.
The Government’s fault lay in the fact that it tolerated
these things in its anxiety to give no further handle to
the sharks who live on it and conspire against it, and in
its dread of the British Government which backs them up.
The celebrated petition of 21,000 signatures cost several
hundred pounds. The alleged spontaneous meetings
were simply organised attempts to set the people against
the Government, and were engineered and paid for by
the capitalists who wired misleading accounts to the ends
of the earth. They worked the cry of the starving poor
of Johannesburg for over two months and dropped it as
soon as it had served its purpose. Then a more astute
and accomplished literary prostitute was imported from
England to carry on the agitation till it reached a point
where the British Government could, with some show of
reason, protest.
• * » *
What are Australian working men thinking about
when they volunteer to abet the blood-guilty schemes of
a Tory Government in its designs on a democratic Repub-
lic which is doing its best to uphold the very principles
which liberty-loving Australian workmen are striving to
establish in Australia? I feel sure these militant, mis-
guided men would bow their heads in shame if they knew
the true aspects of the case, and it is to their eternal dis-
grace that they went into this war without first learning
what these aspects are. I should think Australians
would rather admire the magnificent patriotism animat-
ing the Dutch burghers who have left their farms and
families at the clarion-call to duty to defend with their
lives the integrity of their native land. These men are
of no common order. In their veins runs the blood of
the Huguenots and the old Sea Kings, men of our own
religion, God-fearing men who only want to be left alone
to work out their own destiny in thejr own way. They
are brave men who elect to pit themselves against the
trained legions of mighty England rather than admit the
interference of a foreign power in their own internal
policy. Such men may be exterminated, but they will
never be subdued. They will tight to the death as the
Australians would fight for liberty against the machina-
tions of capital over the rights of the masses, and what-
ever may be the outcome these patriots will be sure to
render a good account of themselves in the hour of trial.
Very few Australians realise the dire distress which the
crisis has produced amongst the English working popu-
lation of which Johannesburg and district is mainly
composed—the sacrifice of their worldly goods—the con-
sternation of women and children who have delayed their
departure to the last in the vain hope that hostilities
niiuht be averted —the mad rush to secure room in
cattle-trucks none too cleanly and open to the vicissi-
tudes of the weather (severe thunderstorms prevail at
this season of the year, and hundreds of the unhappy
refugees have had to stand in this sub-tropical downpour
of rain with crying children, wet to the skin, hungry
and miserable, during a 200-mile journey into British
territory). Such scenes of woe would bring remorse into
the breasts of all honorable men. When these poor
wretches reach their destination, penniless and starving,
their utter hopelessness becomes still more apparent.
Trade has been disorganised all over South Africa, there
is no prospect whatever of employment for the bread-
winners—the victims of capitalistic intrigue. The general
exodus has thrown everything out of gear. House-rents
in the coast-towns have gone up to £l2 per month for
three rooms, payable in advance. Yet in the midst of this
desolation and misery the capitalists who have brought it
all on are hanging on to their money-bags aqd the burden
of feeding these thousands of starving wretches falls on
the municipalities. These cruel wrongs have been in-
flicted on a helpless people to satisfy the ambition and
vainglorious thirst for supremacy by a handful of irre-
sponsible millionaires who have long since conveyed their
vile carcases out of the range of bullets.
A remarkable feature about this wretched franchise
question is the fact that if the same conditions were en-
forced in the Transvaal as obtain amongst the nomadic
shearing population of the Australias and the working
class in England regarding the residential qualification,
very few of the Uitlander workers could exercise the fran-
chise when granted, for the reason that they are subject
to twenty-four hours’ notice and are continually
changing their residence. And if the educational test
applied in the British colony of Natal were applied in the
Transvaal five-sixths of the Outlanders would never have
been admitted to the country at all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bogus “Atrocity.”
Now that the war correspondents of the Aus-
tralian papers have arrived at the Cape, and
information which is not officially faked by tlie
official censor begins to filter through, it be-
comes increasingly evident what a sinful liar
and slanderer that censor is. Something of
this, indeed, has already leaked out. Up to
date almost every alleged Boer atrocity which
came through by censored cable, and was pub-
lished amid a yell of execration in the most
conspicuous part of the daily papers, with a
heading in letters about as large as the editor,
has been flatly contradicted afterwards by mail
—in very small type with no glaring headlines.
Not one person saw the contradiction for 1000
who saw the original lie, but still the daily
papers, by reason of the fact that they did
publish the contradiction as soon as it arrived,
are able to claim that they are maintaining an
unbiassed attitude over the matter. The fact
that one attitude is nearly a foot long and the
other about half-an-inch is a mere side ques-
tion. But now the unpleasant contradictions
are coming in faster and with more emphasis.
Last Wednesday, for instance, Sydney Evening
News correspondent sent this along, and it was
printed in small letters, with no great blobs of
ink on top to draw public attention :
A few of our wounded were left on the scene of the en-
gagement, and were treated well by the Dutch, who,
when our ambulance arrived, apologised for their crude
arrangements, asserting that they were not so well pro-
vided for the comfort of the wounded as the British.
Indeed, so far as I have been able to learn, the Boers have
generally respected the Red Cross, and when they have
fired on the ambulance it has been because some of our
unwounded officers have taken refuge there ( !) About this
you will probably hear more anon, as I understand a
court-martial will be held.
And this, again, is “ Banjo ” Paterson, in the
S.M. Herald of last Thursday :
All the talk about Boers being savages is nonsense
They treat the wounded well. I saw a man to-day
who had four bullet wounds, and he had nothing
but good to say of the Boers. They assisted him
in every way they could. Here the ultimate success
of the English is looked upon as assured ; but there is a
deep political question underlying it all. The Cape
Ministry is looked upon as pro-Boer, and the British
organs call them all sorts of names. But the fact re-
mains that they hold office by a vote of a majority of the
local House. There are more locals against the war than
for it, and the extremist papers on the English side here
are urging that after the war the franchise should be
taken from the pro-Boer party. This seems strange in
view of the fact that the war itself is undertaken solely
to get the franchise for the Uitlanders. . . . We think of
the Boers as semi-savages. We have plenty people just
as rough as they are. We have 150 Boer prisoners here,
and 30 more coming in. They are square sturdy men,
much the type of our bushmen.
These writers, be it remembered, are repre-
senting papers which are strongly anti-Boer,
and they certainly were not sent out to write
up the campaign from the Boer point of view.
But their contradictions arrive slowly by
mail ; the lying atrocity gets here by cable
and has a long start. “Banjo” Paterson’s
letter draws attention to another remarkable
point. To the people here who have always
been led to believe that Britain and Australia
are fighting in the noble cause of free suffrage
and equal Parliamentary representation, it
sounds rather curious to hear that the strongly
British party at the Cape is demanding the
disfranchisement of the Dutch population—
somewhere about half the community. Is
Australia fighting to enfranchise the British
alien in the Transvaal (who, as an alien, has no
legal claim whatever to the franchise), or to
disfranchise the Dutch citizen at the Cape
(who, as a British citizen, has a fair claim to
the franchise) ? Or what is Australia fighting
about ?
♦
The Alleged “Loyalty” of Australia.
Canada, or part of it, appears to be really a
“ loyal ” dependency of Britain ; and the
“enthusiasm” there is fairly genuine. Aus-
tralian loyalty doesn’t amount to a row of pins.
In spite of the British yell for help, the ser-
vility of Australian Parliaments, and the bounc-
ing pay offered, there has been practically no
response to “ the Empire’s call.” City news-
papers may shriek about that “Empire,” and
city crowds line the streets to watch contingents
go ; but if you declare a public holiday to look
at a three-legged calf, and advertise the
calf as well as the contingents were ad-
vertised, and export the calf with flags
waving and bands playing, you w’ould
get just as big a crowd to watch it go. The
two or three thousand men gone and going
from Australia to shoot Boers would go just as
readily to shoot parrots, or Paraguayans, or
polar hears, if they had the same amount of
Govt, and newspaper backing, and the same
pay, and the same chance of sport. In every
community there are hundreds of young
bloods, with a happy ignorance of responsi-
bility, ready to go anywhere and shoot any-
thing for the fun of the thing. But the city
crowds risk nothing; the newspaper writers risk


nothing; and the Jingo politicians risk nothing—
not even their cash. They dig joyous hands in
the public Treasury, and blow the expense.
They won’t have Lo pay. The cost of the con-
tingents must, in the long run, come out of the
producers—the men on the land ; and, when
the bill is presented, it will take Australia’s
breath away. Before even the comparative few
who have already gone to the Transvaal get
back, the chances are they will cost this country
not less than .£500,000 —and maybe more.
What could Australia do with £500,000, of
lasting benefit to Australia? How many
interior roads and bridges could be made?
how many prospectors could be aided?—how
many pioneer farmers tided over critical
seasons ? Is it any wonder that, as a whole,
the sentiment of the Bush is strongly against
fhe war, and against the shameful part uncon-
cerned Australia has taken in it? They talk
of sending away a bush contingent. Doubtless
they will get it, of a sort, if the frolic is pro-
mising enough and the pay good enough. That
does not alter the face that the bulk of Aus-
tralian bushmen, ready enough to fight in
defence of Australia, would know themselves
disgraced if they permitted themselves to be
exported to shoot Boers or any other race fight-
ing for their own country —their Australia—
against syndicates and politicians.
Servant-G-alism.
Though Maoriland has successfully tackled
many long-standing big social problems, the
servant-girl difficulty is as bad there as any-
where else. Even Seddoh hasn’t found a
remedy for that, nor seriously attempted one.
The situation is about this : Given the fact
that, for some inscrutable reason, a girl com-
mits social suicide by becoming a servant;
that she loses the ordinary right which belongs
even to the dust-cart man of having a courtesy
title before her name, and becomes plain Mary ;
that she is the butt of the comic papers, and
the subject of the familiarities of the butcher’s
hoy ; that in the mind of the average man in a
good position she ranks about with the
aboriginal, so far as matrimonial purposes are
concerned, and that socially she is on a level
with the dog and the cat, inasmuch
as they all have their habitual resi-
’ ® nce ’I 1 the kitchen considering all
hese things, why are servants so beastly
scarce? A number of people have lately
een holding forth on the old stock grievance,
a , nd , k' )e Maoriland papers have risen up and
s led much gloom on it to no purpose. The
‘‘fu*" answer appears to be that as long as
. ’am slavey ” has to herd with cockroaches
’n the kitchen during her hours of ease, she
wi be scarce. No girl has a natural craving
or cockroaches. Maoriland should be able to
na a remedy if any place can. Women there
plentiful, and better educated than the
veiage. If the State would start a university
-servants, and turn out a new class of slavey
1 i a B. A. degree—the kind t hat would be an
rnament to a Dignified family, and that
no one would expect to flock with beetles
in the kitchen in her spare time, it might
be the beginning of better things. Govern-
esses are plentiful enough, but if the go-
verness was required to share the kitchen
with the beetles, and was always called
Jane, she would probably be quite as
scarce as the slavey. Maoriland did a big
thing when it practically solved the questions,
of strikes and Old-Age Pensions. If it can go
one better and solve the servant-girl problem it
will be famous all the world over. When it
invents a new kind of slavey, and barristers
and merchants and squatters get into the habit
of marrying the desirable new slavey by way of
showing that the social ban has been lifted,
then the trouble should be nearing a solution.
—<
Down Went McG-inty.
The Law in the person of Judge a’Beckett
got into a state of quite unnecessary excitement
in Melbourne lately, and vindicated its majority
in what it probably imagined was a very
vigorous fashion ; as a consequence of which
one McGinty went down—for five years.
McGinty aforesaid was the husband of a local
hotel licensee, who had been charged with
common or side-door Sunday trading. During
the hearing of this case the husband and three
young men—apparently customers—made cer-
tain statements in denial of the alleged Sunday
trading, and these led to their being charged
with, and ultimately convicted of, perjury.
Iwo of the alleged prevaricators were strongly
recommended to mercy ; as was also McGinty
himself, lhen the Majesty of the Law arose
in all its terrors, ordered the three so-
called accomplices six months’ hard labor
apiece, and paralysed the unfortunate
McGinty by sending him to gaol for five years !
McGinty and the other three were witnesses
for the defence, and the only reason why thev
were convicted of perjury was that they denied
the Sunday trading, whereas the jury found
that it really existed. Of course when one
party to a case flatly asserts a thing and
another flatly denies it, one of them is com-
mitting perjury, and when the jury decides
one way it thereby definitely finds that the
people who swore the other way are perjurers.
And the Victorian law has a perfect right to
deal with them as perjurers, if it only dealt
with them all alike. But it doesn’t. It is
always the witnesses for the defence who are
prosecuted for perjury; never those for the
Grown. Almost every day, in licensing and
other cases, magistrates and juries refuse to
accept the sworn statements of policemen and
other Crown witnesses, yet no one ever
hears of these presumed perjurers being tried.
Therefore it appears that the Victorian Crown
Law Department holds that perjury committed
to obtain the conviction of an innocent man is
lawful, and perjury committed to procure the
acquittal of a guilty one is a hideous crime.
And for these reasons Victorian justice is a
scandal and a disgrace, and a thing that would
stink in the nostrils of every decent man, if the
average decent man had enough intelligence to
recognise a moral stench when he met it.
More Coupon.
“ Cockney ” again-speaks on the coupon ques-
tion :
My reference to the petty provincialism of Parliament-
ary meddling with the coupon system appears to have
perturbed the small minds of sundry small shopkeepers
one w^lorn tells you—as though he were imparting
valuable information—that “ the ultimate result of the
system must be that many other coupon companies will
spring up, and every shopkeeper will ultimately be com-
pelled to give coupons, which simply means that the
customers and the employes will both be sweated to keep
another horde of unprofitable middlemen.” Perhaps it
isn t worth while to reply to a small shopkeeper who has
the impudence to object to “unprofitable middlemen ”
but. here goes. The coupon system is a mere passing
incident in the cut-throat competition that goes on for
ever among the little traders in every little street. If it
is a popular system with some customers then it
must encourage cash trading, seeing that coupons
are only obtainable for cash. The germ of long life is not
in the S3 7 stem. It is born to die and be born again in a
new form—just like its mortal enemies. But if, whilst it
lives, it tends to strengthen some shops and kill others
off, it is indeed a blessed system. Small shops with
small shopkeepers in carpet slippers waiting in the back
pailor for customers, as spiders wait for flies, represent
an awful loss of useful labor to this young country. Any
temporary means of diminishing the number of unprofit-
able middlemen must make for “ the development of our
vast natural resources.” There is something to be said in
favor of aged female shopkeepers, of course, but even
among aged females there is cut-throat competition, and
it doesn t matter a straw whether the woman across the
street is ruined by Mrs. Jones’s coupon system or by the
superior ‘ window dressing’ or other business tactics of
that more brainy trader.”
Rising in Judgment.
Even a Government’s best doings rise up in
judgment against it when election time comes.
Probably among all good deeds of the Seddon
Ministry the one that saved the country most
in immediate cash was its rescue of the” Bank
of New Zealand. This, from Auckland
Observer, is a fair sample of how that act
looked when last general election was on :
But the deed has been done, and to-day the taxpayer
is paying the piper. Wherein lies the advantage to the
colony? We utterly fail to see it. Better, far better,
had the State held aloof and allowed the Bank of New
Zealand to pay the full penalty of a long course of riotous
living by perishing ignobly along with its co-partner in
dissipation, the Colonial Bank. Whom did the State
succour and befriend? Certainly not the poor confiding
dupes of shareholders who invested their capital in the
Bank of New Zealand, for they have been ground to the
dust and stripped of all they had. It was the directors,
to whom they confided their interests, and who ran the
institution mainly, if not wholly, for their own
personal aggrandisement. These were the people whom
the State put its revenue in pawn to raise upon their
feet, and whose burdens the taxpayers of Maoriland
now stagger under. What did the Bank of New Zealand
do for the colony to deserve such generous, self-sacrific-
ing treatment : It lived like a vampire, battening for
years upon the blood of the people. It levied a species
of blackmail upon industrial enterprise. It played the
role of the usurious shent-per-sbenter. And it gambled
wildly with the moneys it was trusted to conserve.
Every trading concern felt, its blighting influence, and it
farmed the colony like a huge monopoly. Vast tracts of
land were looked up by it from settlement, industry was
throttled, progress was stayed, and the country lay stif-
fened under a thrall which nearly broke its heart. In-
stead of hurling this Old Man of the Sea from our shoul-
ders, the Government have made him a perpetual State
pensioner.
Of course the-B.N.Z. isn’t a State pensioner ;
it pays every cent of the interest on'the money
which the State advanced to it. And the old
directors weren’t put on their feet; they were
simply chucked out. And the taxpayers stagger
under no burden. But the amazing circum-
stance is the demand to know who was benefited
when the State practically took over the great
bank. There were about £9,000,000 of deposits
in the B.N.Z. when it so nearly closed its doors
in ’95. If the “ignoble” institution had been
allowed to go, about half the employers in
Maori land would have paid no wages next
Saturday because their ready cash was locked
up pending the long process of liquidation.
About one-fourth of them would probably have
gone broke through the locking up of their
ready money. About a fourth of the population
would have been thrown out of work ; in the
general distress property values would have
gone down some £20,000,000 to £40,000,000 ;
the 8.N.Z., forced to realise its properties in
the market which its stoppage had wrecked,
would probably have paid its depositors about
7s. fid. in the £; and it would have taken ten
years before the province looked up again out
of the ruin. That isn’t a fancy picture ; it is
what happened in Victoria because that pro-
vince, when the trouble came along, had
Patterson instead of Seddon. If Seddon
hadn’t rescued the B.N.Z. the same Tory press
which now curses him for doing the rescue
would have been demanding that he should be
hanged, drawn and fried as a man who meanly
sacrificed his country to his private animosities,
because some of the B.N.Z. directors were his
political opponents.
A Soul-Wail.
Moan of bitter grief from the anti-Federal
Brisbane Telegraph (11th December), under
the heading “ Our Last Independence Day”:—
Those persons who have sold Queensland to be governed
from Melbourne will rejoice with that particular sort of
siinperinsr jrladness which characterises idiots that this
may he the last anniversary kept in celebration of the
independence of Queensland. The period of that inde-
pendence has been forty years. Should our independence
terminate now, it will aid in o-ivinf; color to the supersti-
tion that there is something- fatal about the number
forty. We are told that once upon a time it rained for
forty days and forty nights. That was the time during
which Moses was in the mountain ; and for forty years
Israel was in the wilderness. We all have heard of the
forty years’ war ; and when the Crimean war broke out
serious persons accepted it as a matter of course because
just then there had been forty years’ peace. Queensland
has had forty years of independence; but should the union
of Australia take place within the year the independence
of Queensland will be a thing of the past. There are
persons who will he idiotic enough to believe that
although Queensland has wrought such wonders during
the past forty years because she was independent, she is
going to do immeasurably better during the next forty
years because she is to be put under conditions more
restrictive and humiliating than those from which she
was liberated forty years ago. It seems cruel to damp
their joy by reminding them, as we have so often done,
that the majority vote of Queensland against the pro-
posed union covered the southern and central districts,
which contain 83 per cent, of the white population of this
country.
The organ of many foolish parsons here meets
with its invariable ill-luck. It is evidently
thinking of the Thirty Years War—there is no
notable Forty Years War in history. Also it
was 39 —not 40—years between the Waterloo
cam pai gn and the Crimean War, and that 39 years
wasn’t 40 years of peace ; the period of alleged
peace was broken by three gory campaigns.
And there was no majority vote of Queensland
against the Federation Bill ; there was no
majority vote against it in the Central district,
there wasn’t even one in the Southern district
—there wasn’t oue anywhere outside poor little
paroehial-souled Brisbane. The spectacle of
the Brisbane Telegraph raising its gaunt and
bony lie above the waters of affliction, and
struggling to assure the public that the big
Federal majority of a few months ago is all an
optical delusion, is an extraordinary spectacle.
—+- ~
Instead of the Australian, who mostly has
never seen a gun fired in anger, going mad with
righteous indignation at the news of how the
coarse, unfeeling Boer fired on British hospi-
tals, it would be not amiss if he would resort
to a shaded spot, and take off all his clothes,
and sit on the flat side of a cool half water
melon, and put the other half on his head to
soothe his boiling intellect, and do a serious
think. No doubt the Boers have fired on
British hospitals. Almost certainly there is
equal truth in the Boer assertion” that the
British fired on their hospitals. Hospitals are
fired on in every war, by the most humane com-
manders. Nowadays towns are bombarded at
two or three or four or five miles range, and
when a small town is the target at that range,
the gunner is hardly responsible for what part
of it he hits. Often he doesn’t hit it at
all—then the Jingo papers say he is a
ridiculously bad marksman. Sometimes he
does hit it but strikes the hospital part of it—
then they imply he is such ariahsolutely infallible
marksman that he couldn’t possibly have done
it save by malice aforethought, premeditated
murder, and the deep, dark devilishness of his
had heart. The situation is that of a man about
Sydney G.P.O. with instructions to bombard
the little township of Coogee, and destroy it
all he can, but not on any account to hit one
particular cottage. As a case in point some
Sydney warriors lately bombarded the local
cricket ground, yet in their case it wasn’t set
down as a proof of any murderous designs on
the cricketers. There is no especial reason to
suppose the cable is lying when it alleges that
a British hospital was shelled but when it im-
plies that this is a proof of malice and
inhumanity, and that the circumstance is any-
thing unusual, it is lying—by implication at
least.
Ie Australia goes on as it is doing it will find
itself presently let in for international compli-
cations. At Broken Hill the spirit of loyalty
lias broken out in many dozen bottles, and the
people there, having a wild idea that a Boer is
exactly the same as a Dutchman, and that a
Dutchman is a German, tried to keep up the
unity of the empire by wrecking the German
club. They were staved off by the police, hub
the public fury has become so bad that local
Germans are trying to save themselves from
loyal and patriotic stoush by advertising in the
papers that they are not Boers, and don’t
sympathise with those people at all.
Apparently, the crowd which is so anxious
about freedom of speech and personal liberty
in the Transvaal doesn’t mind if these
iiriicl.es became a little scarce at, home:
Considering some previous events at Broken
Hill this episode opens up an interesting
point. It was at that same town that a pre-
vious Lyne Government had, Sleath and
Ferguson arrested on a charge of inciting
people to do damage to British persons and pro-
perty, and it was so anxious about the matter
that it took them all the way to Deniliquin in
order to ensure their conviction, and sent up
great legal persons to prosecute them, and got
them a long spell in gaol apiece. If the same
Lyne doesn’t take equally vigorous measures
now, the only possible inference is that the
attempt to do damage to German persons and
property doesn’t matter, or else that what was
very sinful when done in the interests of Aus-
tralian miners is quite commendable when done
in the interests of a mixed lot of capitalists in
Africa.
<>
Victorian Chief-Justice Madden spoke a large
slab of wisdom, at Ballarat Sessions, lately,
before ordering a youth, convicted of immorality
with a girl under 16, to be discharged, and to
so remain pending good behaviour. Said his
Honor: “The intention of the (Crimes) Act
was to prevent men of mature judgment taking
advantage of immature girls. But, personally,
I have only known of one case in which the
culprit was so old as 27 years, and the ages of
the majority ranged from 16 to 20 years.
In all the cases recently tried before me, the
girl invariably admitted having been guilty of
misrepresentation in regard to her age.' A
great many girls also admitted that they had
themselves sought and invited the action which
led to criminal proceedings. The experience of
the Courts is that the operation of the Act has
been productive of an enormous amount of
harm.” Which, coming from Judge Madden,
is a choice morsel for the W.C.T.U. and the
Y.W.C.A., and the rest of the keyhole-aud-
gimlet brigade to chew, for on them rests the
onus of procuring an Act which does much
harm and little, if any good, and which is
grossly unjust towards those boys who need
protection from seduction even more than their
alleged victims.
+
When the N.S. W. Council threw out an ini-
portant part of Premier Lyne’s financial pro-
posals on the last day of the session the
lengthy grey politician had a fine chance to
assert himself—and didn’t. He might have
told the Assembly in an awful voice that the
closing of the session was unavoidably post-
poned; then have hastily drawn up a new Bill to
tax something or other by way of filling the
gap which the Council’s action had caused, in
his finances, passed it through the Assembly
with a rush, and sent it up. And if the Coun-
cil rejected it his business was to tell the
Assembly in a still more awful voice that the
closing was postponed some more, and to bring
in another Tax Bill. But Lyne didn’t even
make a serious complaint, therefore the Council
now knows it can treat his tax proposals very
much as it pleases.
♦
The difficulties which Justice Cohen finds sur-
rounding the awarding of costs in the late
Caulfield-Norton libel-action tried in N.S. W.
Supreme Court prove that the readiest and
most effective way to reach a solution is not by
establishing more confusing precedents, but by
an amendment of the law which will enable
juries to say whether costs are to be divided,
and how they are to be divided, or which party
shall pay for both. In many actions costs are
the main consideration, and on the face of it it
is futile to employ twelve special jurors to
determine the minor damages while one
Judge is left to determine the major costs.
In the case under notice the jury, after
protracted labor, found Norton should pay
Caulfield one bright farthing under the
style and title of damages, but did not
say, and were not empowered to say,
whether, under style and title of costs, Norton
Should not pay Caulfield several hundred
pounds besides, or Caulfield pay Norton
several hundreds or thousands. The matter
would not be so bad if Judges had a plain track
to go on in taking over the work where the
jury leaves off, but according to Judge Cohen
and many of his predecessors, the claim for costs
opens up a maze of distracting difficulties
“ C.M.G.” on patriotism, &c. :
I find even liberal-minded Englishmen (men who
despise the customary cant) with whom I have talked
war quite unable or unwilling to do justice to mv Aus-
tralian point of view. That Ido not “adulate” the
British and abominate the Boers is considered a reproach
to me because my parents are English. Any sentiment
of loyalty I possess is entirely Australian ; my interest in
England is nowise different from my interest in Germany
France, or America. It is, in fact, purely literary, never
personal ; and because of this my critics call me
traitor, just as they would call me infidel if
they were religious and I refused to enthuse
over their particular brand of Salvation. Within
me there are latent possibilities of an Australian
Jingoism, and I shrink from abusing the Englishman’s
Jingoism on that account, but I am called a hater of
England because I do not sing “Soldiers of the
Queen,” and throw up my hat in the streets—regard:
less of the fact that some dishonest person would
probably get it when it came down again. Assevera-
tions of my Australianism provoke incredulous contempt
—what is there to take hold of in this pitiful Australia
without history, age, or accomplishment? I answer there
is Australia, and the Englishman who scorns me for
loving a country that is young mocks at his own
ancestors who were true to England in her youth. Any-
how, Australia is as old to me as England is to any
Englishman, for she is older than I, and God he thanked
I do not consciously allow my great-grandmother to mould
my opinions for me. It may be better to be visited withi
the sins of the fathers than with their virtues. From in- :
herited patriotism in young Australians spring blood-'
lusting contingents to battle, not for Australia in
Australia, hut for England in Africa. There is much of '
egotism in the English patriotism one meets in Australia. 1
The Englishman, it appears to me, confounds amor
■patriae and amour propre, and the people who yelled
with laughter when Dickens heaped derision on America*
are for ever lusting to be “ cracked up.”
John Joyce, the lately-deceased member
for Lyttelton (Maoriland) started life as a police-
man, and worked up by his own efforts to be a
lawyer of some eminence in Christchurch. To
the end of his days he had the portly carriage and
deliberate stalk of the bobby looking’ for
passing drunk on bis beat. About ten years amo
Joyce made a great stonewalling speech of nine
hours—at that time the fame of Jawbone Neild’s
great effort was still fragrant, and the desire to
emulate it was strong. In that performance
Joyce apparently used up all the political remarks
he knew and all he was ever likely to know
Thereafter, he was a silent member with a flower
in his button-hole, who made interminable notes
in the House of Reps., and r—er used them for
any visible purpose.
The Losers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At dead of night
In the English land,
A boy in affright
Touched his mother’s hand.
He cried “ O Mother ! ”
And the woman stirred :
“ Where is my brother ? ”
But she spake no word.
Her lips were set,
And her face was drawn ;
The pillow was wet
That her head lay on.
She knew—that mother
With her heart of woe—
The absent brother
Eell at red Glencoe.
“ Killed by a shell,”
Said the list. Ah me,
’Twas short news to tell!
But what sight saw she ?
A mangled body
In the ground concealed—
Some fragments bloody
Erom the battlefield.
Fruit of her womb,
Son that sucked her breast,
Was this then his doom—
This for him Life’s best ?
God’s will ? The Lord
Of the churches—He
With red, ruthless sword
Knows no clemency.
Fine words were spoken
Of the battles won :
Her heart was broken,
And her life was done.
A Boer woman,
In the far Transvaal,
Heard stern lips summon—•
In the homely Taal—
Her husband old
To arise and play
The man’s part bold
In the bitter fray.
A fierce glad glow
In his old eyes shone :
’Twas good luck to go
Where his sons had gone.
He rode forth, hiding,
All his homesick pain,
But homeward riding
Came he ne’er again.
And homeward never
Came his tall sons twain.
The sad mother ever
Weeps—and weeps in vain,
For they, the brave,
- Sleep beneath the sky
In that red grave
Where their kindred lie.
* * * •
Why keep the sham on ?
God has left his Throne,
And Moloch and Mammon
Are our gods alone.
V.J.D.


XHB ktew POLICY of
Tb? tytitaal Life li)StiraiK« Co. of N^v/York
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance.
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Baker 4* Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
mn
. . . THE CELEBRATED
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE.
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
260 Co ins-st., Melbourne.
375 George-street, Sydney.
81 Queen -st., Brisbane. 65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
m
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
POR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sole A gents :
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°'
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Little Red Riding Hood."
Royal “The Only Way.”
Lyceum “ The Power and the Glory."
Criterion “ A Tale of the Transvaal."
Palace Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Little Christopher Columbus.”
Alexandra “ Les Cloches de Corneville.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Pantomimes are very much alike except
some that are a little different by mistake and are
sorry for it afterwards. Bernard Espinasse’s
“ Little Red Riding Hood,” at Her Majesty’s, is
to a great extent a relapse into the ordinary ways
of Xmas spectacle. When the Firm staged
“Matsa ” a few years ago, it was a notable depar-
ture from the old ways and old customs ; “Matsa ”
wasn’t panto, at all—neither the ordinary kind
that is so much alike, or the unusual kind that
isn’t quite so usual as the other kind. But since
then the regulation panto, business has super-
vened once more. In the present case everything
is a blaze of loveliness and pomp so far as the
clothes and the paint are concerned. The weary
old Boer war is dragged in again, but then the
war is dragged into everything just now ; and the
array of troops who storm the golden fortress
where Kruger is supposed to be rolling on his ill-
gotten wealth is a very fine spectacle. Also the
graceful Carrie Moore, who takes her plump
and pleasing way in front of them, is a very
lovely officer in a neat brown uniform. The
donkey is a rather less successful ass than the
mule of last year’s “Forty Thieves”; still he
isn’t a bad kind of animal in his way. The ballet is
gorgeous, and must have cost as much as the price
of a small war. And—to go back to the first
point—the scenery is beyond admiration. The
Haunted Forest where the trees arise and curse
and dance with red eyes glaring through
the gloom like an insurrection of railway
signals, the Glow - worm Dell, the fortress
where Kruger is supposed to keep his sinful
and unjust loot, the palace in Act 111. and the
land of Arcadia, also, the big cloth with the
picture of Lake Derwentwater, are all matters of
surpassing loveliness. And the verbal part of the
pantomime is—well, it is.
* • » •
The writer has come to the conclusion that
it is no good kicking against the stereotyped
character of pantomime. There is nothing in
barking at Providence, or in trying to chew the
established order of things, or in throwing dry
bones at the inevitable. There are some facts in
this world which obviously are to be, and’the only
courseistoletthem be as disrespectfully as possible.
When Harry Shine appears as the red-headed,
red-nosed woman in skimpy clothes, The Bulle-
tin recognises that the woman with a flaming nose
and a sunset head is an institution which mustn’t
be disturbed. Also, the fat boy is one of the
Eillars of the constitution, and if the large silly
oy were taken away society might crumble on its
base, and the absence of the nice girl in tight-
fitting male togs would probably cause the empire
to fall asunder. As for the wicked nobleman, he
is always there more or less, and if he were left
out the price of beer would, no doubt, go up out
of sight. All these things are presumably for the
best, and it being impossible to say for certain what
would drop if they were taken away, or what the
thing that dropped would drop on, they had better
be (left. The Bulletin’s representative had one
exciting moment in his life on a certain Xmas eve
on a ferry boat, when the engineer had dived below
to oil something, and.an affable but inquiring drunk
started turning all the handles about the engine to
see which handle it was that made the boat blow
up ; and he doesn’t like rash experiments. Now,
when he sees the same old handles sticking out of
a pantomime, he leaves them alone with en-
thusiasm.
* * • *
Miss Carrie Moore gives another lift to her
rapidly-rising reputation in the part of Blue Boy
—particularly where he is really Boy Brown, in a
cornstalk uniform, leading the great assault on the
golden castle, which is defended by eight Boers
with animals’ heads. Miss Dorothy Vane’s Red
Riding Hood, too, is a fetching vision in short
white socks and what falsely purports to be a
glimpse of childlike bare leg above. Both ladies
were in good voice on the opening night, and they
have practically all the good songs of the panto,
between them. Harry Shine’s red-headed woman
is clever, but she is so very like many other red-
headed women that the charm of novelty is not in
her ; and in Lauri’s part of Baron Splosh the jokes
grow in a thin crop on a barren soil. This notice
wanders back disconsolately for the third time to
the scenery and the clothes. There is soul-food
and mental refreshment in these pictures by
Goatcher and Gordon, and there are so many of
them that they make up for all deficiencies.
** * *
Freeman Wills’ version of the “ Tale of
Two Cities ” at Sydney Royal, concerning which
this paper spoke last week in a cautious frame of
mind, seems to improve with more extended
acquaintance. The two rather weak acts move a
little faster, and the two very strong ones get a
better grip on the soul at a second acquaintance.
There is a fascination, too, in the final tableau,
where the black figure of the dissipated lawyer on
the guillotine is silhouetted against the redness of
the dawn, looking like a crow outlined against
the red bottle in a chemist’s window. Apparently
the Reign of Terror had at least one good work
to its credit; it promoted the honorable virtue of
early rising. People who used to lie in bed late
in the days of a bloated and stodgy monarchy
got up early to be beheaded, and others got
up early to see them beheaded. r l he rest
of the nation got up very early indeed to
make sure that no agents of the new Government
were prowling about their premises in search of
evidence. Sydney Carton, before he fell into the
hands of the Terror, was a long-haired gentleman
who drank all night and lay in bed half the day.
He was reformed by the purifying influence of
republican institutions, inasmuch as he went to
bed sober in prison, and got up in time to be exe-
cuted at next day’s daybreak. It was the first
time he had got up in time to be executed, and
also about the first time he hadn’t gone to bed with
his boots on and his hair in a knot. And if there
had been no French republic he would probably
have died widely disrespected, at a bloated old
age, and imploring the public generally to blow
the giraffe off the counterpane.
** * *
Nothing has happened since last week to
clear up the many mysteries that attach to Hol-
loway’s tremendous moral shock and complication
at Sydney Lyceum. The small, saintly girl who
goes blind under impossible circumstances, and
the ghostly figure which rises up unaccountably in
the church, and the heaven which opens just as
the humble and famished, but God-fearing mother
is about to be thrown off the monument, and
reveals the deceased child’s spirit cantering on a
cloud, are just as mysterious now as they were
before. The great advantage attaching to the
“ Power and the Glory ” is that nobody dreams of
inquiring into anything. The ordinary small
anomaly might provoke inquiry, but when the
public is stunned by having 18 miracles thrown at
its head at once it gives the thing up and takes
the show as it comes. And it comes with such a
blast of paint and props and gaudiness that, taken
all round, it is a very interesting impossibility.
** * *
The bright red scenery of Africa, en-
livened by an occasional dry rainstorm, is still
visible in the mixed 1881 and 1899 play at Sydney
Criterion. The play is bright in spots, the spots
being mostly Rider Haggard’s and the Gallery
Boy’s. When the dramatist gets away from these
two, he is lost, as in Oom Paul’s Council scene,
which is of the melancholy farce order, also
slightly irreverent. This paper has a profound
respect for cheerful blasphemy, but when the
blasphemy is dull and idiotic, it turns pious
at once. The Englanders in the play talk a good
deal of Boer cruelty to the Kaffirs ; but when a
comic Kaffir causes a Boer council man to fall off
his chair on to the hard floor, the council man
merely resumes his seat and hasn’t even a curse to
spare, so the evidence is all against a true bill.
The Kaffir in question is a gleam of sable bright-
ness in the performance. Harry Diver isn’t a
gleam of any sort; the play seems to have got on
his soul. Fortunately, at his worst moments, the
Australian Contingent of 1899 rushed on to the
stage in 1881, and as the members of said
contingent were at that time mainly little boys
who blew tin trumpets, the cowardice of the
full-grown Boers in running away from them is
once more firmly established. Jess and Bess are
two nice girls, who emerge from scenes of carnage
in spotless pink print, and, as there does not seem
much reason why Diver should fall in love with
Jess rather than Bess, or Bess rather than Jess,
and as Diver does not seem to know much about
it himself, the love part pf the drama has not that
air of convincingness which it bears in the novel.
Great praise is due to the conduct of the British
flag, which sticks out stiff and starchy in the first
act. In the ensuing scenes, however, it hangs
limp and nerveless like the tail of a reproved dog.
Why the flag thus caves in doesn’t appear.
*# * *
Maud MacCarthy’s last concert wisely
“drew in” from the echoing spaces of Sydney Town
Hall to the smaller precincts of the Centenary,
where a full house that would have been lost
among the Town Hall chairs, looked cheerfully
like good business. The last hearing of the young
fiddler confirmed previous suspicions and good
opinions. She is an intelligent, expressive, care-
fully-trained player with very thin arms that may
be responsible for the missing qualities of tone and
dash. Miss Marie Narelle, a songstress with an
excellent dramatic intention, magnetic presence
and a nice voice rather lacking in liquidity, and
Miss Kathleen Morven, a throaty contralto,
helped out the concert. It was announced
as the last opportunity of hearing the talented
“ child ’’ over who-e age people still argue when-
ever their conversation becomes musical.
*
At Sydney Palace Miss Eva Sinclair does
some charming dancing. Little Baby Bowers is
also becoming quite an expert dancer, while her
doll song “ Pull the String ” is a gem of the same
water as Dorothy Yane’s in “LaPoupee.” The
wee performer scored a great hit on New Year’s
Night, when an unfeeling and enthusiastic
audience called her back after giving three heavy
items. The new features are the Bell Ballet, the
Newsky Family and Professor Davy’s giant
Marionettes. The Bell Ballet opens with an
empty stage, and out of the wings run eight
grotesque looking pairs in fearful and awful
dresses of red and white. As they run they
jingle bells pendent from their shoulders,
and when they have formed a semi-circle
they shake or tinkle out of themselves the
refrain of “My Bonnie Highland Laddie.”
The Newsky Family consists of five tall, fair
queens with long, white veils trailing from their
glittering coronets. There are also two men
and a boy who look like white Tartars —
’specially the boy. Their music is solemn
and reminiscent of high ritual and Gothic
arches, and their foreign song is a chant-like
melody that calls up memories of lost ideals. This
writer likes the Nevvsky music. Sometimes the
boy bounds around like one possessed, doubles
himself up, and revolves all round the stage on his
heels in a squattihg position. One of the grown-up
Tartars bounds around in the same manner, but he
can’t of doesn’t pirouette like that awful boy.
Then the whole family, including the five tall fair
queens, go through a novel and rather pretty
figure, and last of all the head of the family steps
to the front and sings in broken English “Soldiers
of the Queen.” There is no getting away from
that melody anywhere. The Marionettes are big,
nearly life-size, and are pretty good, but do
nothing that other Marionettes have not done
before. Perhaps it was the same Marionettes the
writer saw before somewhere, but anyhow it all
seems quite familiar.
** * *
“ Little Christopher Columbus ” is evi-
dently going to be a long, solid success at Melb.
Royal, in consequence of many deserving circum-
stances. For one good thing, the performers don’t
hang around waiting for encores after their respec-
tive songs or leg-shakes. A show that begins at
7.45 and finishes on the far side of 11 p.rn. has
little time for doing things twice over in response
to the vociferous demands of people pro-
vided sometimes by themselves and some-
times by the management. Therefore the
prettiest items happen only once each dur-
ing the evening, and anyone who wants
them twice must return on a future date armed
with the necessary ticket. A considerable portion
of Melbourne will pay a return visit to “Little
Christopher,” and find it an improving burlesque-
opera, or comedy-extravaganza, or whatever it
likes to call itself. There’s a quiet unassuming
charm in the music; also, John Sheridan is a
good-hearted married woman who never fails to
be a trifle funnier than before, and the lean-legged
Hooligan is a fresh young comedian, and the
principal ladies, in tights or otherwise, ate of the
O.K. order. In fact, the co. deserves a first-
class certificate for general efficiency and diligent
attention to the business in hand. Small parts
are neatly filled as a rule, and the ballet produces
beads of perspiration upon the present writer’s
bad bald head. If it were not likely to make the
other seven angels jealous this hairless scribe
would take oath and testify that No. 1 in the
ballet —the slim vision who slipped and made a
“marvellous recovery” last Saturday night—is
the most graceful dancer of her school lie ever
saw. She’s a poem on ten toes —presuming that
all her toes are there.
*« * *
“Les Cloches de Corneville ” at Melb.
Alexandra is at least a well-rehearsed and respect-
ably staged production of an admirable old opera.
Also, the first week’s performance was satisfactory
throughout in the musical parts, neither did any
of the acting suffer by comparison with the
awfullest amateur efforts on local record. Worse
outrages than this have been perpetrated in free-
dom’s name, even by professional companies.
The Vic. Operatic Society, which is largely
unprofessional and has frequently amused
itself by assisting a hospital, can continue
to enjoy periodical outbreaks as far as The Bul-
letin’s permission goes. If this journal were asked
to pass sentence of death on the V.O.S. as a body
the solemn words would not be spoken. One or
two individuals might get sentenced to banish-
ment, whilst the rest were let loose again with in-
structions to improve their “make-up.” The
principal crimes, roughly speaking, in the present
treatment of “ Les Cloches ” are Grenicheux’s
comic face and figure, the Bailie’s hollow attempt
to seem old and fat, and the Markee’s way of ex-
pressing himself in prose. Sidney Ra,lfe, as the
baritone Markee, is a rather impressive person
when he doesn’t talk, but in his conversational
aspects he is weak and flabby. The alternate
Gobos get through it passably (every Gobo being
passable), and stage-manager George Leopold is a
very capable miser as a matter of course. Of four
ladies chosen for the two principal billets only
half the number got a show last week. _ Miss Ray
Jones, who has been seriously professional at one
time or other, sings and plays Germain in a pretty
little style, and Miss Kate Hardiman is a spirited
amateur Serpolette, with a strong serviceable
voice. The season of “ Les Cloches ” will end on
Saturday, if it doesn’t stretch into next week.
*# * #
The Xmas co. at the Bijou includes Tom
Costello and his one-legged family, Spry and Aus-
tin, the three plump sisters on the slim wire, Alma
Gray, the two Englishes, and many other mixed
matters. Food for the Jingo is supplied in Arthur
Hahn’s cold, forgetful rendering of “ The Absent-
Minded Beggar,” after which Will Whitburn
comes along as a weird, ramshackle warrior, and
warbles “Didn’t we fight for England in the
future, and ain’t we going to do it in the past.
Whitburn’s conception of a Gay Gordon on the
warpath is irreverent, but droll.
*m * *
M'Adoo’s Jubilee Singers have sung their
last at Melb. Town Hall for the present, and just
now those interesting makers of melody are steal-
ing away to Gippsland, or somewhere, together
with the Passion Play biographer who reflects
counterfeit presentments of Our Lord upon a sheet.
* * *
George Musgrove, the part owner of Mel-
bourne Princess’s building, has seemingly decided
to lease the property for a term, commencing in
May, after Charles Arnold’s season. It is under-
stood that Musgrove (who is not likely to take
personal charge of the expedition) intends to des-
patch a large new co. for musical-comedy
pu r poses.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Alpha and Omega: The latest news about your
brewery is that a call of 9d. per share was made, payable
31st December, 1898. No information since then, aim wfe
can hear nothing of a div. having- ever been paid. Have
Written for a copy of balance-sheet, and, if it is forth-
coming, will further advise you.
Now that full particulars are to hand regarding
N.S.W. Treasurer Lyne's scheme for spending £2,016,341
of loan money in the present financial year, it looks ah
even more degrading swindle than it did last week. Here
are some leading features of Line's proposed expenditure:
Military Ammunition and Stores .. .. £116,250
Miscellaneous Military purposes ' .. .. 29,800
Hospitals and Fire Stations 10,000
Machinery (Government Printing Office) .. 2,500
Thinning Forests .. 10,000
River Improvements .. .. .. .. 177,200
Snagging Rivers .. .. « .. .. 13,000
Lighthouses.. .. 18,000
Gaols, Lock-ups, Court-houses 65,347
Dredging, &c. .. .. .. .. .. 65,500
Wharves, &c. .. .. .. .. .. 16,200
Dredges, Punts, Steam-Launches (including
boat to carry lunatics) 43,850
Lunatic Asylums, Benevolent Asylums, and
other non-productive buildings.. .. 86,700
Sewerage .. .. .. .. -. .. 105,400
Museums and Colleges 20,000
Board of Exports (for erection of Grain Ele-
vators, &c., in a province that doesn’t
export grain as yet) 100,000
Roads, Bridges, &c. (including new wood-
blocks for an old, worn-out street at New-
town) .. .. .. .. .. .. 87,884
Miscellaneous Harbours and Rivers .. .. 11,300
Another Bridge 3,500
Converting old steam tramways (not yet paid
for) into electric tramways .. .. .. 142,749
£1,065,180
This means, to begin with, that more than half of the
allegedly “ permanent and reproductive works ” charged
to loans are pure swindle, put there to enable a cowardly
and politically dishonest Ministry to avoid the trouble
and responsibility of raising enough revenue to meet ex-
penses. It also means that the people, having
just as little grit and honesty as their rulers,
prefer this to paying their way. But the above, bad as it
is, doesn't represent the whole trouble or anything like it.
A great number of other items which have received the
benefit of the doubt, are not really reproductive, or are
so in a very small and limited fashion. Lyne’s loan
estimates, taking them all round, are about the worst
political fraud ever laid before the people of N.S.W., and
on their evidence it is the duty of N.S.W. to sack Lyne
as soon as Parliament meets, and keep him carefully out
of office for the remnant of his miserable existence.
* * • *
One thing that is badly wanted if N.S.W.
finance is to be put on a decent footing is the abolition of
the two ridiculous suspense accounts which figure in the
public balance-sheet. In addition to the admitted
deficit there has been taken from the trust funds a sum
of £694,000 which isn’t described either as deficit or as
public debt. It is simply mentioned as the Centennial
Park and Post Office New Street suspense accounts.
Nominally there are land assets against it, but in reality
the land is not worth more than half the amount, and the
rest is shortage. The Government hangs on in the hope
that some day the land will increase sufficiently in value
to cover the amount, but it never will —if
the accounts are kept fairly. That is to say, if
these accounts were debited with land tax and
with municipal rates the bill would probably keep grow-
ing so fast that it would continue well ahead of any
increase in land-values that is ever likely to take
place. Thr Bulletin proposes a way out which is also a
fake, but not so bad a fake as the present one. It is to
sell the land now for what it will fetch, which would per-
haps be £200,000, or less than one-third of the nominal
value. Then to invest the money under a special Act of
Parliament in Government securities, and keep it in a
new suspense account, the interest received on these
securities going to make up the shortage. Also, the
land-tax received on the properties to be paid into the
same account. Between the interest and the land-tax
money the £200,000 which might possibly be received
would increase at the rate of about £7OOO a year at first
and much faster as the fund accumulated, and the bor-
rowed trust funds would be restored intact in from 30 to
36 years. Under present conditions, it doesn’t look as if
they would be restored in a century.
••■ » *
In Canada no life-assurance office is allowed to
estimate future interest on its funds at over 4£ per cent.,
and a Bill is now before the Canadian Parliament enacting
(in view of the decreasing interest-rate) that the estimate
must be gradually reduced to 3£ per cent. It isn’t any
too large a reduction either—in fact it would be better to
make it 3 per cent. But the material point is that Canada
has sense enough to fix a legal standard of solvency—the
slipshod legislators of Australia haven’t. There is no
legal standard of solvency as regards life-offices in this
land of Let-It-Slide ; and in view of the large number of
small new life-offices that are starting, the matter is a
most important one. It must be borne in mind that the
most utterly rotten life-office existing can be perfectly
solvent on paper if it does one or both of two things—
values its assets at a sufficient amount above their real
worth, or estimates that they will earn a large enough
rate of interest. Therefore there should be a State
valuation of the assets and a legally-fixed maximum


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(o/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER'S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-30 Druitt-st., Sytiney^
q Smoke the Latest p
VANDYCK
CIGARS (HOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR I/-
C/CAffS
'fy
The Boers have put their mine inspectors to
manage those Rand mines which they are working. A few
of these inspectors are English by birth ; some are Dutch
(and the educated Dutch provide some of the world s best-
known mining managers: G.D. Delprat, of the ii.rl.
Proprietary, for example). At most of the mines the old
managers-'remain in charge, the Govt, having granted
them and their engineers permits to remain and look
after their properties —further proof of the utter barbarity
of the Boers, of course.
• • *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebiated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Mel-
bourne, have received the following circular from their
principals, with instructions to issue same to the mining
public : “ Dear Sir.—We beg to inform you it has recently
come to our knowledge that the ‘Cammett_ Concentra-
tor is being offered for sale in Australia. This machine is
an infringement on the * Wilfley,’ and we have instructed
our representatives there to take whatever steps may be
necessary to restrain the owners of the ‘Cammett from
infringing on our rights. In buying and using the Cam-
mett’ you are liable to be made a party to any action
brought against infringers for protection of our invention.
The Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate, Ltd.”*
* * * *
The Insurance World, Ist. July, 1899.—“ The
growth of the Colonial Mutual since its establishment has
been of a very vigorous nature, and characteristic of the
active and progressive life of our Australian colonies.”*
• * * *
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
« • » *
The United Brothers gold mine, situated at
Glen Wills, about 25 miles from Omeo, Gippsland, has ail
improved appearance, and even better things are looked
for as deeper ground is reached. The mine possesses an
up-to-date mill. The stone is conveyed automatically to
hopper, thence to Gate’s Crusher and on to 20 head of
stamps of the A.T.B. pattern. A small but complete
plant of Luhrig Vanners and Classifiers treats the battery
tailings and continues to win a large percentage of valu-
able concentrates, which are a satisfactory source of
revenue to the co. This Luhrig plant was supplied and
erected under contract by Messrs. W. and J. Lemprieie,
606 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
« * * »
During the plague outbreak on the Indian gold
mines (writes a Bulletin correspondent) the numerous
tailings-heaps were often used by the natives as ceme-
tries for surreptitious burials. It is, therefore, pleasant
to know that the plague microbe (commonly supposed
to exist in the soil) has been proved by bacteriological
research, incapable of subsisting underground in the
mines, or in tailings after cyanide treatment.
• ■ * •
Indian gold-mines are busy record-making, too.
The Champion, which runs almost neck-and-neek with
the Mvsore for first place, produced 13,8550 z. in Septem-
b er _india’s best so far. There are five principal mines,
all on Kolar, and they employ an average of 16,800 coolies.
Lately the coolie camp has been scourged by the plague.
SLIMES!!
ONIiY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy- Markwald,
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney;
" ' 178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
“ Brilliant and St. George G.M. Go., Charters
Towers, Oct 4, ’99 : About twelve months ago we had our
forges fitted with your Billett’s Patent Tuyeres, and they
have been working continuously ever since and have
given every satisfaction and effected a great saving in
fuel and labor, the fires being always clean. Another
great advantage they possess is that they work without
water, consequently there is no danger of them burning
through neglect. I have great confidence in recommend-
ing them in every instance where forges are used.
(Signed) Jas. Oarroll, Mine-manager.” Write to W. Dew-
hirst, Broughton lane, Sydney, for particulars and list o!
agents.*
assumed rate of interest. Canada has sense enough to
have one of these things, anyhow. Australia has neither.
• * •
N S.W. Leg. Council, stirred up by Want,
lately adopted a principle which is likely to be rowed
ove/ Anv N.S.W. municipality may build gasworks if
it can find the money or the credit, light its streets, and
supply customers, but the Act, which is over y jJ
does not run to electric lighting Broken Hil w hich
wanted to light its streets, reckons its climate warm
enough without gas-jets in action, and 80 decided o
electric-lighting; a poll was taken by the local counmi
and a three-to-one majority secured. Then a bin was
drafted, unanimousl y^approved^hy^ the local^cotinc^
of opposition, but the beg. Council jumped
on it and then tossed it out on the ground that the
scheme would possibly be a financial failure, and c 111^
municipalities ought to be kept off however it is
grass has been known to be damp. If, however, it is
«0.-ilona to o-ive municipalities power to nave ewe
trie light works, it is also dangerous to leave them the
power to have gasworks ; and if gasworks, whichon the
whole are extremely profitable concerns, why not either
works V In fact, the principle seems to be that, as mum
cipalfties sometimes make asses of themselves iocal go-
vernment is a dangerous thing and ought not to be per
mitted where it can be prevented. In which case the
Leg. Council had better knock out the cl *
palities Act, and look after the province s stinks itself.
A small compensating result of the Melbourne
Boom has come to light in the annual '•eport of he V ic.
Secretary for Lands. Last year, it seems, the
partment claimed forfeit of £21,433, paid on account o
2828 acres of Crown lands, sold to syndicates in the
boom time on terms which the purchasers couldn t or
wouldn’t fulfil. Satisfactory to know that a little of the
lost bank money fell into the hands of the State landlord.
m * *
The renort of the English, Scottish and Aus-
tralian Bank for the year ended 30th
document with some encouraging features about it. The
“S 1 J " n : 5 Pr f ’
” >96,’ „ 27,950 | „ ’99, „ 1 5 ’ 41 . 1
The’E. S. and A. Bank made an arrangement wi hits
creditors in ’93 and worked under it with bad results till
1896 Then it made a further arrangement and obtained
a large reduction of interest. Under the new systemi it
appears to be beginning to do rather better, though the
earnings as yet are only equal to £2 15s. sd. cent on
the shareholders’ capital and reserve fund. The
principal other good points in the balance-sheet are . (1)
That ordinary deposits have increased during
year by nearly £200,000 ; (2) That the old re-constructed
deposits have been reduced by over £48,000, though see-
ing that the amount is still over £3,200,000, this isn t a
very large reduction ; (3) The board sees its w-ay topay
off £156 491 of terminable reconstructed deposits next
year The business, too, looks otherwise in good health.
By the terms of the last arrangement the first charge on
net profits is £15,000 a year to go to reserve fund, there-
fore all the profits for 1897 and ’9B were employed,
and the E.S. and A. has now a reserve of £16,904. Ure-
sumahlv another £15,000 will be similarly applied this
year, which will put up the reserve to £31,904.
In addition to this, the E.S. and A. bas made
£4l 391 by the repurchase of its deposits below their
nominal value, and this sum is kept as a special reserve
against further possible depreciation of the assets. After
writing off £6582 for estimated losses there is still a
depreciation fund of £34,809. It is a notable fact that the
F S and A is the only hank which has fully explained
what it did with the profits made by the repurchase
of its reconstructed deposits. Other institutions either
put them in as ordinary earnings, which makes it im-
possible to ascertain for certain what their ordinary
profit-earning capacity is, or have applied them silently
to writing off losses, without explaining what losses had
to be provided for. * * »
Dividends, however, still look an immense way
off. The first call on the earnings, of the E. S. and A.
Bank, as already mentioned, is £15,000 to go to reserve
fund. Next the 3 per cent, deferred inscribed stock
(£875 676) is to get an increased rate of interest not
exceeding 4) per cent. Then one - fourth of any
balance is to go towards the redemption of deferred
inscribed stock ; and the shareholders don’t get a look in
till after that. And the year’s earnings need to reach
about £64,000 before there is any prospect of a 5 per cent,
dividend. Still, the gradual reduction of the deferred
inscribed stock is improving the condition of things, and
when it is all wiped off prospects will be greatly im-
proved. * * * *
The Freehold Assets Realisation Co. (Mel-
bourne), the concern which took over the wreck of the
old Freehold Investment and Banking Co., publishes its
fourth balance-sheet. It is, on the whole, a rather favor-
able document —that is to say, it is a very dreadful.docu-
ment, but not so dreadful as might have been expected.
The co. keeps the assets of the old hank in its balance-
sheet at their book value, and as it sells them it writes off
the loss. Then it buys up depreciated deposit receipts
with the money. Last year it sold £76,402 of assets (book
value) for £l7,BsB—loss £58,544. Then it bought up
£82,448 of its deposits for £18,838, and thus made a profit
of £63 610. Obviously while the co. can sell its pro-
perties at 4s. 8d in the £ of their nominal value
and use the money to buy up its liabilities
at a fraction less than 4s. 7d. in the £ it isn’t getting
any worse, and the prospects for the remainder of
the depositors are improving a little. The proper-
ties are selling better, too; last year they realised
4s. Bd. in the £ of their book value, while those sold in ’96
only realised 3s. 7d. in the £. In 1897 the paper liabilities
were less than the paper assets by £59,612, but the
shortage (on paper) is now reduced to £10,209. Appar-
ently, therefore, the depositors who hold on to the bitter
end may get something near the face value of their
deposits—or, if values go down again, and it happens that
the worst assets are left to the last,, the man who refuses
4s. 7d. in the & now may be very glad to get Is Id. in the
£ a dozen years hence. Liquidations are uncertain animals
to deal with.
* • » •
The announcement that the Australian Estates
and Mortgage Co. and the Union Mortgage and Agency
Co. are about to combine implies the end of a strangely
insane and purposeless-looking piece of company finance.
In ’94, the Union Mortgage and Agency Co.—then not
feeling any too well—sold a vast amount of property to the
Australian Estates and Mortgage Co., which was formed
for the special purpose of taking it over. The latter co.,
having no capital of its own, paid for the assets by issuing
£1,259,000 worth of shares, practically all of which were
held by the Union Mortgage and Agency Co. The pro-
perty was taken over by the new co. at, it would appear,
much above its real value —not that that made
anv difference ; the old co. only got scrip in payment,
and, if it sold 10s. worth of property for £l, it
naturally followed that the £1 share it received in payment
was only worth 10s., and things were as short as they were
narrow. In fact, the old co. really sold a lot of its pro-
perties to itself under another name, and paid for them ,
by issuing its own scrip to itself, and instead of taking the
profits direct, the new co. declared a dividend out of
them and paid the dividend to the old co., which was the
same co. all the time, and then the old co. could pay a
dividend with the money to its shareholders, if it felt
equal to it —which it didn’t. Out of £2,196,317 assets of the
old co. £1,629,930 consisted of shares and debentures in
the new co. So the old co. existed principally for the
purpose of holding shares in the new co. It had hardly
any other business worth mentioning. The only visible
result of it all was the extra expense of running two
managements instead of one. The new co. did some
ghastly financing. It borrowed £1,200,000 at 4J per cent.,
getting ±9B for every £lOO ; and ±300,000 at 4£ per cent.,
getting £97 for every £lOO ; with the proud privilege of
repaying both sums at £llO for every £lOO. Also, it
borrowed ±400,000 at 5 per cent. The new co. paid a 1
per cent, dividend to the old co. in ’96. The old co. has
paid no dividends since ’93. And now the London
management which did this .weird splitting-up of the
Union Co. in ’94 at much expense for transfers, registra-
tion, printing, stamp-duty, &c., has struck the great idea
of combining the two companies again at more expense
for transfers, stamp-duty, registration, printing, &c. It
says proudly that it has struck this idea in order to save
the needless expense of two managements.
The balance-sheets of the two companies for the
year ended 31st December, 1898, are just published. The
old co. (Union Mortgage and Agency Co.) made a loss of
£3214 ; and the new one (Australian Estates and Mortgage
Co.) made a loss of £16,890. The doings of these two
concerns for the past four years have been :
Union Mortgage and Australian Estates and
Agency Co. Mortgage Co.
1895 Profit £10,394 1895 Profit £16,387
1896 ~ £9,087 1896 „ £2,414
1897 Loss £4,603 1897 Loss ±933
1898 ~ £3,214 1898 „ £16,890
Things are really worse than this for £12,299 of the
profits shown by the Union Co. consist of the 1 per cent,
dividend paid to it out of the profits of the other co. in
1896, so this amount appears twice. And now these two
concerns are going to combine losses.
* » * »
The B.H. Junction directors have appointed J.
O. Moulden manager, though the directors pondered for
days over the appointment, owing to his youth. Mr.
Moulden is the youngest man who has ever held a front-
rank B.H. managership. He got his theoretical training
in English mining-schools—he is a son of a S.A. director
of B.H. co.’s—and for three years has been understudy to
general manager Greenway, of Block 14 and the South.
It is suggested that now the Junction may be run some-
what on the lines of the latter co.'s —that is, with a mini-
mum of information being given to shareholders as to
the value of the ore handled. Still, if shareholders don[t
mind being kept misinformed as to how much of their
metal is saved and bow much is not recovered (if, that is,
they don’t want any means of testing the value of the
methods in operation)—well, it’s their business.
• * » *
There was a time when every Broken Hill mine
had a “ Captain ” Somebody or other as manager. That
was the Australian period (Australian wages miners, of
Yic. and S.A. especially, are still largely Cornish). Then
every mine but one had an American manager, and
several of them were officered throughout by ’Murkans.
And now only one “ Captain ” remains, and there isn’t a
single ’Murkan manager or chief-officer on the field. It is
the large-English period. And the sharesstill drift out—
and the diva, follow them.
B.H. Junction still has its head-office in Melb. ;
but that is only because the Vic. company law is preferred
and because of the influence of Melb. Stock Exchange.
So, after the formal statutory meeting has been held
there, the real shareholders’ meeting takes place in Ade-
laide, where most of the shares are held, and where the
directors meet and all the business is done. Acting-
chairman R. C. Baker, addressing the Adelaide share-
holders recently, gave no more cheerful account of things
than did the report and balance-sheet, lately discussed
here. To the criticism that the writing-down for deprecia-
tion had been severe it was replied that “all the leases at
the Barrier expired in about 4* years ; and what would be
the value of the whole plant and machinery on a mine
that did not belong to them ?” Which suggests that this
bogey of the approaching expiry of the leases ought to be
officially laid at once ; at present it is likely to be used for
the purpose of squeezing out the weaker holders. There
was only one further fresh item of interest in Chairman
Baker’s address : the announcement that £1179 had been
received on account of tailings taken from the dump, and
that this amount had been included in the £49,280 “ pro-
ceeds of ore and concentrates ” —which, without the
explanation, seems a fairly effective way of making it im-
possible to tell how this particular half-year’s operations
panned out. Altogether it is quite legitimate to take a
less gloomy view of the mine’s prospects than the report
seems to convey. In such an erratic mine as the Junction
the encountering of poor ore in the lowest level explored
is not a circumstance to justify a funk.
* * * *
Every month or two somebody plumps in the
statement that the Broken Hill mine leases have about
five or six years to run—and then. Especially if a Labor
or Radical party gets into power anything, it is whispered,
may happen. Henry Copeland, who knows as much
about N.S.W. mining law and its history as anybody,
incidentally threw' some light on this in the Assembly the
other evening. Thus : “ Gold leases can be renew'ed with
the consent of the Minister subject to no fine. The lessee
has to pay a fine for the renew r al of a mineral lease, and
that fine was introduced into our legislation by a blunder.
Our Act was copied almost word for word from the Act
of ’65 then in force in Vic., and in that Act it is provided
that a fine of £2 10s.—not £2 10s. per acre—shall be paid
to meet the cost of a new' lease. When our ’74 Act was
passed, however, the words, ‘ £2 10s. per acre’ were in-
serted by mistake, and we now impose that fine though
the intrinsic value of the land after the removal of the
machinery and the plant may not be more than 2s 6d.
per acre.”
* • * *
B.H. South, which has been only fairly well off
for tractable ore for some time past, has had a turn for
the better during the last week or two.
The B.H. Consols was the first Barrier mine to
get into English hands ; and a pretty poor bargain it has
proved. The mine is on a flat away from the main lode.
More by good luck than anything else some patches of
exceedingly rich ore have been met with now and then—
just enough to keep the co. pegging away, with the help
of occasional calls and occasional reconstructions. At
present the co. consists of a trifle of 600,000 shares. Nine
months ago great things were going to happen ; the mis-
guided people w'ho read some of the daily papers’ mining
news were led to believe that a greater than the B.H.
Prop, had been discovered. However, the 12 months
report, just to hand, disclosesa profit of £1459, which, it is
added, is the most the present co. ever made. As this
means a shade over a ha’penny a share, it can easily be
reckoned up that the co. has not had a particularly good
time. Of two parcels of ore sent aw'ay by the B. H.
Consols last year, one, weighing 2 tons lcw't. 3qr., re-
turned 19,5170 z. silver, and the other, weighing 3 tons
lcwt 3qr., returned 29,6770 z. This is the sort of stuff
that fascinates the maiden aunt with a few pounds to put
into shares ; and the maiden aunt is usually left again.
* * * *
B.H. Water Supply Ltd. spent something like
£7OOO on new filtration works. And month after month
the N.S.W. Board of Health intimates that the filtration
fails completely ; in some cases the samples of “ filtered ”
water are more impure than the unfiltered. The Depart-
ment begins to press the co. in *
During the last days of the Reid regime
Hurley, M.L.A., asked the N.S.W. Secretary for Mines if
he would bring in a Bill to make it compulsory for all
companies extracting metals from ore by any process
whatever to keep books showing the number of tons
treated, the method of treatment, and particulars of the
mine and soil from which the ore was obtained. Also, at
the end of each year, the companies’ responsible managers
to make statutory declarations that the particulars were
correct. Something of the sort is done now, but in a very
small, inefficient way. The scientific advantage of sucn
action would be enormous.
« • * *
A big Sydney and Melb. crowd has bonded the
whole of the Northern coking-coal properties. Said to
be over 300,000,000 tons of coking coal available, and the
quality, according to Schlapp, is 12s. a ton better than the
best Durham coke. If the co. succeeds m getting the
Chillagoe and Broken Hill contracts it has a big thing.
• * * *
Mr. S. Dixon, an enthusiastic and well-informed
advocate of forest and water conservation, lately went
into N. Queensland in the interests of a S.A. prospecting
co. He was impressed about equally with the great value
of N.Q. mining fields, the importance of the magnificent
cedar and other forests (Atherton “ scrub,” in Chillagoe
district, he mentions in particular), and the utterly in-
adequate measures existing for the conservation ot any
of the timber. Remembering the clean sweep made Of
the forests about every other big Australian mining
centre, Mr. Dixon has been doing Queensland the good
service of trying to wake up Brisbane politicians to action
while yet there is time to do something effective.
* * * *
Mr. W. Allison, whose lucubrations on bi-
metallism forced two weary Sydney editors to apply for
leave of absence, has, in true monometallic spirit, gone
dredging for gold. He has taken up 20 miles of the Bin-
gara (N.S.W.) River, and hopes to catch a yellow fortune
at flood.
• * * •
So uncertain a quantity is the tin-market that
John Moffatt, the brains of the Herberton and Irvine-
bank (N.Q.) tin district, some time ago made forward
contracts at ±lOO. He has since seen the price go 50 per
cent, above that. But he has been too long at the game
to grumble. He was tin-mining in the Tingha and Emma-
ville district before he went north.
* * • •
Mount Morgan report for year ending Novem-
ber, 1899, is just out. The 7d. dividend is to be dropped
a while to 6d., as “ ±50,000 more will be required to com-
plete the second section of the new mundic works.
Total ore treated for the year was 118,658 tons, or 16,407
tons more than the average of the last two years. Ihe
average yield of all ore treated for the last year was
14Mwts., or ljdwts. less than the average for the preced-
ing 12 months. The decrease is due, it is alleged, not to
the poorness of the mine at present, but to the treating of
large bodies of inferior ore hitherto left m the mine.
Mundic ore gave a return of 9Jdwts., but this does not
represent final results, as much of the material dealt with
retains gold awaiting further treatment. The total
118,658 tons gave 87,4690z5. The directors are sanguine
of good results for the next year.
° * * * »
Sample of the end of the stick which is given
the tributor to carry “Johnson’s Reef (Bendigo)
washed off 3670 z. from 776 tons. The tributors also got
390 z. from 2/4 tons ”—3Jdwt. per ton 1 And the country
isn’t like cheese to work in either.
• * • *
Inglewood is having one of its periodical revi-
vals ; in addition to some Bendigo enterprise the Eng-
lish J.R. Exploration Co. is getting to work in the old
Morning Star. There is some newspaper capital behind
the revival, so the chances are that the prospects, which,
anyhow, are fair, will not be hidden down the deepest
winze.
* * • *
New Chum Railway (Bendigo) has main work-
ings at 3200 ft., at which level it is breaking stone—an
Australian record. A good deal of work has been done
at this depth, too ; there is one crosscut 293 ft. long, 9ft.
high, 6ft. wide. In spite of the heat, this was driven with
two drills 40ft. a fortnight—work which would take some
beating. The reef in the neighborhood has been tested
in several places ; it runs from Bft. wide (this is at a point
a little above the 3200 ft.) to 20in. The stone is good-
looking stuff; and the cap gave between 5 and 6dwt.
The neighboring Shenandoah is getting good results from
the 3133 ft. level.
* » * •
There was a shocking coincidence in connection
with the Bendigo engine-drivers’ strike. Reputed mil-
lionaire Lansell is rhe principal shareholder in the mines
whose drivers are refused the standard-wage of Bs. 4d. a
day. Just when a public appeal was being made to him
to grant the few pence extra, mainly on the. ground that
the driver has a position of much responsibility, an acci-
dent occurred in Lansell's Little ISO mine through a
person unused to a winch setting the machine going and
finding that he could not stop it. One of the miners at
the bottom of the shaft had his arm over the bar of the
drill when the run-away bailing-bucket crashed on it, and
left the limb hanging to the shoulder only by skin. And
then it was half-an-hour before they could get the wind-
ing-machine to work in order to bring the mutilated
miner to the surface. But even that did not touch the
millionaire’s heart; and when, the next day, thecitizensr
deputation appealed to him to grant the few pence extra,
he roared a “ No ’’ at them. Bring along that legal mini-
mum wage.
The miner whom the run-away bucket hit is a
good plucked chap. When his arm was jagged off, the
first thing he did was to grope round the shaft for his
mate, whom he believed to he underneath 1 Then, while
waiting* for the cage, he sat on the bucket that had
done the damage and helped his mate (who had escaped
serious injury) to hind a piece of rope round the stump
in order to arrest the bleeding. For much less than that
a colonel in South Africa has been made the subject of a
thousand messages and paragraphs. Also, this Bendigo
hero—his name is plain Johnson —has been the support of
his old widowed mother. What is a patriotic public
going to do for him and her?
Already under the new S. Aus. Act providing
for the issue of gold-dredging leases in the N. Territory,
10 applications have been approved, chiefly for 5000-acre
lots on the Howley, McKinley, and Margaret River flats,
and Yam Creek. The lessees are to pay 6d. per acre a-
year, with 2i per cent, of annual profits derived from the
leased lands”with a statutory allowance of 5 per cent, for
depreciation of machinery.
* • » *
So well satisfied is the South Australian co.
(mostly ore-dressing-machinery men), which has taken in
hand the concentration of the slag dumps at the old
Burra copper-mines, that it has already bought at least
one other dump elsewhere—at a mine abandoned 30 years
a s°-
Following upon the provision of public batteries
in W.A., an agitation has begun for their government by
local committees representing leaseholders. Three
things in particular are growled over. First, there is the
order of crushing. This difficulty has arisen at the open-
ing of batteries, and will probably more or less disappear.
The arrangement was that the order should he decided
by lot. Promptly, men who didn’t have any stone to
crush came along and joined in the ballot, on the off-
chance of selling their right if they drew an early date.
Then it is alleged that standard rate of wages is not being
paid ; the Dept, is being petitioned independently on
this head. Also, it is complained that there have been
delays through shortage of water, which might easily
have been prevented had there been local governing
bodies or even boards of advice. The latter, at any rate,
might be tried without much danger and with the likeli-
hood of gain.
* • • *
i In spite of the alleged revival, Coolgardie’s
municipal assessment for ’99-1900 amounted to £57,038
only, as against ±75,837 the year before.
* • • •
It is still possible to pick up well-equipped bub
prematurely-erected milling plants in the West for a
trifle. The Melbourne-Perth Co., owning the Occidental,
at Lennonville, sold its battery, prospecting plant. &o -
lately for about £2OO— considerably less than the origina
freightage. t *
Anyhow, the war in South Africa will probably
save J Bull something; it is forcing Zeb Lane to weed
out the Murchison district options which he took over
his carpet-bag. Taylor’s Find, with its daa/.ling surface
show, has just been dropped ; the stuff Londondemed.
Zeehan (Tas.) is fast becoming the ’home of th e
tributor. Nearly every man on the fiekl ,,
One party of ten took up a tribute on £be Silver Km,,
section, and in sinking to cut an already-known
another 21ft. wide; party is now variously estimated to oe
making from £5OO to £lOOO per man each mo" ,
establishment of smelters at Zeehan has hnghtened
things for tributors, as they buy and treat to
third-grade ores previously unsaleable. T b e | e ,
be a revival of mining on the field, the Sy vestei and
Silver Bell having started work after long I lfilen o e
from the rise in Silver King shares it looks tho
something will be done on this show, which has no
working for a long time.
* * *
J ICorona, whose scoured fleece topped the Melb.
market this year at 29d. (and it was best price for may
years past), 'is owned by N.S.W. Railway -Coinniissionei
Fehon. Notwithstanding this success, it is in parts me
roughest country in the far-west of N.S.W. —so bad tha
good part of it is actually fenced out.
From Dawson City (Klondyke) to The Bulle-
tin :—Just a word re this goldfield and its people. No new
discoveries this year. Old creeks holding out fairly we .
The new field at Cape Nome, 2000 miles from here, has
decreased our population from 30,000 to 13,500 in three
months. Too many people here still for the good of the
field. Wages, lOdol. for 10 hours ; work scarce. Beef,
cents (35.) per lb. Australians can’t work without beet,
and so have to take a back seat when Swedes or Ameri-
cans are to be had ; said Swedes can work all the year on
bacon-and-lieans ; Americans nearly as bad. Very few
Australians left in Klondyke now : not more than twenty
of the Australians who came in the ’9B rush went out with
more than £l5O. Col. Steele, officer in charge N.W.
mounted police of the Yukon, got notice to go out to
Ottawa, leaving his office in charge of Major Parry, of
Vancouver. The citizens held a mass meeting, ana
passed resolutions protesting against the removal of Lol.
Steele and altogether condemning the action of Mr.
Sifton, Minister of the Interior, in taking away' the only
honest and reliable man holding office in the Klondyke.
Sifton remained firm, and Col. Steele left yesterday for
the outside. The people of Dawson are not .accustomed
to deal with honest officials, and showed their apprecia-
tion of this man’s straightness by presenting himmtn a
gold brick, suitably inscribed and valued at 2000 aoi.
(£500), also a £5OO bag of gold-dust. There are four
papers here—one daily, one weekly, two bi-weeklies ;
each and every one costs one shilling a cop,y, and torn
shillings a line for advts.—Wm. P., 27/8/’99. *
(Continued on page 2k).


n
A COOL CUSTOMER
IN
SUMMER ATTIRE.
Washing and Tounge Sacs
and Trousers.
In White or Fawn Khaki ... 14/6
Fancy Flannels, 21/6, 28/6, 32/6, 38/6
Fancy Flannels (Double-breasted
Sac) 35/-
Fancy Stripped Linens 30/-, 35/-
Assani Silk 35/-, 40/-
For
Evening Wear.
Dinner Jackets (silk-faced) ... 45/
Black Worsted Trousers ... 21/
Vests.
Fancy and White Duck
5/6, 7/5, 10/6
Fancy and Colored Cashntere
8/6, 10/6, 12 6
Men’s Lounge Sacs.
Black Alpaca 12/6
Colored. Alpaca ... 8/6
China Silk ... 14/6,18/6,25/-
White Duck
Cotton
Linen ...
7/6
10/6
Russia Crash 10,6
Men’s Trousers.
Fancy Tweeds ...
White Serge
White Duck
Russia Crash ...
8/6, 10/6, 12,6
11/6, 12 6, 15/6
5/6, 8/6
7/6
FIRST QUALITY Ready made Men's Orient Suits ... 35/
EXTRA QUALITY Ready-made Men’s Orient Suits ... 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY Ready-made Men’s Orient Suits ... 45/-
DAVID JONES & COMPANY, Orient Clothiers,
George & Barrack
Streets, Sydney.
VOLUNTEERS
FOR THE WAR
DON’T LEAVE WITHOUT ONE OP
mn
HARRINGTONS
SNAP
SHOT
CAMERAS
Easily Carried
Easily Used
Modern Cameras will take a BATTLEFIELD by simply pressing the button —
while a Single Picture will command double the price of a Camera.
i® - Complete Outfits from £1 Is., <£l lOs., £3 35., £5 ss.
jjar Over a Hundred Varieties up to £5O.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
66 KING STREET,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS.
SYDNEY.
Brisbane Branch —34 Queen Street.
Melbourne Agents—l 79 Collins Street.
AGENTS
In every Colony.
Society
AT THE "AT-HOME.”
HER: “ Isn’t that a falsetto voice?”
HIM: "No. False set o’ teeth.”
One “ Zealandia ” writes sarcastically in
N.Z. Times (Wellington):
As one who saw the contingent off on their long
journey, I cannot help feeling a glow of pride at the
excellent results attained on their first appearance under
fire. I note that they killed eight of the enemy. A very
creditable performance, but one that would be con-
siderably enhanced if the shooting statistics were sup-
plied. I would suggest that Major Robin keep an account
of the number of rounds issued per man, which, if divided
by number killed, will give a “figure of merit” that
doubtless will be a source of pride and interest to
many. I see that a well-known firm of jewellers in
England, are supplying pencil-cases made from the
cartridge cases fired at Omdurman. Could not
something similar he turned out in Wellington,
the manufacturer, as at Home, giving 10 per cent, of the
profits for a charitable object, as, for instance, the relief
of the widows of the deceased Boers? Since the result of
the contingent’s fire is so accurately noted, I would
suggest that the eight cartridges used for these particular
eight Boers be retailed at a considerably higher figure
than the others. If the deceased’s name and that of the
trooper who fired the shot could appear on the case, its
value would be considerably increased. However, there
would doubtless be considerable difficulties in the way of
this last suggestion. In the meantime, I hope that the
further movements of the New Zealanders will be as
accurately reported in your excellent paper. Such re-
ports compare most favorably with those of the work of
the Imperial troops, which, however, is of secondary in-
terest.
If the country is going into the souvenir business
what’s the matter with freezing the dead Bo< rs
and selling them, the proceeds to go to some fund
or other. A frozen Boer should sell well just now.
* * * *
According to the early yarn of the British
surrender at Nicholson’s Nek, it was more acci-
dent than anything else. Some junior officer,
said the chopped-and-censored cable, raised the
white flag—to the great disgust of all the men and
all the other officers, who wanted to go on fighting
“like lions” and moving “as steadily as if on
parade,” and so on until they were wiped out.
Noiv it turns out that one of General White’s
staff-officers, a full-blown Major and Deputy-
Assistant-Adjutant-General (no less !) did the
flag-raising.
* * » *
Sydney Daily Telegraph has found tvvo
mysterious individuals who yearn to give respec-
tively .£5OOO and £3OOO towards the cost of
another contingent. Well, why don’t they give
it ? “Five thousand pounds ”is easily said ; and
there’s no responsibility as long as you keep your
name quiet. There has been one handsome
Transvaal cheque in Queensland ; and the donor
absorbed patriotic cheers, and then the cheque
wasn’t paid, and there were explanations and
recrimination, and in the end the.long-suffering
taxpayer settled the difficulty as usual.
* * » *
The Bulletin has pleasure in suggesting
that all “ loyal ” Ministries and Parliaments in
Australia, who are spending the taxpayers’money
so enthusiastically “for the Empiah,” should
prove their bona-fides by spending a little of their
own. So far, after two months’ hard pounding,
the total Australian “Patriotic Fund ” subscrip-
tion is little more than a fourth of what was
raised for the Soudan contingent by N.S.W.
alone; and politicians’ subscriptions have been
singularly absent. Would it not be a graceful act
on the part of Premier Lyne to move that half
Ministers’ and members’ salaries be paid to the
Patriotic Fund while the war lasts? Then the other
Premiers would doubtless follow suit. At present,
the people, do all the paying and the politicians all
the shouting. Isn’t it about time the politicians
did a little paying too ? Premier Lyne confesses
to the reporters that “ his best and most patriotic
instincts ” have been aroused ; but he has not yet
announced that he will soothe those instincts by
exposing six-feet odd of fervour to a Boer bullet.
And how much has he subscribed to the Patriotic
Fund ?
¥ * *
Tile most interesting item, so far, in the
list of N.S.W. Patriotic Fund subscriptions is :
“ A Sydney Native, being usual subscription to
The Bulletin, £\ 65.” Which reminds this
paper of another native subscriber in a town in
northern N.S.W. He gets the paper through a
local agent, and about once a month he calls
round with a yell of wrath and stops the disloyal
rag. Then for one week he leads a life that has
lost its savour, for he is wondering what dreadful
things this truly dreadful paper has been saying,
and what evil it has been disseminating when he
didn’t have his eye on it. After that his small
girl buys the paper surreptitiously for a week or
two at another shop. Next he subscribes regularly
at the other shop. • Then a day comes (it comes
every month usually) when this organ stands
with greater weight than usual on his poli-
tical corn, and he goes down to the new shop
purple with rage.to stop the discreditable publica-
tion for good and all. The local inhabitants
always know, when they see him going down the
street apoplectic and of a bright blue color, what
his mission is, and they remark to each other,
“There’s Smith goin’ down to stop his Bulletin.”
The chief sufferer is the small girl who has to trot
long distances now to get the paper, it- having
been stopped in disgust at all the reasonably
adjacent shops. The Bulletin is proud of the
fact that it is stopped oftener and with more in-
dignant remonstrance than any other paper in
4-ustralia.
* * * *
Consecutive advts. from Melbourne Age :
SENSIBLE, domesticated young woman desires ac-
quaintance (correspondence first instance) edu-
cated man, view above. Inquiry, P. 0., S. Melb.
ITNCONVENTIONAL young Woman, wishing to
lead altruistic life, seeks to correspond with
strictly honorable, cultivated man having similar
desire. Ehre, Age Office, Melb.
There are many varieties of them, from the plain
kitchen girl who wants a husband to the untram-
melled soul who desires to lead the altruistic life,
but the end of all these things is a judgment for
7s. 6d. a week for vittles for the infant. The
common, sordid, damp infant puts his shapeless
footprint in everything.
THEIR VIEW OF IT.
SHE: “It must be dreadfully dangerous to be a
nurse at the seat of war.”
HER: “ I suppose it is. But perhaps the Boers
won't ill-use women.”
SHE: “ Oh, I don’t know. I saw, the other day,
that they were threatening Ladysmith.”
HER: “And they had seized Harrismith.”
SHE: “ How dreadful. Have they still got him
and how does his poor mother feel about it? ”
A cable-item which appears to have been
sent along in a festive moment was that one to the
effect that the Scots’ Greys had dyed their horses
brown before going to the front. The charge of
Her Majesty’s Dyed Cavalry would be a weird
event.
* « * *
Extraordinary and yet pathetic Marriage
and “In Memoriam ” notices,, from Melbourne
Age, 21st December, 1899 :
MARRIAGES.
Sheehy—Mackenzie.— Oti the 18th May, 1896, at St.
George's R.C. Church, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Victoria, by special licence, by the Rev. Thomas Quinn,
Jerh. (Der'mot) MacKenzie Sheehy, eldest son of Jerh.
Canty Sheehy, Esq., of Baltimore, Cork, Ireland, formerly
officer in English Navy (H.M.S. St. Vincent), and subse-
qu ntly of Eureka Stockade, Ballarat, and more subse-
quently merchant in New Zealand and Victoria; grand-
son of Jerh. Sheehy, great grandson of John Canty, the
eminent stone bridge architect; cousin of Mr. Mahony,
R.N.R., of her Majesty's Imperial Coastguards, and Mr.
J. Mahony, chief officer of the ship Armadale, now in
this port ; and Mr. Jerh. Sheehy, merchant, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A., to Mary Ursula (Cissie) Mackenzie,
youngest daughter of John Andrew Mackenzie,
Esq., of Glengairn, near Ballatar, Aberdeenshire,
Scotland, veterinary surgeon and high class farrier
(founder of St. Joseph’s Band, Launceston); grand-
daughter of Donald MacKenzie ; great granddaughter
of Donald MacKenzie, chief of the Mackenzies, of
Aberdeenshire; sister of Messrs. Kenneth and Donald
MacKenzie, of Wellington-street, Launceston, and the
late Mrs. Parr; cousin of the late Very Rev. Fr. Macin-
tosh, Rev. Fr. Duncan Mac Nab, Rev. Fr. Colin MacKen-
zie, Rev. Fr. W. MacKenzie, and Mr. John MacKenzie,
Deputy-Governor H.M. Gaol, Broken Hill, South Austra-
lia ; and Messrs. Kenneth, Donald, John, and Colin
MacKenzie, and Mrs. Munro, and Mr. Donald Thain,
Bathurst, New South Wales; and Mrs. Gordon, of Stone-
haven, Kincardineshire. Cork and Aberdeenshire papers
please copy.
IN MEMORIAM.
Sheehy. —-In fond and affectionate memory of my
dearly beloved wife, Cissie (formerly Miss M. U. Mac-
Kenzie, of Wellington-street, Launceston), youngest
daughter of the late John Andrew MacKenzie, Esq., and
sister of Messrs. Kenneth and Donald MacKenzie, and
the late Mrs. Parr, who departed this life at Melbourne
on the 21st December, 1898. A truly devoted and
affectionate wife. R.I.P.
Inserted by her grief-stricken husband, J. MacKenzie
Sheehy. , * «
It is printed in out-back N. S. W., as an illus-
tration of the weakness of a piebald administra-
tion, that at Packsaddle, on a much-used track
leading to Mt. Brown, an artesian bore struck a
good pumping supply of water rising to within a
few feet of the surface, but that the bore-hole was
left unprotected for about five years, during which
sand and dust drifted in and filled it to a depth of
between 900 and 1000 ft. ! Some Govt, really
ought to make up its mind what department
should have full control of public watering places,
and then the Minister entrusted with the job
should thoroughly overhaul the branch.
There has been a
regular stampede of
pietists in Melb. during
the past few weeks.
The speedy exodus was
headed by Weir, a
godly banking official,
whose landlady told
the police that he used
to stay at home every
night reading the “Life
of Christ.” Weir’s foot-
steps had scarcely faded
from the Wharf-road,
before one Joy, Sunday
School superintendent,
suburban councillor,
son-in law of a parson
and all that is regrett
able, faded away
mysteriously. His
doings had not been-
fully discussed before
the office-boy at the
Old Colonists’ Asso-
ciations aid that the
secretary was away,
and he didn’t know
when he’d be back.
Other people do, for
the accounts show that
th e Old Colonists’ funds
have melted away to
such an extent that the
old people in the
Homes will get no
Xmas treat this year.
Yet not a single
atheist has been
heard of as
• seriously short in
his cash down
Melb. way for
years. But then
no atheist there
has any cash to be
short in.
One Giddons, a humor-
ous meteorologic, quotes from his
last year’s forecast of the “ Vic-
torian season, 1899,” and congratulates himself on
its accuracy. Giddons prophesied “ November
will be dry and December unsettled and showery.”
So, considering that November was mostly wet
(especially in Cup week), and December has been
warm and dry as a rule, Giddons feels quite jus-
D'fied inlaying down the weather for 1900.
“SYDNEY STREET-SINGERS.”
“ Let us gather up the sunbeams
Lying scattered round our path.”
On a recent Sunday in Sydney Domain,
two “cullahd gemmen ” were endeavoring to
show the right track to a lot of white trash,
while further on a Chow implored his giggling
audience to come to “Klist.” Which looks like
getting back on the Chinese missionary cranks.
AN OCEAN GRAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rocking and rocking, to and fro
Rocking a world to sleep;
And ever they come from a restless life
To die in the quiet deep.
Swinging and swinging, back and forth
Over the dead below,
Their sin and their care they have left above
To the depths of Peace they go.
Waiting and waiting, while ages fail,
Waiting for sorrow to die ;
I am the bride of unending Time
The Tomb of the world am L
TRNS.


“ She was at the age when she doesn't
look it.” — English novel.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Nature’s remedy for Nature’s iIIs—ZETZ
SPA WATER, compounded in Nature’s labora-
tory. Nothing to equal it.*
3
SOLID SILVER WAIST CLASP
(to take 2in. Belt Ribbon)
Others in Large Variety to 35/-
14/-
Write for Illustrated Catalogue . . .
Goldsmiths, Jewellers,
Silversmiths and Opticians
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
and at BRISBANE.
i®
G
n
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
m
pONDY’S
u Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is Magical.
All Substitutes are Inferior.
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID.”
During the hot
Summer weather
LIFEBUOY ,
R°YAL af\ A P
DISINFECTANT .
is a perfect luxury in the
bath, and is healthful and |
invigorating.
. The war-fever man of Melbourne Even-
ing Hehald raves with a glassy stare in his eye
about the “ massacre ” of the British—a few
hundreds —at Spytfontein. And re the alleged
slaughter of 2000 Boers it is merely said that they
were defeated and lost heavily. There may be
such a thing as “British fair play”—it is fre-
quently alleged that there is—but the correspond-
ing Australian article appears to be as scarce as
hen’s hoofs.
SUGGESTED WAR TAX.
Amongst the various suggestions made to N.S.W. Government for means to provide for th.
cost of despatching the contingent is one by Mr. Armstrong. for the issue of a special half-
penny postage stamp, to be attached to all letters (not to newspapers).
HOP.'S UNDERSTUDY REGS TO SUGGEST A DESIGN.
Cabled that when Lady Sarah Wilson was
captured by the Boers, Baden-Powell gave “a
notorious horse-thief ” in exchange for her —which
seems rough on Sarah. It is also explained now
that the lady, though nominally a newspaper cor-
respondent, was also a bearer of British despatches,
which probably accounts for her seizure.
* * * *■
Two letters on Broken Hill :
Dear Bulletin. —Re “Essay ” on Adelaide (B. 2/12/’99).
Broken Hill is a fairly cosmopolitan place with a large
preponderance of Cr’oweaters. The difference between
these and the Eastern States natives is marked enough to
be startling. S.A. reps, haven’t got enterprise enough to
close their mouths in fly-time; they don’t fill any posi-
tions of importance except in the unspeakable Municipal
Council, and they get there by solid party votes.
Result: a town that would shock a Bashi Bazouk—
unclean, unlighted, mangy, awful! The Crow population
(mostly Methodist) scratches itself into activity about
Christmas time, forms itself into mobs, and then the
raucous roars of “ Carol ” singers, very unsteady on their
legs, put a finishing touch to the horrors of this God-
forsaken spot. Igo solid for pagan immigration.— Line
o’ Load.
And the indignant office Crow responds :
Sydney-siders at B.H. are mostly policemen. Lately
there were 22 reported burglaries and not one arrest.
Certainly B.H. is unlighted. The “ unspeakable local
Council” asked for a. bill authorising it to light up ; it
was the Sydneyside Parliament that bashi-bazouked the
measure. S. Australians don’t fill any positions of im-
portance—in the public service. Sydneyside depart-
ments, of course, send round Sydneysiders. But it was
one S. Australian who discovered the field, another who
discovered 8.H., another is present chairman of B.H.
Prop., others are chairmen of Block 14, Junction, South,
and British. The management of Junction, South, Cen-
tral, Block 14, and others used to be in the eastern capi-
tals ; and a beautiful mess things drifted into ! Han-
cock, May, and Warren, three “ Crows,” are responsible
for the process of zinc-extraction which is keeping Broken
Hill on its feet; and every manager, bar two, on the line
of lode got his mining experience in S. Australia. So
there !
* * * *
Chief Justice and Acting-Governor Stout,
of Maoriland, came in severe collision with him-
self the other day. As C. J. he granted an order
for the extradition of an alleged escapee from
New Caledonia. Then, when the order came
before him as Acting-Gov., he refused to sign it
on certain high legal grounds, and made justly
severe remarks in one capacity about himself in
his other capacity for granting the order. In fact,
Stout practically rushed at himself and kicked
himself with great contempt.
* * * *
“Melb.”: Never did an Australian
Church so thoroughly satisfy ray artistic ideal as
the big Gothic St. Mary’s about to be opened in
West Melbourne. The congregation is in love
with it as congregations seldom are with a new
place. When lighted up at night it is Zion, the
perfection of beauty. The yellow windows have
an indescribably pleasing appearance with their
glow on the light-brown sandstone, with its white
facings. Barley-sugar, somebody called the effect.
“Here let my soul rest, for I do love it well.”
The Hotham Catholics declare that St. Mary’s b
matchless on this continent.
DEAD LUCKY—HIS POINT OF VIEW.
TOMMY : “ My word, Cis, I'm glad I’m not rigged out like that.”
CIS : “ Why?”
TOMMY: “ Just think how it would be if I was in for a spanking."
“Constance Clyde,” who isn’t an Aus-
tralian girl herself, makes a few bright remarks on
that personage:—
Have been studying the Australian girl for a year or
more, and have come to the conclusion that the climate
or something has completely unhinged her alleged intel-
lect on questions of sex. Her idea of man is of a being
always simmering with wild and passionate desires, and
every office she has visited is redolent of dark experiences
wherein only the virgin purity of her glance saved her
from some foul design. If the Australian girl happens to
be alone with a man, and he does not try to kiss her, she
thinks it wonderful self-control on his part. It never
occurs to her that perhaps he did not kiss her merely
because he did not want to. Ever after he is enshrined
in her heart as a great, good man who wrestled with a
fearful temptation, and catne forth unscathed. The
Australian girl goes in for men friends, especially married
ones. She labors under the delusion that their wives are
frantically jealous of her, and this fills her with a mourn-
ful joy. Again, it .is an acknowledged fact that every
A.g. receives thirty proposals of marriage per diem ; she
tells you this herself, and she ought to know. She goes
about the world in terrible fear lest someone will make
love to her or want to marry her. It is dreadful, the
anguish the poor thing suffers—and so unnecessarily, too.
There was a time when I credited the A.g.’s story and
wept with her at the havoc she had wrought; but the
worm has turned. (When I say the worm I mean me.)
Now, whenever a new acquaintance breaks the ice by
casually remarking that she had ten offers the day before
yesterday, I calmly reply that I had 20 during the after-
noon. After which she treats me with great respect—as
a more brilliant liar than herself.
* * * *
Extract from speech on education by more
or less bon. member in S.A. Assembly:
Especially this comes in regard to the matter of female
pupil teachers. The work, as far as female pupil teachers
is concerned, is heavier, because the sewing—and we all
know those various artistic and very curious work —a
great tax upon their various energies—and there is no
doubt about it —by a very close observation of work of
this character and the supervision of it—shows that all
the responsibility of it largely depends upon the female
pupil teachers, so that you can see, and of course the
Department—the Department is not singular in this
matter —fh -y seem to be very anxious to get as great a
number of female pupil teachers as possible. It is the old
question of male and female labor, and of course the
Government, like other shrewd people—they are ngither
better nor worse -it is the commercial spirit of thf age,
and they are practically actuated by that principle.
Launceston has a morgue in which to
accommodate the Tasmanian sleeper who, after
all, doesn’t sleep so very much harder than his
living fellow-islanders. And a local doctor lately
described it in this indignant fashion :
The City Morgue ! Twelve feet square, eight feet in
height. The room is floored with wood, walls lined with
wood, the roof roofed with wood. The door has a key,
and can be locked at pleasure by medical men inside.
None dare venture here but medical men and—corpses !
There is a frosted window which can never be opened,
and this is protected on the outer side by wire netting,
so that if by misadventure the window be broken the net-
ting will still prevent exit of the thickened atmosphere
into the street. There is the exit and entrance for air,
the keyhole, but that is filled by a large Corporation key ;
if it were not so, the odor might escape and blister the
red paint on the Corporation cart wheels. At one end of
the room is an old door resting on trestles. Having
travelled, you recognise it at once as a couch or bed.
Under the closed window is a slab, made of two large,
flat, disused paving stones, resting on a plank, which has
become springy. Behind the door is a nail—a real nail,
put there by the City Council chat the doctor may hang
his coat up ! What more do you want ?
♦ * « *
In a far nor’west Queensland town recently
a poor woman, tramping with her husband and
infant in search of work, was run in by the power-
ful arm of the law and fined 275. by her outraged
country for stealing a tin and an old bag off an
ash-heap. A full-sized information was laid
against this hardened criminal by a local official,
and the law decided that dangerous characters
like her and the infant had to be Put Down.
* * * *
A witness in a recent Melb. divorce case,
when asked if she had ever noticed any undue
familiarity between respondent and co-respondent,
replied enthusiastically that she had once seen the
co-respondent deliberately tread on respondent’s
toe, and, on another occasion, attempt to jmb her
head in a bag. Which recalls the undue
familiarity in “Jude the Obscure,” when the
temptress playfully pelts the hero with pigs’
entrails.
* * * *
Apropos of these medical examinations of
Transvaal would-be warriors, it is interesting to
note (by New York papers) that certain American
medicoes make a handsomething out of putting
through a course of training men rejected by
various insurance societies ; bolstering them up
by special treatment and medicine for the time
being, and so dragging them through the examina-
tion of some fresh society. The insurance com-
panies have lately dropped to the game.
THE ELOPEMENT OF LYDIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young'Lydia Fox, sweet, fair, and kind,
In marriage bonds had been assigned
To Johnson of the bleary eyes,
So she eloped with Samuel Wise.
Another love did Lydia please,
A love for things with claws and fleas ;
Her soulful sympathies went to
A dog, a cat, a cockatoo.
Thus when her erring feet did roam
But half-a-mile from her lost home,
She stopped in grief, with streaming eyes.
“Return, and bring my Tom, Sam Wise !”
Pleased that his love should prove so kind,
Sam turned, and raced the evening wind,
And soon on shoulder broad did bear
A cat that gaily chewed his ear.
Two furlongs moved the happy pair,
When Lydia sighed : “ Dear boy, I care
For reputation not a rap!
Take that, but bring my little Snap.”
With slower step and dubious face
Did Sam the traversed ground retrace.
And after much ado and stir,
He caught at last that howling cur.
But when, their journey almost through,
She called to mind the cockatoo,
The swift retreat of Samuel Wise
Could scarce his purpose dire disguise.
Long time, with glance now sweet now stern,
Did Lydia watch his wished return ;
At last his manly form was seen
Advancing o’er the meadows green.
But lo ! beside the noble bird,
Whose curse across the flat was heard,
Upon Sam’s back hung merrily
A form that Lydia shrieked to see ;
Dark lightning flashed from Samuel’s eyes,
As at her feet he laid each prize.
“ Three times my steps I turned to get
For my soft-hearted love each pet.
“ And as my strength was somewhat spent;
When me to fetch this bird you sent,
To save more journeying and ado,
I brought along the old man too.”
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
LA BELLE JAPONAISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her figure’s like a Venus tanned ;
Her black hair’s rolled up high ;
Her full round lips are browney red,
And slants her almond eye.
She loves to dabble in a tub,
And splash in water clear.
Her little feet are just the hue
Of pale colonial beer.
The trouble is you can’t converse,
Her English is so slight ;
The lips aforesaid only say
“ Goo’-day ” —or else “ Goo’-night.”
Yet let us drink !—“ The light brown lass
With slanting almond eyes ! ”
Although I bet she’ll bust the town —
She comes to civilise.
BANANAMAN.


nm
The accompanying illustration is merely used as
a simile for Blac/cness.
MARK FOY
has no connection with the Prince of Darkness,
beyond the fact that the deuce is in it if Foy’S
Hosiery is not as Black as Beelzebub, although
there are those who protest that his Satanic
Majesty is not of an extra inky or murky hue.
He that as it may, Mark Foy’S Hosiery
is of the BEST BLACK DESCRIPTION.
SEAMLESS, SURE,
aQd LONS LASTING.
All Drapers Everywhere.
For your Bedstead,
try
3
It annihilates
THEM.
What can be more uncomfortable in a house
than the continual messing about in the trimming of
kerosene lamps ? This is entirely avoided if you use the
“Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires no trimming,”
after the first time, emits no smell, gives a better light,
and all you have to do is to keep the well filled.*
WATERS’
RE-BUILDING
SALE • ■ •
Come direct to us for
XMAS REQUISITES
In our Line,
and avoid the Fancy Xmas Prices.
W- T- WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ & Children’s Outfitters,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
GLOBE TEAS havc N 0 Eqnal -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 2, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
On Boxing day, at the A.J.C., the Members’
Stand was a howling wilderness. The V.R. box
was empty even of its only Two, and not more
than six Society women cleaned the lawn with
their graceful tails. Mrs. Harry Levy was an
elegant figure in a white silk blouse with a white
skirt and white feather hat toned up with pink.
A pretty Jewish visitor from Maoriland looked
like a picture, not by an old master, in a big black
hat and white mull muslin. But thinking it over,
it is rather hard to remember anyone who didn’t
wear white. White frocks went about in bat-
talions. One style that was done to death was
the tucked and insertioned white muslin, fastened
up the back, with a white muslin fichu folded
flatly round the shoulders so as to take in the top
of the arms. I counted these in dozens. They
have a t v -s -ed-fowl look that seems rather apropos
of the.', .ls season.
Eveiy le woke up after lunch when a newly-
married couple arrived. That doesn’t seem any-
thing to be lively over, did you say? Yes, but
this couple are very well known, particularly the
bridegroom. The question was—how was the bit
of Society present going to receive his wife ? The
pretty daughter of a solicitor attached herself to
the couple immediately. Then there was a pause.
And then two well-known matrons walked down
ostentatiously from the stand, and marching up
spread the light of their countenances on the shy-
looking bride so that all the world might see.
After that, of course, there could not be much
Question about the bride’s reception by Society,
lefore, there was none.
In a month the two leading society women,
both pretty and both quite young-looking, are
widows. Their .absence from society is very
noticeable, for a race meeting without Mrs.
Willie Mitchell and Mrs. Burdekinand her pretty
daughters is dull by many degrees.
Do women punt? Ask a certain Sydney man.
On Tuesday a Melbourne woman requested him to
put a pound on her fancy, at fifty to one. She
didn’t give him the pound just then, and he went
away and forgot. It was an unknown horse, and,
of course, walked in. When the race was over,
the puntress rushed up with a bevy of other
women, a,nd hit him on the back, bubbling over
with excitement. “ You brought me that luck.
You must have champagne with us all.” And he
went sadly and had champagne, his champagne, if
paying for a thing makes it one’s own.
On New Year’s Day Randwick lawn was flut-
tery with muslins and bright with rose and tur-
quoise sunshades. Perhaps you don’t know that
a rose or a red parasol is rather good for keeping
off sun-brown. White muslins swept everything
before them again, except what they carried round
in the under flounces ; and I noticed several
striped all round with wide torchon and worn
over colored slips that looked dangerously like a
bodice cottoned on to the best white petticoat.
Scarcely any best Society turned up. His Ex.
turned the light of a pale-pink shirt and whitey-
grey belltopper and suit, and Captain Smith’s
illuminating expression thrown in, on the
meeting for an hour or so, and women cen-
tred rather hopelessly round the V.R. box.
Even the most persistent Mrs. Pushington found
it hard to open a V.R. conversation without the
assistance of a “Ladyship,” and a pet charity,
and that was the reason, you may be sure, why
the V.R. box had a lonely, man-haunted look all
the afternoon.
In frocks that smote, I noticed Mrs. Jack Want
wearing a beautifully cut grey voile, with a big grey
hat and black feathers ; somebody in powder-blue
voile, with heavy string-colored guipure edging the
polonaise in big Vandykes, and transparent string-
colored yoke, and a bewitching cream straw hat,
trimmed with deep blue fringed scarfs, andaglimpse
of orange flowers; Mrs. Ted Simpson looking
smart and mercurial in an all-white toilette ; Mrs.
Monty Severn in cream alpaca skirt and cream
silk and insertion blouse ; and Miss Mollie Slat-
tery in turquoise-blue muslin with a black lace
yoke and black hat, receiving good wishes re her
just-announced engagement to a young solicitor
from Bananaland.
But, if otherwise uneventful, there was one
thing that marked the meeting out from others.
That was the steeplechase, in which four horses
behaved as followeth : One baulked straight off
and was seen no more. A blue-and-white horse
got a long way ahead of the others, then it fell
down. A white horse took the lead until it fell
down. A red horse that was made to win, as you
will see presently, took the lead itself, but a little
way further fell down. The horse that had
falien first now got up, and got ahead a long
way. Suddenly it seemed to think it was time to
go slower—in the interests of the public, let us
say—so it fell down again. By that time the blue
horse was going again a long way ahead of the
red, so it ran thoughtfully out of its course a bit,
then went and leaned up against a hurdle for a
minute. That gave the red horse time to get on.
Then the race began between the blue and white
horse, that was now going again, and the red.
Everyone thought the red was beaten, but no.
Quietly and mysteriously the jockey of the other
horse was seen slipping out of the saddle. A
riderless blue-and-white horse galloped all over the
place, a blue horse was discovered rearing up
against a steeple, and the red horse strolled home
alone in the cool of the race. The way those
horses helped each other was a wonderful lesson in
the kindness of animals to animals, as animals. .
I really think it is about time to air again
afew of the interminable grievances every
woman has against the way the Randwick
Races are run. Nobody ever gets served in
the tea-rooms until the next race is just
about starting. Everyone is worked up to a wild
fume, and the people who don’t rush out in mad-
ness and put their money on the wrong horse, gulp
their scalding tea down in sad silence, and eat
sandwiches off a saucer with an air of resignation
that hasn’t the slightest effect on those it aims at.
On Boxing Day a party of country people, come
to have a good time, sat at the same table with me.
After the usual fatiguing struggle for a waiter’s
eye they managed to get themselves heard.
“ Strawberries and cream, please, for six.” “No
strawberries. No cream.” Dismay of country
people. “Ices for six then.” “Noh’ices.” More
dismay. A big leap downward is noticeable in
the next order. “Coffee and buns for six.” “No
coffee. No buns.” The head of the table lost his
temper then, and was heard demanding a whisky
and soda while the others thought it out. “No
whisky. No soda.” “Well, but blank —but
blank —what have you got?” “Tea and cyke,
tea and ’am sandwich.” I saw these six afterwards
looking as if they had been blowing themselves
out with tea and A.J.C. “cyke,” very subdued
and disconsolate, not a bit like the jolly people
who went to get strawberries.
And where in all this strangely-ordered world is
there a more marvellously bad method of catching
trams when the Races are over. To reach the
platform, you plunge through a bewildering mass
of cabs, ’buses, carriages, dog-carts, sulkies, and
when the platform is crowded with race-people
the trams begin to come along. They look as if
they were going to stop. Women dart forward,
stumble, shriek, fall back, and are fallen on. The
tram has moved on. Next tram repeats. Time
after time everybody makes a wild bolt forward,
and the tram glides mockingly on to the extreme
other end of the platform. At last, God in His
infinite knowledge knoweth why, a tram comes
along that stops. A thousand people all try to
get in at once. Crushing, swearing, screaming,
hitting, kicking. At last those who can get in,
and those who can’t, vow this will be the last time
—a vow consecrated, you know, to the racecourse.
And this goes on every meeting, and will go on
for ever, I suppose, and I wouldn’t trouble to
mention it only that it relieves a sense of injury
to see it in cold print.
The Pantomime—“ Red Riding Hood,” by
Bernard Espinasse—started on Boxing Night. A
brilliant house, of course. The gods piled up in
such masses that there seemed to be legs and arms
growing down from the ceiling ; stalls full, and a
good deal over ; dress-circle showing white arms in
great quantities. Very dressy was the d.c.,
although it was not “ Society.” Mrs. Rennie was
there in black, a conspicuous first-nighter. Miss
Edith Crane was in blue with a neck and sleeves
filled in with skin-colored lace, and had her hus-
band, Mr. Tyrone Power, alongside.
Have you noticed how, just about this time of
year, when Society retires for its annual com-
plexion-pick-up, another layer rises to the surface,
well-dressed, well-looking, unknown by name to
social scribes, but able to fill Society’s blank with-
out a wrinkle. Pantomime first night was
crowded with these. Looking round, you saw on
all sides pretty women and girls, and nice-looking
men, whose names are not written in the book
of Potts Point. Where do they come from, all
these nice unknown folk? Or are they with us
always, and merely obscured during the rest of
the year by the Nicest’s gaud and glitter.
One is apt to see last year’s pantomime through
a haze, and to forget entirely the year’s before,
but I am sure this is the most beautifully-dressed
one seen in Sydney for a very long time. The
frocks are not of the silver and gold order. Soft
silk is the chief feature of the dressing—tender-
colored, squeezable silk, flowered or plain, simple,
but making a delightful effect from the front.
Dolly Vane wears it in a little pale grey frock under
a white silk pinafore. (By the way, Red Riding
Hood’s frocks are merely an item. Nobody looks
at anything but her artless white socks, bare legs,
and ankle-strap shoes. White socks are a hard
test, but Dolly Vane stands them well.) The
ballet wears silk in scarlet and dead white, and in
marigold yellow and white chemisettes, and
underskirts of white silk. Speaking of good
material, what a waste Lauri is. The panto, gives
him about two chances to be funny, but he doesn’t
seem in a hurry to seize either. He is a most
quiet and serious-looking Lauri. A song of his is
introduced every night, and I am wondering if it
is that song that has stopped him from being
Lauri.
Carrie Moore, in our Lancers’ suit, rouses the
house to wild enthusiasm. Certainly, a sack of
potatoes dressed in khakee would send a thrill
round just now, but I think everyone is mindful of
the trim slight figure in this particular outfit.
Mark Foy made all the soldiers’ suits—several
hundreds of them; Gordon Highlanders, Dragoons,
Lancers—that figure in the great battle tableau.
Between acts ! An old panto, writer rushes up
to the author of “Red Riding Hood ” and slaps
him on the back. “Old fellow, let me”—he
begins, and the other’s face lights up expectantly
—“wish you a happy New Year,” he ends,
maliciously. It suggests that weird old joke,
ascribed to Disraeli—the reply to the begging
letter: “ I received your request for a donation
to your highly-deserving charity, one which has
always appealed to my warmest sympathies, and
have great pleasure in subscribing ” (here the foot
of the page was reached, and a wild-eyed treasurer
would turn over in frantic haste to see if it was
£lOO or £1000) “ myself, your very obedient
servant” (remarks from treasurer about a “ heart-
less upstart, ” etc.)
Sartorially, “The Power and the Glory,” now
running at the Lyceum, is rather a triumph for
the wicked young woman that Miss Roxy Barton
tries to seem to be. She flaunts most alluringly
in her third frock, which looks like a black and
white sprigged muslin made up over bright rose
color, with rose flounces showing up the right side
of the skirt, touches of black velvet, and a rose
toque with a black bird holding it off the forehead.
Ida Gresham, who is very badly treated in a well-
made brown print, is chiefly to be noticed for
the wonderful way she keeps her gold hair
smartly coiffured all through the days of
anguish, starvation, and illegal imprisonment.
Little Beatrice Holloway turns out to be one of
those rare anomalies, a good stage-child, with
lovely rounded cheeks and a red-brown mane, and
a most natural manner and voice. In a perform-
ance like this, when three of the women talk with
plums in their throats —and one of the plums is an
egg-plum—the sweet, quietly - produced young
voice was something to listen to. Miss Roland
Watts-Phillips isn’t billed as the heroine, but she
bravely sacrifices herself, all the same, to a crino-
line and green sateen flounces, and elastic-side
cloth boots, and tenders them all her fun as well.
As for the men, l am afraid, or should I say glad,
that you are not susceptible enough to fall a victim
to the most taking of a rather unattractive group,
the baker-boy—Mr. Tom Cosgrove—whose way of
saying, “’Ave a little common,” is one of the
light reliefs of this studiously ordinary melo-
drama.
In dying moments of the N.S.W. session
Ms.L.A. relieved their souls by offering moral
support to Colonel Neild re his alleged volunteer-
ing for the Transvaal. Hideous stories of Boer
marksmanship and ferocity and their deadly
preference of officers of rank (especially men of
tall, commanding physique) were told with studied
unconsciousness among little groups when the
Kernel happened to be within earshot. Bogus
wires came down freely “from headquarters ” to
the effect that the Paddington warrior’s offer was
accepted, with assurances that the welfare of the
wives and families of the slain would be duly
attended to. The victim of this thoughtfulness
took it with the same resolute calm with which he
takes the whole military business, and responded
to the universal congratulations on his chances of
distinction by reciting “A Tale of Balaclava”—
from the Nocent Waterspout series—at the break-
ing-up.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The holiday evening crowds were better worth
attention than a pantomime. In the tram a ten-
year-old talked war with his father, who was con-
voying Sonny and the younger ones on a tour of
the shops. Young Hopeful barracked for the
Australian Contingents and their khakee suits.
Dad preferred the red-coats of Old England.
‘Wouldn’t it be a have for the Bow-ers,’ said the
youngster after a thoughtful pause, ‘ if they mis-
took our men for sheep ? Tlieir clothes are just
the color of wool. And how would it be to come
over the kop-gees on their four legs ? ’ Poor inno-
cent ! how local fire-eaters would resent the sug-
gestion that they should go into battle disguised
as wethers !
“In most of the big shops, at the entrance to
‘Yuletide caves,’ &e., was inscribed, ‘Children
not admitted without parents or guardians.’ Rue-
ful ragamuffins stood around wistfully eyeing this
testimony to the truth of the saying, ‘ the gates of
heaven are narrow.’ Yet most of them got in
somehow. ‘Take me in with you, lydy,’ they
whispered, and were seldom refused. Once inside,
they were apt to precipitate enquiry by testing
mouth-organs and trying bikes. A girl, who had
escorted three or four successive batches of urchins
into the haven where they fain would be, at last
saw a shop-walker inspecting her with a suspicious
glare. The flustered shepherdess summoned her
black sheep by a warning whisper. The queer-
eyed one, whom his chums called ‘ Squinney, ’ was
equal to the occasion: ‘Mummer,’ he squeaked
ostentatiously, ‘ Ginger’s punchin’ me ! Clip ’im
on the jore, mummer ! ’
“Saturday before Christmas, blind men were
playing like good ’uns on accordeon and cornet
respectively, up Smith Street. Tired women
handed over their thrippennies to the sightless
ones and trudged back home instead of tram-
ming it. Poverty and generosity.apparently run
in double harness. Just now, weary wage-earners,
who would never be invited to Govt. House if they
filled a page of the visitors’ book daily with the
name of ‘J. Smith,’ spent their holidays at home,
and devoted their holiday money to the alleged
needs of prospective soldiers’ widows. But the
crowd who grab gubernatorial favours and hospi-
tality, and pose as impassioned Imperialists, trot
off to the Paris Exhibition and knock down their
cheques without a thought of the victims crushed
in the machinery of their beloved Empire.
“Juvenile Melbourne was ‘breaking up,’ and
showing off for many weary days before Plmn-
puddingness. Everywhere one went one met
battalions of neat little girls and boys with un-
comfortably clean collars on, bearing calf and
morocco-bound prize books. On one day there
were reports of speech days and prize lists of
forty-four private schools (mostly called ‘colleges
or ‘ academies ’) in the Argus. All these are
highly ‘select’ institutions whose young lady
pupils mostly speak of ‘mykin’ kyke.’ The danc-
ing academies, painting classes, and so on, also
had their shivoos. At one fashionable dancing
place one was amused to hear the lydy instructress
command her pupils to ‘ put yer ’ands on yer ’ips
and ’op.’ Which they did with much grace.
Education is certainly making great strides —or
’ops—in Melbourne.
“Uncle Tom Brassey knows a few things
and falls off many more. He has fixed his
departure for the day the second Victorian con-
tingent leaves, whereby in years to come the
incidents will get mixed up, and he will be able to
state that 20,000 people lined the streets when he
left and the cheers shook the mortgage on Fink’s
Buildings—if there is one. A mighty programme
has been drawn up for the old man's send-off.
The vice-regal carriage, with its noble owner eii her
inside or falling out, will be driven from Guvment-
ouse over Prince’s Bridge, then round the corner,
over the adjacent piece of waste ground and down
to the Morgue, where His Excellency under the
auspices of the coroner and his orderly will em-
bark in a dingy, and scull himself downstream to
the Falls Bridge, amid the sing-song of the school
children, who are to be posted along the bank with
life buoys and grappling irons. The Sunbeam,
lying at anchor off Britton’s Hotel, will then be
boarded by its illustrious owner, who is to clear
out of Victoria via Coode’s Ditch and the
abattoirs. This may not be the exact programme,
but it is as near as the writer can remember.
“An intermittent affliction descended upon
Melbourne the other day in the person of an old
man from waybaclt who wants twenty pounds for
a horse with ingrowing hoofs and a sort of
spiral movement in his off hind leg. There are
hundreds of men in and about Melbourne who
want <£2o for a horse, but this man has made him-
self conspicuous by merit and sheer force of
character. He is an old man, almost as old as his
horse ; he is as obtuse as a ton of putty, and under-
stands nothing but that the Government wants
horses for <£2o to mount the second contingent on,
and he wants £2O for a horse. That is enough for
him,, and his nag, having been refused by the
military assessor as fit for nothing but glue, he
believes there is some mistake somewhere, and is
moving the powers. He parades his pathetic old
crock all over the place, seeking influential persons,
and when he finds his influential person he corners
him, and clings like a disease, and maunders about
the qualities of that horse as a charger and a
picturesque attribute to an army till night falls.
He has chased the Premier and all his Ministers;
he has interviewed the Mayor and the Town
Council, and waylaid Tom Brassey and Fitz
Gibbon, and the W.C.T.U., and is still actively
hawking his horse in the city and suburbs. Now,
whenever an old man towing a limp horse
comes working round a Melbourne corner, stocks
fall and great men are seen escaping in seven
directions.
“Captain Cecil is the first of the A.D.C.’s to
take up his bed and walk from these parts. That
sleeping member of Uncle Tom’s Cabin spent six
months recovering from a broken leg and another
six months in chewing his toothpick and wonder-
ing how the awfully beastly nuisance of an acci-
dent had happened. The little Aide took his
small self off by the mail-boat on Tuesday—un-
honored and unsung. With all his faults—or
want of them—he commanded this scribe’s admir-
ation because he had a habit of getting out of
riding the Brassey back wheel as often as possible.
And if he is sent to S. Africa, as he hopes, he
ought to be safe from all intentional injury. No
intelligent Boer would knowingly fire at anybody
who looks so kind and gentle and harmless.
“ The Madden family will treat the Frankston
folk to no more platform tricks. In their ap-
proaching deputy vice-royalty, stage exhibitions
are to be taboo. Once upon a time Guy Madden
—the bulky son and heir —sang a Coster song at a
cheerful local entertainment; Miss Lesly Madden
did skirt-dances in the good cause of charity, and
the flower of the flock turned a pretty profile to
the Frankstonians, as she played accompaniments.
But never again.
“Mr. William Zeal, the President of the Vic-
torian Legislative Council, sent out a Xmas card
of his own devising, with a Union Jack on it, and
some patter-rotic doggerel. A booklet from
Brassey has not made an appearance this year.
Last year the old gentleman sent out a little
pamphlet bound in imitation parchment consisting
of his favorite bits from authors —chiefly the
hackneyed passages in Shakespeare. He had it
printed in London. Those who received copies do
not seem to have valued them much, for the writer
saw a couple for sale second-hand at sixpence each
the other day—imitation autograph and all!
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


H A LF- SICK Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. ■ lazy,and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
per post, is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
JLorimer’s
Compound Syrup of Mypophosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Solk Agent for N.S.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Ayniard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. 2.—The Postman.
A rural postman writes : “ I desire to add this
unsoh'eited testimony to the sterling- qualities of
Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa. I am a rural postman,
and exposed to all kinds of weather. I have used
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa daily this last eleven
months, and I believe that I can do my work with
less fatigue since I have used it. I can honestly
recommend to my fellow postmen Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa for its sustaining qualities.”
Of late years many new manufactures, rejoicing
in a multiplicity of names, have been brought
before the public notice, but there are none which
have bounded into favor so readily as has Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. Throughout the country its
sales have increased with great rapidity, and an
article which only a few years back was unheard
of has now become one of the most popular
beverages of the people.
Merit, and merit alone, is what is claimed for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the proprietors are
prepared to send to any reader who names The
Bulletin (a postcard will do) a dainty sample tin
of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-paid.
There is no magic in all this. It is a plain,
honest, straightforward offer. It is done to intro-
duce the merits of Vi-Cocoa into every home. Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, as a concentrated form of
nourishment and vitality, is invaluable ; nay,
more than this, for to all who wish to face the
strife and battle of life with greater endurance
and more sustained exertion, it is absolutely
indispensable.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers, and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Have Zetz Spa Water with your Xmas
dinner —positively prevents indigestion. Doctors
pronounce ZETZ incomparable.'
SUNLIGHT
OIL CANE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
MELBOURNE : 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &g.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Reported in M.L. papers that George Reid
has sailed for the Bluff. Fancy George wanting
to go to any more bluff than he has already.
Tom Price, who succeeds Batchelor as
leader of S. A. Labor Party, was a stonecutter on
the staff of laborers who erected S.A. Parliament
House.
The lost and said to be recently-discovered
balloon-explorer, Andree, was a man of magnifi-
cent physique ; whereas his companion, Eckholm,
was small, feeble and elderly. They dare in all
shapes!
A prisoner named Nelson, at Northam
(Westralia) nearly succeeded in suiciding the other
day by pounding his head against the gaol wall.
In fact, it isn’t quite certain yet that he hasn t
succeeded.
General Oronje had one son killed by the
British in the war of independence. A second was
killed by Jameson’s Raiders, and the third and
last fell before Mafeking. The childless old man
—he is very old now —doesn’t love the Englander,
and what wonder.
The new S.A. Education Minister,
Batchelor, began his own battle as a State school
pupil-teacher. Premier Holder went further than
the pupil-teacher stage; he had got fairly high
up among head-teachers when he stepped out into
journalism, and so into politics.
George Thornton, M.L.C., was 79, on
Dec. 28, having been born in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, in 1820. He was M.L.A. over 40
years ago, and has been 22 years in the Upper
House. Also, he was Minister for Mines for six
weeks, in ’B5, and was once Agent-General.
S.A. Premier Holder does not propose to
give up “local preaching” while he is in office.
In fact, one of his very first public appearances
after stepping into Kingston’s shoes (Sudden
Solomon really hadn’t time to get a pair) was to
deliver a sermon. He is a Methodist, and even
in the pulpit can’t help juggling with figures.
Sir Walter Hely-Hutchinson, the present
Governor of Natal, stayed at Sydney Govt. House
in 1874. He was then the Hon. Walter Hely-
Hutchinson, 25 years of age, and was understood
to be learning the business of a Governor. He
accompanied Hercules Robinson to Fiji when the
Islands were annexed, and was asked to assist the
private secretary with some clerical work, but he
found the weather too warm and didn’t. But he
was the son of an earl, and influence helped the
tired man along to his present breathless elevation.
ON HTS OATH.
LONG-SUFFERING J.P. (to witness): “ Why,don't
you answer my questions. Are you afraid of
telling an untruth?”
SALVATION HARMY HOFFICER: “Oh, dear no!
Hallelujah! ”
The latest news about “Oliver Bainbridge,’
the wild-haired world-traveller who was never out
of Australia till recently, is that he took a Maori
girl for a drive at Rotorua (M.L.); that the
native she wasn’t formally married to hit him on
the curly locks with a club when he came back;
and that the brown man was fined £5 and costs.
Prahran (Victoria) has at least one live
oity father. A bitter and needlessly prolonged
correspondence was going on between a ratepayer
and the municipal officials re the alleged stoppage
of a drain, till Councillor Arnott grew angry, and
making for the scene of trouble with a broom he
put things right personally in about ten minutes.
The authorities refuse permission to the
Duke of Connaught to go to the war :
To Africa Con. would have fared
To share the soldier’s lot.
Folks think he ought—he could be spared—
But all the powers have declared
That Con. ought not.
William Pearman, “common seaman,”
had his foot completely torn off by a rope, on a
Yarra (Melb.) steamer, the other day. Carried
to the hospital, he bore his pain smilingly. “The
pluckiest patient ever seen in the hospital,” say
the doctors. But William is not “ A Soldier of
the Queen,” and so his gameness is neglected even
by Bill Purtell, the penny-poet.
Sam Mauger, who succeeded John Han-
cock as M.L. A. for the bone-mill city of Footscray
(Vic.) has been a hard grafter in many quarters.
He is an uncle, it he isn’t actually a father, of
the present Factories Act and anti-sweating legis-
lation in Victoria. But alas! he isn’t a cheerful
democrat like punter ’Ancock, and he is painfully
and wearily anxious about his immortal soul.
Victorian ex-Minister for Railways
Williams: “ Mr. Shiels was kicked off the
Treasury benches on a former occasion like a dumb
dead dog.” This was presumably to prevent the
public imagining that Shiels was kicked off like a
voluble dead dog talking at the top of his voice.
But do they kick off dead dogs where Williams
comes from ? That unwholesome kind of object is
best removed with a long fork and Condy’s fluid.
Said in some quarters that Theo. Fink
really left the M'Lean (Vic.) Government through
a belated rising of his wrath at the patronising
tone adopted towards him by Treasurer Shiels,
who called him “an intelligent man.” To em-
phasise virtues supposed to be taken for granted
is a minor form of insult. Shiels’ letter seemed to
suggest that it was necessary to mention Fink’s
intelligence because it wasn’t visible.
Brewer Tooth, who tips £IO,OOO to the
Boer-slaughter fund, was a well-known figure in
political cireles about 20 years ago. He was a pious
sort of beer-seller and thought the next greatest
institution to his own brewery for the amelioration
of man was the Church of England. He once
stood for Parliament at East Sydney but was
badly beaten. It was probably well for him. It
has to be dreadfully bad beer that doesn’t pay
better than politics.
Dan O’Connor was charged in a Sydney
police-court the other day with calling at the
Australian Gas Co.’s office and booting a cler.
because the Gas Cos. cut off the gas from “ Tara.’
(Incidentally there was fine material for an Irish
poem on “The gas that once through Tara’s
halls.”) Dan explained that he merely put up his
foot in self-defence; but admitted that when the
Gas Cos. threatened to bring a policeman he defied
the co., and said that the police, “knowing his
pre-eminent respectability,” would never arrest
him. After that the case was dismissed.
A more or less recent death in a down-South
metropolis opens the door for the relation of the fol-
lowing. The scion
of an English coun-
try family, when a
lad of 14, once ac-
companied his
father in a call on
his solicitor. The
solicitor, one of the
old school of family
attorneys, begged
to be excused from
business that day,
as he had received
ill news about a
trusted clerk,
whose name he
mentioned. “ I
know him,” said
the client; “is he
dead ? ” “No ! ”
was the reply,
“ but he has writ-
ten to me that he
[ has embezzled a
lot of money, and
is enlisting under
an assumed
name in a regi-
ment leaving for
foreign service.”
“Shall you pro-
secute ? ” asked
the vi si to r.
“No. I will for-
give him, but I
will never see
him again.”
Nearly a quar-
ter-century after-
wards, the lad
first - mentioned
having become an
Anglican clergy-
man, was health-
touring in Aus-
tralia, and in a
leading oity was
guest of a public man who, on one occa-
sion, took him to a court. Here the visitor
was introduced to the Judge, whose name set
him thinking, until it suddenly flashed upon him
that the exalted legal dignitary was no other than
the defaulting clerk of long ago. A few sub-
sequent inquiries left him no doubt of the fact.
The man, after a period of service with the
colours, had gone to a oolonial university, and so
through the sphere of politics reached the dignity
of the Bench
All the present set of Australian Premiers,
bar Holder, who is 49, are between 50 and
60. Forrest, 52; Philp, 53; Lyne, 55;
McLean, 59.
HIS TROUBLES.
FATMAN : “Look here, my man,
could you eat one of those pies?”
WRECK (woefully): “My oath, Mister! I ain't
had a bite since"-
FATMAN : “ Well, I’m hanged if I could, they
would make ME TERRIBLY BIDIOUS." (Walks
off.)
The teetotal cranks of Maoriland have not
carried prohibition in any new district, and their
representation in the House is diminished as the
result of the late general election. The outlook
was, however, so gloomy that Millionaire Martin
Kennedy sold out his .£40,000 interest in Staples’
Brewery, Wellington, just before the election
and local option poll. The proverbial cloud has
since come o’er his brow. Ten per cent, gone and
no good investments offering ! Kennedy, like
many others, miscalculated the strength of the
Liberal-cum-Beer party.
Alexander Sutherland is back again in
Melbourne after hobnobbing with the learned
pundits of England. His big book on “ The
Development of the Moral Instinct” won him the
entree into the society of the “thinkers” with
bald skulls and bulging emu egg foreheads, for it
has been heralded as a work of philosophical
importance on the Spencer Darwinian line.
Sutherland is dark, slight, shapely and vigorous-
minded ; and he knows so much that the hairs of
his head might be catalogued like a library. He
lives a solitary life at Mount Martha, with nature
and his books and his theories.
“ S.S.” : Your indignant “ Melbourne
Britisher” is hard-pressed for an excuse for
English behaviour in Africa when he cites poor
old Kruger’s countenance to put a good face on
the attempted steal. Kruger is not a beauty,
according to the idea of the Johnnie and the little
miss, but his mug is far from being the mass of
hideousness described by “ Britisher.” The face is
heavy, but it has, besides strength, a dint or two
that make it preferable, for a person seeking a
companionable individual, to that of Queen Vic-
toria with the ominous droop in the corners of the
mouth. Besides, we get Kruger, like Cromwell,
with all his warts, whereas the retoucher does his
best to make smooth and pleasant the face of the
Queen.
It is amusing to find Shiels and McColl
together in the same Cabinet. When Shiels was
Premier and was defending himself against a no-
confidence motion, he had prepared for McColl
one of those smart, impromptu retorts which he is
in the habit of brewing and bottling for use when
required. McColl has a small treble voice. An-
ticipating an interjection from him in the course
of his speech Shiels had purposed retorting: “ Do
I hear the squeak of the trapped rat ? ” It would
have been somewhat appropriate in McColl’scase.
But it went astray. W. G. Carter, then member
for Williamstown, made an interjection. Shiels
mistook the voice, and out, pat, came the retort :
“Do I hear the squeak of the trapped rat?’
“No,” roared Carter, in a deep bass, “you hear
the bark of the British bull-d. g.” But Shiels has
the trapped rat now—in his own rat-trap.
William Pember Reeves, who is reported
to be resigning the Maoriland Agent-Generalship
in order to take up literature and politics in
England, did not get his present position without
a severe struggle. The late Patrick Buckley—
Attorney-General in the Seddon Govt, at the time
Reeves was Minister for Labor and Education —
wanted the appointment badly, but Reeves
threatened to raise Cain if he didn’t get the billet.
Buckley also proposed to raise Cain and all Cain’s
relatives. There was a long tug of-war; but
providentially a judge died and gave an oppor-
tunity for placing Buckley on the Supreme Court
Bench, thus leaving Reeves’s course to London
clear. Poor Buckley only sat on one assize before
he died.
“ Malle,” on a British general :
Re Wolseley’s reputation (Bulletin 30/12/’99). Writer
has served under him, and has heard his alleged reputa-
tion freely discussed by officers and men, who, as a rule,
think little of it. One V.C.’d Scotchman, who won his
decoration in the Indian Mutiny, summed him up : “ He’s
a damned good commissariat-general, and that's all can
be said for him.” His “ great ” victory at Tel-el-Kebir
was simply the result of surprise and the bull-headed
pluck of the men he commanded. In the Nile expedition,
he waited until the river was too low before deciding on
that route; result, Khartoum had fallen before the
British relief-column could get near it. Wolseley is very
stand-off, and his teetotalism makes him unpopular. He
refuses to serve out grog during a campaign ; enteric
fever and dysentery killed more men than the enemy in
Egypt, and many of the doctors thought that the usual
“ tots ” would have reduced the mortality. The stored
rum was afterwards lost in a big fire at Cairo, and it was
whispered that the fire had covered a considerable de-
ficiency. The idol of Tommy Atkins is “ Bobs.”
Abdul Wade, the Afghan manager of the
well-ad v" rtised and prosperous Bourke (N.S.W.)
Carrying Co., is a short, sturdy, Jewish-
looking man with a pleasant smile and
magnificent teeth. He has made thou,
sands of pounds by the development of
the'camel carrying business in
N.S.W. and S.A., though but
a few years ago he worked on
a Vic. farm for a few shil-
lings a month. He relates
that during his early strug-
gles he was engaged by a
fellow - countryman to go
hawking in Melbourne.
His first day out a charit-
able lady, sympathising
with his youth and his
heavy burden, bought
nearly the whole of his
merchandise, which
meant to him a commis-
sion of 30s.— more money
than he had ever had in
his life before, at one
time. As he left her
door, his heart swell-
ing with pleasure, he
heard his benefac-
tress say, “Poor
fellow ! ” It then
broke in on him
that a feeling of
pity only on the
part of the pur-
chaser had brought
about his good for-
tune, and nothing
would again in-
duce him to
carry a basket.
“We Afghans
don’t want to get
a living by awaken-
ing the pity of women,’’concluded Abdul,
“ so I went to work that enabled me to
feel that what I earned I really
did work for.” Wade is married
to an Australian girl, but
is a strict Mohamme-
dan, and out of his own
purse supports mosques
at Adelaide and Bourke.
And his early vow has gone
to pieces, because he gets his
living out of a concern whose
methods have awakened the pity of almost every
woman who knows anything about them.
As showing how even the hardest-headed
citizen can harbor a bee in his bonnet : When the
N.S.W. Soudan “patriotic” fund was in full
swing, and after reading that millionaire Tyson—
of whom the old man was always jealous—had
given £lOOO, the late squatter Locky M‘Bean, of
Woorooma, walked round the room muttering
“Ef the gude leddy (the Queen) wants it, Ah’ll
give her a thoosan’—Ah’ll guv mair nor thot, puir
leddy. Hech ! but Ah’ll guv her a cheque thot’ll
show urn." He kept up this wrestle all the after-
noon, but evidently the old Adam triumphed, as
hiscontemplated contribution was never sent along
Bishop Samuel Thornton, of Ballarat
(“ Samuel Ballarat ”), regards himself as a man
with a large, liberal mind because he holds that it
is not altogether an unforgiveable sin to work on
the Sabbath. Walking on the path surrounding
Lake Wcndouree one Sunday, and seeing nobody
but a very small boy about, Sam “Ballarat”
began to put his pet retriever through its facings,
jumping the animal over a stick, etc., etc. Pre-
sently he noticed that the small boy, a very prim
youth wearing a black knickerbocker-suit and an
expression of severity far beyond his years, was
closely observing him, and, thinking to edify the
youngster, he made the dog repeat his tricks.
Then turning to his audience of one he ejaculated:
“ There, my boy ; isn’t he a clever dog?” The
boy eyed the bishop more sternly still. “ Sir,”
he said, with preternatural' dignity, “ I think
you forget what day it is !’’ After that he
walked off austerely, leaving a crumpled Yiishop
on the gravel path.
Evangelist Moody—Sankey’s mate —has
gone over to join the old ones. Moody came
from Northfield (Massachusetts), and claimed to
be a direct descendant of another famous evan-
gelist, Parson Samuel Moody, of York (Mass.).
Parson Sam Moody will be interesting to Aus-
tralians in these contingent days as senior chap-
lain of the army of 4000 men which the New Eng-
land provinces sent to take Louisbourg in Cape
Breton (then the strongest place in America) from
the French. Sam Moody carried among his
scanty baggage an axe with which to “ hew down
the altars of Antichrist, and break in pieces the
images in the church of Louisbourg.” When,
without the help of a single regular soldier, an
engineer, or anyone who had ever seen a siege,' or
even a regular fortress, with a country store-
keeper named William Pepperell for their
general, they actually took the town, though it
was defended by a regular French regiment and
a body of Canadian militia, Moody went to work
with his axe in the church, and would have
wrecked the interior if some cooler-headed victors
had not persuaded him to preach instead of chop-
ping. This capture of Louisbourg is memorable
as being the real prelude to the War of Indepen-
dence. It was the first time the provincials
really pitted themselves against European regular
soldiers, and beat them. The late Moody, of the
firm of Moody and Sankey, had very little, after
all, to recommend him but his bull voice and his
long-dead ancestor.


' WOLFE’S
SSchicdamjVronwficSd
A SUPERLATIVE
PTr-rm
fITTT||TT>
TONIC.OIURETIt.AMTia
INVIGORATING CORI
gnjlrra
VTttt
THE
PUBLIC
IS
SPECIALLY
REQUESTED
to
ASK FOB.
and
Make Sure
of
GETTING
WOLFE’S
Which is
the |i
Real
Original
Schnapps,
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
.0n...
|V|r. Fraok Scijior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
T Favorite and Best Summer Drink is
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
Look for
on Neck Label.
WATSON S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
Silly letters often go from parent to
teacher, but the teacher writes rubbish sometimes.
For instance, Mrs. Skimmi’lk, a dairy-farmer,
writes to Miss Beltham :
Dear Miss Beltem.—l am varry angery at way you
eained my Willie remember he’s only a child not forteen
or you wouldent get him. When hes stubben an says he
wont do what you tell him, you wont to (“ coax”) him
tell him youll bring him something from Sydney a
Chrismas. That’s how I get him to do things. I’m
supprised at your ignorants not known how to spell my
Elcys name, fancy you spelling it Elsie, you ought of
known that without been told. When you keep my
children in at dinner-time you wont to give them there
dinner first, thats what Id do. anyhow keeping them
in is black tack an if I dont see an improvement after this
111 learn them myself, yours respectably, Mrs. Skimmilk.
Whereupon la Beltham :
Dear Madam. —Many thanks for hints. Now one lot of
good advice deserves another : Always milk your cow
from the milking-side, i.e., the “off” side. The first
thing to do on sitting down is to wash your hands w r ith
milk-squirts, being careful to hold the bucket (between
vour knees) directly under the drip; and as milk is
good for the complexion, it won’t hurt to wash your face
while you’re about it. Next dig your head well into
Daisy’s flank, and then—why, then—you milk. I would.
Never place your milking-stool immediately behind your
cow, for sundry reasons, one of which is that j r ou couldn’t
dig your head in so comfortably ; and though Daisy is
mostly amiable enough on the milking-side, she is always
frightfully sarcastic behind. You would no doubt label
her sarcasm “ black tack.” When you feel sure that
Daisy has “ let down ” all her milk, you hit her on the
nose with the leg-rope, and request Strawberry to “ bail-
up.” The procedure will be the same as in Daisy’s case,
except that you needn’t wash your face or hands —they
will do very nicely till next milking-time. If you find no
improvement in your complexion after a course of this
treatment, you ought to boil it. I’m sure I would.
-Gratefully'yours, Letticb Beltham. P.S.—Love to
Elky.”
ETERNITY.
REV. MR. CANTWELL: “ And where will you
spend eternity, my friend?”
HARD-UP PARISHIONER: “As it’s all I have to
spsnd I don’t care where I do it! ”
“ Gh>be ” : Making for Wilcannia, I have
swagged it from Wentworth to Menindie ; and
called at every selection and station en route, but
could get no tucker. “We don’t give rations,”
was the invariable station-answer, and the selectors
had nothing themselves but bread and tea. Sat
down and meditated, with the result thatl put on
my best clothes, collar, necktie, and cap, tucked
my trousers into my socks, threw away rest of my
swag, and took the road again. Struck a station
at 6 o’clock, asked for the manager, and told him
I was a literary man on a bicycle tour, and that
my wheel had broken down a few miles up the
road. Had dinner, bed and breakfast next morn-
ing, after which I was driven eight miles to the
nearest pub. to wait for the coach. I walked that
day to the mail-change and told the boss of accom-
modation house that my mates were coming up the
river in a boat taking photos, and that I had no
money with me. 1 was asked to have dinner and
stayed all night. Next night I put up with a
selector, and next again struck a station about 1C
miles from Wilcannia, where I “put up” the
bicycle yarn again. Was most hospitably enter-
ained, and was driven to Wilcannia next morn-
ing. So much for appearances !
» * * *
The wife of an excitable Irishman in
Raspberry Land lately discovered a snake pros-
pecting her milk-dishes, whereupon her hus-
band armed himself with a club, and pro-
ceeded toargue with the s&rpint. As the
assault and battery proceeded they
were surprised to
see a lump ris-
ing in therep-
tile’s in-
nerds,
which
appeared
to keep
growing to
the music of
the whirling
stick. When he
reckoned the rep-
tile was about de-
funct, Pat held a
post-mortem. Result —
7Jibs, solid butter.
* *
Cereal: Ido not know
of any part of Australia where
dhourra—Egyptian rice corn —is
grown. Says an American expert:
Rice corn is rapidly coming to the front in Kansas as a
food for man and cattle. It is like sorghum, and the
grain resembles rice. Analysis by Prof. Patrick of the
State University shows it to be superior to corn in its
nutritive qualities. The yield ranges from 15 to 40
bushels per acre, regardless, almost, of rain or drought.
Only the heads are harvested, and are threshed like
wheat. When ground it is like corn and wheat mixed.
The advent of rice corn will make assurance doubly sure
for an ample supply oQiutritious feed.
Quaint communication received by a Syd-
ney animal-and-curio dealer :—
Tring Park,
Tring,
Herts.
9 x, 1899.
dir, —The enclosed speaks for itself. Do you think you
could assist me to procure specimens. No doubt mutu-
ally satisfactory terms could be arranged on hearing from
you.—l am, Yours truly,
N. O. Rothschild.
INSTRUCTIONS.
WANTED FLEAS 1
Fleas are found on mammals and birds, in the hair or
feathers. They are also found in their nests or holes.
As soon as their host get 3 cold, the fleas leave it.
If the host be small, place it in a small box or linen bag.
with a few drops of chloroform or benzine. The fleas wil
then be found dead on the bottom of the box, or among
the hair, when the same is turned back.
If the flea be touched with a small brush, moistened
with spirit, chloroform or benzine, it will stick to it,
readily floating off in the tube of preservative. The best
preservative is 50% of alcohol. Acetic acid can with ad-
vantage be substituted for this, when the specimens have
not got to travel a long way. The action of the acid,
however, destroys the corks of the tubes in a short time.
Each tube of fleas should be labelled with the date,
locality, and name of the host from which the fleas were
taken.' If the name of the host on which the fleas were
found is not known to the collector, the host itself should
be sent with the tube. A number corresponding to one
on the specimen should he attached to the tube. Speci-
mens sent for identification only will, of course, always
be returned. If it is impossible to send the host, the
name of the person possessing it should be given, in order
to apply to him for the name. Each tube should contain
the flea’s from one host only. A good method of record-
ing-data is a label written in pencil and put inside the
tube.
Large mammals cannot well be treated with chloroform
or benzine. If the hair of these, however, be turned back
shortly after death, the live fleas will be seen running
about. These can be killed by touching them with a
brush moistened with spirit, chloroform, or benzine.
Small mammals can be treated in the same manner as
large ones, if the first method is found to be too
cumbrous.
Another very good way to catch fleas living on mice
and other small mammals, is to place the live mouse in a
bag. The animal should then be killed by breaking if s
neck from the outside of the bag, and searched as before.
Traps should only be used in which the mice are caught
alive.
Bats, rodents, and small mammals generally, are all
good hosts.
As many specimens as possible should be sent, there
frequently being several species of flea on one host.
All communications to be addressed to
THE HON. N. CHARLES ROTHSCHILD,
Tring Park, Tring, Hurts.
(England).
» » * *
“ Treb.” : aboriginal superstitions
(“ E. 5.5.,” 8., l/7/’99). Purchased from W.A.
black what he termed a “gun-kok,” a piece of
very heavy black wood, flat on one side, convex
on other, and about 2ft. 6in. long, with hole in
smallest end. It is carved all over—the flat side
with representation of a snake—and if whirled
round the head with a string in the hole makes a
loud, humming noise. The warrigal said the
carving was done with a piece of quartz, and en-
joined me in an impressive whisper not on any
account to show it to a gin or she would certainly
die. This injunction, however, I made a point o.
disregarding—without any evil results.
* * * *
When drought had dried up all the herb-
age on Mrs. O’Dillon’s selection, she sent the
cattle—about 20 head—travelling down Barwon
way for grass and water, Jack, the son and heir,
in charge. They got on well till Jack struck
Walgett and a “ two-up ” school, when he speedily
went broke and started to play up the stock.
“Here’s a cow says tails. You’re out another
muddy cow. My kip 1 Here’s a cow says I can
head ’em. Heads another ruddy cow.” But he
sent a truthful account to headquarters : “ Deer
muther we had dam bad luck with the cattle, i
loosed old Straubry and Bauly and aight stears.
i was tailing them on foot round Wolget when
they started goin’ an’ I couldent head them.
“ Werrimee ” : One difference between
the kangaroo and the wallaby : kangaroos have
no defined tracks leading to water or feeding-
ground. The wallaby always uses one little
track, beside which wallaby-shooters often wait
for the game while the dogs are hunting; for a
hunted wallaby always beats along his own track.
Hence the phrase, “on the wallaby”—never “on
the kangaroo ” —as
applied to travel-
lers who follow the
devious ways
through the
bush
PENITENT.
SHEPHERD: “Mr.
Jumps! You
ought to he ashamed
of yourself to he in
this state.”
JUMPS : “ You're right. Thish is the first [?]
six glasses of whisky has got me down. I
oughterbe ’shamed o' myself.”
Black Peter was a good shot, and very
proud of it. Patou, of Malton, entrusted him
with a breechloader, and Billoo, the home of
Peter’s youth, knew him no more. Thus did h<
explain the wherefore of his defection: “Missa
Elton no g&od ; he give it me ‘ mutchleload ’ gun.
Misser Paton he all right—gib it broke gun.’
“ Broke gun? ” I asked ; “ what name that fella?”
“ Oh, you break’em dis way” (and Peter went
through the motions.) “Putin two fella you np
one inside, mend ’em again, an’ shoot kangaroo.
Break ’em again, put in two fella more young one.
mend ’em an’ shoot again. My word !—budgere-
fella gun that one 1 ”
“Snell”: The capacity of the adult
brahmapootra rooster is imperfectly understood.
Many may have thought to utilise him as a fog-
horn, but it remained for my friend Brown to
employ him as watchdog and general caretaker.
Brown’s brahma is a tall, austeie bird, with the
hauteur of a vice-chancellor, and the ungainly ap-
pearance of along bony boy who has outgrown his
clothes. About twelve months back, Spike, the
rooster, developed an extraordinary truculence,
and now if left at large will attack anything
brought before him, living or dead, a tomcat or a
chimney—he is not a bit particular. It was the
sight of a Metropolitan Board of Works employe
kneeling in the yard with his hand up a hole that
tempted Spike from righteousness and the paths
of peace. The opportunity was not to be resisted,
and the brahma went for that man, beak and claw,
and for two minutes there was a whirling cataract
of battle in the excavation. Then Brown
responded to the shrieks of the victim, and tore
his brahmapootra from the unhappy laborer,
who was kicked so full of punctures that he needed
medical attendance to the value of £7 75., for
which Brown paid. Since that encounter Spike
has never recovered his temper, and his lust for
blood is so genuine and his attack so impetuous
and overpowering that it is dangerous for any
moving thing to venture into Brown’s back yard
when the bird is loose. Brown now keeps him on
a chain like a dog, and when small boys guy him
from the fence he fights his kennel with ungovern-
able fury, and litters the neighborhood with
feathers. If Banjo will trot out Saltbush Bui s
emu, Brown is willing to match his towering fowl
against it for drinks.
* * * *
Bear B.—“ Dominie ” (8., 25/11/99) has
evidently been fortunate in his experiences. I
(bush-teacher also) have generally had to pay the
farmer Is. 3d. per lb. for butter, after which he
would c rt the rest of his stock 15 miles further
and sell it at lid. I dared not grumble, or he
would have refused to bring my “groceries
and parcels from town.” Also firewood and
milk are charged at top prices. Even for
“skim” milk I have to pay half the price
of the fresh article. I ad vise. “ Dominie
to stick to his little Paradise, or if he
wants an “exchange” I should like to
hear from him. — Xerxes.
A paragraph from the history of Bulla* ook.
“ 80-peep ” to The Bulletin
It was the Holy Romans of Navigator's, and not the
Hibernians of Bungaree proper, who bombarded 0. E.
Jones with bad eggs at that memorable Ballarat East
election (“Ben Sun,” B. 18/11/’9B), and hence the appella-
tion, “ Bungaree savages,” came to be applied to the
Bullarook people generally. The first batch of immi-
grants to Navigator’s settled there in the early 50’s, and,
as each settler owned about two acres of land and half-a-
dozen pigs, the assaults and batteries and “ coort” cases
caused by the depredations of Hoolahan’s “grunters”
upon Riley’s potato-patch may readily be imagined. On
the arrival of the second batch of immigrants the resi-
dents of Navigator’s went en masse to Ballarat to wel-
come their “ frinds,” and, after a mighty carouse, the
lot started for Navigator’s, but fell into such an almighty
shindy by the way that nearly the whole brigade turned
up at'the police-court next day to answer a charge, of
riotous conduct. The plea of “Oi wasn’t wan o’ thim,
yer ’Aimer,” from each battered and bandaged and
plastered warrior, made even the presiding magistrate
laugh, Times have changed ; the railway now runs
through Riley’s potato-patch; but to this day the faces to
be seen on Navigator's platform mostly exhibit the un-
mistakable map of Ireland.
IMPOSSIBLE.
SQUATTER (to rep. of shearers who've pronounced the sheep too wet to shear): "Bosh! I can't
see how these sheep can he wet. It only rained an inch last night, and they were in the
home-paddock with a tight six-wire fence round it, and all the gates shut.”
“SPELL-OH!”
W’en the taste in Life turns sour,
An’ yer best girl goes to hell—
Spell-oh !
If- yer feels like killin’ ’er,
An’ per’aps the bloke as well
Spell-oh !
Don’t you paint no townships red :
Pass it slowly through yer ’ead—
“ S'pose I’d married ’er instead ! ”
An’ spell-oh !
W’en yer work ’as got yer down,
An’ ’s a-worryin’ of yer, like—
Spell-oh !
W ’ea yer Read’s all muddled up,
An’ yer brains is Out on strike —
Spell-oh !
W’en the bullicks loon’t “gee-back ”
Tho’ yer cuts ’em into steak,
Stash the ’ole go’bli’me fake—
And Spell-oh !
NIL.


THE BEST IS THE CHEAPEST.
Drink the best only, no matter how expensive.
D.C.L. Whisky is the best product of Scotland,
and bottled in Scotland under the supervision of
Her Majesty’s excise officers.*
WATCHES
In every Make and Design we show.
n
We are Sole Agents for the world-known
P. & A. Gruyes “ London-made Levers
Lever movements that go to
per week. Cases screw together.
M 4-Os,
and supply them direct from the manufacturers to the user. No intermediaries.
then, the celebrated Fx. & R. Watches know no rival for Style, Excellence and
Wonderful Cheapness.
The Fx. & R. Lever is
4‘2s. in Silver Open-face.
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS,
APPOINTED VIOE-REGA.Ii JEVVELI KKS,
HUNTER STREET (ONLY), Si'DN^Y.
Letters at Bulletin office for Mr. Frank
Eliason and Mrs. O. Elaason, from Maoriland.
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
streefc E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
For Bilghts, Inflammation, Granulation and
all affections of the eye use an infallible remedy.' Hick-
son’s Celebrated Eye Water has for many years proved
its worth. Effectual when doctors fail. Perfectly harm-
less. Highest testimonials. Post free to anv address
2s. 6d. R. Hickson, Rockdale, N.S. W. Agents wanted.*
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pit
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£400,000 is invested in the colonies. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
SHIRTS.
or Station and Out-door work our SILK tsTßirri
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
;s:{ Hal/-(loxe>i, f ree In/ pout throughout
A ii.strnlid.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
Q
FREE BY POST.
Ka l ,ri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Reommended by
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.HTCASTLE &
BRISBANE,
the leading Physicians of
SONS, Sole Manufacturer*
QUEENSLAND.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“ Malle ” : We were practical anti-aliens
on Bingellic; and Ah Cow, who grew tobacco and
cabbagee, was the only recognised pagan on the
“crick.” One night we made a ghost out of a
pumpkin and candle, planted it outside his door
and pelted stones on his roof. Cow called out in
a deprecating tone, “ Wha foil ! ” Answer, more
stones. Then he opened the door an inch, poked
a gun out and fired at things in general. Next he
saw our ghost, and giving a yell like a lost soul
he barricaded the door with kerosene tins and all
his other furniture, and proceeded to burn joss-
sticks and let off sacred crackers until anyone but
a Chow would have clicked. We could see the
fleas and things prising up the bark on the roof
trying to get out. Next day, Ah Cow shifted to
an alleged hut further down creek, and erected a
ring fence of joss-sticks round his old residence to
keep the Evil One yarded up.
* * * *
Chow’s inhumanity to Chow : Fossicker,
noticing Sling Shot’s humpy burnt down (S.S.
had been “ too sick ” for months): “ Where’s old
my countlyman two-tlee week agobulnem housee
eboolvting b’longin’ Sling Shot. You sahpee
him close up cooked-no walk-my countlyman
no talkee him ; pattern way longa bushee, bym-
bye die.” Fossicker: “ H’m ; rough on old Sling.
S’pose you take him some tucker?” Johnnie:
“Nofeah! No go look see him at all. Me no
wanta catch leplosv.” F. : “ And isn’t the poor
beggar dead yet ?’’ J. :“ Me no know ;me tink
so hahp-die now. Two-tlee day me no healem him
sinci ou’ ”
* * * *
Letter received by Chinese Australian
Herald (Sydney)
„ . ~
sx”
barians. A barbarian fortune-teller in this town has
made it clear to me that great wealth will come to me on
the fourth of June—and I am anxious to know what this
barbarian date will be with us when you have decided
what the days of the Chinese year are to be. I have 23
unlucky days in my horoscope, which I had made m Can-
ton, and if the fourth of June should be one of my un-
lucky days, I will be indeed unfortunate.—Yours, Sun
Yat Foo.
» * » •
“ Long-Un” concerning village settle-
men t s .
The S.A. village settlements nowadays pin their
faith chiefly to wheat-crops. The average settler
doesn’t think much of the communistic business,
and wants a block of his own to work on. Govt,
had an idea of this kind a year or two back, and
surveyed 10-acre blocks for the settler’s very own
—after he’d started paying rent—but these blocks
are still untenanted, and the disheartened villager
says “ It’s all for Johnny ” —meaning a benevolent
Govt., to whom they owe over £BO,OOO. Things were
shockingly mismanaged in the earlier days of these
places : channels (cemented) were laid down (or
rather up), and when it was found that water
wouldn’t run up-hill, a Govt, surveyor’s services
were called upon to run levels, and the mismanager
ninny ignored these, with beautiful results. Was
passing admiring remarks to a settler re an im-
mense bell, rigged up to waken the slumbersome
settler, and also to call him in to smoko and
afternoon tea, &c. The latter remarked, “Yus,
that bell cost £lB, and when the Commissioner
came up and saw it he s wore ; and he ain’t much
of a man for langwidge either.” Asked a horny-
looking Scotchman (a manager) the reason some
of his men had seceded from the Association.
“ Well,” he remarked, “ they couldn’t agree with
the Commissioner. The fact is, they ain’t eddi-
cated up to this equality business yet; they mostly
want as little as they can get for as much as they
gave ! ” Writer cordially agreed with the manager
that the settlement was no place for those un-
common men. Before Govt, started these Murray
settlements, wheat-growing was never dreamt of*;
now there is scarcely an acre of river-frontage
unleased, and thousands of acres of cropped land
growing the finest wheat in the province. So they
have done some good after all.
* * * *
Although there is a provision in Q.
Mining Act prohibiting employment of
females underground, there are many small
fields where the inspector ceases from
troubling and the warden is at rest. In
Piccadilly, for instance, on the N.Q. coastal
range, a fossicker with a family of six girls
works a show ; the two eldest do the hammer-
and-drill work, while the others look after
the windlass, etc. And it is a very uncom-
fortable pot-hole, too. Reef about lin.,
country hard as steel, stopes just wide
enough for an attenuated carpet-snake to crawl
under. And after all it only just pays tucker,
though a young man driving from an adjaoent
claim might strike that which is alleged to be
more precious than gold.
* » • *
A genuinely Australian edition of Bala-
clava :
The Chief Inspector of Stock, Brisbane, received the
following wire from one of the Western Divisional
Boards: “600 head cattle in charge of a drover named
Dargin, perished on the main stock route to Hungerford
Road, on Boorara run. The bodies are a nuisance to the
travelling public.”
That is how the Six Hundred charge in Australia.
Poor, bony 600.
When two men are working by themselves
in a lonely shaft, and the man at the top loves the
wife of the man below, or wants his share of the
mine, or objects seriously to his politics, or his
religion, or tiie way he parts his hair, there isn’t
much show for the man underneath. A strange
yarn from Coolgardie (W.A.) points the moral of
this. Two men owned a little mine, and one day,
it is alleged, the hidden animosity of the man at
the top blazed forth, so whenever the man below
tried to come up he hit him on the head with a
stick as soon as be appeared above the surface,
Finally, the man below gave up appearing at the
surface. Then, he says, his mate, after keep-
ing him below for two days, took to throwing
dynamite down the shaft at him. It was Thurs-
day night when the mate first hit him on the
head, and it wasn’t till late on Sunday that he
escaped, during his friend’s temporary absence —
possibly in search of more dynamite. This is the
cheerful story told by the man below when he got
out. Probably a good many miners have met a
similar experience, but didn’t get out.
, °“? ,r e T rpriBing l L T don ,
turned . the „ l ransvaal upheaval to profitable
a ° cou " fc ' , ca,led hu ™ eU p- Gord °n, and
extensively in French German, Dutch
and . Pf P a P ers t 0 %ht for ® nfc ? in
the B ° ers afc 18 ° francs P er mph- In ‘
f tendu '- rec ™ ,t3 Y ere be men with military
training, good shots and able to ride A.lso they
were *? sead five fra “ CB wl u th a PPb°ation as a
guarantee ‘*>ey were not humbugs. Upon accept-
anc® ° r r ®^ ct,on , he five francs would be re-
tunded. ihe guileless oontmentals had read of
the Gordon Highlanders, and took it to be the
r ‘ ? <^ d< ! n - t-a ’ s V?£ a seco re^^men * 3l i
the h i on L°L Brita,n 8 d ’ st /fl' , T u he of
nearly £7 10s. per month fetched them, and they
"? ~v nd H l, “ ,< r d i ''™r ,v s.r d
deposits at Mr. Gordon. In London that gentle-
used to drive round to the post-office with a
van-load of orders in the afternoon and draw the
cash. He had a clear run of a fortnight before a
London paper dropped across the little game and
as ,W] w hit the nnh™ wsm dmnrr thon ihn
aslcec j what the police were doing. Lven then thi
ip en ln blue were not sufficiently rapid on their
feet to overtake Mr. Gordon, but they learned
that he was a small rotund man of the most un-
warlike description, and they intercepted £llO.
apparently one day’s takings.
THE NEW-CHUM AND THE ANT-HILL;
Or, Didn't Know ’Twas Loaded.
The official bank holidays in Japan make
up the following incongruous list: New Year,
Anniversary of the Emperor Komer, German
Emperor’s Birthday, Festival of Spring Equinox,
Queen Victoria’s Birthday, Festival of Harvest
Deities, Mikado’s Birthday, Anniversary of the
Taking of the Bastille, ‘‘The Glorious Fourth,”
Anniversary of the Death of Jummu Tenno,
Christmas Day and Chinese New Year’s Day.
The recent holidays have brought a large
number of visitors to Sydney from the country.
There has been more money spent than for some
years past. Country visitors, with confidence men
and spielers always in their eye, have, however,
felt the necessity for some safe place in which to
leave superfluous cash and jewellery, hotel bed-
rooms being notoriously insecure, and it is a
notable fact that the Sydney Safe Deposit has
this year been much more largely utilised than
formerly. Persons with cash can place it there in
security, and draw it out at any hour of the day.
as they may require it, thus relieving their minds
at a small cost. Sydney residents off to the
country for a spell have also utilised the Deposit
to a much greater extent for the storage of plate,
etc., and the rush of clients shows the place to be
steadily increasing in public favor. To country
visitors, who have not seen the Safe Deposit, we
would recommend a look through its vaults. They
are among the sights of Sydney. The Deposit is
situated in Ash-street, off George-street, at the
back of Paling’s.*
FRED. LANE, THE AUSTRALIAN SWIMMER, BEFORE A RACE, AND AFTER.
HIS NAME.
Who art Thou that cometh out of far Galilee,
With Thy nail-pierced hands and Thy thorn-crowned
brow—
Sweat of blood drops from Thy forehead to Thy knee :
In the name of God who made us, who art Thou ?
Sadly He replied—“ lam the Crucified !
I am He for whose garments the world’s cut-throats
have diced.
I die ev’ry day as on Calvary I died—
And my true name is Labor, though priests call me
Christ.”
V.J.D.
Answers to Correspondents.
v» notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
J.R.: What has the hospitable nature of the
English and the alleged non-hospitable nature of the
Germans to do with the Boer war ? Don’t you know the
Inference between Germans and Boers ? And try to
honestly face the real question on which all the trouble
arose—that the Outlanders demanded to vote, and to
run the Transvaal Government, and be eligible for [he
Presidency, while still remaining aliens and not liable for
military service. Don’t worry about Tub Bulletin
leader-writer’s need for a trip to Britain to clear his brain ;
he was born there and knows the country a lot better than
you do Zingara: “Sky and I” weak in places
E.C. : Parodies are the saddest kind of literature F.
(Parliament House, N.S.W.— no name given): In the first
place, who are you ? In the second place, seeing that the
whole miserable contingent business has taken place
under Provincialism in what w'ay is Australian Federation
responsible for it? .... Yorkshire: Glad to hear you've
been sending The Bulletin to Chamberlain. Go on send-
ing it. We don’t know any politician who is more in
need of improving literature... J. Edwards: “Death”
lacks inspiration and novelty Warrigal : Very
ancient history A.D.E. : May trim-up and use
E.V.W. : “Land of the Long Ago" will just about get
through F.S. : One despairful slab herewith—
... Clarence G. : Hardly funny enough... N.J.C. : Small
blank verse about how bad man made good music
I.M. : If we gave things like that a “corner in our inter-
esting and widely-read paper” we would soon have no
widely-read paper at all .. E. M‘D. : Always have
doubts of the man who sends along a dangerous
item, and gives a shadowy address at a post office
Redvers Fitz Buller : Very heavy humor F. (Welling-
ton, N.S. W.): Some hazy spook or other ... W.M.F. :
“Mated,” artistically written, but interest hardly tense
enough Oom Paul: Would need too much patch-
ing-up .. Gympie: Feeble sarcasm.... Ada G. :No par-
ticular merit, though fairly well written on London
Journal lines ... A.G.W. : Interest of “Captain S.” is
too exclusively nautical Wal C. : Too labored, and
slumps dreadfully in the metre J. West: Both
sketches are graphic, though somewhat crude ; will con-
sider Rory : Like unto a dead rat in a water-butt. ..
Sam. G. : But you merely come out at same hole you went
in by. . Huron : No; it only applies to papers printed,
posted, and for delivery in, N.S.W Silas E. : Pre-
tentious and silly... Jasper : Can’t identify without date
of issue in which it appeared Native : That has all
been said before, and better Allan R. : Idea not well
enough handled Albemarle: It has turned up, and
ill be reported on shortly Valhalla: Moderately
lumorous, but too long-winded Ed. H. : Respectably
good verse, but out of our line E.G.O. : You’re not
even humorous enough to know how wn-humorous you
are J.A.S. : Clumsy and illiterate. Why will people
like you try to write before they have learnt to spell ?
Ox :No inspiration or literary gift Chaput : Must
have been an oversight ; don’t remember ’em. Verses
last sent will consider. One of the sketch-suggestions
may do J. O’B. : Herewith your letter, as a specimen
of what may happen to an editor. “Sir Bullitin is
Bad order Bad rhyme no poetry. N.B. Father Daley s
Horse.” W.J.C. : Not much above doggerel-level
Philip : Ingenious ; will consider F.J.C. : Early-days
sketch has interest; may touch up and use... J.W. :
Some power, but, on the whole, too unequal York :
Funny ; will consider. Starlight : Very faint glimmer.
Roach : Grandiloquent rubbish like yours won’t convince
us, anyhow... J.P.: Loathsome poem rejected with scorn.
M. Howard : In four verses you want four rhymes for
“to-morrow,” and good old “sorrow" comes in every
time Chaput: “Bush Flower” will do. “Grave - ”
idea worked out long ago, except for genius
Philip : “ Leave-taking ” took its leave so sud-
denly that it tore while getting away... J. West •
“It’s not Here” may pass.... E.S.S. : “Paddy A.”
worth par. only ; “ Crosscuts ” wants interest . H.LN -
Piracy yarn wants telling more dramatically .. Long-urr
Short-shrift .. A.J.G. : No poetry .. D.M. : Copyright
law is very vague, both here and in England; but a
newspaper paying for cables would probably be protested
against piracy both as to the essential news and the
form it was given in, so far as that form was original and
represented the application of individual brains and
energy A.D.B. : One line—“ Some bardlings, ca<de
souls with insect wings is salient solus in last batch
. Young A. : Well, we have been young too
Pan.: Probably frying. ...J.A.H. : Possibly.. V.K. ■
“Precedent” returned . J.Y. : Too humdrum... Cab:
Mild little drivel in a desert.. .R.H.A. : Kindly vanish
over the horizon—MS. already there .. D.V. : Seems he
isn’t willing A.R.N. : Not badly told, but too placid
and uninteresting Lawra (Melb.): Too old-fashioned
for B Barty : All dreary M.R. : Returned
A.J.T. : Can’t undertake to decipher pencil scrawl
R.S. : “ Play Dreams’" have no thrill .... A.A.A. : Could
do nothing with it in the way you suggest; and anyhow
the jury evidently believed that there was no evil-
intent R. Crawford: “ Birth-Baned ” and “Parted”
clumsy; “Christ” nonsensical. Goat-item too malo-
dorous Het. T. : You’d be savage if you knew how;
and, at ail events, the mule is preferable to the ass pure-
and-simple Aida : Feebleand conventional .... Raven :
No; only a common crow ! .. .Yusself: Starts out with
great enthusiasm, but perishes miserably by the wayside.
C.J.J. : Are you the ghost of “the good young man
that died”? A.E.B. : Rea l your Bulletin ...E. Via ;
Not a gleam A.M.S. : Usual fine large incapacity
P.F. (Yeulba): The long, solemn, narrative style of poetry
is pretty dead, and is doubtfully worth reviving. Try
short lyric measures. .. Bold B. : No chop F.J.C. :
Too old a story J.L.VV. : You balance the girl so
judicially between pro and con that none of the poetry
wriggles out of her E.P. (Lond.) : Unsuitable
Huckai : Considering Papyrus : Sentiment good ;
verse not at all ditto.
London Times says the information which led
Methuen to fight the Boers at Magersfontein
“ was deliberately false.” That only proves
that the Boers are playing the game sLrictly.
It is the business of every general to mystify,
mislead and surprise his opponent if he can,
and it is the business of the other fellow to
take care he is not mystified and misled. War
isn’t run on pure George Washington prin-
ciples. It is the biggest deceit of all the ages,
and is not a game to be played by guileless
men who believe all they are told.
Railway Commissioners’ galvanised-iron cooling
chambers at Coolabah, N.S.W.
Editor Bulletin. — l send you herewith
the photo of a “building” erected by N.S.W.
Railway Department, at Coolabaah, on the N. W.
line, for the storage of goods (including butter,
meat, and fruit). In this noble structure, which
is entirely of galvanised iron and is absolutely
without ventilation, the temperature sometimes
reaches 130, with an effect upon the aforesaid
perishable articles which may be easily imagined.
Also, the Sydney-Bourke traffic is surely of
sufficient importance to warrant the use of a
refrigerating-car. As things are, boxes of butter,
for instance, arrive here with the contents
streaming from the cracks. Useless for us small
men to interview the commissioners; they have
ear only for the big wholesale people ; in fact, the
railway freight system appears to be carefully ad-
justed, so that in this back-country the big firms
shall be able to undersell us and thus grab the
whole trade in the small towns.
A father went to see the list
f Of the wounded at Glencoe;
He had been an officer himself,
So he must truly know :
Of the lad who left in health and strength
So short a time ago
To fight for England’s Queen and home.
The orderly saluted him
As he passed upon the step,
l Arid thought of the blow he would receive
* When the old man saw the list.


THE PATRIOTIC FUND
(From S.M. Herald. )
The hon. treasurers, Messrs. J. Russell French and
T. A. Dibbs, report: —
Amount previously advised (corrected) ..£6640 18 3
•John Richmond’s survey party (per D
Telegraph) ... 2 2 0
National 1.0.0. Loyal Progress Lodge,
Newtown .. ... ... 100
Moree Caledonia Society . . 10 0 0
E. J. Hughes (per J. Talbot) .. ... f 1 0
Mr. and Mrs.'Donnellan (per J Talbot) 0 10 0
Loco, employees, running staff, tram-
ways (second contribution) .. 13 0
A Sydney Native (being usual sub, to
Sydney Bulletin) ~ ~ 16 0
&c., &c.
By y
GREAT CONSTERNATION IN LOWER GEORGE STREET.— The explanation of all this may be found in the cutting seen in upper right hand corner of picture above. See contribution underlined.
1.-The Managing-Director of THE BULLTIN is here seen putting up the shutters. 2.-The Editor deliberately rushed upon his own scissors, which he bribed the Office-Boy to hold. The latter vainly trying to conceal his emotions. 3.-The man who wrete the dis
loyal articles threw himself in front of a George-street tram. 4.-The Dramatic Critic and Libel Expert also sought a Spartan's death. 5.-The Printer's Devil rushed off and joined the auny. 6.-Martha Washington, ex-Serubber-in-Chief, sought another field of
endeavor in the street-cleaning department of the city. 7.-The Chancellor of the Exchequer proceeded to settle all outstanding accounts, especially with the Fighting Editor. 8.-His assistant disappeared up an alley with the "Cash in hand"-but that is a mere detail,
9.-Minion of the Law, who said he hadn't no authouity to interfere with nobody. 10.-As for poor old Hop.-well, the world is wide; bebold him here decorating the footpaths. 11.-The "Woman's Column" bore it all with the usual Christian fortitude of her sex. 12.-
The Mining Expert has gone prospecting in George-street. 13.-The Horse Poet, his eve in a fine frenzy rolling (the other being chronically black), kippled some patriotic verse, which he sold to the S.M. HERALD. 14.-The harmless (and now mnecessary) Office-Cat re-
signed upon the spot with the last available rat in her pośession. 15.-The Wild-ditto in now roaming up and down the earth seeking whom it may devour. 16.-A valued but indingant contributor called to demand his M.S. back. 17.-The Office Chaplain is here seen
rushing off to get a billet as driver on the George-street tramway; failing that, he will enlist for the Transvaal. He says he's got to kill somebody at this juncture or go mad. 18.-Hop.'s Understudy will now seek some means be which he can earn an honest living. 19.-
The 26.-bob patriot who caused all the trouble is here seen gloating over the ruin he has wrought.


UNDER A CLOUD.
EX-PREHER TURNER: "Considering that public attention is clean off me just at present, I don't think I'll trouble to attack the Government. It isn’t as though I
were going to attack ern with a gun."


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES,
in Australia.
JEWELLERY and .SILVER-PLATE is the largest and best assorted stock
Direct from the London House. Guaranteed the utmost satisfaction.
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
m
wmm
-- s
ALL ARTICLES
POST FREE,
A. Saunders.
Special made Gold Waltham, f Keyless Lever,
20 years’ guarantee, £4 4s; 14c. ditto, £6 ss;
25 years’ guarantee, extra jewelled, high-grade
works, £6 10s ; pure Silver, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Perfect timekeepers. Extra strong. Highly re-
commended.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Price Illustrated Book.
£3, £3 10s,
£6 10s, £7,
Send for
A. Saunders.
New Desisrn, Gold Brooch. Bell, Chain.
Red, White, and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
10
Q EO
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold 3-bar Amethyst, 455.
A. Saunders (Registered).
■Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c. Gold,
£2, as above. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free. Six different
patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2 16s.
Very Latest Style.
mn
Silver Gift, Turquoises, 3s 6d.
Any Initial.
18c. Gold, Pure 5 Double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
3 Emeralds and 2 Diamonds,
£5 10s. Cut hole in card.
A, Saunders.
2-bar 16c. Gold, Pure Diamond, JE2.
Da Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255.
15c. Gold, 355, £2.
Monogram on, 2s Od extra.
»j.old Links, Heart and
Dumb-bell, 12s 6d ;
Smaller, 10s 6d.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A Saunders (Registered).
2 Birds, Chain, and 2 Diamond-cut
Amethyst, 20s ; Pearl set Birds, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold Pearl Set, *2.
Gold Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Pearl and Red Stone Set Scroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, ) 2 ss, £3*
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
Extra for Key Padlock
All with Safety Chain.
150. Solid Gold Hand-made Bracelet, 20 Diamonds, 3 Opals
or Sapphires. Extra Strong-, £l2 10s.
18c. Gold.
6 large Diamonds,
£2O, £25, £3O.
Solid Gold Charm that
charms, 10s od.
Procured onlv at
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds,
£3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
KINDUY
CALL.
n
TRY
us.
All Articles Post Free.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s ;
Silver Hunting Keyless, 12, £2 10s,
£3 ; Key, 255, 30s, 355; Solid Gold
Keyless, £4, £5 ; Superior Quality,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s ;
15c. Go-Id, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, Is 6d.
mn
Latefr* Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d.
Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, Ys 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR VARIED ASSORTED DISPLAY. ALL ARTICLES POST FREE,
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER, 815 Greorge-street, SYDNEY (nearly opposite Railway Station)
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY,
Australian Depots for Premo Cameras.
sft«
THE
20tb CENTURY
CAMERR_
Prices from 255. to £2O.
ill
a©
v-; 1 5S»
Premos Produce Perfect Piotnres
Illustrated Catalogues, giving Fullest Information, Post
Free Instruction Given to Purchasers.
NOTE OXJR ADDRESSES :
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
260 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
The tallest snake-yarn yet from the seat
of war is that which tells how the telephone-
operator at Dundee kindly held the instrument
off the switch so that his pal at Greytown might
hear the noises of battle. Suddenly he exclaimed,
“For God’s sake, wait a moment; a shell has
dropped into the tent! ” The idea of a man
wasting valuable time telephoning that there was
a shell —presumably liable to explode—in his tent
instead of instantly getting fiat on the ground is
too strong.
NAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
round, a with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s yOur finger on th. inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have i oison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
yon Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
u fee rated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the powei to
wa.k You may have attended various hospitals and had
medn al advice, and been told your case is hopel* ss, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I < AN
CUKk *OU. I don’t say j erliaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have fai .ed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and ITDDS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Drgs,
Housemaid's Knee, Uleerakd Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Turn >urs, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Cliemists, Store',
&c. Price, in Great Bri'ain, 1/1 Jd. per b x. Prepared by
AI BKR r, 73, Farringdon-street, 3 ondon, E. gland.
Agents • ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
.look ioi the registered trad<- mark of the Grasshopper on a
green la', el'on each box. (Rogd. copyri; lit).
fHOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ (jLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
EN GrI«I3H MADE throughout.
These World- lienotvn ed Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are note the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the precailiny fashion of long waist.
V
a
Afcys
Thomsons
THE MOST COMFO TIT A BE E & DURA BEE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
—JAUCE.
the
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
S§
Lime Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as i6vj, in a
treatise on Scurvy : —“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
and of all chemists everywhere.
Thus “ Compton ” :
Be that Continental criticism. Was talking to a highly
intelligent German (if it is permitted to N.S.W. Journal-
ism to imagine such a monstrosity) on Saturday, before I
the news of the Tugela incident came through. "No
one on the Continent,” said he, “ doubted the dogged
courage of British soldiers. That has been proved too
often. But that the British have no generals, capable
of conducting serious war, had been a Continental com-
monplace for years.” And now, certainly, “the times
give it proof.” “In ’66 and ’70,” he went on, “we
(the Prussians) undertook war on the big scale, with
three and four hundred thousand men in the actual
fighting line, and as many again in reserve; and ever
since then our generals have been trained in the manage-
ment of similar numbers of men. The same with
the military chiefs of Russia and France. No British
general since the Crimea has had 60,000 men undpr him
at once. They have done nothing but lead small expedi-
tions against savages, and while this makes the British
soldier a seasoned man who has smelt powder, it makes
the British commander careless, confident, and non-
strategic.” My informant wound up by assuring me that
it was not considered by Continental experts that a
British general could make any better showing against a
scientifioallv-trained French or German leader than he
himself against a champion pug.
A lady (Miss Flora Nicholls, of Auckland,
Maoriland) writes to Auckland Herald :
I have lately lived among them (the Boers) for over two
years, when I had every opportunity of closely watching
their innermost lives and habits. From first to last I saw
nothing but what was honorable, praiseworthy, and
admirable in the extreme. I have met Boers who through
drought having lost thousands of sheep and goats in one
season have lived on nothing but. goat’s flesh, goat’s milk,
and pure water, not one ounce of bread passing their lips,
because they could not see their way to be sure of paying
for it. Let me ask how many men, aye, and men who
are holding their heads high to-day in Auckland, have
come within coo-ee even of the example of these same
Boers when difficulties have arisen, and probably, through
their own fault, could not pay their just debts. Have
I they not retained their luxuries and continued eat-
ing their bread buttered on both sides, and laughed
yes, laughed, at their creditors! How many ot
Maoriland's farmers commence and end the day witn
prayer and praise, and ask God’s blessing on ever}
step they take through life's journey, as do these same
Boers? How many of them are to be. found regularl}
partaking of the sacrament beside their wives? Inen
reverence for that ceremony is so great that both sexes
wear black when receiving it. I suppose this willme
sneered and laughed at by many, but which is the better
—deep reverence or none at all ? lam acquainted wit
several wealthy Boers whose first object is to secure a
thorough and classical education for their sons, ana
daughters. So much for the “ unprogressive Boer, and
as to their hating the English, I tell you emphatically
they do nothing of the kind. Having suffered severely
from fever while amongst them, I owe my life to the
great loving kindness and tender nursing I received from
the Boer wives, who thought it nothing to drive 60 miles
to take their turn nursing me.
D.S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, ttegulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/-
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 8,6, 9, 6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Dianond
Bing. £4los. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address— 6B4; George Street, Sydn
THE
PLUM
m
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIGi & A.ITKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDWEY.
Real
Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
Walking Stick Brooch, Is 6d.
With Paris Diamonds, 2s 6d.
Gold-Cased Bar Brooch (any name),
Is 6d and ‘2s 6d.
All the Rage I
Twin Swallow
Brooch,
with Bell or Stone
Pendant, 2s 6d.
Sterling Silver Watches
(Lady’s or Gent.’s),
18s 6d to £2 10s.
Gold - Cased Watches,
17s 6d.
Rolled Gold Watches,
equal in appearance
to best 18ct. Gold, 10
years’ guarantee,
£2 10s to £3 15s.
Chain Bracelets, 10
years’ guarantee, 15s
to 20s.
Nickel Watch and Chain,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Sterling Silver Chains,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Rolled Gold Chains, 5 to
10 years’ guarantee,
10s 6d to 20s.
Wishbone Brooch, with Paris
Diamonds, 2s 6d.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone, 2s Cd.
nm
Swallow Brooch,
with
Heart and Baby
Eye, 2s 6d.
Post free in N.S.W.
Mention The Bulletin . . .
Thousands of other Designs. Write To-day.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
J. C. O’BRIEN & CO.
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Timepiece, Parlor Games, Musical Box and Alarm
ALL IN ONE (Patented).
w
M
-
H.POTI E P e*
AGENTS for AUSTRALASIA
24 fforAL Arcade
Sydney
This Clock is a combination of four different things, viz.,
Time, Games, Music, and Alarm. The case is Solid Nickel
Silver with Chased Brass Mounts, Swing Brass Door, and
Glass Sides. Each clock is timed to closest accuracy, so
will always tell you the correct time. It will play choice
selections the whole day or as desired. It has two most
enjoyable Parlor Games which can be played any time of
day by any number of people. There is also an alarm that
will awaken you at any hour.
Can be had in Three following styles :
“ The Derby.” Time, Alarm, Musical, and
Two Race Games (Sandown and Cup
Handicaps)
PRICE, ONE POUND.
“ The Gipsy.” Time, Alarm, Musical, Character
Reader and Fortune Teller
PRICE, ONE POUND.
“ The Opera.” Time, Musical, and Alarm-
Price, 15/-
Carriage Paid, N.S.W., 1/2 Extra- Other Colonies 2/2.
Each Clock is Guaranteed Perfect, and sent on
approval. If returned within 14 days money
refunded,
jj. fotl g?3EI. & CZ?Q., IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCAD^^SYDINEY.
* hjmLvrtmv ||Ml 1 111111 mu iimi »
fhe Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871. _ ttoto
rpms SOCIETY, in addition to transacting: all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ON'LY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
J- which issues Special Policies granting—
X. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Vunds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £216,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “ FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-stu Sydney
OPALS • PEARLS*
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
..0F...
Opals, Pearls *»> Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. B€NJAMIiT apd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-, Melbourne-
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET :
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
m’ MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY 00., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. O. YOUNG & CO.
FOR
Duck Shootidc«
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Rackham’s Dog mid Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS-
ran Bros. * met. cm-
-107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
And George Street,
Sydney-
n
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 panK-
PLAITS and TAILS,
201 n. lone, 5/6. oil real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBING®
worked up, 1/6 per oz.
\Ve are the cneapettin &a»
Walla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair. *"
W. H.wigKlj.
no wiu.uk Stbbkt, *“
ft Mr of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps lor tuU Price List
HullflipMw glfP W Oeontc O
m


THE FAVORITE
WHISKEY.
Geo. Roe&C?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEACHER &C° ovnmcv
, ®2 A PITT ST.' OlUNtl'..
ASK
FOR
n
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
D^ICOWt^
mn
m
n
mn
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRADLEY » CO.,
furniture and fine Art Auctioneers,
Auct on Room , 324 Street, Sydney,
I lin e always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, I’ anoforte's, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, G’asku are, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales llehl at the Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Loyalty—love of the other fellow’s sove-
reigns.
Foung as is Premier Lyne’s team, one of
diem observed the other day, “I don’t read the
papers but my attention was drawn,” and so on.
Estimated that the Transvaal gold-war, if
carried on until May next, will cost ,£50,000,000.
And Australia’s share looks like being <£500,000
anyhow.
Apparently this will be the great deficit
year all over Australia. Every province is send-
ing away two contingents, possibly three, and not
one had the courage to raise the necessary funds
by extra taxation.
In the last four years Britain has annexed
2,600,000 square miles of land. And every mile
means more responsibility, more frontiers to be
protected, more niggers to be kept down, more
complications, more the “ White Man’s
Burden.”
Queensland is a country of magnificent
distances and magnificent means of communica-
tion. It took a batch of Federation pamphlets
from August 5 to Sept. 20 to travel from Brisbane
to Croydon — l/O days. The literature arrived 15
days after the vote was taken.
A FRIEND IN NEED.
BLACK : “Shay olchap, thishm wife on wire. Dy'e min tell'ner I
can't shpeak t'er? ”
WHYTE: “ Ce'Inly, of man. I'll teller yer speechless."
Dr. Carty Salmon, who was put in at the
tail of the M'Lean Ministry as an honorary wax
figger, has been promoted to be Minister for
Public Instruction, vice M‘Cay, indignantly
rejected by his constituents on seeking re-election.
Salmon is another weak patch on a rather preca-
rious garment, but he has a reasonably safe seat
for Talbot and Avoca, which is an important
matter.
S.A. political experts (who are numerous)
allege that the Holder Govt, is only designed to
last six months. Ex-Premier Kingston’s pro-
gramme is to get into the Leg. Council and per-
sonally steer his Household Suffrage reform
through that chamber. As Gordon, now Attor-
ney-General, opposes that measure, Kingston’s
advent will mean his resignation or a large
swallowing of his principles.
In Maoriland the general election and the
local option vote are taken together, and for the
third time in six years the Cold Tea crowd has
tone down. It didn’t capture a single district.
laoriland rose up like a lioness robbed of its
beer, and cast the ginger-pop gospel from it by a
larger majority than usual, but already the pallid
prophets are talking about how the Terewth will
triumph in 1902, and how the ungodly whisky;
bottle is doomed.
“D.G.”: Cabled that London Daily Mail
says Commander-in-Chief Wolseley was “urgently
and persistently advised to despatch an army-
corps to South Africa months ago.” This is a
case of the ass kicking the dead lion with a ven-
geance. Wolseley had no power to despatch an
army-corps anywhere without orders. Why not
put the blame at once on the right shoulders,
which seem to be largely those of Brummagem
Joe Chamberlain ?
The Philp (Q.) Government took in Drake
and dropped One-Man-One-Vote at the same time.
Drake declared, right up to the date when he
swapped his conscience for a portfolio, that One-
Man-One-Vote was the first essential of reform,
but circumstances—especially profitable circum-
stances —alter cases.
At the late Maoriland election more than
three-fourths of the votes polled were given to the
Seddon party. Yet the Tory papers come to the
surface with the good old remark that “ the vote
doesn’t represent the true feeling of the country.”
The “ true feeling of the country ’’ is one of these
dark and beery mysteries which defy analysis.
S.A. Parliament was prorogued at Xmas
after about the barrenest session on record. Not
one of the liberal measures of the Kingston Govt,
was passed, and S.A. democrats despair of secur-
ing any reform until the Tory Upper House is
remodelled. Almost the last act of that Fat
Man’s citadel wa.s the contemptuous rejection of
Household Suffrage.
Some day there is going to be an unholy
row in N.S.W. over the practice of sending to
Ministers copies of private telegrams containing
interesting news. The newspapers pay for the
news and the Ministry intercepts a copy of it on
its way. through, without payment. Which is
just as dishonest as if it claimed the right to inter-
cept Tooth’s beer-waggon in the street and have a
gratis drink. News-cables are quite as much
private property as beer.
Queensland ex-Premier Dawson seconded
Premier Phil p’s proposal for a second Transvaal
Contingent. Dawson wobbles on both sides. He
says that the war is an unjust war, and also that
it is necessary to help on the injustice to show
“the unity of the Empire.” It is strange what a
number of weak-kneed men find it necessary to
bolt from'their momentarily unpopular principles
to show the unity of the Empire ! If the unity
of the Empire can be manifested by the cowardice
and pitiable moral funk of politicians, it will be
the most united on earth.
Certain English Jingoes,
transplanted to Australia, and
without patriotism enough to
honor the land where they live,
are talking of opposing Hol-
man, M.L.A., of Grenfell, and
Griffith, of Waratah, for their
action in denouncing the send-
ing of Australians to the
shameful Transvaal war. Hol-
man and Griffith will never do
a more creditable action, or one
more in line with the interests
of Australia, if they live 100
years ; and if the Australians
of Grenfell and Waratah have
not pluck enough and spirit
enough to support them, then
those Australians deserve the
worst that can happen them.
Joseph Ward, white -
washed and rehabilitated, goes
back to the Maoriland Govern-
ment as Postmaster - General
and various other things; and
Brown Man James Carroll be-
comes Minister for Native
Affairs. Thelamen table Thomas
Thompson goes out and clever
Jerome Cadman, an honest,
hard-working, clever, but very
weary man, does likewise.
Cadman goes to the Upper
House to have a well-deserved
rest ; and if the dull, lumber-
ing Thompson went to the place
that many people thmk he
should go to then there would
be a profane sound about the
name of the place that Thomp-.
son went to.
Treasurer Forrest, of
W.A., when he proposed to
float a temporary 4 per cent,
million loan for two years at
98, was quite unable to realise
that he was really paying 5
per cent, for the money, and
barked indignantly for some
time at the Opposition speaker who talked of it as a
spercent, loan. Then a glimmer of information fell
on him, and he sat down in a rather sudden heap.
Bigjohn is commonly supposed to make up his
financial statement by means of chalk-marks on
the' back-door.
There is not one big locally-resident city
land-owner in South Australia. Within the
metropolitan boundaries the South Australian Co.
(wholly English) has £227,524 of unimproved
land values; the late Thomas Martin’s estate
comes next with <£156,484, and the City Council
third with .£86,252. After these the Waterhouses
and the inevitable Montefiores ; then the Society
for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign
Parts, <£63,554. The Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel in Local Parts hasn’t anything— it
doesn’t exist, in. fact,
In Maoriland the N.Z. Times and Otago
Daily Times have been honorable exceptions to
the prevailing war madness, inasmuch as they
have only yelled for a pint of blood where other
papers demanded a hogshead, and they have even
allowed correspondents to state the other fellow’s
side of the case in their, columns. Consequently
thb loyal push has risen up as one ass and threat-
ened to withdraw its advt. and stop taking the
paper, and certain correspondents who signed
their names in full have been threatened with the
boots of the hob-nailed patriot. The crowd that
says it is fighting for liberty is firmly resolved that
no one else will have any.
A BORN STRATEGIST.
SLIMY TIM : “ 'Owever is it you always pick up
half cigars, and I never can cop more than
buttends? ”
ARTFUL JOE : “ Easy enough, you fool! I always
shepherd them hairy-faced blokes from the
club. They can't smoke more than half a
cigar for fear of burning a hole in their
moustaches."
Some more Chamberlain disinterred :
These are not the main reasons why, as I submit, it is
impossible to maintain the annexation of the Transvaal.
That course is impossible for any Government caring for
the honor of this country. It is contrary to their Treaty
engagements, to the best traditions of a free country.—
Joseph Chamberlain, House of Commons, July 25, 1881.
But somebody svith a broken nose has since
whispered in Joseph’s ear.
J. M. Davies, brother of Matthew of the
Boom, being appointed to represent the M'Lean
Ministry in the Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords,
had to go to his afflicted country for re-election.
Appropriately enough five liquidators signed his
nomination paper. The liquidators of Melbourne
owe a debt of gratitude to the Davies family, but
the sight of all these winders-up of dead banks
rallying round Matthew’s brother was a terrible
spectacle. It suggested five undertakers nom-
inating a corpse.
The explanation commonly given of
Britain’s want of progress in South Africa is that
she is no longer facing the Boers only, but a part of
the Dutch population of Cape Colony as well. It
isn’t a large part, of course, for it can only come
from that little section of British territory held by
the Boer armies, and places adjacent thereto. But
suppose every man, woman and child of Dutch
descent in all South Africa was in the field. They
are about 900,000, and the British population is
almost exactly the same, so it ought to be a reason-
ably fair fight even if there wasn’t one British
soldier on hand. The 900,000 Dutch inhabitants
of South Africa are about one-fifth the population
of London —about twice the population of Bir-
mingham—Jess than twice that of Liverpool or
Manchester or Glasgow or Melbourne- about
three times that of Dublin or Edinburgh.
What a handful after all 1
A LUCID
EXPLANATION.
LAWYER : “ The fight oc-
curred at the back of
your house? ”
WITNESS: “Yis.”
L.: “And which was the assailant?”
W.: “ Begor I’dno. but I think they both
was.”
L.: “ What! Do you mean to say that when a fight
was so close by, you didn’t go out to see it.”
W.: “ I dho. The kay of the dhure fell into the
crack in the flure, and there was only a bit av
brass wire for a glass pane in the back windak,
ah’ I couldn’t see through it, ah I couldn't go
out the chimb’ey bekase av the fire.”
L.: “ Stand down!”
In India, the British Government draws
the best of its native troops from the Punjaub,.
and, in former days, when their term of service
had expired, the men went back to cultivate their
hereditary farms. Now, the three-ball man
and the money-lending Parsee have done their
deadly work, and they have no farms to cul-
tivate —the Bombay usurers have grabbed
them, and the Sikhs are abandoning their
country, and Britain finds it hard to get
soldiers. Britain has taken the bull by
the horns swiftly and thoroughly. Vice-
roy Curzon has introduced a bill into
the Indian Council that is said by the
local press to be so sweeping in the
thoroughness of its destruction of the
three-ball man that the whole tribe of
shent-per-shenters is crying to the Em-
press to veto the bill and save their tribe
from utter destruction. But the Empress
wants soldiers more than .silver bugs,
and the yell will probably be disre-
garded. If Australia had only the sense
to do something like this.
There is much plain horse-sense
about S. A. political methods. Amotion
of censure there can be begun and ended
in ten minutes. The formula simply is that,
as soon as the Assembly meets,the Opposition
leader moves the adjournment without giv-
ing any reasons. That means a general
motion of censure, and as no debate is
allowed it is about the suddenest poli-
tical proceeding: in Christendom. Ministers
don’t have to go for re-election when they take
office, so the new Ministry may be completed next
morning and fired out again in the afternoon.
Considering how anti-Dutch Maoriland is,
it is a solemn thing to reflect that that province is
still officially named “New Zealand a sort of
warmed-up rehash of old Zeeland, in the Nether-
lands, after which Abel Tasman named it.
In Maoriland every male and female
householder, whether a direct ratepayer or not,
has a vote at municipal elections ; also mayors are
elected directly by the people. Last session a
Bill was nearly carried in N.S.W. giving the
people of Sydney power to elect their own mayors,
but even this small fragment of reform dropped
down a big hole somewhere and was lost.
Highly respectable barrister Moule scored
a point during the Vic. Assembly’s debate on the
ousting of the Turner Govt. Foster, Minister of
Mines, artlessly complained that M‘Lean’s attaok
was a most ungrateful proceeding, seeing that “ he
had received more than his fair share ” of Govern-
ment assistance for his constituency. Where-
upon Moule shrieked. “Corruption! It is the
worst thing that has been said against the Govt,
yet.” Foster was seemingly still of opinion that
the ingrate ought to have considered himself
“squared.”
This is the first time for 15 years that
there has been an election in Melbourne province
for a Fat Man to represent it in the Vic. House
of 48 Rich Landlords. For 15 years the Fat
Person selected by a little local clique has had a
walk-over. And o* her districts are in much the
same condition. The narrow franchise, the faofc
that only landlords of great circumference in the
bank-balance are eligible, and the other fact that
the Council is never dissolved, and only expires
by small instalments, so that it can’t be all cleaned
out at once, have destroyed public interest in Vic.
Council elections. To all intents and purposes
there are no Council elections.
Maoriland’s second attack of war fever is
worse than the first. Seddon, whether he ap-
proves or not, goes with the tide. The New
Woman, with blood in her eye and her bonnet all
askew, haunts the highways cheering the Old
Woman's husband on to go and be blotted out by
Boer artillery. As Parliament isn’t sitting, Sed-
don consulted the members individually by tele-
gram, and they, almost to the last man, demanded
warm red Blood. George Fisher, in particular,
wired back that he boiled with honest indigna-
tion, and if he were a younger man he would go
to Africa himself. Yet George is about 20 years
younger than Joubert, and Joubert didn't plead
age as an excuse.
When Drake fled suddenly from his posi-
tion as leader of the so-called Queensland Opposi-
tion, and joined the enemy, and took a stained
and dishonored portfolio in the Boodledrake
Government, he didn’t even inform his own
party of his intended flight. The subject was
hardly one to bear explanation, and the party
consisted only of about two men ; still these
two were busy denying the alleged defection
of their cherished Drake for hours after he had
left them and joined the enemy, and when
it dawned on them that the stories were
true, they were almost mad enough to bite
their late leader. It is a way politicians have
in Queensland. Party politics in that
mottled land are a strange and stinkful
thing. It is practically the only English-
speaking country where the leader of the
Opposition is expected as a“ regular thing
to desert his party and sell himself to the
Ministry.
At present, the signs ;ire that Victoria’s
new Ministry won’t outlast January, and
that the new Cabinet will include Turner,
Peacock, Trenwith, and possibly Styles,
Cameron, and one or two of the old Ministers.
Leprous dogs now roam Calcutta streets.
Persons bitten are threatened with a dreadful
fate—not hydrophobia.
BLIGHT. BLIGHT.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment— beyond
doubt the best remedy ; over 50 years’ reputation
and still unrivalled. Sold everywhere, in pots 2s.
each. Never be without it.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
THE AUSTRALIAN SOLDIER.
[For The Bulletin.]
Across the seas to distant lands
Exultantly he’ll raam
To slay his brother men abroad,
To please his foes at home !


Hero
Sinco ’53»
For nearly 50 years
paling’s
PIANOS
have given the greatest satisfaction in
thousands of Australian homes.
The same solidity of construction
which characterised our Pianos in the
early fifties is still greatly in evidence.
Hence our immense business of
To-day.
PROTECT
your
OWN
INTERESTS
ANP
buy
youß
ANO
ONLY
AT
PALING'S
ARTISTIC and
HIGH CLASS
are the right words
in the right place
This must not necessarily be
taken to mean that our Pianos are
high in price, as well as high in
quality.
REMEMBER—
You get the BEST
VALUE AT PALING’S.
We
Stock
ANYTHING and
EVERYTHING
MUSICAL.
Call or Write
for Catalogues.
W. N. PALING t> c°- L TD 338
<SEOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbane
Newcastle
’J3|S]S§]j qse3 |iuo!)e| ad
A National Cash Register protects
the cash
The register is a place of safe deposit for the in-
- coming cash, that can be opened only with sign and
signal. It is an automatic receiving and paying
cashier under mechanical bonds for faithfulness and
accuracy.
It protects the customer.
It shows instantly to every customer a record of
his transaction and gives him a printed voucher for
the same.
It protects the shopkeeper.
It makes an open record of every transaction and
preserves these records for inspection, furnishing
ready data for balancing the day’s work.
It provides the readiest means of discovering errors
and locating responsibility for them.
It puts dishonesty in danger of detection.
It protects the books-
It is a witness against the one who “ forgot to make
the entry.”
It protects the assistant-
It safeguards the rights of employees by making
every assistant responsible for only his own trans-
actions and filing a record of the same which can be
referred to in case of doubt.
If an error appears, it is better for some one to be
convicted of a mistake than for anyone to be sus-
pected of crime.
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
The paper check which it issues for each sale is a
drawing-card. The printed promise on this check of
w
a premium when cash purchasers have reached a
certain amount will bring the customer hack in order
to reach that amount, until coming has become a
habit and the occasional customer has become a
regular patron.
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
With its check system offering a discount for cash,
it encourages cash buying and so reduces the risks of
accounts. The system may also be extended to favor
weekly payments instead of long accounts, and so
solve the somewhat difficult problem of the good
but slow credit customer.
Prices from £5 to £6B.
Full information
on application to
Natiofyal Casl) Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
IV
ifi
m :
'-■ -
The Compliments
of the Season . .
to all Cyclists. ♦ .
•felng out the Old
Ring- in the New
MULTIFLFX
m
The Best and Truest Friend to all Wheelmen. Ena Win
Safe and Comfortable Riding under all circumstances
FIRST IN 1888. FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TVRE CO., of AUST., LTD.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
|l|ont de piete £®.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER. MOKTXH.
bills discounted, advances made on
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department entrance.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.-2*
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 G-eorge Street (facing Bndge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
| Fidelity Guarantees. limp. IdaDilty.
j Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Nassau, ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager tor Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED ... 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Monthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 MonLlis, '
~ „ 2 Years, 5 %
~ ~ 3 Years, 6%
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing Director.
Queensland Smelting Qamig.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
loi)doQ n LaocaSbir^
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of |)orfti Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ..i ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
United IfySCsraSKt Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Firs Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Kates very Low
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
W ARRN AMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 6, 12 noon.
-Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 9, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., Jan. 13, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Sat., January 13,12 Noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Safc., January 6, 2 p.m.
Koonoowarra, Tues., Jan. 9, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 13, 2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., January 6, 2 p.in.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 13, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Packer & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydnej’.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €*€sCitorS,
AND
Cotppafyy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500*000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11/12 ’99) „ £3,159,571 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. FI. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 SisJiopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Hayniarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Managed.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures ; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
noles and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the Eas\
J. RIJBSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetoivn and London.
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
England via America
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
9
9
6
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break_ their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHEE LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London {via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Banking.
The Commercial JBanhing Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Katek, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C. ; J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL
£20,000.
WILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neaie Wire, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
„ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
_ r> (I-1M IT 151).
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ES PERANGE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE, *
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to ail North Western Ports
S.S. Eurimbla, Friday, Jan. 5.
S.S. Wollowra, Sat., Jan. 13
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
s.s.
Cintra, Friday, Jan
1 ' > ‘ S ' S ' Adelaide, Sat., Jan. 6.
n,;.i in 1S steamer running under contract with the
™m d G .°l err,,ne nt for the carriage of refrigerated
oJ n .™ maintain a regular weekly fast service between
A J .- an ? B , nshane - an d will connect with the P. and 0.
j; f *i er }k steamers. The attention of passengers is
7> thl v °PP°rt«nity of quick transit between
sen trpr Dtpn, B : lSb “e. ADELAIDE is a flrst-cfass pas-
sengei steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best <% Cheapest llonte to Goldfields.
eompany e aSfport r s e intercha 'W eab l e with the A.U.S.N.
St. Sydney.
A. U. S. I\|. Cov. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly
SYDNEY and ROCKIIAMPTON-Bi-weeklv via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. :
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
E’dl Particulars from the Agents:
rnS A , T P T h i l ? T & Co -> Ltd - 10 Br ‘dge Street.
Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
W ‘ MacDonald, Currie Street.
PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—-British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching' at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
It for from England. EDWARD
No. 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Co’s jjine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China
Japan and Canada or the United States of America. ’
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co. , Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ID‘|luiraith, & go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money
Stock Rates and Freight Quotai ions, apply ’
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn 8s Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
Mel-
bourne,
1 pan.
Ade-
laide,
1 pan.
V. de la CIOTAT Fiaschi ... Jan. 22 Jan. 25 Jan. o' 7
POLYNESIEN ..jChevalier jFeb. lOiFeb. 22 Peb. 24
ARM. BEHIC ... Po3’denot Mar. 19 Mar. 22 Mar. 24
AUSTRALIEN IVerron ...lApril 16;April 19 April 21
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, L 25 to £7o’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.


MAJUBAt”
Also, remember
that
ALLAN’S
nm
ELBOURNE
USI C A L
AQAZINE
IS THE FINEST YET ISSUED.
i siejufca. •*» **«»»♦«#- *4fc
I TP* Coon’* B*ro*stfel~ -'. ,*' '- O
i W«p Mo Up in my CM etofelo
6 Hu*h, tttUo »»6y, Opn’t YowOffy' 13
? Tt»o mtti Mn-isaai .»> aa
? 8!o* * Sorifc WNonoomsd ■ '{s- a
mi
f;
Contents:
1. “YOU SHOW ME YOUR SLATE” (the Child Song
of the Year).
2. “ SONS OP THE SEA” (arranged for Pianoforte).
3. “REMEMBER MAJUBA” (by Drakeford).
4. “THE COON’S SERENADE” (another “Susie-oo”)
5. “ WRAP ME UP IN MY OLD STABLE JACKET”
6. “HUSH, LITTLE BABY” (Fanny Powers).
7. “ THE IRISH MESSAGE.”
8. “ SING A SONG OP NONSENSE."
9. “ CAN IT BE LOYE VALSE” (on popular melodies)
Allan & Co. Proprietary Ltd.,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
G
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel GO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have along thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
bias decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
n
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
*» MEASURE
14/6
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.) Note the Address:
W. J. Ellis & Co.,
Sydney.
686 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
and at
173 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas gorier
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TIIB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
mn
E. V.EINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants & Importers.
Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketvvare
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only j.
FOR 1900.
Every Lady should commence the New
Century well by keeping a Diary.
IF you send us Sevenpence in Stamps
we will send you a
Rice tittle Handy Diary,
CONTAINING THE
Calendar for 1900,
In Ruby binding, neat for bag or pocket,
with Memoranda Pages for year —365
spaces—for reminder Notes and General
Diary Entries. Showing the Moonlight
Nights. Also Gash Summary Pages, very
useful when out shopping. Beautifully
ruled with lovely faint lines of blue.
Altogether a very nice book, and will save
you a lot of thinking.
All for 7d .
(No lady can do without it).
Address as follows :
Hordern Brothers,
The well-known Drapers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
SEND SEVENPENCE.
MEMORY
MEMORY,
LESSONS
Taught by Correspondence.
eas / u S E L S I A c E Va.n.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
£end for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
H. A. Tregurtha, Esq., Bank Manager, Daylesford,
Vic.: “. . . It fastens difficult; names and dates, dry
facts and figures in the mind, so clearly that it seems
ahnost impossible to forget them. . . .”
Mr. W. E. Blair, Pyrmont, Sydney: “. . . It is
simplicity itself, and could be acquired,' and its principles
applied, by the schoolboy or the advanced thinker. . .
It has no equal.”
0
NOYES BROS.,
31 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY;
17 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
HEW CENTURY NOVELTIES
[HJ
5 lovely Diamonds,
from iio to £4O each
Smaller Stones,
from £3, £4, £5,
£7 10s.
18c., 14 Lovely
Diamonds and 3
Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, 84s.
18c., 1 Diamond &
2 Rubies, or
1 Diamond and 2
Sapphires, 455;
smaller size, 30s.
1 Diamond and
Ruby, or Sapphire,
18c., £4.
Any Name or
Motto, 9c., 12s 6d,
15s, 20s ; 15c., 20s,
22s 6d, 27s 6d ; 18c.,
21s, 255, 30s.
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or
Sapphires from 65 s
to £lO.
Solid Gold, set with
5 Turquoise, 10s 6d, or Pearl
and Turquoise, 12s 6d ;
6 Opals, 15s and 21s.
Solid Gold, with any Name or Motto,
and Raised Wishbone, Bell, and
Chain, 10s 6d.
iHIMII
i-s m
aia
. ' -
-e-yn@r~y~@-
Solid Gold, with Raised Bird and
Forget-me-not, or with any Name, 10s 6d.
ooo^
15c. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds & 1 Ruby,
,#/ or 2 Diamonds
1 Sapphire, 30s.
Gold Mizpah, Cross, and Dove BROOCH,
Latest Novelty, 12s 6d.
S 3
222
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst, 8s 6d.
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21s.
All Articles sent
Post Free.
nm
LUCKY
SHAMROCK
CHARM,
Set with i
Pearl, 2
Amethysts, &
1 Topaz, or
Obsidion, 4s.
GARNET
PENDANT and
Gold Bird
SAFETY TIN,
5s 6d. Without
Pendant, 3s.
9c., 17s 6d. 205,-25s ;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, ss.
With Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Gold, 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
RICHLY CHASED.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
Solid Gold and Real Opal,
17s 6d. With Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
50 Other Patterns.
9c., 12s 6d and 13s 6d ; 15c.,
255. Silver, 2s 6d pair.
Please send for our Illus-
trated Slips of Novelties.
Gold Merry Thought
SAFETY PIN, set with
real Pearl, 8s 6d.
THE HOGSKIN LEATHER BUCKLE AND STRAP WATCH GUARD,
SILVER MOUNTED, 5s and 6s 6d ; GOLD, 18s 6d.
n
NOTE.—Our ONLY Australian Address-- 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Folio*
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
wfewSSKS,
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2,6- Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling'
Rugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 4,6, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t he afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
Publications.
Open-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney. Post, Is. 7d
Books. Books. Books.
"pOPOLAE EDUCATOR—£S for 11 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for ±l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for 12 15s. The History of Australian Bush rang-
ing, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereaghstreec, Sidney.
PHOTOS FROM ilfeT
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
265. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOli A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Fitt-st, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED
Address, PRIVATE,
■WITH numerous anatomical
'' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stcpage.
, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
BOOKLET
Post Free for Qije Stan?p
MADAME PANZA
Box 913, G-.P.0., Sydney
OF RiiaE
BOOKS,
FOREIG-KT STAMPS
nm
n
mn
OETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala (Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg’, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue),3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B,
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
m
How Do! May I send yo
my
Eoctra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
,201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE
nm
BAMOND SONG BOOK.
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
•2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
J£OT>GSON>S
Tales of Medical Students,
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney, Jnsb Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
1
ffi
U”uT\> w*- 7
FOREIGN STAMPS.
QETS of 12 Transvaal, Is ; 5 Orange State,
4d ; 7 Natal, Is ; 11 Cape, Is 3d ; 50
Cuba, 3s fd ; 50 Spain, 2s ; 9 Borneo, Is 6d ;
6 Guatemala, 8d ; 5 Bolivia, 6d ; 12 Luxem-
burg, 9d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d ;
250, Is ; 500, 2s ; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE COLLEC-
TIONS, 1000 differents (mounted) only 20s ;
postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N. or stamps.
Price Lists free.
Wm. Ackland,
162 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
lOfltiCQza Cotigb-
BUYERS of road Bicycles find better service and
greater value in the EASY RUNNING
MASSEY - HARRIS than in any other Bicycle.
What we say they’ll do they do do.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South "Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dm ediu, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
K
V
K
K
K
*
n
mii
View handle 25ar Adjustment.
Fouqd only or\ 1900 j\Hodel Red Birds.
Notice the great simplicity and effectiveness of this device : just a turn
of the nut and the handle bars may he adjusted to any position : and
at the same time, be raised or lowered. t Nothing to get out ol
order. No squeezin ' of the head tube, as with other bolt and m
fastenings, consequently no loose head cones and bearings.
This is another of the many little features which make Red Birds superior to other cycles.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by ... .
€be ooold Bicycle Co v CtcL
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgent* everywhere.
Australasian Branches :
64 King-ST., Sydney, Head Office in Australia
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-BT. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st. . Wellington. N.Z.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
WRITE FOR CATALOG UK
Miners returned from the Transvaal give high
praise to the system of mine and boiler inspection there,
and refer to this as one thing that isn’t likely to be im-
proved by the changes which will follow the war. And in
proof of it they quote the special correspondent of Lond.
Times, who said in July—“ The mine-manager who in-
terests himself in the preservation of his personal rights
is liable to be harried and worried out of existence by the
attentions of mine inspectors, claim inspectors, boiler in-
spectors, and machinery inspectors.” So the war is a war
against mine and boiler and machinery inspection, too.
And still some people wonder what white miners had to
gain by allowing things to remain as they were.
A Strofjg co. is being formed to work some
property on the abandoned Wynyard field (S. India). In
the old days (say 20 years ago) many Australians were
sent out from Vic. * to this field. Brough Smythe
Sheridan, who lately managed a Westralian mine, was
■one of the pioneers.
* * » *
“ If there be one enterprising municipality in
Australasia,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “ let it gather up its rubbish and reap shekels arid
glory thus: Shoreditch is just outside London City’s
limits, and is presumed to be mostly costers and their
* mokes,’ but the vestrymen have' heads longer than any
donkey’s ears. In the past 12 months they have collected
and burnt 23,728 tons of rubbish, the destruction of which
generated 1,031,348 units (Board of Trade) of electricity to
light 151 arc and 302 incandescent street lamps and sup-
ply besides 413 private customers at 4jd. per unit—the
lowest rate in the kingdom outside Manchester and Edin-
burgh. The first year’s surplus was £2063, and this (the
second year) finds it £7745. In addition £llB6 has been
saved by not having the rubbish carted away. The waste
steam from the ‘ destructor’ plant heats the public baths
and washhouses at an estimated saving of £lBOO yearly.
Even the poorest tenements use the light, the cost in two-
room sets being Bd. a week. Lord Kelvin, the celebrated
electrical expert, eulogised the scheme at its inception,
and magnificently have results verified his words. No
more putrefying rubbish-heaps to windward of your
town for Mr. Run-‘em-up a year later to erect weather-
board fever-villas on, but a big profit out of dust and dirt!
A current of electricity generates heat in the metal that
■carries it—heat generates electricity—rubbish stimulated
with coke or coal is a cheap fuel and gives much heat—
hence much electricity and—profit. Go thou and do
likewise.”
V * ♦ #
Christchurch (M.L.) water-supply is artesian,
and three men were recently hard at work sinking a pipe.
The wag of the party surreptitiously dropped a few hand-
fuls of brass filings down the pipe and waited serenely
for results. Presently the fluid came rushing up, and
poured out the glittering filings before the startled gaze
of the navvies. Then and there they held a solemn coun-
cil of war. The wag said he would stay and protect the
find. One went off to make good terms with their
employer, who was about 20 miles out of town, and the
other rushed to a lawyer to take legal advice how to
secure “ the mine.” The employer hired a special train
to get there quickly and tore through the city in a cab to
engage a mining expert. Then a wash-up was made, and
the language that was used caused a dreadful smell
throughout Christchurch for a week afterwards.
* » * •
A well-known Sydney jeweller writes to say
that he is more than ever convinced of the advantages of
advertising. He has a standing advt. in Tiie Bulletin
about clocks, watches and jewellery for sale, and the
other day it evoked this letter from a small N.S.W.
country town : “ Dear sir,—Hearing that you are a pur-
chaser of Cigar Ash at 21s. per ounce, herewith you will
please find a tin containing’ one ounce of the best Havana
Cigar Ash. Trusting to receive cheque by return post, I
am, &e.” Query : Whence conies the wide-spread delu-
sion that some unknown person, living round the 114th
turning to the right or thereabouts, is always ready and
even anxious to give more for cigar ash than the original
cost of the cigars, said ash being in great demand at the
North Pole or elsewhere, for purposes unknown ?
* * * *
Rainfall at Wilcannia, the centre of the most
extensive tract of pastoral country in N.S.W., during the
past four years :—1896, 7'39in. ; ’97, 7'24in. ; ’9B, s’42in. ;
’99, 4’76in. The fall has diminished every year. For the
four years together it has amounted to only 24'81in. ; and
even then it has been so scattered that two-thirds of it
have been almost valueless. Also, it has to be remem-
bered, the heat is so intense, the winds so scorching, and
the evaporation so great that 24in. would not be worth
there more than 12in. on the coast. Altogether, the far
western country as a whole has never before, in the 45
or 50 years during which it has been settled, been in so
deplorable a state as it is in to-day.
• * * »
One Krug, who runs a Perth (W. A.) loan office,
advertised all last December that he was lending monish
without interest or charges for that month only, because
it was the last December in the century. Krug’s feelings
when he discovers that there is another December before
the century ends ought to be worth publishing.
* * *
Some extracts from a certain “Mining Ex-
pert’s ” report, as sent bv him to N.S.W. Chamber of
Mines :—“The principal Geological feature of the Mineral
Lease is that of a large Subteraneous Upheaval or Ex-
trusion giving rise to a Distinct Formation of a different
character to the Country Rock. On either side towards
the Base Farce Bodies of Conglomorite oxidete trap rock
occur whilst higher in the Formation Horne Blend Schist
is present were (sic) the Terregunious Crust is removed.”
“ Terregunious Crust ” suggests something good to eat,
whilst lower down *he “Expert” speaks of “Ferru-
genious Quarts ” spelt with an “s” —suggestive of some
new and refreshing potation. The “ Expert” says that
he “ made some exhaustive assays ” —the result being :
“ From 20 assays made in duplicate to check an average
of 19dwts. 12grs. of gold per ton of 22401b5.” Observe the
detail ! And the samples were taken from a face 30ft
wide, being quarried in a cutting. Now lOjflwts. from a
30ft. reef in a quarry would turn most people’s heads ,
but the expert keeps quite calm and only ventures so far as
to say : “ I am of oppinion that 17dwts. will pay well with
careful treatment and management, having in view the
Large Formation, &0., &c.” The “ Expert” winds up his
geological remarks with a sentence worthy of a place in
“English as she is spoke”: “There are several other
geological features which is unnecessary of detail in this
Report.”
» * * *
Notified that the A.J.S. Bank has closed its
Cobar branch, leaving the town with only one bank, the
Commercial. Which recalls an incident. On a pay
Saturday afternoon a man dressed as a bushman appeared
in Cobar with £5-notes of a bank having no local branch.
He bought at several shops, in the dusk and dark, and
changed a fiver at each. In one, that of a chemist and
bookseller, be hought 7s. 6d. worth and tendered the £5.
The shop attendant, not likmg the look of it, the buyer
offered another out of a roll, and as a senior-constable,
who was present in plain clothes, offered to give t'4 19s.
for it, the shopkeeper gave change. On Monday morning
the bank announced to depositor that a fiver in his little
lot was had ! Everyone then began to look up the notes,
and no less than 45 were found to be bogus. The parties
—it was proved afterwards that two men were engaged—
were never caught. Their meanest exploit consisted in
arousing about midnight an old, struggling couple, who
kept an accommodation-house on the Bourke-Cobar road.
The old woman grilled chops and made tea, and had a
fiver given her. She could only scrape up about £4 ss.
change, so the pair handsomely told her she could keep
the balance for the extra trouble given.
• » * »
Dear Bulletin.—Apropos of the large nugget
found recently at Marble Bar (W.A.), this is the true his-
tory of Father Long’s famous “ Sacred Slug ” : Father
Long entered into an agreement with two miners to work
a show on the Kurnalpi road, the conditions being that
the priest was to pay the men £4 per week each, and, in
the event of a “ strike,” all were to share equally. After
working a week or two, they decided to take their finan-
cier down, if possible. With this object in view, they
procured a boulder of great tonnage, and subjected it to
a treatment which made it appear like gold to the non-
practical eye. It was brought to the good, hut surprised,
Father late at night, and left with him on the under-
standing that the men should be advanced £2OO each,
also that the find should not be divulged until the
remainder of the “gold” had been taken from the show.
With this store of wealth on hand, there was no difficulty
in obtaining the desired amount, which was paid, and
thereupon the two men boarded the “ Flying Sandgroper”
for Perth or Klondyke, unknown to Father Long, who
labored under the delusion that they had gone back to
work. In the meantime, a rumor spread like wildfire that
a large nugget had been deposited in the local R.O. pres-
bytery, the consequence being that Father Long was ap-
pealed to for definite information. Having pledged him-
self to secrecy, be withheld all knowledge of the affair until
the diggers were almost in a state of frenzy. The slug was
taken to Perth, where the fraud was discovered almost at
the same hour at which Father Long disclosed the locality
of the find from the balcony of Donnellan’s Hotel,
Konowna, to about 5000 people. A mad rush was made
for the scene of the alleged find, and the things that were
said and done there were unfit for publication. Father
Long has since gone to the land whence no traveller
returns, the worry and anxiety attendant on the lament-
able nugget being at least partly responsible for his
death.—Don.
* * * »
Miners are still being sought for at Broken Hill;
managers in their progress reports repeatedly work in a
little advt. to this effect. Local men also send away their
reports; hut few of them get into print. Sample one,
lately to hand “ Really a minimum should be fixed for
a fortnight’s ‘ take.’ The other day on one mine, accord-
ing to the sheets, one party had hot earned Cd. each per
shift; and they were paid off at this, too.” But, after
all, the contract-system is not half so big a curse on a
semi-tropical mining field as night-shift (12 midnight to 8
a.m.). Imagine trying to sleep by day in a galvanised-iron
hut with a thermometer registering from 105 to 120, and
perhaps half-a-dozen youngsters home for the holidays !
At the end of a week of this most men are not worth
much more than 6d. a shift. During the summer the
night-shift men can nearly always be told by their appear-
ance.
» * » *
The bank smash of ’93 broke up the Darling
River cockies so far as taking bank-notes in payment for
anything is concerned, Tp offer a note now,is to con-
vince the dweller on the bone-strewn plains that you have
early information that the bank is going, and want to get
out in time. The Darling.cockies in ’93 sold £l-notes of
reconstructed banks for 10s. and 12s. each.
A “mining-expert ” up North recently bad sold
to him, dirt-cheap, a smalt parcel of first-water “dia-
monds” averaging about ljcts., and it wasn’t till the
stones were submitted to a Sydney firm of buyers that
they were found to he merely colorless zircons, which re-
semble diamonds somewhat in brilliancy .and crystallo-
graphic form. The hardness-test is with them unreliable,
as zircon will scratch quartz-crystal or glass readily. It
was this same colorless variety Of the gem which caused
the Nundle “ diamond ” rush a few years back.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Steeplechase on concluding day (Monday) of
Sydney Tatt’s meeting was shriekingly funny. Four
started. Lady Lygon baulked at the first fence, and was
not got over till the others had gone round once ; later,
she stopped again and then withdrew. Finbar got rid of
his rider at the brush jump in the first round, and Murra-
brine came a cropper over the logs. He also went within
an ace of mangling his rider (Regan), who, however,
pluekily remount d. Meanwhile The Toff (owner,
Graham, up) had been sailing along at a great pace and
clearing all obstacles without much effort, though his
rider was on the verge of falling off once. In the last
mile The Toff held a lead of over two furlongs from
Murrabrine, the only other nag left in. Once
Graham brought his mount to a standstill, and most
people thought he had broken a stirrup-strap. The Toff
now had ten lengths to the stood, but he came down
badly over the last fence, and Murrabrine finished alone.
An investigation by Tatt.’s committee resulted in a
decision to recommend the A.J.C. not to allow Mr.
Graham to ride attain, on che ground of alleged incom-
petence. It was the most farcical ’chase ever seen at
Randwick, and should about put the set on that class of
event. Steeplechasing has been going from bad to very
much worse in Sydney for a long time.
* * * *
Said that owner Dick Wootton of Sydney Tatfc.’s
Cup winner Vocalist put £6OO of his own money on him,
and as he was heavily supported by stable connections
and the public, Ikey must have had a torrid time of it.
Vocalist is a 4-year-old by Gozo-Carrnen, and was bred at
Tucka Tuulta (N.S.W.). Wootton is the only one who has
ever raced him. As a 2-yeai-old Vocalist ran four times
unsuccessfully, and last season competed half a dozen
times, only winning once—a welter mile at Rosehill.
* * • * *
Kogarah (Sydney)-trained Mora, the sensation
of recent Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, has struck
trouble at last. Heavily backed in right quarter for
Sydney Tatts. Cup (two miles), on New Year’s Day, she
was taken to the front by Cis. Parker, at a mile and a
quarter, as if engaged in a six furlongs sprint, and,
galloping brilliantly, looked like running away with the
race. She rounded the home-turn holding a six-lengths
lead, but tired very fast. Halfway down the straight
Vocalist caught and passed her, creating a margin of six
lengths between himself and the mare ere reaching the
winning-post. Owner (Teddj' Knight), trainer (Dick
O’Connor), and jockey (F. Fielder) were to have explained
Mora’s latest effort to the A.J.C. committee on Thursday.
Whether “on it” or not last week, someone backed Mora
heavily that day, sending her out a 10 to 9 on favorite.
The stable hasn’t got many well-wishers among the great
army of punters just now.
* * • •
Canzoni (imp.)—Hester b.in. Coralie got away
with Sydney Tat t.’s Carrington Stakes (Saturday last),
just as she did with A.J.C. Villiers on Boxing Day, by
not appealing on the scene till well inside the distance,
and t hen romping over everything—this despite her 101 b.
penalty, which made the total weight up 8.13. From be-
ginning to end the pace was a cracker, as is evidenced by
the time, 1.15. Yet fast as this time is, it has been
beaten on half a dozen different occasions in the last 10
years. Precaution, helped by a strong wind, covered
the 6 furlQngs in 1.13)4 ! Loch Marie has a fraction of a
second more to her credit. Last-named nag was the
only one, prior to Coralie, to annex the Villiers and Car-
rington, and, strangely enough, both these winners
carried greater weights than any of the beaten horses.
Loch Marie’s was 8.11.
• • • •
The A.J.C. asks leave of Randwick Borough
Council to reduce a piece of hilly ground outside the
course but within the borough, from which people may
spy the races gratis. The Council snortingly refuses.
* * * *
It was thought the new Forest Lodge (Sydney)
Pony Club would have given the trotters still another
show, but, so far, it has made no sign. A trot on the
programme always gathers in a large section of the pub-
lic who would not otherwise put in an appearance at a
pony meeting. In the past the proprietors of the courses
have been more to blame than the trotting owners, in
countenancing the most barefaced swindles. Should the
Forest Lodge people take up the game, it is to be hoped,
in the interests of the sport, that from the start the club
will make itself a terror to the evildoer whatever bis
social standing—or the length of his nominations.
• • * •
The life of the average pony-owner fairly
bristles with excitement. At a recent up-country meet-
ing a certain owner went nap on his nag, and made all
preparations for a midnight flit from the hotel where he
was staying if the good thing did not come off. Land-
lord got wind of the affair, and prepared the gates with
extra-strong padlocks with the intention of making all
safe. The good thing dub - eventuated, so the padlocks
were not required ; but pony-owner had prepared for the
emergency by sawing far enough through a couple of
rails at the bottom of the hotel yard to allow of a good
shove releasing panel, owner, and geegees.
* * » •
“Gun” : One-time-sensational nag Brockleigh,
which died atTumut (N.S.W.) a few days ago, was won
by owners, C. Parker and W. Fisher, in a raffle when
two years old. Parker gave Fisher a “ monkey ” for his
Bhare, and profited immensely thereby. Brockleigh pre-
viously belonged to Chippendale (then sec. Newcastle
J.C.), who would have sold him for £5O.
* • » *
Related that “ Billy ” Guesdon, who owned &
Melbourne Cup winner (Darebin) 20 years or more ago,
spent Cup day picnicking up the Yarra, and did not
know of his good fortune till nine at night.
• • * •
Anent recent cabled information of Australian
nag Tornado’s disqualification at ’Ome, Latest mail re-
veals that one day he got away with Maiden Hurdles by
4 lengths, and next, with 51bs. penalty, secured Hawthorn
Hill Handicap—both at same meeting. His Australian
trainer, Brewer, was up ou each occasion. A protest on
the grounds of “ insufficient description when entering ”’
upset the “ pot."
• • • *
Maoriland Racing Conference having pointed;
out the undesirability of clubs receiving nominations,
&c , at pubs, a great many have forsaken the beery bar
parlor for the gloomy private office. It isn’t so long ago
since a miniature country club was in a quandary as to
which of the two local shanties it would favor by making it
“headquarters,” so called for tenders for the “ privilege.”
Committee accepted best offer, and spent proceeds at.
t’other fellow’s pub. Proceeds are said to have been ss.
• • • *
As a result of severe and timely criticism Maori-
land racing stewards have been more active than usual
lately in passing out cronk gents who have been urging
the dishonest horse at a hurried crawl round the course.
Pokomoko, knocked out for two years at Takapuna, with
lessee and rider, was a promising hurdler, who had
actually been hacked for Auckland Two-Mile Cup. When
racing officials take action on their own initiative and;
don’t wait for the crowd to yell and smash things, it’s a
fairly good sign. , * *
The well-bred and speedy trotter, Honest
Wilkes, died in M. L. recently. He was bred in Victoria,
by J. J. Miller, crossed Tasman sea in ’95 as a four-year
old, and in four years won only four races. Reason was
that he could outpace anything for about a mile and
a-half, and then want of staying power cruelled him.
Wilkes was actually disqualified at Christchurch once,
the stewards being of opinion that he h-.Ja’t trotted on
h.s, merits, but they have long since discovered that over
IJ4 miles he hadn’t any merits to trot on.
« * * *
“X.”: On present form, writer (who is not a
Sydney man) would gleefully back N.S.W. to beat Eng-
land on Sydney Ground. Just as S.A., when she had
Giffen, Lyons, Hill, Darling, Reedman, and Jones at their
best, was nearly invincible years ago, so N.S.W. happens
at present to have eight men in her team simultaneously
at their best. The eleven is. almost equal to an Aus-
tralian combination, except that the bowling is weak.
Still, look at the batsmen in the N.S.W. team : Trtiniper
and Noble, twin champions on present form, Iredale,
Gregory, Donnan, M’Kenzie, and Hopkins ! There is no
doubt that the team put out by N.S.W. this season is the
best yet selected by an Australian province.
* * * ♦
Three Sydney cricketers of the team that fought
Melbourne 43 years ago are still alive—Beale, Gilbert, and
Hilliard.
* * * *
The famous Gregory family still supplies crack
cricketers for N.S.W. Charlie, who went to Tas. t’other
day with N.S.W. second XI., is the latest. He’s taller
than brother Sid. and lays the wood on in more brilliant
fashion. Playing against Tas. last year he carried his
bat out for 40. Appearances indicate that he is a comer
of the first quality.
* • * •
Ex-Australasian amateur-champion swimmer
Percy Oavill, now one of the world’s three best pros.,
came home to Sydney last week after two years’ absence
in England, France, Spain, and South Africa. He has
filled out a lot, added about 2st. to his weight, and gained
experience that should be valuable. Percy says he is a
much better swimmer now than when he went away,
which is saying a great deal, for he owned one or two
world’s records then. France proved the most fruitful
hunting ground in the way of money-making. During
three months the crack swimmer gathered in £2O weekly,
half of which came from the French cycling organ, Le
Vklo, for teaching the youth of “ gay Paree ” free. They
had to be put through in big squads, and took to the
game with such aptitude that many of them improved 20
seconds in 100yds. Greasley, Caviil, and Nuttall (cham-
pion of the world) met on the Seine over 500 metres.
Greasley won by about 2ft., Caviil being second and
Nuttall third. But for getting out of his course the
Australian must have had an easy victory. Cavill's
performance in this race brought him—in preference to
the other two—the offer from Le Vblo. He had pre-
viously in England beaten Greasley four races out of five,
and could not make a match with either him or Nuttall
afterwards, so that really Caviil could make out a good
claim for the world’s supremacy. He says that, on the
whole, Australian swimmers are better than those of
Britain, though the latter country holds pride of place in
the old world. He purposes visiting Yankeedom shortly
in quest of the needful, and will go thence to England,
with the object of again endeavoring to lure champion
of the world “ Joey ” Nuttall into a match.
• • * *
Quarter-mile swimming supremacy of N.S.W.,
contested at Bathurst on Monday, was won by Dick
Caviil, the baby of that remarkable family so prolific in
watery champions. Dick is not 16 yet, and this is his
biggest performance so far. He won by 12yds. from
Craig (Balmain) in 6min. 7 3-5 sec., beating the time put
up at Bathurst by previous holder, Lane. Among
those who finished in the rear were Bond (win-
ner of half-mile championship a few weeks ago)
and “Mud” Bishop (champion sprinter and holder
of world’s record for straight-away 100yds.). Dick,
with a frame moulded on the same lines as, the
“old man’s," is far more sturdily built than any of his
crack brothers, and, as he is susceptible of much im-
provement in style, may possibly do even better than
they have done.
* * * *
A likely future swimming champion is young-
Claude Corbett, son of old-time champion, Mr. “ Billy ’
■Corbett. Young Corbett, who is only “ a handful,”
already takes his place on scratch with Bell, the
champion of the Rockdale (Sydney) Swimming Club.
■On Xmas morning the pair started off scratch in a
medley race, and they finished first and second, Corbet.t
missing his kick-off in the last turn, and thereby spoiling
his chance. In the next header competition Corbett
defeated Bell.
• • • •
Most important boxing match made in the pro-
vinces for many a day was that clinched last week be-
tween Melbourne Tim Hegarty and N.S.W. Hugliie
Napier for featherweight supremacy of the continent and
£lOO a side. Fight is fixed for 29th inst., at Sydney.
Hughie was a good ’un eight or nine years back, especi-
ally when he whipped George Powell in a “go ” that the
old York-st. (Sydney) Club arranged for Powell's especial
benefit. Hughie, however, is considerably older now and
looks every day of it. Tim (in the early twenties) is
probably 10 years younger than his prospective opponent,
and has the reputation of being an out-and-out world
beater at the weight, which would indicate that Napier’s
■chances are on a par with Buckley’s. Yet the Sydney
■milk-trade men, who are among them providirur Hughie’s-
■stake, are no fools in betting, particularly' on the pug.
game. Long years of selling water as cow-product make
milkmen a dodgy class.
* * « *
“ Old Timer ” : The one-time champion Aus-
tralian heavy-weiyht bruiser, Tom Lees, is still on top of
the earth, though dead to the sporting world for years.
Report had it that he went to the Klondyke. Last week:
word came from ’Oine that on Nov. 14, Tom (now 42),
met one Scales (25), in a match the best of 25 rounds.
Beales treated Lees to a terrible gruelling, and knocked
him clean out before the second three minutes expired.
The whipped man was a back-number as a fighter eight
.years ago. His defeat of Yic. blacksmith, Farnhain, was
the best performance he ever put up. Writer
remembers match between Jackson and Lees, at
Foley’s old “ White Horse ” Hall, George-street, Sydney,
■close upon a dozen years since, when the big black
■couldn’t prevail upon his white adversary to stand up
■and fight half-a-minute, but had to chase him about the
24ft. ring for 36 odd rounds and hit wherever he could.
Several times Lees went sprawling face downward as the
result of a weighty punch on the back region while
■dodging out of a corner. That started Jackson’s career
as a champion, and caused Lees to drop to his proper
level. The battle referred to drew a £7OO gate, and.
Foley received £lOO for the use of his hall.
* * * *
Late news is to the effect that “ feather” cham-
pion of the world black Dixon crawled all over English
■crack Curley in a 25 rounds affair at New York, Nov. 2.
This is the third in quick succession of England’s top-
■notchers to go down before Yankee cracks. Dixon is the
biggest wonder in the game ; he has been at it a dozen
;years, fighting as often as foemen came—occasionally'
three times a week—and kept his end up right through.
* » • »
M.L. bruiser “Torpedo” Billy Murphy (the
tailor pug.) is still in the game, or at least was up to a.
month or so since, when he broke his right arm over the
hard head of Larry Gleason, at Sioux City (U.S.A.) Billy-
had his man licked just prior to the accident happening..
It’s marvellous how this mass of whipcord and wire keeps
■going. Seems like a lifetime since writer first heard of
Murphy-. He always was a terrific smiter. Nine or ten
years ago a similar accident occurred to his left arm, and;
dozens of times the knuckles of both hands have been
badly knocked about and fractured. Billy says he’ll be
ready for another “ dust-up ” three months hence. Grit
and inclination are there to the full, but will Nature
■stand it? The erstwhile world's champion featherweight
■ must be close on 40.
* * • •
Jim Richardson, the Australian boxer, has at
Hast explained why he told the Britishers he hailed from.
■Honolulu. James says that to have said he came from
Australia would have spoilt all chance of a match.
Australia puts terror into their hearts, game as they
■are supposed to be.” This sort of thing, of course, makes
■the Australian feel good all over, and yet
* * * *
The wrestling Dunns, as fit as fiddles, after »
spell of hard mining graft, are doing tolerably well in
ALL. in “gate” and side-wager contests. At Grey-
mouth, Harry Dunn beat a local Caledonian in five
different styles, in 22min. 37sec. An hour was the
stipulated time. Dunn, who was conceding his opponent
7st., is now offering to wrestle any man on the planet.
• • * •
At some recent Maoriland sports it was gravely
reported that the Sins.de Ladies’ Race panned out :
“Miss Basseimann, 1; Mr. M’Dougall, 2; Mrs. Lucas, 3.”
Apparently single ladies run in all shapes in M.L.
* » * •
Famous long-distance cyclist Teddy Hale, now
engaged “down under” in the exceptionally exact-
ing task of biking 100 miles daily (Sundays excepted)
for 12 months, completed his first 10,900 miles Nov. 23,
and was going as strong as at the outset. The daily task
has been tackled and accomplished—no matter what the
weather—since July 31.
* • » *
The next challenger for the America Cup may
possibly hail from St. John’s, Newfoundland, where a
Roman Catholic priest is devising a craft which, it is
believed, will revolutionise the art of boat-building.
The soundness of the holy man’s theory is said to have
been fully demonstrated in a race to Bermuda. Sir
Thomas Lipton says he will not contest the Cup until
1901, but that if anyone wishes to make a bid for the Cup
during 1900 he will place the Shamrock at his disposal for
trial matches. Sir Thomas now gives the total cost of
the Shamrock at £lOO,OOO, not including the large ex-
penses contingent upon running the races.
• • • •
“ Colocynth Have no real belief in gamblers’
talismans, but three extraordinary occurrences have
recently come within my own knowledge. First: Sat in
at a game of poker—not draw—from early evening till
midnight without getting a bankable pair. Recollected
an old muinbo-jumbo about burying a thrum at a
chimney corner at midnight, and excusing myself from
the tabie conformed to the superstition. First hand I
picked up on my return was a heart-flush, and I rose the
board out of its boots, and had them all working for me
for a fortnight. Second : A man of my acquaintance, an
insurance manager, who doesn’t know a horse from a hoe
and had never gambled in his life, had obtained as a
curiosity a sovereign which had been for months under
water in the strong-room of the wrecked steamer Catter-
thun. On impulse, he registered the stained “yellow-
hoy ”to Tattersall and drew a £lOO prize. Third : My
egg - merchant’s brother, a sea captain, shot a black
Thomas cat which had been killing his chickens. Shortly
after sailed on a twelve months’trip to Chili and Frisco
and returned home to find his wife the mother of twins.
They weren’t his twins either.
• * * •
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, etc. —at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
* * * *
The lighting of Sydney Cricket Ground by
Acetylene gas, at the recent night carnival of wheelmen,
was a success that will make the Acetylene Gas Co.
famous all over Australasia. The great light shone like
day—an installation of 3000 burners throwing out splendid
beams without interruption or flicker. Public and
cyclists alike were highly pleased ; and congratulations
have poured in to Tyree, the energetic managing director
of the co.—the man who designed the plant. It is ex-
pected that, after this sensational success, many country
towns will adopt Acetylene gas for lighting their streets.*


What’s the Net Result
m
Of all the pushing; and scrambling;
for business? Is it success? • •
It all depends on the merit of the
article sold
QUALITY,
PURITY,
and FLAVOR
are all worth bringing under our
notice • *»*»**»*«
THE NET RESULT of these is—
DERBY Tobacco,
/" s
and the Australasian public endorses this by purchasing
3,000,000 pounds annually*
Melbourne’s terrible Evening Herald,
the other day, published two-thirds of a column
of bubbly matter, headed “Selections from our
special war correspondent’s letter.” In all, there
were 12 extracts, and nine of them ended with
“ Extract from the letter of our special war cor-
respondent, Major W. T. Reay.” Reay was the
editor of the Herald before he went with the Vie.
contingent, and no doubt will resume the post
when he returns. And, as he is desperately proud
of his shoddy little title, it is doubtless good policy
on the part of his late subordinates to mention
nine times that he is a whole major.
In a wild endeavour to prove Victoria’s
loyalty and devotion to the Empire, her public
men and newspapers have persuaded that province
to make a pretty bad exhibition of itself. When
the first contingent for South Africa was called
for, hundreds who had, according to newspaper
skite, trampled over each other to volunteer, didn’t
turn up, the excuse being that they missed the
early trains ; while 6 per cent, of those who were
passed and accepted by the military and medical
inspectors practically deserted —in other words
they didn’t eventuate when wanted. These facts
were covered up as far as possible, and when the
second contingent was asked for local public men
and newspapers again set out on the boost.
McLean, the new Premier, rushed the War Office |
with an offer of 300 mounted men. Invitations
were issued to the 800 mounted riflemen of the
province to volunteer, but only 131 of all ranks
sent in their names. Up to this point, however,
nothing cowardly could be alleged, for it was
distinctly to the credit of the other 6G9 mounted
riflemen that they didn’t volunteer. The mean-
ness came whet), after having their names pub-
lished as volunteers, only 119 of the 131 turned up
for inspection. Nine per cent, was a pretty large
disappearance at this early stage of the business.
The excuse made by the Jingoistic crowd was that
most of the men are farmers and have the lame cow
and the bogged sheep to look after. Then out of the
119 who paraded only 93 were found fit for service
which looks as if the alleged troops of Victoria
weren’t healthy. Fearing more disappearances,
authorities had the selected men sworn in imme-
diately after they were passed. Last time the men
were not sworn in until a few days before their
departure ; they were treated for some weeks
as volunteers and gentlemen, with the result
that they left with impunity. Despite all the
official promptitude there was one loss. Just
before the Bible was handed to him one of the
men who had gone through the farce of volunteer-
ing, having his name published, being locally lion-
ised and being passed medically and otherwise,
suddenly stood out of the ranks, and as he marched
off said, “I’m not going; I’ve changed my
mind.” So 92 out of 800 warriors are going to the
front—at least the authorities have so far fixed 92
that they will be liable to severe pains and
penalties if they desert.
It is pretty generally known that if solid
alkaline substances are allowed to remain in the
pores of the skin they will act injuriously ; and it
is for this reason that we should choose evaporat-
ing alkalies for toilet purposes. One that can be
confidently recommended is Bcrubb’.s Cloudy
Fluid Ammonia, which serves an infinity of
purposes, being a refreshing and pungent addition
to the bath, cool and cleansing as a wash for the
head, and a water softener of great value.*
i
*?>
*
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK GRIMLEY
Sole PistribfttiQg AgeQt
for ACiStralaSia * . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials.
263-205 Clarence Street, Sydney .
Another Boxing Day outrage (the Gatton
horror took place on Boxing Day, 1898), is re
ported from Queensland. A little girl named
Le Blowitz has been murdered and mutilated
(apparently by a sex-maniac), near Childers, in
the Bundaberg district; and, so far, there is no
clue to the murderer.
The Union S.S. Co.’s splendid steamer
Waikare left Sydney on Saturday with a load of
passengers for a trip round the Maoriland sounds.
This is becoming the regular summer health resort
for the hot, tired Australian. There are glaciers,
and eternal snows, and icy cataracts, and stupen-
dous frosty peaks, and big, black, cold shadows
on deep, blue, cold water, all within three days of
the hot, oozy cities of Melbourne and Sydney,
and even for the man who can't get away this is a
cheerful thing to reflect upon.
R. A. Crouch, who opposed J. M. Davies
for Vic. House of Landlords, is the most live man
who has threatened to invade that tomb for many
years past. He advocated the minimum wage,
the Turner Factories Act, and State banking ;
also, he told the 48 Rich Landlords that they were
a quarter-century behind the times, and hinted
that what they most wanted was decent burial
under a nice, clean monument. There was a
great shaking of wise bell-toppers all down Col-
lins-street the day after Crouch’s first public
appearance, and men with large sums of money
carefully invested at 4 per cent, declared that the
foundations of society were being undermined.
But the good old Council property-vote stood by
Davies, who got 2723 votes to Crouch’s 1474.
rjTHE SCHOOL OF MINES, BALLARAT.
This School, with its large staff and extensive
appliances, affords special advantages to students
in Assaying, Chemistry, Geology, Metallurgy,
Mining Engineering, Mine Management, and
Treatment of Auriferous Ores.
Duties resumed sth FEBRUARY.
FRED. J. MARTELL, Director.
sdfs
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
Jj ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor * * GEO. W. ELLIS.
Proprietor
New South Welshmen
Queenslanders
South Australians
Westralians
New Zealanders
Tasmanians
Victorians
When visiting MELBOURNE find the
Federal Palaee Hotel
K:
SI
-
—ifc
Collios Street, Melbo6roe>
Exactly suited to their requirements.
It is conveniently situated
Being close to Spencer Street Station, the Steamship Wharves, and Centre of City.
Trams pass door to all suburbs.
It has 500 rooms for Visitors to choose from
At prices ranging from 2s. to 10s. per night and 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per week.
There are two Dining Rooms and Cafe.
In the Upper Dining Room Table d’hote Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner at 2s. 6d. Id
the Lower Dining Room Breakfast, Lunch or Tea, ala carte, from Is. In the Cafe,
Coffee and Rolls, &c., &c., 6d,
Hoarders 9 Hates are very moderate .
Boarders’ inclusive rates run from ss. per day or 30s. per week, to 12s. 6d. per day or
£3 10s. per week.
For Families special quotations
are made, and the manager invites correspondence. There are all classes of rooms at aD
prices. Cards of Tariff sent immediately on application.
: ... *' .
The numerous Public Hoorns are open
for the use of all visitors, and include Reading, Writing, Drawing, Reception, Billiard
and Smoking Rooms, &c.
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.


Warner's
"The-
specific- GUPO
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorder
I BRIGHT’S DISEASE
piKtt H,H.WARNER & C 9 LIP
from MELBOURNE, AUST.
C/O
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Good Things.
The Christmas issue of The Bulletin is pood.
Likewise, good is MINERVA TONIC. The first
aims at instruction and amusement. The second
will assuredly rebuild your wasted constitution,
and prolong your life.
MINERVA TONIC is a phosphorised iron
syrup combined with certain rare restoratives.
It will promote sleep, create a good appetite,
provide energy, and bring back health and con-
fidence.
MINERVA TONIC is cordially recommended
by Mr. Luekham, Bulletin office, as well as
by thousands of men and women in the leading
business and social circles of the country.
As a Tonic, it is absolutely unique, and, as
a result, the testimonials given in its favor are
unique also. The British Lancet, the greatest
medical authority in the world, openly ap-
proves of MINERVA, and thereby recommends
it.
On sale by all chemists throughout Aus-
tralia.*
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatiofy-
n
m
The Great
HERBAL
Remedy.
Doctors said . , .
Must have an Operation to Save Her Life.
There is NO OPERATION REQUIRED when VITADATIO is
given a “ Pair Trial.”
INVESTIGATE THIS CASE AND PROVE FOR YOURSFTTi 1
THAT IT IS GENUINE.
Mr. S. A. Palmer. “ Warleigh House,” Bay-street, Brighton.
Dear Sir, Bt affords me the greatest pleasure imaginable to add my testimonial to the
received by you praising the wonderful Herbal Remedy, “ Webber’s Vitadatio ” Aft tlf r
was one of the healthiest women in the colony, suddenly took ill last Christmas nT , i Wlfe > „ wlu ’
to bed continually for six months. Medical £n came
of her recovery unless an operation was performed, they being under the imnressionA 1
m T aJ f r?W,h , ( <TS e T *”?*”)• X bowever.heolinedto g"md“ hi, on‘r,«™
Acting on the advice of a lady fnend you were called in, and, after putting a few question,ore'
nounced my wife to be suffering from “ Hydatids,” and you vowed “ m ;A
WOULD CURE HER.” She noted on this advice, and, Xr taking fourAf five boHl« t,
vTta nWrnft "T* tT’ “ « e W'■ she contin "' 1 and took a few more “ttiee™
VITADATIO and I am pleased to say that she is now, to the astonishment of all who see her
is due P 1-6 ’ and aS Str ° ng aS 6Ver - 1 be]ieve in praise to whom praS
October 17, 1899.
Yours very gratefully,
J. FALK INGHAM,
Price of Vitadatio, 3/6 and 3/6.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2/6.
MELBOURNE, Vic.-
Izxstitntes at
-Head Institute, 47 Bourke-street E.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.-184 Pitt-street.
BRISBANE, Q. —116 Queen-street.
PERTH, W.A.—481 Hay-street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—238 Rtindlp-street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.— 39 Manners-st.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Agent for Australasia, India, Ceylon and Japan
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER:
’'ITiT. "WLaunceston, Tasmania.
DR. MALIIMG’S REMEDY
to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT
Can be Riven secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS
Address-R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co
88 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY. ’
nTn
DEAF
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
f how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St, Melbourne.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
E.H.,” Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
30 Days’ Trial.
nm
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, >e prefer that you send
tor our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
The ways of many waters
By E. J. Brady.
The Bulletin News. Co., George-st.
ow
CUT RATE
Consulting- and
fp
09
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Prioe, 41; Cut Price, 18a. 6d.
Dr. CLARKSON S
REINVIGORATOR
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medicalsciencecan pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, Joss of will power, &e., &c., and
has never been known'to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consuinption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime Of I,ife. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering- people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease'is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side ; take the Rein-
vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady
The Reinvigorator used for all bladderand kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright’s Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that, tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it ho words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Trice —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their effieiencj r . No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors. —By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action. —Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charmsof the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured ”
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt"!. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life i
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
- Huglies’s Fitsepilep.
This Celebrated REMED Y FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one'of the wonders of the are
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
JPyramid. Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate cha.racfm-
INWARD or OUTWAfiD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. 6d ner bov
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet. ’ or 3
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
n
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Country Trial Order reapeotfully Solicited.


Hi" RaSSn>(iSS€i)’S AlfaliQc Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY POE, EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain
((
Alfaline Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Deal- Sir. —I feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
1 also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which 'completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly gleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended .your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express bow glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my' husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir, —Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness — Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST OPFI
■IW^TTi) 11 11 j] j| i |'ln uinj h|| 11 ;i 111111'l'liT \ iijtil Willi l
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Alfaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondenoy, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43a 6d.
BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening: the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the' eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-■■
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her -
' bal Remedies a,re hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —ivhich state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
I
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmmgen
anyone, of imitating the
AlJaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,”
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL
BOOK,
which
COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
yiwmmmm ■■■■
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDTMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizaheth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that.
,1 was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several dootors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hkrr Rass-
mussrn’s Purkly Hbrbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever Since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets —An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted. Is 6d. . -
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills- Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica ami Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder,
ful Remedy for Goughs, Colds, i onsumptiori, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. ’
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free. " 7
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder- Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples aind
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST.,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: i J
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 R undle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z., WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOIaGARDIR Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
m


LADIES !
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 0d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wig-makers
Send to us for price lists of anything- you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N'etv South Wales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply House >
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
■
iss
m
m
Watson’s . . .
Acme Camera
The Finest Stock in Australia
OF
HIGHEST CLASS
photographic Cameras
LENSES
APPARATUS
IS KEPT BY
W. WATSOIM & SONS,
78 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE
Send for Descriptive Price List. (and LONDON).
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
The First Office in the World to apply the Surrender Value of Life
Policies in Paying the Premiums, so as to prevent a Policy
Lapsing until the Surrender Value is Exhausted.
BALANCE SHEET, YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,
LIABILITIES.
Assurance Fund £2,951,501 16 8
Investment Fluctuation Reserve .. 83,731 8 11
♦Claims intimated or admitted, but not
paid
Other sums owing by the Association —
Amounts held on Deposit and
Accrued Interest thereon
Deposits on Proposals
♦Medical Fees .. .. £1,206 19 2
♦Directors’ Fees .. 183 6 8
•Auditors’Fees .. 43 5 0
♦Sundry Accounts .. 533 19 0
1,967 9 10
40,000 4 1
1,454 8 11
1,472 18 7
• These items are included in the
Revenue Account above.
£3,080,128 7 0
ASSETS.
Head Office And Branches—
Government Securities
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works Debentures
Reversionary Interests
Loans on Mortgage
Loans on Policies within their Surrender
Value
Loans on Policies with Personal Security
Loans on Reversions and Life Interests..
Loans on Building Society Shares..
Building Societies’ Shares
Properties acquired by Foreclosure
Freehold Property
Accrued Interest .. .. ..
Outstanding Interest
Outstanding Premiums on Policies in
Force
Deferred Instalments of Annual Premiums
Furniture and Fittings
Agents’ Balances
Cash in hand and on Cur-
rent Account.. .. £75,648 511
„ on Deposit .. .. 151,506 11 7
£43,301 12 6
19,900 0 0
64,156 10 7
1,446,552 18 6
471,399 5 8
36,245 13 7
71,880 16 7
583 0 8
63,944 19 0
154,056 7 0
403,130 2 9
16,332 19 1
3,787 14 3
21,282 6 1
50,840 4 9
4,032 17 0
1,548 2 7
227,152 17 6
£3,080,128 7 0
SYDNEY OFFICE: 85 PITT STREET, (corner of bond st.)
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
JOHN POPE, Esq. (Chairman).
ROBERT S ADDINGTON, Esq.
ISAAC ELLIS IYES, Esq.
HON. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.G.
HON. P. B. SUTTOR, M.L.A.
H. 0. EVANS, Resident Secretary.
Amusements.
HF,U MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY-
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
SECOND WEEK SECOND
AND CONTINUED BRILLIANT TRIUMPH OF
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
LAST 8 NIGHTS OF
The Only Way,
Or, A Tale of Two Cities.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 13th, 1900, for the first time
in Australia,
“ TESS OF THE D’URBERVILLES.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.45. TO-NIGHT.
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY and his POPULAR
DRAMATIC COMPANY,
in the Stupendous Dramatic Success,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (fid. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Theatre to-day from 10 to 4.
AL ACE THEA T R E. sT DNEYi
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST WEEK BUT TWO
At the PALACE THEATRE of MR. HARRY RICKARDS
TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY COMPANY.
The Great NEWSKY FAMILY, Professor DAVYS
MARIONETTES, O. W. HUNTER, Raconteur, Little
Fanny Powers, Howard Chambers, and a host of others.
NEXT MATINEE, SATURDAY, JANUARY 6.
PRICES, 2s. fid. 25., Is., and fid. Plan at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A GRAND GALA PROGRAMME.
Re-appearance of TOM COSTELLO, in an Entirely
New Repertoire.
TO-NIGHT, BEAUTIFUL and BEWITCHING,
The Three MACARTE SISTERS.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of the ENGLISHES.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY, SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Lulu Zeseh, Will Whitburn, Chas.
W. Cogill, and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
CROWDED NIGHTLY.
INCESSANT and UNIVERSAL APPLAUSE.
The Burlesque Opera,
(< Little Christopher Columbus
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MRS. BLOCK.
MISS GRACIE WHITEFORD as LITTLE CHRISTOPHER
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. fid., Is., and fid. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Alexandra th e atre, m elbourne.
Lessees The Victorian Operatic Society.
THE SUCCESS OF THE SEASON.
EVERY EVENING.
The Victorian Operatic Society in Planquette’s
Masterpiece,
“Les Cloches de Corneville m "
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
WM. OGILVIE, Hon. Sec.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M’CLELLAND
(nee BOLGER).
ModicaL
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coturhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness anrl Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
-
■K
SSiiSS*
■
SalHB
- .
»
m m mimmx
mm
•■• -
These fine store premises are being erected for the CO-OPERATIVE WOOL AND PRODUCE CO., LTD , at Pyrmont, after a design by the well-known
Sydney architect, Mrf HERBERT E. ROSS, Equitable Buildings, George-street. They are to have a capacity of 30,000 bales.
The Co-Operative Wool & Produce Company
LIMITED,
12 & 14 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Shorrtary : WALTER BROOME. Manaoino Dirrotor : PETER LESLIE.
Wool Mamaarr : WILLIAM ROBERTSON.
At Poverty Point.
In Auckland (M.L.), the late Martin Simonsen was once
exceedingly wrath because he could not give a Sunday
concert, owing to the theatre being engaged by the
Y.M.G A. At the Sunday morning's rehearsal, Martin
warned bis company to put all their things away and lock
their dressing-room doors, because, as he said, “ Vhen
deni Christian young mans is aboudt, I von’t be resbon-
sible for anyding dat’s inizzing.”
At a recent meeting of the Sydney Musicians’Benefit
Association, the president (G. R. Allpress), in remark-
ing upon the value of =uch societies, observed that, had
such a one existed in Melbourne, it would probably have
saved poor old Simonsen from suicide. And no doubt a
little opportune help would have gone a long way.
A Melbourne bard has written a new song—“ Remem-
ber Majuba.” It is altogether behind the limes : Tugela
River and other places now require all the loose remem-
brance the country has about it.
“ F.”: J. C. Williamson gives as one reason why Sydney is
abetter theatrical town than Melbourne, that thexpress of
the former city devotes more attention to the theatre,
the truth is, that there is no such thing as dramatic
criticism in Melbourne. The usual “notice” of a play
in the daily papers is an outpouring of unveracious
slobber, in return for an advertisement. On one or two
occasions when the dog reporter has been put on to do
a “ notice” instead of the poultry expert, or the sporting
Writer instead of the military man, he has signalised the
experiment by making a splash and telling the truth in a
weak incompetent way; but after one try he has been
suppressed.
Seventy-seven-year-old Sims Reeves, erstwhile king of
English tenors, is said to be in pretty straightened cir-
cumstances, although he must have made sacks of money
in his time. Reeves made his first appearance as a bari-
tone (Rodolfo, in the “ Sonnambula "), but, after study-
ing in Italy under Mazzucato, he made his real debut in
Italian opera at the Scdla, Milan, as Edgardo, in Lucia,
with Catherine Hayes in the name part, and aroused
enthusiasm in the most critical audience in the world.
The frequency with which Reeves used to disappoint his
audiences gave rise to the notion that he “ toped,” but
those who knew him could vouch for his abstemiousness.
Offended dignity, not drink, was often the trouble.
Latest song from the 'Awx :—
“Melb.”: Lnnnen was the original O’Blooligan, in
Little Christopher Columbus.” Sinclair is a mixture of
Teddy and Bert Gilbert. I fail to discern the slightest
evidence that he can act at all. What is acting? A
man’s enduing himself with some character apart from
himself. Mr. Sinclair changes a lot cf clothes. The
wonder that grows is how a man can put on so many
clothes in the course of an evening. Well, Heury Lee
showed what could be done in this regard. But he acted,
too, in a wonderful style. Sinclair makes me think more
of a gymnast than an actor. Also, he makes me think of
a tailor’s shop.
Melba was less reckless than some of the theatrical per-
sonages who gave entertainments in aid of the Soldiers’
Widows and Orphans’ Fund. Canny David Mitchell's
daughter announced that a “ proportion ” of her concert
receipts at Albert Hall would be devoted to the fund.
Rather vague that. Proportions run in all sizes.
Charles Arnold’s diplomacy in billing himself as the
“Great Anglo-Dutch Comedian ” served him very well in
the Transvaal until the Boers got their orders to go to
the front and fight. Then they suddenly discovered that
our friend, Hans the Boatman, was more Anglo than
Dutch (by the way, he is a Swiss), and he had to clear out
of the country with his co. on top of a wave of derision.
They were two visitors to a menagerie. One said to
the other : “You see that tiger? It’ll eat off your hand.”
“ Will it? I’ll try itand, placing a biscuit on his palm,
he passed it into the cage. The tiger promptly swallowed
two fingers and a thumb. “ There,” said his companion,
“I told you it would eat-off your hand, but I never
thought you would be fool enough to give it the chance.”
Irving’s Robespierre, at the Knickerbocker Theatre,
New York, made a tremendous hit the first night.
Clement Scott, for the Herald, and Winter, for the
Tribune, agreed that he never acted better.
Fred Sinclair’s parody of Oinquevalli’s business, now
visible at Melb. Royal, is rather a barren show, after
Whitburn’s boisterous burlesque over the road. Whit-
burn retained his burnt cork, and went into green tights
and hob-nailed boots like sheep-trucks, and yet contrived
areally clever physical caricature of “Cinky,” whilst
knocking together a quantity of rattling pantomime.
William’s performance with the penny pink balloon sup-
posed to represent the 401 b. cannon-ball was the liveliest
kind of farce, but it did not please the house like the
cheap indecency of the common yahoo.
“J.A.C.”: Once saw an amateur performance of
“ Robert Macaire ” in Kutnara, M.L., and, at the close of
the last act, when the protagonist was endeavoring to
escape through a window, he got jammed, and presented
to the audience a pleasing view of his Antarctic regions.
Then two gendarmes rushed on, and taking an unfair
advantage, fired point-blank at the target thus presented.
Shortly afterwards Robert|was led in on a supposed dying
condition with—two dreadful wounds on his shirt-front ! \
Bland Holt’s company had anew experience recently
at Gisborne (M.L.) A lady who had no one to leave the
baby with brought it to the theatre in a perambulator,
went round unobserved to the back part of the building,
and left baby there in the vehicle with, the family dog
watchin"- over it. The yells of the deserted one drew at-
tention about the middle of Act 1., and thereafter the
members of the co., as they happened to be off duty, took
turns at nursing it and saying “ ketchy-ketohy ” to it.
The heavy Bill Sikes murderer, who had only a small part
that night, got most of the nursing to do.
Jusb as The Bulletin was going to press
it was announced that a portion of the Australian
Contingent had been mistaken by the British for
Boers, and fired upon with fatal consequences.
How many fatal consequences not explained.
Asa result, the Australians have been ordered
to wear helmets instead of the slouched felt hats.
The Boers wear slouched felt hats—and some of
them shave, in spite of the illustrated papers.
Anyhow, there is not much glory in being mis-
taken for a beastly Boer and shot from behind by
your own friend Tommy, burning to avenge
Majuba Hill.
The bravery of some of those “ patriots ”
who yell “ Gorsave ” and “ Soldiers of the Queen ’
the loudest is amazing. At Broken Hill, the
other night, a holiday crowd which had mixed its
“patriotism ” with its beer (the weather had been
114* in the shade for a couple of days) resolved to
“wipe out” the peaceful German Club, which
hadn’t committed any worse offence than to prefer
lager to tanglehoof . A German who happened to
fill the doorway was turned over on his ear by a
large number of patriots, and the crowd poured
in, some hooting, the rest still yelling “Soldiers
of the Queen.” Just then one solitary Oft. con-
stable turned up, cleared the club-house, and
faced the howlers, ,vvho now (to show what good
citizens they were, no doubt) began to yell—
“ Down with the copper ! ” This brought out the
constable’s revolver ; and the way that crowd
suddenly remembered that it was getting late was
amusing. Twice afterwards a crowd—mostly the
same crowd—“ proceshed ” to the club, and just
as often three constables were enough to send it
off.
Vanity is the saviour of tho human race :
If we could see ourselves as others see us, the
rivers would be full of suicides.
A public meeting was held at Hobart Town
IIhII to raise a “Patriotic Fund.’’ It was
attended by a handful of people, mostly members
of Parliament (the general election being near)
and civil servants, who are expected to be to the
fore on all these occasions. Wisely, the plate or
hat wasn’t sent round. It would have been awk-
ward to announce that “ a sum of .£4O was col-
lected in the room.” Premier Lewis came down
with records from the Govt offices to show that
£2(500 was raised for “patriotic” purposes in
Tasmania when the Crimean war was on. Pro-
bably that .£2OOO won’t be got this time. Maybe
it’ll be £260. All the old officials and carrion
crows of the Pension department, who fed and
fattened on loyalty, are dead and gone, and the
average Tasmanian native has more interest in
apples than bullets.
I’m off in the morning to Australia,
I can't stand it any more.
Marriage with me has been a failure;
I must have been a mug—oh, Lor’ 1
I’ve led a very wretched life,
E’er since the day that I got wed ;
How can a man live happy with his wife
If she’s always eating biscuits in the bed ?
THE MECHANICAL STAFF
—“ detervc great credit for," &c. —Theatrical notice.
[FOR THE UBLLETIN.]
No papers print our portraits with an interviewer’s frill,
We get a grudging mention at the bottom of the bill,
We never paint up pretty to pose beneath a lime,
But it’s plug and push and persevere and battle all the
time.
We are just the Mechanical Staff,
And we sweat on the actors’ behalf.
Our chisels and hammers build up all their drammers
And never get rounds or a laugh.
Our wardrobe’s tattered dungarees and ruins of a shirt,
Our make-up lined with dust and fluff, our rouge assorted
dirt,
But silken stars are hustled when we’re racing with a flat,
And interfering satin skirts must pay for what they’re at.
“ Whatl paint on yer yellow sateen ?
Very sorry, Miss, thought you’d have seen !”
(Curse these women-run shows —will put in her nose
And see how we set his pet scene 1)
We’ve worries chasing us to bed to dream on till we’re
mad
With puzzling how to realize the Guv’nor’s latest fad,
And day-long night-long jugglery with battens, screws
and nails,
And his blarst and damn-you ‘Thank you’ when his
pet idea fails ;
Some sensation that’s never been done
Ten catastrophes banged into one,
A new way of thrilling grown kids at a shilling
Thunder-sheet and Rpd-flre by the ton 1
Oh, the hot confusion on a roaring opening night,
Every man with work enough for fifty fingers left and
right
Hurry-scurry—wear and worry—screw and scramble,
' pull and maul
For a set not seen three minutes, just to get the Guv. a
call !
They’re thundering the roof off the place—
But the din is out-done by two bass
Curses, creamy and gory on us props of his glory
’Cos the lime wasn’t fair on his face 1
They say our speech is snappy, but how can you expect
God-bless-vou elocution when a set is nearly wrecked.
And drunken flymen lower prisons in a festal village
green,
And we have to swear in whispers ’cos it’s someone’s
dying scene?
When it's weeping and border lights blue,
With slow music to humour it through,
We are tearing our hair, and as loud as we dare—
“ Where the hell is your cut-cloth in Two ? ”
THE STROLLER.


Business Announcements.
D.Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER - SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF —
VTCKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Fancy Vestings
LADIE S* " “ AT EEF PRWES
SI TS, TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TOUNG.
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (oah be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-si2e, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Pish (gives the definition of vour Character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
71616 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
y\, H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
USB
SpooQgr’S
iROmimiESSM
-oONE/?^
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
pi: OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
::DIRECIIONS FOR USE
iiiMimninioinmmmmnuii
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING-,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
| Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Medical,
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address — L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Aulport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STKPHEN,GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
I Cure Fits
You are
, not asked
9 to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. 1 am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. R 0 OT, 28, Endsleigh Gdns., LONDON.
Jjrnoid’s jjalsam of Horehoan^
A WONDERFUL : EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.,
TOOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dos<
quietens and gives relief. A imall bottle often cures
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieve
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon gettin;
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name <■('
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St
Hilda, on label and wrapper
By post. 16 and 2 6, if obtainable locally.
Ifes LiqCior Habit
IN INTERESTING PAMPHLET on tl
A Disease of Drunkenness and its cure 1
p * ~ will be sent free (sealed) c
V* ' ® 5Y application to the EUCRAS
CO., G 2 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collin
street, Melbourne.
N.B. —Eucrasy is registered by the N.SA
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, n>
is the only remedy which can be given secre
(i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with c
tainty of success.
BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, LTD,,
DRAPERS * FURNISHERS,
MELBOURHE.
MELBOURNE:
Opp. Funders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinghall Avenue, London E.C.
The Life of the System.
nm
S. FREEMAN
n
danwil SKOS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
MHB&
inrrnp^
Blight fetFLAKSS ImMss]
WtAS Eyes d wniss E 7
H-tfßOS't
551 GECRSE ST
LA^EL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising: from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal sue*
cess on the Byes of
Cattle. Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST./
SYDNEY.
0 i
V?
4
m
mmumz
Vr>-
fs
f
a «
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
I£ you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING i
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRIC AD APPLIANCES, invented by |
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
= strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- |
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.'
jDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER '
i LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can;
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-'
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, t
; Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General"
' Debility* Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. t
[They impart vigor and potency to every function,"
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and i
may be worn without the slightest possibility of'
detection. They have cured thousands. i
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight - ; sible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
V Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
warded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
•''in.'ete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A, D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £ 3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labour required. Anyone can learn to operate
the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“To the Davlesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is
perfect. Tiik Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the
best speculation I have entered into since I joined the
Licensed Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan
Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
its weight in gold.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Hotelkeeper, Coolgardie, W.A., says:
—“ Profits saved by making my own supplies of Aerated
Waters with the Machine purchased from you, pat the
RENT OF MY HOTEL.”
Mr. Lewis, of Old England Hotel, Heidelberg, says
“ I have now had one of your Aerated Water Machines in
use for three years, and' have made thousands of dozens
of the best Aerated Waters with it, and it has not
required sixpence worth of repairs. No Hotelkeeper
should be without one of these Machines.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Hotelkeeper, Yalgoo, W.A., says“ My
Aerated Water account was formerly ±'3o per month.
Since getting one of your Machines, and making my own
soft stuff, I have saved the price of the Machine ten times
over.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many
small centres of population, where a deeply-felt want
exists for a good quality of Aerated Waters'. Observe
the profits. Call and see these Machines, or write for
Circular describing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co.
407 COLLTNS-ST., MELBOURNE.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
XARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT 4 COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
a
M EDICATOR.
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicatoi
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?? Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE


Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
the FA-MOXTS REMJaiDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€Waß€ OF COU6NS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London,
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne,—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. -———,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Grd-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
he mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.- Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will he interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. 1 was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in if. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholin, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
“I used your. Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them In from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only save him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it. —D. M‘I)ONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
" I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
0
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
0
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
0
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
"I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of inv brief trial. —JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
0
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WUKLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
. "The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria."
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try vour Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
"We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
in Victoria Expresses grateful
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without ihe medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney; N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Vietoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
‘ DOWEIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “ THE
QUEEN."
Ask for
Wbi&ky aod
‘ScbW€pp€
SCHWEPPES
SODAWATER, &c-
( 9dd9/vUps,
p(ie ApCjejg
JOj >|S«
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.FXO
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illawarra), near SYDMTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OP
FINE SILVER.
hr
.
IBs
Hi
m
ill*
I
■
■
l * •: .
§*ll*l
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAW AREA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CVANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
Fpr all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Kfctwd,
INFANTS
9
" Benger’s Food is sold in various sizad
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
IKVALIDS
AMD
The aced.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian arenas.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
tor the Obese ’’ Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists :
From Dr. REDWOOD, Fh.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“ My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such ;
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
EE.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to it’s purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap. ”
STEVENSON McADAffl, Esq.,
Fh.D., &c.,
lecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons’ Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
at- different shops in Edinburgh,
and I can certify to its L being a pur'e and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
i with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
>♦♦♦»»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»»»»»»
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AA D BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 10s
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong-, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, G guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rad, and Cane Chair, £6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS [
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 661, 663, 666 and 667 GEORGE ST.
r< * rv , Jram or ’Bus at Liverpool -street for HALL’S
Country Orders packed Pree, New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
Homocea
mn
m
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
ANO SOOTHES THE ACHING PART
Does not harden or change colour.
HQMOPE A CURES
CUTS,
BURNS.
PILES,
SORES,
BRUISES,
SORE EYES,
ECZEMA,
CORNS,
RINGWORM,
TOOTHACHE, MOSQUITO BITES &c„ &c.
HOMOCEA EMBROCATION.
Absolutely the best thing- of its kind in the
World for RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA.
STIFF JOINTS, SORE THROAT, PAINS IN CHEST, SIDE, or BACK.
Put up in Collapsible Tubes in two sizes.
Sold by all Storekeepers, General dealers, 4 Chemists ,
The Upheaval of Ponder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let it be granted that Ponder was a small man,
physically and otherwise ; that Ponder possessed
a wife, young and pretty ; that Ponder was under
the pleasing, though mistaken, impression that he
loved his wife ; also that his love was returned,
though this last is a matter of no moment, for
Ponder was small and not worth consideration.
Now Ponder, being a commercial man, was
often detained late in the city, and on such occa-
sions would adjourn to a certain restaurant for his
tea. When a man has meals regularly, or even
irregularly if fairly often, at the one place, it is
desirable that he shall sit always at the one table,
to be attended by the same waitress —whereby
they become acquainted, even friendly. Now
Ponder attended to this matter and also brought
the girl flowers and chocolates, and sometimes
even took her to the theatre, which was pleasant,
though unprofitable.
Ponder was of a poetastic turn of mind, and had
christened his charmer “ Rosebud,” which was an
absurd misnomer, for the lady aptly answered
Squire Western’s description of Lady Bellaston
in Fielding's “ Tom Jones,” which description is
terse and graphio but here unprintable.
Rosebud’s real name was May, and Ponder
thought that, duly prepared and “ presently ”
approached, she might and would, as in time she
actually did. All of which caused the small man
considerable expenditure of time and money, also
several severe tremors, when of an evening cer-
tain of his friends accidentally encountered the
happy pair. But all subsequent insinuations and
ribald railings Ponder would meet with a superior
smile and the remark “ Purely Platonic, my boy ;
purely Platonic.” He indeed admitted to one
intimate friend that “ he had not as yet taken his
wife into his confidence in the matter,” nor had
he informed the charming Rosebud of the exist-
ence of said wife—which caused him much trouble
later on. For presently the lady thought it desir-
able that a marriage should eventuate, and so
suggested, whereupon the little man was obliged
to own up ? and there were recriminations and
scenes. Finally the girl was persuaded to be
“ reasonable,” and Ponder promised to look after
her and “ treat her well ” —which is an exceedingly
elastic phrase, and may mean much or little.
It was when Ponder, junior, had arrived and
had begun to be an ever-increasing expense that
Rosebud’s demands became more and more press-
ing, so much so that Ponder at length threatened
to restrict her to the legal allowance for an “un-
attached ” youngster.
Then the lady showed her hand—and it was by
no means so soft and velvety as Ponder had
thought it, and had often told her. His little
Rosebud turned out to be armed with many
thorns. In his foolish moments —and they were
frequent—that gentleman had addressed certain
very loving epistles to his charmer, and these she
had treasured with care. So when he had pro-
pounded his ultimatum the girl laughed in his face
and remarked that she was going over his way
that afternoon and would take “ baby ” and the
letters and call on the lawful Mrs. Ponder. She
had no doubt the ensuing interview would be
interesting, especially as Mrs. P. was childless.
Popder thought so too ; in fact, he was so sure of
it that he capitulated at once, and Rosebud re-
turned to her bower satisfied —for the time being.
Matters progressed smoothly thereafter for a
little while, until once more the limitations of his
income goaded Ponder to rebellion. The girl
tried tears. Ponder hardened his alleged heart.
She must return his letters, and he would pay
over a lump sum and so much a week for the
child—no more. The girl agreed and went home,
to bring the incriminatory correspondence next
day.
The following morning Ponder was in his office
awaiting the lady, when a well-dressed, well-set-
up young man was shown in.
“ Good morning. You are Mr. Ponder ? ”
“ That is my name. What can Ido for you ? ”
“Well, it all depends. I just dropped in to
tell you that I’m thinking of commencing divorce
proceedings against my wife, and — ”
“My good man, what has that got to do with
me ? Why don’t you see a solicitor ? ”
“And, as I was going to say when you inter-
rupted, I’m also thinking of naming you as co-
respondent. I thought you might like to know.”
Ponder stared at the man blankly, that indivii
dual maintaining an appearance of stolid indiffer-
ence.
“ You see,” he went on slowly, “my name’s
Lenoir; my wife’s first name is May. She tells
me you call her Rosebud.”
Ponder sank back in his chair and collapsed.
This was the very last thing he had thought of.
As he slowly pulled himself together the man
observed in a casual, irrelevant sort of way, “You
didn’t know she was married, did *y° u > Mr.
Ponder ? She looks such a confiding, innocent,
little thing. I always thought so myself. Ah !
looks are deceptive ; she knows more than me and
you put together.”
Ponder roused himself. “What do you want?”
The man coolly looked Ponder up and down,
then returned, still in the same careless tone:
“ Well, you know, if I elected you co-respondent
your letters would make very pretty exhibits,
wouldn’t they? I’d get heavy damages, besides
the costs. Yes,” he mused thoughtfully, “ it’s
awkward—for you—but, of course, it might be
staved off-it might be ”
Then the harassed Ponder roused himself and
tried to grapple with the situation. He argued
long and vainly, endeavoring to purchase future
immunity with present cash down, but his tor-
mentor savv his weakness and was obdurate.
“ It’s no go ;no go. However, I won’t worry
you too much, I’ll ”
Well, the final result was just a little cheque
now and again.
Like an insect pinned to a card, Ponder lived,
and squirmed, and suffered ; not having the pluck
to end it either by braving the bully, as a few do,
or hy flight or suicide, as is more often the case.
Day by day he grew thinner and greyer until he
seemed almost on the point of utter collapse.
About this time, also, he noticed a change in his
wife’s demeanor; there seemed growing up
between them a want of confidence, as of a secret
kept back. Sometimes he thought she knew of
his faithlessness, and was waiting for him to
speak. Once he had made up his mind to do so,
then drew back, afraid he might lose her alto-
gether.
At length, as winter approached and business
grew slack, Ponder packed his portmanteau,
kissed his vvife, and slipped away on a Maoriland
steamer for a month’s holiday—a month of rest
and respite. -
When he stepped on the Melbourne wharf on
his return he looked a new man. The holiday
:had cleared ' his brain and restored him mentally
and morally, as well as physically. He returned
resolved to make a clean breast to his wife and
face whatever might be the outcome. Arriving
in the morning, he walked firmly and strongly up
the street to his office. In his inside room was a
small pile of private letters ; on the topmost one
the handwriting of his wife caught his eye. He
had not heard from home during his trip, her
letters having apparently missed him, but she
knew by what boat he was returning, so he quietly
sat down and opened the note without misgivings.
It was the sort of screed usually penned by a
woman when she takes the step that closes the
door of respectabilitythe step that to that
woman seems so large, to a few men lairger still,
to many a mere trifle. The writer indulged in no
recriminations, no reproaches; she simply told him
that he did not understand her and that she was
incapable of appreciatinghim, and that she accepted
the proffered love and protection of his friend.
Ponder was not just then in the humour to ap-
preciate the delicate sarcasm of the missive; it
appeared _ to him simply as a common-place,
ordinary instance of treachery and faithlessness.
Partly owing to his newly-recovered strength of
mind and partly to the fact that he did not really
love his wife, Ponder was not greatly stirred by
the information. He sat awhile in his chair,
apparently studying a fly-spot on the paper-
weight ; then he slowly and deliberately lit a
cigarette—a cigar would have sickened, a pipe
have killed him. Finally, he leant back in his
chair and laughed out loudly, boisterously.
In the middle of his merriment, came a knock
at the door.
“Come in ! ” It was his friend, Lenoir.
Ponder eyed him silently.
“Morning, Mr. Ponder. You’re looking well.
They told me you were away for a trip. I
thought of calling upon Mrs. P., but it wouldn't
have been the square thing between friends,
would it? . . , And you’ve treated me well, so
far.”
At the mention of his wife, Ponder broke out
laughing again, but otherwise he might have been
part of the wooden chair he was occupying. This
indifference seemed to disturb Lenoir somewhat.
“ Nothing to say, old man ? ” said he. “ Baby’s
well; growing into a fine lad. I just called about
some small items that want looking to.”
He put his hand into his coat pocket apparently
to get a paper, and at the same moment Ponder
grasped him by the coat-collar, and, before the
surprised visitant could realise what was happen-
in J7> he was forcibly run out of the room and
rushed down the steps across the pavement into
the gutter.
“Now,”said the breathless little man, “if ever
you show your monkey face in my place again I’ll
thrash you till I break every bone in your miser-
able carcase; and if you or your wife write so
much as a single line to me, I’ll put the police
after you. Now get! ”
Then Ponder, who, for once in his little life,
had risen to the occasion and played the man, re-
turned to his office and to his former level of dull
mediocrity, and as he never emerged therefrom
his subsequent history is uninteresting.
FRANCIS CROSON.
At Dinner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were having dinner at the parlor (or two-bob)
table in the Canecutter’s Curse, the leading hotel
of Twowharves. Just as we started, in blustered
a hot, fat commercial-traveller. He stared us all
out of countenance and then said : “Ididenear
th’ dinna bell.”
No one replied. He pulled and poked at almost
every dish on the table. He severely criticised
the beef, the vegetables, the bread, and even the
salt, until Mary, the busy little parlpr-maid, was
greatly impressed. She stood afar off and
watched the great man with secret awe, evidently
believing that the Governor could not be a more
important individual. The drummer grumbled
and growled and spluttered half-way through
dinner, then suddenly : “ Wot brand’s this ’ere
jam ? ” he snapped.
( ‘‘Moir’s, I think, sir,” said Mary timidly.
“ That’s what missus generally gits fa th’ parlor-
table.”
“ Well, look ’ere, me girl, w’en I dine I do dine.
I ham accustomed to ’ave the very best of hevery-
think! So bring me a fresh tin, ’n’ I’ll see fa
meself.”
. The tin was brought. The commercial opened
it and flopped the marmalade out, unbroken, on a
plate.
“ Ah— that’s somethink like, ya know ! That’s
the only marmalade fit for a i/entlemari 1 ”
Then for about ten minutes he was silent, save
for the horrible noises he made in stoking liitn-
sel f.
Then a long, grave individual arose at the head
of the table and rang the bell.
“What is the brand of this beef, Mary?” he
asked when the girl appeared.
“ I don’t know, sir.”
“Hum! ha!—also haw !—can I view the rest
of the carcase, with a view to discovering the
brand and establishing identity?”
“I dunnOj sir,” and Mary giggled.
“ Well, can I see the butcher? ”
“ Please, sir, I can’t say. Per’aps he ain’t at
home. He kills a Toosdees and Thursdees.”
“ Well, then, inform the landlord that I desire
at once to be informed of the brand of this beef,
and also of the brands of the bread—sugar- tea—
salt —butter —fly-paper—the name of your milk-
man ; and, in addition— ”
But here the drummer rose, and shambled out,
scowling.
JIMMIE PANNIKIN.


Another Bad Liver.
ANOTHER NOYOCASTRIAN
FINDS A
Welcome Friend in Need.
The Case of
Mr. W. T. SCOURGE.
(a remarkable recitation.)
“I used to be one of the happiest, jollieafc
fellows alive, always ready for a joke or a
laugh,” said Mr. V\ illiam Thomas Scource,
of Euston Terrace, close to Croydon Railway
Station, Adelaide when he was interviewed
by our reporter; “ but when I fell into bad
health all my lightheartedness vanished. I
could see or think of nothing to smile at—
gloom and despondency became my portion,
and my life was a misery without a single
ray of brightness.”
“ Will you tell me about your trouble,
Mr. Scource ?” enquired the man with the
note-book, his interest fairly excited.
“It was this way,” said Mr. Scource.
“At that time I was working at employment
that made my hours and meals very ir-
regular. I had always been a strong man
for my size, and, with the carelessness of good
health, took no count of it; but I have no
’oubt tins was the primary cause of my later
suffering, for gradually 1 fell into a bad
slate of health. When I got up in the
morning I would ieel more tired than when
I went to bed, and my limbs would hang to
me limp and languid. My mouth always
had a nasty taste, and my tongue was white-
coated witli fur. My appetite left me ; often
and often I have taken my lunch to work and
brought it home untasted ; and when I did
eat it was quite common for me to retch the
whole of it up again directly afterwards.
My complexion became sallow and yellow
as an Indian. I suffered constantly from a
pain in the side under the heart. I think
it was the wind off my stomach that used to
get there. The spot got so tender that I
could not bear even the weight of a waist-
coat over it. I suffered with a racking pain
in the top of the head, a bilious headache,
and a pain between the shoulders and down
the neck. But my worst trouble of all was
the pain across the loins ; it would take me
so sometimes, when I had laid down to rest
and tried to move, that you could have heard
me Sing out a mile away. In getting up in
the morning this pain would render me
quite stiff till my back had been well rubbed.
My eyes in the morning were quite bloodshot,
and when I looked about objects appeared
to whirl round and round, and I could see
little dancing stars. My night’s rest was
broken, and gave me no refreshment. I was
slow to doze off, and when I did I was soon
awake again, startled by some horrible
,di earn. In my sleep my mind could conjure
up nothing but horrors—something dreadful
was happening to me—l was falling off a cliff,
or tumbling down a well without a bottom,
and just as I was about to be crushed, the
nervous fear of the moment woke me up. I
became very thin in body, and the trouble
at my heart caused me much anxiety. It
would go all of a flutter, and when I went to
take a long breath I was caught up short
with a sharp, pricking pain. One of my
worst symptoms w’as mental despondency ;
the bile in my system seemed to cloud my
brain, and make all things dismal, hopeless,
and distressing. When I was away from
home I was forever thinking some misfortune
would happen there ; and these groundless
fears made such an impression on me that
directly I returned I would enquire anxiously
of the wife as to their truth. But to find
mv fears w ithout foundation on one day was
fas ©from preventing me dwelling on the
possibilities of like calamities the next. And
when you consider that lam, when in health,
naturally of a light-hearted and jovial dis-
position, you will understand how serious
my case had become. It is true I never
gave up work ; but many and many a day it
would have been better for me if I had.
When in good health I am not afraid to do
a day’s work beside any man in the country ;
but a long course of the symptoms I haver
described brought me very low. Aud 1
noticed I was always worse on Sundays and
during hot weather, and continually I was
belching up nasty wind. This wind, as 1
think 1 told you, would gather round
heart, giving me great discomfort till it had
shifted or come away. To help this I often
took a cup of hot tea. The food I did eat
did,me no good and gave me no strength,
and when I vomited it up, I noticed that it
was in just the same state as when swal-
lowed. It appeared as though my stomach
was for the time paralysed, and unable to
perform its functions. And all this time,
remember, I was stiff and crippled with the
horrible pain in the small of the hack. A
pain they call the kidney pain (a popular
error—it is not “ kidney pain” ; it’s a reflex
liver pain.— Ed.), that would catch me at
times after a sudden movement, with a sharp
agony like a knife going into me. You car
see that altogether my condition was such
as to cause me the gloomiest forebodings,
apart from the despondency caused bv *’
complaint itself.”
“ Yet, I understand recovered, ml.
Scource?” enquired the pressman.
“Yes; and I will tell you how it came
about. 1 was looking over the paper one
day, when I saw a published testimonial
from a person who had been cured of symp-
toms like my own. It was that of a New-
castle patient. Now I happen to come from
Newcastle, New South Wales, myself, and
know thegentleman. Thisgave me confidence
that the testimonial was genuine. '* The
medicine mentioned as curing my friend was
Clements Tonic ; so I immediately bought a
bottle, and I am pleased to say that my ex-
perience was only a repetition of the thou-
sands of others who have tried that great
remedy. Clements Tonic started to cure
me from the jump, so to speak. First I got
a good appetite, then a good night’s rest ;
the heart trouble, the bilious headaches, the
wind and indigestion disappeared. The
pain between my shoulders and side went
away; aud--greatestcomfort of all—the stiff,
horrible pain across the loins' gradually eased
and disappeared. There is no doubt that
Clements Tonic fitted my case, and found
out and relieved all my bad symptoms with
a rapidity hardly credible to one who has
not experienced it and proved it.”
“ You state, Mr. Scource, that by reading
a testimonial you were led to try this remedy.
May I hope that you will do as you have
been done by, and pass the glad tidings on
to others.”
“ If you wish me to give you a testimonial
that will be published, I do not object.
Priut it as you like ; though I am far from
being anxious to see my name in type.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, William Thomas Scource, of Euston Terrace,
Croydon, Adelaide, in the Province of South Aus-
tralia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting* of
four folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tome,
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any manner my statements - which I give voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act
made and passed in the sixth year of the reign of
his late Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled
“An Act to repeal an Act of this present Session of
Parliament, intituled ‘An Act for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the State, and to sub-
stitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the more
entire suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits, and to make other provisions
for the abolition of unnecessary Oaths.’ ”
UyaM
cnA^.:
Declared and subscribed atCJioydon, in th.e Province
of South Australia, this 26th day of October, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety nine, before me,
II ■ \i;,V i> Hum if n>
TH€R€ IS ONLY ON€!
Mignon Plano. there is only one
Nanon Plano. there is only one
Ronisch. Piano. there is only one
Beclistem Piano
We are the Sole Agents!
Time Payments to Suit Everybody,
Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
“Tbs R€AL MAC KAY”
FINEST OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
& .Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
A Tight Place.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For a brief experimental,
Mild and gentle,
Sort o’ spree
Saltbush William was in Sydney
With others of his kidney ;
Every man an Ananias,
Seasoned liars
Conscience free!
But the wily William wore his
Simple smile, and told us stories
Of the kind in which he glories,
Same as me!
“ Now, you chaps are pretty gritty
In the city,”
Murmured Bill.
“ But you go to North Australia
And you’ll find your courage fail yer;
You’ll get scared the same as I did,
That’s provided
There is still
That same tribe of fighting niggers ;
Them as scared away the diggers
When they cocked their rifle triggers
Dead to kill.
“ ’Twas them niggers cut the cable,
Sure as Abel
Murdered Cain !
Thought it was a kind of fencing
That the white man was commencing.
And as soon as it was mended
They upended
It again !
What d’ye say ? ’Twas Cain killed Abel ?
Have yer way about the fable ;
Still them niggers cut the cable ;
That was plain.
“ Well, the Darwin line’s important
And it oughtn’t
To be snagged,
Or that blanky Kruger’s capers
Can't be printed in the papers !
And the Government, it figures
That them niggers
M list be bagged ;
So they sends me out from Cooper's
Creek with five-and twenty troopers ;
If I ever see such supers
I’ll be lagged !
“First we camped at Charlotte Waters,
Fairish quarters
In the main ;
Then we crossed Mac Donnell Ranges,
Where of c mrse the country changes.
When we saw them niggers camping
We was tramping
’Cross the plain.
They was sort o’ yellow color,
Like the Chinese, only duller ;
Thick as flies in Cunnamnlla
After rain!
“Well, at first they didn’t spot us,
But they got us
In a bit.
And they came along a-yelling
In a way that beats the telling ;
And you never heard such howling !
Trooper Dowling
Took a fit!
On they came, them savage whoop ts,
And I calls upon the troopers,
But the crowd of scurvy supers
Turned and flit!
“ They was city bred and frightened
And I mightn’t,
If I'd known,
Ever ventured with the beggars
Out against them savage niggers,
For a kiddie could have cleft me
When they left rue
All alone !
I ain’t anxious to disgrace ’em,
But for cows you couldn’t place ’em !
Fancy leaving me to face ’em ”
On my own ! ”
“Asit happened I was saddled,
And skedaddled
You can bet!
With them niggers rushing after,
Full of howlin’ shouts o’ laughter.
And, a-thing that very strange is,
In the ran ves
I was S''t !
And my confidence was shaken,
For, in hopes to save my bacon,
’Twas the ivromj ravine I’d taken ;
Talk of !
“ Straight ahead of me a chasm,
Yawning chasm !
Thousand feet!!
On each side of me a mountain,
,) ust how high I wasn’t countin’,
But completely perpendic’lar!
’Twas a tickler
And a treat!
And them yelling fiends behind me ;
Bound to catch me ; sure to find me ;
Couldn’t miss me ! Well, you mind me
It was sweet !
“ On they came, a swarm—Great Csesar !
Like the bees a-
Round the comb.
Yelling ! Howling ! Screaming ! Roaring !!
I could feel the sweat a-pouring,
And the horse could go no farther,
Laved in lather,
Flaked in foam ;
It was certain death - no ransom ;
And I wasn’t game to chance ’em !
So 1 whistled for a hansom,
And came home ! ’
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
A Reformed Character.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well, Mr. Philipson may be very much in
earnest —he must be, judging by the way he per-
spires—but his greatest admirer would not call
him entertaining. Highly respected, and re-
spectable? Oh, of course. His wife is the
managing partner in the concern, though. Look
at her. Pretty woman once, and a clever one
still. You would not think there was any
romance about that couple, would you ? He was
a different man when I knew him, 20 years ago,
and circumstances were different, too. Yes, he
is a tedious old political bore, but he will bein the
Legislative Council in less than two years. I’ll
tell you his story when we get round to the club.
It’s 20 years old now, and nobody would believe
it anyway. Mind the step.
“ When * King Khama,’ as they called him,
was over in England, the Exeter Hall people
made a great fuss of him. The British public,
who know Australia well by the fact that the besb
varieties of tinned mutton grow on the gum-trees,
had an idea that he was a monarch of a size some-
where between the German Emperor and the
King of Spain. As a matter of fact, he was the
titular chief of a small South African tribe called
the ‘ Bhamangwato’ somewhere in Bechuanaland,
just about big enough to fill a small Australian
township. There were dozens such in Griqua-
land and British Bechuanaland in my day, and I
daresay there are now. Philipson did a kindness
to one of these petty chiefs named ’Mpandu, who
lived somewhere near Vryburg, and it was about
the best investment he ever made.
“ Amongst all the hard bargains we had to deal
with in the mounted police, Philipson was about
the hardest. He had a knack of picking up the
native ways and dialects that made him useful,
but he was enough to turn a man’s hair grey in
his other little ways. He used to drink pretty
steadily all the time. If he was rarely quite
drunk, he was seldom sober enough to swear by.
And he was the deuce and all among women. It
is one of the marvels of any man’s life to see the
unconscionable scallywags that win the admira-
tion of womankind. A man does not need to be
good-looking, or clever, or rich, or successful.
If he has two certain qualities, and those two
only', he will make female friends, and wreck
reputations, as long as he is sober enough to talk.
What are the qualities ? A pleasant speaking
voice and a sympathetic manner.
“’Mpandu, Philipson’s native friend, was not
popular with the missionaries, or with the police. It
generally takes a taste for religion and liquor to
bring out the worst qualities of a Bechuana, but
’Mpandu had gifts, and developed into a first-class
nuisance on liquor alone. He got into serious
trouble over some diamonds that were not his,
and Philipson saved him from a long holiday on
the Cape Town breakwater. When one considers
what an unmitigated rascal the chief was, it makes
his gratitude to Philipson the more remarkable.
Gratitude is not common among Kaffirs.
“We used to have occasional visits from Imperial
officers in those days ; and, until you got used to
it, their patronising ways were a little trying. I
was sub-inspector of mounted police—a semi-mili-
tary post which always involved rough and
dangerous work—and Colonel Warburton used to
get on my nerves a bit. The trifling fact that we
had forgotten more about native warfare than he
ever knew, and generally saw more active service
in a year than the average Imperial officer does in
a life-time, did not diminish the number of frills
he put on in the least. If he unbent a little in
his lighter moments, he had a daughter who kept
up the standard all the time. She was a pretty
woman, and knew it. Her father’s official position
and her own brains made her the most sought-
after lady in Kimberley and the parts adjacent.
Everybody who was anybody danced attendance
on Miss Warburton, and quite a number of us pro-
posed to her. No, I was not of the number.
“ His native cheek, and respectable connections
at home, gave Philipson a precarious sort of footing
as a visitor at -the ,YVarburtons’, and he could
m ike a little go a long way. Warburton came to
u, ■ in a towering rage one day, and said that he
had reason to believe one of my trebly-dashed
troopers had dared to insult his daughter, and
demanded his bead on a plate instantly. I soothed
him down, and Philipson obligingly solved the
difficulty. He did what even the easy standards
of Cape Colony would not tolerate, and fled.
His usual methods with the fair sex were effectual
and safe, so that I take it he must have been more
under the influence of drink than usual. He took
refuge with his friend ’Mpandu, who received him
with open arms, who pressed him to his infected
chest; and they had a high-class spree, lasting
three days.
“ ’Mpandu was rich enough to buy a new wife
—when he wanted one —and did not see
anything to object to in his friend’s little
escapade. I did not want to catch Philipson,
for various reasons ; and although ’Mpandu (un-
officially) let me know where he was, his arrest
would have stirred up too many scandals to make
it good policy. It was on one of the many occa-
sions when ’Mpandu came to tell me where I could
capture Philipson, if I wanted him, and after a
rattier unsuccessful attempt, on my part, to .make
him see the sinfulness of not paying his hut-tax
regularly, that I dropped a remark that set
’Mpandu thinking. I said a good wife would do
a den t o steady Philipson. ’Mpandu said 1 Ehwa,’
which means ‘ yes,’and other things too numerous
to menti'-n. One of the other things cropped up
aft'-rwards, and staggered me, I confess.
“’M nandu -et about finding a wife for his friend.
Not a native wife, although you might have
thought he would, but a white wife, which was a
mtc i larger order. There were lots of ladies in
Kimberley whose absence would have been gain,
and 'Mpandu could have laid his commodious
black hand on them easily enough. But he did
not. want the damaged article. The sudden dis-
appearance of Miss Warburton showed what he
did want, although I did not connect the two
facts till long afterwards.
“The fir>t Warburton heard of it was when he
get a letter from the safe side of the Free State
border to say that his daughter and Philipson
were married. He wanted to declare war on the
Orange Free State. ’Mpandu met me with a
genial smile, a month afterwards; said it was a
privilege to entertain such a lady as the Colonel s
daughter in his humble kraal, and intimated that
she had been his guest for a week. When I asked
if she went there of her own free will, he said he
was thirsty, or words to that effect.
“ Well, Mr. and Mrs. (?) Philipson got down to
Natal- at her expense, for she had some money in
her own right—and from there to Melbourne.
She kept him straight, as much to his own sur-
prise as anybody’s, I daresay. And you saw the
result to-night. The women, of course, said she
planned the whole tiling. The men said Philip-
son compromised her to induce her to marry him ;
and a’so (incidentally) that lie should have been
tarred and feathered. ’Mpandu said nothing
worth mentioning.
W. P. HAMILTON.


In Bed for Monthsj Terrible Suffering!
Rheumatism Cured i A Limb Saved; Now Works Hard at 72.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
tm
XX
IX
m
m
m
m
%
02
m
m
X
** While liying at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies, and put out a great many pounds trying to get
rid of my complaints, but to no good.
“As soon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pain, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
“ One doctor told me I had the dropsy, and another told me I would have to
lose my leg.
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
“I am now 72 years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every
day.”
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Wales, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Such testimonies have given to this remedy the name of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
The
Cures.
That
It Acts on the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar Coated, Easy to Take.
n
PLAIN HOm TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pastes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, huPabout
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their phvsician Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subject's concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with, the' imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK’
posted for only 7s. 6d. *
Speeches AND Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking' made easy. Is 6d post.
Prao :al Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art ok Wrestlino, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3di'
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free
Art op Boxi'ng, by Ned Donnell v, 40 ill ns. Is6d posted’
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true historvl
Is 6d posted. ' J/ '
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free
How to Read Heads (.Jas. Coates), isod posted
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted. ’
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest
Is 3d post free. 6 ’
G. -W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is Cd posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and newl tw
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BoSm i&B adTelttd
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him ora
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free^anywher™
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DSFY COMIPJETIXXOW.
WINES
The Best Brands Oidy »J
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
F°£.f’! iouB a '! d Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
l Giddiness, l'ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Chills Flush!
in £f Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis-
M Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. TIIR FIRST DOSE
WJLI< i »I VL Rinr/l EF IN TWENTV MIN [JTRS. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be " WORTH A.
GOIUtA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’B PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
9 Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; re-torina the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keep edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud Of Health the W hoi.r Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are * facts’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beeeham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. ull directions with each Box.
J PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold livery where, in Boxes, 9£d, Is 14d, and 2s 9d each.
' j
M I,'."’'
V* "
mn
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE
■ ."“• s
■-
DIAGONALLY ACROSS Tl
piMhum
WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
►
' r A&
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
I
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO K, SON, & QUA I’M AN DAVID COIfKN & CO., SYDNEY
m
THROAT EASE
n
fFAKRWGDOHAVENUfcI
f LONDON. \
INVALUABLE TO
mn
&
Porn/ate
m
ye
m
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- c. ZFiXjTD'R.TTOGKE] & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 lOKIv ST It KiCl’, S If l/STKY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from ail the colonies promptly
attended to.
ta®' - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
J-| OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
■ There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not bee*
recognised l>v thousands of'sufferers. Ih all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atones
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Marine
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. p uf .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pot*.
If the address is not 523 Oxford street, London they am
spurious*. J
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
Bennington’s
_lrish Moss
* .
Instant Relief ... Speedy Cure.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber, Rubber Rings,
Washers, Rollers,
Valves, Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AKB . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman's Building, Adelaida.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST - SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
HOTEL
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
.
SPOON'S & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
M
<^HE
or
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Pnopns., SHEFFIELD
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
“TW K 3 BliOCK,**
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
K ■ : vV'm
1
t v
' ' ' 'r
»
n
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and m
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL FEATURES :
_____
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping,
Frice List*, Samples and Testimonials may
bo obtained from the l.ncal Agents, o t
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
C^GLASGOTK
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St. ,
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
9.
I
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
DIM’S PITCH BELTS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Gold fields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed .
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agent* t
Wm. Adams & Go., Sydney ;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
m
n
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
Cream, consequently the butter lias a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to kuow that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
>utter is c’ear
ATESON, Manager,
Harbor*, treet, Sydney.
$
&
$
&
*9
K
THE VERY FACT THAT
mn
Have been made and sold by this Company carries
with it the assurance of long and successful experience.
500 at the
ies, Bntte,
14 by
A. 10clison, lOdison, N.J.
Homestake Lead, South Dakota.
m
is the embodiment of all that there is good ifi
Rock Drills. Its popularity increases each day.
nm
I Mines, Quarries, Tunnels,
Contract Work, Good Roads,
AIR COMPRESSORS
12 Standard Types and
many Special Patterns.
t ; :V*
PARKE & LACY CO. LIMITED
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Engines and Boilers.
i "
60 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H
ENGINEERS' ibi! 1... ii I*l
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY Sc MELBOURNE.
SUMCJPSOUVT BROTHERS,
Solo Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
* (i w
TRADE
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues .
BOILER FEED PUMP
