

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
Cr. WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
~ EXIM OS3VES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Roller, Stsel and Special CHAINS
WINE!
WINE !
_WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
' PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WmEA&>
AUSTRALIA.
£3T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° ’ B5 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
sole Agents for The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating aurad Conveying Maciiinery . . .
Detachable Chain Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore'and
Grain Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery.
Established 1831.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS ANb LICENSED GROCERS.
I
HTOBARX.
*3}Kk
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
m
*A*fy
ASC/Un. *
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOHS’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposites
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF £or
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
cM
oo
I ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Caplllarins I
Posted. (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasisvot'SNewZealand.
Price, 10s. 6<l.
Sour Agents :
The Result
Craig, & Aitken, 680-682 George-st-, Sydney
PORTM BITER.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
be DATED ! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and trouble. It is Bapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shilling's (post free).
DATING STAMP CO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTINCf
The .beading iseit oi Australia.
linanrpassed for Durability ana Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government).
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SOM, LTD.,
117 Yoivii Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide; S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
£BICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme, Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney,
How Bo! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
HICHLAN
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THUS G-IR,:E.A.T - • •
CASCADE ALE
IS HERE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.: PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
s m; oke
WEALTHaeIN ATIONS’
DARK TOBACCO.
Manufactured by the Celebrated T. C. Williams Company.
PHOTOS
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Aic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS .
R. 6ENNCRT,
89c Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris, Franoe
m
an -
Ai-
EDISWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TOlir&SW
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
VoJ 21,—N0. 1066. j
Saturday, July 21, 1900.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office. Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a hTewsoaper,


NEWEST BOOKS BY POST.
TXOOKING’S “ Purple Robe,” 3s. ; Weyman’s “ Sophia,"
1 1 3s. ; Burleigh’s “ Natal Campaign,” 3s. ; Leicester
Ford’s “Janice Meredith,” 3s. ; Percy White’s “West
End,” 3s. ; Winston Churchill's “ London to Ladysmith,”
6s. 6d. ; Sienkiewicz’s “ Knights of the Cross,” 3s. ; Morley
Roberts’ “ Shadow of Allah,” 3s.
Stamps or Postal Notes. ALL POST FREE.
5 Ma.cqua.rie Place,
SYDNEY.
IDST" Any other Book or Magazine Supplied.
The Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty :
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and' Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. 3d.; Cloth boards, 2s. 4d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six :
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By
Ernest Eavenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Qgilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Roderio Quinn.
No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlet Bvo., Is. 9d., post free. Out op Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, lls., post
free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles:
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. lOd., post
free. *** First-class for recitation.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood. *** “The jolliest book yet
printed in Australia.”
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0,
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dbnlop & Co., Lu6ted, Sydney and Brisbane.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds 1
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
G. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL' JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dru</ ... °
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. F H posc
THE RED PAGE.
Verses by Ethel Turner.
GUM LEAVES.
X asked the red gum tree :
“ Why red 1 Why red ? ”
“ The blood-red suns rise up and die o’er me,”
It said.
“ And you, O gaunt gum tree,
Why white ? Why white 1 ”
“ The ghosts of all the bush passed, creepingly,
One night.”
“ And you, O blue gum tree,
Why are you blue ? ”
“ The far, sweet seas thrill every leaf of me
Till I grow blue.”
“ And why these nuns in grey,
With silvered hair ? ”
The grey gums sighed, and answered, sobbingly,
“We bear.”
A CANVAS.
A child’s face, small and grave.
With wind-blown hair,
Brown, with a laugh in it,
Sweet eyes that stare
Out of the canvas., Lips
Childishly red,
Drooping with grief as if
For early bed.
Ever the eyes smile out
To me below—
Ever the grieved lips droop
As if they know
How quiet I am alone. . .
There is a chair,
The lamp-light leaves it out,
But it is there.
The shadows make it black
And large ; I know
How very- small it is
And very low.
The lamp-light does not reach
The cup and plate,
The doll without a head,
The small, smeared slate.
It falls upon the wall’s
One pictured place.
Oh, child-soft hair and lips l
Oh, little face !
A TREMBLING STAR.
“There is my little trembling star,” she said.
I looked ; once more
The tender sea had put the sun to bed,
And heaven's floor
Was grey.
And nowhere yet in all that young night sky
Was any star,
But one that hung above the sea. Not high,
Nor very far
Away.
“ I watch it every night,” she said, and crept
Within my arm.
“ Soft little star, I wish the angels kept
It safe from harm
Alway.
“ I know it is afraid,” she said ; her eyes
Held a sweet tear.
“ They send it all atone into the skies,
No big stars near,
To stay.
“ They push it out before the sweet, kind moon
Lights up the sea.
They laugh because it fears the dark. ‘ Soon, soon,
You’ll braver be,’
They say.
“ One night I climbed far up that high white tree
Beside the beach,
And tried to stretch my hand across the sea
And tried to reach
The grey.
“ For something made me feel my heart would break
Unless that night
I in my hand my trembling star could take
And kiss its fright
Away.
“There only blew a strange wind chillily,
And clouds were swep t.
The angels would not let my own star see
That someone wept.
I pray
“To Christ, who hears my little'prayers each night,
That he will seek
Through all His skies for that sweet, frightened light,
And stoop his cheek
And say
“ ‘ My angels must not send so frail a thing
To light the West.
Lift up the little trembling star to cling
About my breast
Alway.’ ”
The Holy Medical Church.
HAVE you ever seen a goat tethered to a
gum-tree ? That is the image and sym-
bol of Melb. R.C. Archbishop Carr,
pamphleteering about “ The Morality of
Medical practice.” Within the limits of his
creed Archbishop Carr is acute and forcible—he
eats the herbage logically bare. But he cannot
strain farther than his rope will permit. Beyond
his bare patch is the universe; and he cannot
reach it—tethered to his Dogma.
What troubles the Archbishop and the Dogma
is Man’s immortal soul —as invented, and defined,
and described by Holy Church. What troubles
the logic of the Archbishop and the Dogma is that
Man hasn’t any immortal soul—so far as scientific
evidence goeS. There is no room for a soul in the
human carcase. The utmost that we can see is
brain ; and we can trace the growth of the brain
through various stages of evolution till it cul-
minates in the human brain—the best of which
we have any knowledge. Even the hu-
man brain has not always, had the same
powers. It has. not even the same powers in
different human races to-day. The brain of the
stone-age man was inferior to the brain of the
European of .1900. The brain of the local abori-
ginal is inferior to that of the Australian of Euro-
pean parentage. And there is no human idea, or
act, or fact, which cannot be accounted for in
terms of the brain. Precisely how the brain
The artist who drew this for The Dome turned it t’other way about and called it a
portrait of Walt Whitman. As every local sonneteer will see at once, it is really a
portrait of Sargasso—not the plumber or the oysterman, but the Genius of the Weedy Sea.
works *to achieve the processes of thought we do
not know, but we are learning.
“Soul,” “spirit”—these words, when used in
the religious sense, are physically meaningless.
And they are unnecessary. The brain explains
everything. “Soul” and “spirit” have no exis-
tence apart from the brain. When the brain is in-
juredor destroyed the man becomes insane or diet—
just like any other animal. Humanity has invented
many creeds to account for the things about
life which it did not understand. Some
of these creeds have given souls to animals other
than man—even to vegetables. It was more
logical to do this ; because a dog’s brain, for
example, differs from a man’s only in the degree
of its development. A dog has just as much
scientific title to a “soul” as a man has; and
there is just as much scientific evidence for the
dog’s, “soul” as' for the man’s—that is to say,
there is none. A dog’s “soul,” if it existed,
might be different in kind from a man’s ; but it
might just as reasonably exist. Thus the creeds
which sent the warrior’s dog and his horse and his
other belongings to keep him company in the
happy hunting-grounds were rather more consist-
ent than the creeds which say that only humanity
has an immortal soul.
The idea of a “soul” is flattering to human
vanity. It gives many people pleasure to think
that when they die, and are buried, and decom-
s pose, and become at last as indistinguishable
from “this compost” of earth as the myriads
who have gone before, they will nevertheless
retain a “spiritual” individuality somewhere
among the stars. They feel themselves such fine
fellows that they are quite sure their identity
deserves preservation to all eternity. And when
one fine fellow marries another fine, fellow of the
opposite sex, and from their physical union, as a
result of delicate physical processes, a new human
being or a dozen new human beings may be pro-
duced, it is “ God’s ” business, according to many
religious creeds, to provide “ souls” few or many,
as the whim of the tine fellows may require.
And just here the creeds, including the creed of
the R. C. Church to which Archbishop Carr be-
longs, are in a difficulty. The teaching of the
R.C. Church is more less based upon the Hebrew
Scriptures ; and the Hebrew Scriptures are sadly
indefinite as to the “ soul.” They do not explain
what it is, or when and how it is supplied.
So the Church has had to make interesting
guesses on the subject. At different times dif-
ferent guesses have been approved by the Popes
and the Fathers, and the clergy and the laity have
changed their beliefs in accordance with the
dictates of superior authority. You see, the
subject is so fascinatingly vague ; and you have to
bring your dogma, whatever it may be, into accord
with the other dogmas of the Church. The old
Platonic theory held that the soul is eternal—
that is to say, there are a multitude of loose
souls wandering about space, and when a
human child is born one of these souls is caught
and fixed somewhere in its body. This theory,
however, fell into ecclesiastical disrepute, because
it does not chime with the doctrine of total
depravity and that original sin which we are all
supposed to have inherited from Adam. So
it was for a long time contended by the people
who settled all about souls that the soul is in-
herited from the father, who inherited it from his
father, and so on back to the same old Adam.
This particular belief was called Traducianism.
Archbishop Carr, however, announces that the
Church is now solid on the Creationism theory,
which holds that as soon as a man and'woman
cometogether, and a child isconceived, “the human
soul is created by God, and united to the body at
the first instant of conception.” Considering
ecclesiastical dignitaries, one wonders if the
Almighty is sometimes a little bit late.
Archbishop Carr assures us that we may take
for granted, on the united testimony of medical
and sacred science, ■ that this theory is correct.
His sacred authorities are Scripture, Pope Inno-
cent 11, Pope Sixtus Y, Pope Innocent XI, and
David the Psalmist. His medical authority
—only one—is Aristotle. Aristotle died B.c. 322
—a trifle of 2222 years ago. Shall we say that
Aristotle, as a medical authority, is just a little
bit passe '/
You see now how Archbish op Carr’s mind grazes
in its tether. He cannot quote modern medical
science to prove that there is a soul, or to show
when or how the soul arrives and where it is
situated in the body, because medical .science
knows nothing about souls, and confines
itself strictly to the things it knows something
about. No accoucheur ever heard a soul scratch-
ing at the door of the bedroom in order to get in,
or saw a Soul jump down the throat of a newly-
born infant. No one ever saw a god or an angel
hovering about with a soul under his wing,
patiently awaiting “ the first instant of conception.”
There is nothing about souls in the medical dic-
tionary. But if you will accept the alleged utter-
ance of David as science, and the blind guess of
Aristotle as science, and the unproven dogma of
Innocent XI as science, then Archbishop Carr
will prove you anything you like about souls. He
merely wants you to give him all the data without
scrutiny. Then he will give you all the inferences
without winking.
Archbishop Carr is. arguing about the morality
of medical practice in this his recently-published
pamphlet. What he wishes to do is to find a reli-
gious reason for all his conclusions. And the
interesting thing about Archbishop Carr is
that for the most part his conclusions
are defensible for social reasons. By
the wrong road he reaches the right end.
He denounces craniotomy—the dissection of the
skull of an unborn infant in order to save
the mother’s life when natural delivery is inadvis-
able ; and he denounces it because unless that
infant is baptised its immortal soul will perish.
(Archbishop Carr does not bother about the sense
or j ustice of creating a soul for a destruction which
it cannot possibly avoid ; but that is not the main
question.) Medical and social reasons condemn
craniotomy also, as long as there are' other means
which give a fair chance of preserving the
mother’s life as. well as the infant’s. But if a birth
Were brought to this cleair issue—mother’s life or
infant’s —surely no husband, no surgeon, would
shrink from saving the mother? ' Even Arch-
bishop Carr 'seems to find it difficult to
reconcile himself to the thought of slaying the
mother that the infant may be saved. Apparently
it is only.the thought of the “soul”—for which
baptism is necessary—that decides him. The
mother’s “soul” having been saved by bap-
tism, the child’s “soul” comes before the
mother’s life, from an ecclesiastical point
of view. But what intelligent man un-
trammelled by creed will accept the ecclesiasti-
cal point of view ? Yet if Archbishop Carr did
not carry his dogma to so bitter an extreme, if he
would content himself with declaring that cranio-
tomy is nearly always unnecessary, instead of
always, he would be in agreement with human
feeling and modern medical practice. It is the
fetish of the “ soul ” which ruins his reason.
Eor the rest, Archbishop Carr is incidentally
concerned with the divine institution of marriage
—the use of “ preventatives ” and the prevention
of illegitimacy—and his feud with illegitimacy
and “preventatives” would be thoroughly justifi-
able on social grounds if religion had uttered no
word about marriage. The mischief is that the indi-
vidual will not always do what the community
wishes him to do ; and unless you can show that
it pays him, there is no earthly or ethical reason
why he should.
«►-
This is A.G.T.’s opinion—
Re statement (July 7) that Lambert “ has not one gleam
of imagination visible in his work up to the present.”
What do you mean by imagination ? Lambert has imagi-
nation, and plenty of it ; you can see it in his painting of
heads. If a man can divine an interesting side to a sitter
and get it into his painting, surely he gives a clear proof
of the possession of imagination ? Tom Roberts has it;
and paints good portraits therefore. Julian Ashton lacks
it; and his portraits, as a rule, are hopelessly had and un-
like the model. Have you seen Lambert’s illustrations to
Miss Whitfeld’s fairy tales ?—the stories are of little ac-
count, but Lambert managed to get imagination, delicacy
and brilliance into every picture he drew. Wolin-
ski’s picture has n’t one touch of imagination ; it is
anguish to the square inch, and skilful painting—nothing
more. The Latouche influence is not in the choice of sub-
ject, but in the handling of the subject, the colour
scheme, &c., and is sufficiently strong to discount the
value of the originality of Wolinski’s picture. Wolinski’s
work has 'achievement to a certain limit; promise it has
none.
Imagination is the faculty of forming mental
images; but, in the high and special sense, the
images must be created by the mind, not merely
reflected from a physical object. That Lambert
“can divine an interesting side” to a jjortrait-
subject does not prove he has imagination in this
sense, since he only paints what he has seen. If
he has not seen it, he does not know it exists, and
in painting what he does not know to exist he will
probably paint a bad portrait. A good portrait is a
likeness of the outer man suffused with the inner
spirit. But this inner spirit is not “imagined” : it
shines out to be watched, studied, realised. Lambert
has never made an effective painting of an idea—
a something intangible to the senses, invented and
thrown forth ; his effective work has always been
a representation of something visible, which could
be studied and imitated; —hence the statement
that he has not shown imagination. As to Wolin-
ski: his picture is far from perfect, but it is the
best shown.
Erom a bookseller’s point of view, trade has
rarely been worse in .Sydney. From a book-
buyer’s view-point, it has never been better.
There are clearance sales on’ all hands; and
several firms advertise new books at a substantial
discount from publishers’ prices. For five shil-
lings, nowadays, you can get twenty shillings’
worth of very fair literature.
Died June 5, aged 29, Stephen Crane, most
brilliant and picturesque of living writers of Eng-
lish fiction. This is a bull.
. ■ "4 ' .
“The Hill of Visions and Other Poems,” by
John Harrington Lenane, is published in London
(Kegan Paul) and dated Melbourne, 1899. The
contents are verses destitute of originality or
value.
Ethel Turner’s graceful verses, ashine with sym-
pathy, are borrowed from her recently-issued
“‘Gum Leaves’’—which, by the way, is a book
uncommonly well printed by the publishers, Wm.
Brooks and Co. “ A Trembling Star ” originally
appeared in The Bookfellow, deceased.
Significant passage showing in what estimation
the medical profession was held by an “ inspired ”
Hebrew chronicler (11. Chron. xvi., 12, 13): —
And Asa, in the thirty and ninth year of his reign, was
diseased in his feet; his disease was great, yet in his
disease he sought not to the Lord, but to the physicians.
And Asa slept with his fathers.
Neat, eh?
Brisb. Telegraph dexterously reported a recent
hanging as “ passing off without a hitch.”
Told of an Omar Khayyam Club lecturer who
went to spread light in the provinces that, when
he had finished his genuflexions before the idol
and the audience, the mayor-chairman thanked him
effusively. “So pleased to have heard you, Mr.
——. Do you know, until this evening I never
quite comprehended which was Omar Khayyam
and which was Hunyadi Janos.”
Many people have treasured the poignant little
verses of “ M. J.C.” (Mrs. Gilmore) in The Queens-
lander and The Bulletin. Her Paraguayan history
reads sadly. Writing recently, she sums-up her
experience of the tragic dream called “New Aus-
tralia”—
Travelled alone from Sydney to Paraguay. Lost father
and mother. Married; had a son. Resigned from
Colony. Baby nearly died. Husband absent four months
in Patagonia, out of the way of mails ; no word from him.
Fever and disappointment. Getting grey, but quite pre-
pared to begin life again on nothing.
Poor little woman !
Some correspondents—
Moa: You don’t read your Page, or you would have
met the long-ago notice of “ Dooley ” which ranked his
creator among the best American humourists. But it is
Dunne’s ill fortune, as it is his good fortune, to deal
with evanescent topics--twice as good for the Moment,
arid no good at all for Perpetuity. What he should write
is.a consecutive story dealing with the Rise and Progress
of Dooley, letting his humour play round primal human
facts and emotions. : . .Zadig 3: You have just “dis-
covered ” Ambrose Bierce, and desire to review him with
appropriate emphasis. . Now go and discover America
J.D. reports that ajffobart policeman threatened to lock-
up a roysterer for “disturbing the police.”
The Bookfellow.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
21 per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\ cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING- BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones So Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
SSOC’N
TD
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
S^X>3Xr3E3"!sr.
I
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
IN
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including. Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Gd. per lb.#
the charge will be ... ... ... ...
On Wools realising (id. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New Scntli Wales f:r WAITER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of l!gLa.rsuipia.l Skins Held Weekly.
per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
8
a u*
H£« £
ftSK FOR
99
ee
4 tai ou>
&>miM.
mm
COMBINES
w
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
The Physician’s Cur®
for Gout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DiNNEFOrtDS
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
js** —Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S YDINTB Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort+Co.
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming: Wool Season :
21
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
HOTEL
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
ONE OF THE
MOST fashionable:
HOTELS IN LONDON.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
11
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE.
The Basis of which is « MONTSERRAT" LIME-FRUIT JUICE*
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Fuddc.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes so far back as 1617 , a on
«I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefs in
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
A.G-XINTS E
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell * Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE- 0. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Scurvy :—
the Ships
f gout v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pnoux & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
TTS3E3
SPOONER’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Pressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
A G-olden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is.; Cloth boards, 2s.
TORONTO*
CANADA.
A
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CrtAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
H fCH-CRA PE FARM IMPj.EM E N T S AND MACH I N Eft V.
- »"» 1r Patcot Sbcep-Braodiog LiqOid.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go.
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RlCH & CO. LTD.
Guarantees to Mate a Clekr, Laatiu, SSS M °‘ I ” 3Ur ’ “* ‘° S ° onr o “‘’
Bla , ofc , Rod, „ rl cl Blixe. 3a 3d per gall, irr Malta, a.md Sydney; 3a Bd per Ba.ll. In Brlabane.


TATTERS ALL’S.
Address: Car© CEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
July 25.
Silver City C.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
shares in above.
Address
Silver City C. (special).
DEAWN MOBNING OF THE BACH
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Adelaide 6.N.H. August 11.
25,000 Subaoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me,— __shares in the above.
Name
s
*
Address
Spring H. August 11.
50,000 Snbaoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Piease allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Sept. 11
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEBSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the abova
Name.
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
in the above.
Name.
Address
* < :
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subsoribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
_shares in the above,
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
—<alVq BgSt Prices.
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
x
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring: Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24- Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
everts
' ro A^ eteS ’ * A
p w
’i»;. S »'»
CoV f^u^ onS -
d
HAIR
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a
woman.
Every other
physical at-
traction is
secondary to
it.
If your hair
is too thin or losing its luster,
get—
Growth
becomes
vigorous
and all
dandruff is
removed.
wm
wa.ir
visor
It always restores color to
gray or faded hair. Retain
your youth; don’t look old
before your time.
Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puri-
fies the blood and clears the
complexion.
Prepared by
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €fi)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
tuid Stiffness of Joints ii MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offer in" injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n>brocatioi).
AGStraliao tyGtGal ProVideot Society
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&3T Send for Price List. "SE&
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers o£ Light Vehicles
'fhe Best and. Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers .of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE’S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
|yj FOOD Is °f the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
S. FREEMAN „ SONS L- “
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Cures While
✓
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Colds.
when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm*
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Ploug-h Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
IMPORTA-KrT' A.KrWOXJKrCEM:E]SrT !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OE ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
IV.S.'W. Carriage & SSacltilery Maaf. Comjpauy,
Note out New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redforn, SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, 'WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 15; 2-Spring Sulkies, <£7;
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 ‘lss. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to lied fern Railway citation).
OUR SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wliarf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bairnsdale Advertiser wants to know :
But would these rabid journals be prepared to practise,
in their private business, that liberty of the subject to
do whatever he pleases which thev have been so fond of
preaching all through this wart Would the Sydney
Bulletin, the organ of the Boer cause—or any other
anti-British cause—in Australia, be prepared to tolerate
on its staff a red-hot bigoted specimen of the class which
admits no equal to the English as a race, and to listen
patiently to his wholesale and incessant condemnation s
of the paper, its principles and its policy ? We think not.
A paper like that shouldn’t think. The Bulletin
has two such individuals on its staff, and one of
them has written, at various times within the last
nine months, 47 letters to the editor abusing the
paper’s policy. The Bairnsdale organ, in similar
circumstances, would evidently have done some-
thing violent, but The Bulletin isn’t so narrow-
minded.
Work and Wages.
When times are dull and bills are due,
When every prospect’s black or blue,
There’s always One with jobs to spare who pays
what he engages ;
His bellows keep his forge aglow,
And as he sweats he chuckles low,
O Ye who do the Devil’s work—ye’ll get the
Devil’s wages !
And if ye swelter at his oall
In boozing-ken or church or hall,
He hath a myrmidon at hand who all your merit
gauges;
And when ye lay your crafty lies
To trap the Fool and trip the Wise,
He dots it down—“ The Devil’s work shall get the
Devil’s wages ! ”
So grind the poor as grind ye can,
And prance a prince in Money’s van,
And suck the struggling Widow’s blood by com-
fortable stages ;
And, as ye sweat your victims thin,
Be sure there’s one who stands a-grin,
And murmurs low : “He did my work and he
shall have my wages ! ”
And though to-day the Preacher drones
His honeyed tale in honeyed tones,
And puts perdition on the shelf in antiquated
pages;
Let ne’er a knave your wits befool,
Though “ fires below be waxen cool,”
If ye but do the Devil’s work ye shall not miss his
wages !
For this, I hold, is ever true —
We all must drink the broth we brew,
We’re never tied upon the perch before we build
the cages;
Our tender backs are always flayed
Beneath the lash our hands have made:
0 we who do the Devil’s work, we get the Devil’s
wages !
So play the wanton at your will,
And wend among the swine to swill,
Since only drink from out the trough your glorious
thirst assuages ;
But, late or early, this I trow —
Ye’ll grasp a truth before ye go,
O we who did the Devil’s work, we got the Devil’s
wages !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Will You Remember
Will you remember when I took
Your hand beneath the white,
Star-printed pages of the Book
Of All the Worlds, that night?
Will you remember ?
Will you forget the distant song
Of dying seas, that told
Their rosaries of love along
Far-shadowed shores of .gold?
Will you forget ?
Will you remember how the leaves
Of sleeping tree-ferns green
Hung drooping from their pillared sheaves,
In rarest Valenciennes ?
Will you remember ?
Will you forget the clinging vine
That to its chosen tree
In tropic passion did entwine —■
Close, close, as you to me ?
Will you forget ?
Will you in fancy treasure yet
The perfume of its flowers ?
Do you remember or forget
What star-lit dreams were ours ?
Do you remember ?
Ah, never till he come, the Shade
Who glooms our dreams with rue,
Will sleep ihat sea, that fragrance fade,
Or Memory fail. . . . But you,
Will you remember?
Q.
E. J. BRADY.
The Titan is Thankful.
One triumph more—another pigmy band
Lay trodden down, but meekly in the mires
Of slaughter knelt the Titan, while his choirs
A psalm of praise quavered through all the land.
“Not mine, not mine the glory, but Thy Hand,
God of the English, hurled those dreadful fires,
And gave me strength to compass my desires,
That are as Thine—and blessed my feeble brand.”
But when he rose self-chastened from his knees,
To drive again weak children to the mill,
And serve his real Godhead of the Till,
The Earth-born laughed around their narrowed
seas.
“ Ah ! that Time could our weary brother ease
Of fulsome cant, his sorest burden still! ”
N.S.W.
C. KENDALL.


THE
PLUM
Price —SINGLE RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. <sd. eaoh. This Razor is superior to any
iti the market, and never requires tfrindinjj. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
ORA.IG &c A.ITICEI3\r, 680 GEORGE ST., wvmvnnv
fhc Australian Widens’ fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
T HI S SOCIETY in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assuranoe, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Polioies granting'—
Remission of-proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
ll* A Paid-up Policy in the oase of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board ok Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
A centnulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Office*: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
FEDERAL puke-HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
11. 'Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOOLGROWERS! you
30 YEARS we liave never failed to honor your confidence.
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
We ask you to honor us
by supporting us, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in lew South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T -?
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON THE
PIPB USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
ARE RECOGNISED AS THE MOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO *
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP,
)
y-r
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 77 TONS GREATER than during 1898.
YANKEE DOODLE
The Leading* Brand in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
A hose who formerly smoked only the well-known American and' English brands
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
are
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS
r lhe choicest of Gold Xeaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workmans favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1066.
SATURDAY, JULY 81, 1900.
Priob 6d.
FEDERAL CONSEQUENCES.
It is proposed to reduce the N.S.W. provincial Governor’s screw and shift him to a neat and not gaudy residence somewhere “on the Harbor. Our artist rises
to suggest Shark Island as an eligible site, and submits a design without extra charge.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians,** j
■Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waver] ey, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK, f
At 214 George Street North, Sydney, f
New South Wales.
. I
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS i
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem,, paragraph, illustration, or
a iy other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding twa,columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a nood idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <fe Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut ofice, 3l£ Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Wcstralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — lW. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 21. 1900.
The Groper Spider and the Groper Fly.
As this issue goes to press the extreme
tail-end of the Federal fight in the last un-
federated province of Australia is in sight.
On the 31st of this month it is known as a
matter of certainty that the Westralian
goldfields will vote solidly for Federation.
The coastal towns are uncertain; in the
aggregate their vote may be equally divided
though more probably it will show a leaning
towards union. As for the agricultural and
pastoral districts, they are supposed to be
the stronghold of Parochialism, and it is
confidently foretold in many unreliable
circles that the bucolic Groper will rise up
unanimously and defend the Separatist
policy to the last gasp. And yet, by the
showing of the leaders of Separatism, it
is the agricultural and pastoral Groper,
above all other Gropers, who should
vote the Federal ticket with all his might.
For, according to the solemn promise and
swear of the Separatist leaders, his very
existence—his bread and cheese, his clothes
and his boots, and the roof above his head
■—may depend on Federation being carried
on 31st July. To the Goldfields it is largely
a matter of national sentiment, based on a
desire for the prosperity and progress of
Australia at large. To the coastal towns it
is a matter of convenience and profit, though
not of life or death. To the agricultural
Westralian, unless the anti-Federal leaders
are the most incredible set of romancers on
this continent, the carrying of Federation is
almost a matter of actual existence. He
may want Federation badly from motives of
patriotism ; he will assuredly want it a great
deal worse if he realises in time that, sup-
posing Federation isn’t achieved, his anti-
Federal leaders, in their anxiety to placate
the Goldfields’ vote, have promised to adopt
a policy which will probably leave him with-
out boots.
* • • •
The food duties are the question which
most nearly interests the Westralian agricul-
turist and pastoralist. In Westralia there
are duties on horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, on
beef, mutton, pork, biscuits, butter, candied
fruits, green fruits, bottled fruits, cheese,
raw cocoa, coffee (whether raw, roasted or as
essence), currants, eggs, fish, flour, oats,
rye, wheat, maize, barley, beans, peas, bran,
pollard, hay, chaff, hams, tongues, honey,
hops, jams, jellies, lard, linseed and linseed
meal, milk, onions, pickles, vegetables,
raisins, salt—in fact, on almost everything
eatable as well as almost everything drink-
able. All these come under the general
term of the food duties. These duties apply
not only to food imported from the other pro-
vinces of Australasia, but to that imported
from all the outside world as well. The
agricultural and pastoral interest is bent on
the retention of these duties ; the Goldfields
population can’t grow any food on the
seared and scorched inland wastes where the
wild-cat bleaches in the sun, and it votes for
the abolition of the food duties with remark-
able unanimity.
• * * *
If Federation is achieved these duties will,
undoubtedly, be abolished as regards imports
from the other provinces of the Common-
wealth. The Federal Constitution provides
that they won’t be wholly abolished for five
years, but sooner or later, so far as the
other provinces are concerned, they will go.
As regards the outside world they will
certainly remain. Queensland, Victoria,
Tasmania and South Australia all have
similar duties ; they all follow the
policy of Protection against the outside
world, and among them there will be an
overwhelming majority in favour of retain-
ing the food duties as against Europe, Asia,
Africa and America. That is the situation
if the people of Westralia accept Federation
on the 31st July.
• • • •
And if Federation isn't accepted there is
the solemn assurance of the anti-Federal
leaders that the food duties will be abso-
lutely taken off. That promise has been
made over and over again as the reward
which Westralia will receive if it will only
vote against Federation and keep out of the
Commonwealth. Minister Throssell, and
Premier Forrest, and their joint and several
organ, the Perth Morning Herald, have all
taken their more or less solemn oath to this
effect. It is also- specially promised in the
manifesto of the National League, which
manifesto was published for many days
on the hinder page of Perth Morning
Herald in these words :
Remember this—That the Government of Western Aus-
tralia has promised that next session the duties will be
taken off meats of all kinds, and a majority of members
is pledged to remove the duties on butter', eggs, cheese
hams, bacon, &c. & ’
It is a painful situation for the past-oralists
and agriculturists of Groperland, and they
have very little time in which to consider it.
To accept Federation means that, after five
years or a little more, the duties which now
protect them against the other provinces will
be taken off, though they will still be pro-
tected against the rest of the world. To
refuse Federation and remain a separate State
means, on the solemn assurance of their
most trusted leaders, that in probably about
a year the duties which now protect them
against all the world will be taken off, and
they will be left with no protection against
anybody. Federation will expose them, after
a time, to the competition of the high-priced
labor of the other provinces. The refusal of
Federation will expose them, almost immedi-
ately, to the competition, not only of the high-
priced labor of the other provinces, but
also to that of all the labour of Europe,
Asia, and Africa. The leaders of the anti-
Federal party pledge themselves to the agri-
culturists of Westralia that if they will only
stand by them, and destroy by their votes
all prospects of Federation, their reward
will be ruin—absolute and hopeless ruin. It
seems an incredibly foolish thing to promise,
but the situation of the Parochialist leaders
is peculiar enough to explain the anomalv.
.* * * •
This is the situation, condensed into
seven propositions :
goldfields population has no personal interest,
” r , A l ‘ lnks ,, lfc ka \ no , nc > iu agriculture. It doesn’t care
whether the Westralian agriculturist is protected or not
But it badly wants cheaper food, and it is convinced that
the abolition of the food duties, either wholly or in so far
as they apply to food imported from the other provinces,
Will get it cheaper food. ’
(2) It wants Federation, partly because it has a strong
national sentiment of its own ; partly because, being
largely a new population from better-governed lands, the
incapacity, corruption, ignorance and backwardness of
the lorrest regime strike it as they don’t strike the old
settlers ; partly because Federation will gradually abolish
other°provinees S ° *** M they appl y to imports from the
can 'k enter the Commonwealth as
partofWestraha, they are determined to separate from
Westralia and enter the Commonwealth without it. And
it they do so, practically the whole of the new wealth and
glory and greatness of Perth and Fremantle and Bunburv
will depart in one act. They will be left just about where
they were before gold was discovered, except that thev
WI /}x b mu much deeper in debt and much poorer. y
(4) The Forrest party doesn’t want Federation. Its
are ? ucb a poor lot thafc they will only find a
p a ° e -'” fc , h ® ru ° k ° f Federal Parliament. There are
h! Eph 0 r,^ e - Stra L la ? T) Le £ lslature who could shine
in Federal politics, but Bigjohn and his colleagues are
not among them. 6
fche Forrest party still less desires to see the
destruction. 8615 WoU ' d be ruin and blank
fvl p!fmfi e rn rend n m ' v^ fce goes a g a inst Federation,
then the Goldfields will want more than ever to separate
from Westralia. And if they decide in real earnest to
separate unlawfully, providing the disruption can’t be ac-
complished lawfully, Oom John Forrest knows well that
he can’t retain them by force.
(7) So the John Forrest party has conceived the idea
of pacifying the Goldfields’ population by other means
The stormy pick-a,nd-shovel community wants Federation
What regard, as the undue
b £ r df. n of the food-duties as will be gained by the gradual
pro°Se n s° f And d th tie P S ° D - f °° d imp orts fro'm thffier
provinces. And the Provincial party n Parliament pro
poses to offer instead the total abolition of the Cd
duties their abolition, not only as against the other pro-
vinces, but against the world. It may ruin the WestraHan
farmer ; but then Federation would ruin the gang in office
politically, and the separation of the Goldfields would
ruin a great part of it financially, and if it can avert both
these disasters by merely ruining the local farmer—well,
let him go.
* * * *
That is about how things stand with the
anti-Federal crowd in Westralia, Its pre-
tence that it is against Federation because
Federation will involve a decrease of perhaps
£300,000 a year in the Customs revenue is a
thin and miserably incapable invention, see-
ing that it solemnly promises, if Federation
is rejected, to decrease the customs revenue
by about that amount itself. The pretence
that it is anti-Federal because (so it is often
alleged) the Commonwealth will fix on
Westralia “the heavy burden of the Vic-
torian tariff ” is another inefficient fiction ;
the Westralian customs tariff is equal to 17
per cent, on all imports while the Victorian
tariff is much lighter, and only amounts to
llv? per cent, on all imports. And the dirge
about the necessity of standing out of the
Commonwealth till Westralia is older, and
its industries are more deeply rooted, and
it is better able to stand the competition of
the other Australian provinces, is the poorest
fiction in the heap, seeing that the party
which talks in this strain has solemnly
pledged itself, if there is no Federation, to
deprive Westralia’s most important indus-
tries—the most important, that is, apart
from the gold industry, which needs no
tariff support—of all Protection, and let
them face the competition of the whole
world as best they may. The Forrest
crowd is almost undisguisedly hostile to
Federation—either because Federation will
wreck its miserable little political im-
portance, or because it can’t get out
of its old mental groove. It can’t hope to
keep Westralia out of the Commonwealth
and at the same time avert disruption (which
would be ruin to the fragment of the pro-
vince which wag left), unless it pacifies the
stormy Federationists of Kalgoorlie and
Coolgardie. So it proposes to buy their
goodwill by throwing the agricultural indus-
try overboard.
• • * *
The best hope for the agricultural popula-
tion of Westralia, if the Federal cause is
defeated on 31st, is that the Government
doesn’t mean to keep its promise, and that
it won’t abolish the food duties after all.
And that hope doesn’t amount to much. If
Westralia stands out, then the Forrest
Government must either placate the agricul-
tural interest at the expense of the Gold-
fields by retaining the food duties, or placate
the Goldfields at the expense of the agricul-
tural industry by utterly abolishing them.
It will probably give way to the crowd that
it is most afraid of. The miners are concen-
trated and united and formidable ; the agri-
cultural population is widely scattered, dis-
united, and in consequence not so formidable.
The miners threaten separation ; the agricul-
turists don’t. So the chances are that the
Forrest party will keep to its word, for
once, and let the Groper agriculturist go to
ruin. If it didn’t, the Goldfields would
separate sooner or later, and join .the Com-
monwealth ; and the Federal tariff would rise
up round them and shut out the produce of
the W.A. farming districts, and the Groper
agriculturist would be ruined just as surely
that way as the other. A decisive vote against
Federation means ultimate disaster to the
Groper agriculturist either way. What he
has to consider is whether he feels like being
ruined for any narrow-minded politician’s
temporary convenience.
Finland—Queensland—Canada.
After Poland, Finland—the Russian maw is in-
satiable.. Finland became a Russian principality
with strict guarantees of constitutional indepen-
dence, sworn to by the Czars. The guarantees
were flouted ; the constitution broken ; and the
Finnish nation, jealous of its liberties, proud of
its ancient constitution, finds that its country has
become a mere province of Russia, like Moscow or
Minsk. So the bolder hearts of Finland, hating
the heel of despotism, are giving up home and
country and turning westward, southward, any-
where where they may live a free life under free
laws.
* • • •
Some of these Finns—some hundreds—came re-
cently to Queensland. They had heard of the
young nation just born beneath the Southern
Cross, and they had been fascinated by the pro-
mises of a Queensland immigration-agent. They
were fine fellows, modest, cleanly, manly—every-
body who has seen them speaks well of
them. They were educated and enlightened,
but used to hard labor, and liking labor,
lhan the Scandinavian races, indeed, there
are no better men in the world to-day.
Who indeed that has lived among them in
their own hospitable country, or enjoyed their
companionship in a foreign land, has ever
met such genial, generous, honest neighbors?
hey have assimilated modern culture while losing
nothing of savage virtue. In an age of fret and
fever they have kept unspoiled nerves, living close
to the earth, retaining the good primitive qualities
which cities destroy. These Finns who came to
Queensland were excellent types of their race.
JNearly every man was worth his weight in silver
as a colonist. With a little encouragement, a
little care, they would have settled on the soil as
producers, to rear families like themselves for the
good of Australia.
• • • *
What should have been done with them ? This !
They should have been given on perpetual lease a
tract of good land, not too far from a river and a
market, tenure to be conditional on improvement,
and sectional possession to be assured by payment
of rent-value after ten years. They should have
been helped with seeds and tools—helped, and
closely inspected. The shiftless ‘ ‘ unemployed ”
of Australian cities would not repay such a gift
such help. The Finns had the grit of men in them ;
and they would have returned a hundredfold for
every penny expended.
* * • m
What was done with them ? This ! They were
shamefully deceived—there is no other term-
deceived firstly, secondly, and lastly. The Govt.
agent in England bad told them of ample employ-
ment, high wages, easy terms for land. They
found on arrival at Brisbane scanty employment,
low wages, no land available but barren land.
The Govt, gave them so little help that it
gave them none; the Govt., indeed, though
its own paid agents had seduced them to Queens-
land, seemed to regard them as a troublesome
burden. They were sent from post to pillar, from
pillar to post, drifting over the length of Queens-
land. Most of them spoke no English ; they were
thus at the mercy of employers, who took their
labour at the lowest wages, and fleeced them of
even those wages. After a period of heartbreak-
ing idleness, some of the Finns were sent to
the syndicate railway works, near Chillagoe
(N.Q.), where they were employed cutting
sleepers at a rate which local laborers would not
accept. Their spokesman asserts that when their
contract was paid up, they found they had
earned not Chinamen’s wages—2s. 6d. per man
per day. He asserts, further, that numbers of the
sleepers which they had cut were condemned
without cause, and afterwards used without pay-
ment. And now, weary and heart-sick, the deluded
Finns are shaking the dust of Queensland from
their feet, and going to Canada. Distant fields
look green ; but there is reason to believe that
Canada treats its immigrants better than Queens-
land does. Canada has not Queensland’s wealth
of soil and climate; but Tolstoy’s Dukhobortski
are thriving there. And Canada has ceased em-
ploying its Agent-General as a tout to procure
cheap labor for private syndicates.
* * * •
The despair of the Finns of Queensland can be
gathered from a letter by their spokesman, Matti
Kukikka, in a recent Cairns Advocate. This
man was editor of a daily Labor paper in Finland,
and has painfully taught himself English. His
letter breathes honest enthusiasm. He says that
he and his compatriots came to Australia as to a
land of liberty, where industry and integrity would
be appreciated, and they could unite with others
in the development of social ideals.
I have been here now eight months. What did I find
here? Disappointments— only disappointments ! All the
prospects of possibility for the immigrants to gain money
in a short time and get their own land which the Govern-
ment of Queensland had represented in their pamphlets,
have vanished as.soap-bubbles. All my essays to open
the eyes of the Government to comprehend the great ad-
vantage to this indebted country of the bending of the
large Finnish emigration from America to Queensland, got
lost. My task for the “Huguenots” of Finland was im-
possible to realise in that way.
Alright, did I. think, I will try the other, although
harder way. I will become an ordinary worker, become a
good member of the Labor party, win in that
way an influence in the party, and begin then anew
the realisation of my great idea. But, after the experi-
ence I got in Brisbane, in some other places, and at last
by the Chillagoe railway, I have already given up this
programme, too. Meanwhile, I collected some experi-
ences of a worker. I learnt to know that the laborers in
Queensland —there are, of course, exceptions—are too
drunk, too vulgar, and too hateful against all foreigners
that are sober, friendly, and honest as the Finns, to think
that they could become equals with them striving for the
same holy ideals. . . . But that has not pulled me apart
from Queensland and abolished all the dreams of an
active future in this society. Called lately by many
Finns to America to order there a Finn-colony, I say as a
real representative for the Labor party of Finland my
farewell to the brothers of Queensland. I and my fellows
—for after me truly all Finns will leave this beautiful
country—will in future still meet' together under the
English flag. In the present age it is better than all
others, assuring freedom and higher evolution to
humanity, and I will be one true defender of it.
My friendly hope is only that the people of Queensland
as soon as possible will rise to the same level of civilisa-
tion as the other cultured peoples of the world.— Matti
Kurikka.
There is nothing to be said against the truth of
this indictment. The Q. Labor-party, if it did
nothing to injure the friendless Finns, did little
or nothing to help them. It looked on them
askance, as interlopers in the labour market. So
they were; but only because they were ignorant
of English, and helpless in the hands of their em-
Payers. They did not want to be wages-men.
They wanted to work for themselves, and would
have grudged no effort which led them to inde-
pendence. It is nonsense to say that in all the
waste lands of Queensland there is no room for
such men. Even now, it is not too late for the Q.
Govt, to help them. And if the Q. Govt, has not
the brams or the will to help the strangers whom
it has cheated, then surely some other Australian
Govt, can utilise their invaluable manhood. Such
men should never, never, never be permitted to
leave Australia as outcasts.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tasmania Learns Something.
After four or five years of weary waiting for the
Grreat Western (Land Grant) Railway Co. to get
really to work and build the Great Western Rail-
way, lasmama has at last dropped on an item of
definite information. It has discovered that there
isn t and never was any Great Western Railway
00. at all. Certain people undertook to build the
Great Western Railway (only 150 miles long) pro-
vided they received a grant of 500,000 acres of
land and many other valuable rights. These
people it now appears, do not constitute the
Great Western Railway Co. —they merely con-
iMA U nnn a v sraall co -> with a capital of about
±40,000, which proposes to form a Great Western
Kailway Co. and sell the concession to it. They
refuse to put their own money into their own
railway on any terms. Tor about four years they
boggled over various attempts to float their
G.W. Railway Co., but the owners of the
concession wanted about £890,000 in cash
and shares as the purchase price of the
bare right to build a line which will only be worth
about £600,000 when built, and this enormous grab
blocked business. At length their concession
expired by sheer waste of time. The time allowed
them by the Act of Parliament in which to com-
mence work ran out. Premier Braddon, as an
honest old man, eabled to them that their Act had
expired ; also, as a needlessly generous old man,
he promised to get it renewed. Just at this
moment, so it is alleged, the long-delayed float
was really coming off. The syndicators had really
found some people to buy their concession at their
own price, and were cheerfully selling it—so it
would appear without telling the buyers that
their concession had run out through their failure
to start work, and that they had no longer
legally anything to sell. The float naturally fell
through when the honest old man explained
that there was nothing left to float, and
the co., which lias always been going
to organise the G.W R. Co. and never doing
it, has cursed the honest old man ever
TT n °-vtr H\ e 9 0ncess i° n has been renewed, but
?,° G - W - Railway Co. has been floated, and
still the co. which owns the concession refuses to
put a pick in the ground with its own money.
But it says that if the Government will build
part of the line itself, and give it the same
land-grant for building 110 miles that it was
to get for building 150 miles, it will be able
to float its company—which is just what it
lias been saying for several years now. Con-
sidering how the Tasmanian West Coast is look-


ing up it still seems to The Bulletin that it
would be a fair thing for the Tasmanian Govern-
ment to build the line itself, and hand the 500,000-
acre endowment to its own railway department.
It would at least get the railway that way ; the
other way it isn’t at all likely to get anything ex-
cept the curses of the syndicate and a lesson in
patience and long-suffering. Already the Tas-
manians who are waiting for their G.W. Railway
have put up such a record for patience that Job is
left far behind and is now hardly visible on the
horizon.
*
The Lost Glenelg - .
After a period of labor extending over 110 days,
Vic. Marine Court has at length been delivered of
its decision in the case of the Glenelg. The vessel
foundered on 25th March last, and the Court finds
that she was properly inspected throughout prior
to her last-issued certificate being given, and that
the surveyors duly satisfied themselves as to her
condition during currency of said certificate ; alsB,
that her owners took proper measures to keep her
in apple-pie order ; that her decks and her engine-
room skylight were sufficiently strong for her
work (though nobody ever suggested that her
decks, or masts, or port binnacle weren’t all they
should be) ; that her cargo was properly stowed,
and that she was justified in putting to sea ; also,
that she was properly navigated; that she was
sufficiently equipped in the matter of boats, rafts,
and life-belts, though a larger margin of boats
should be allowed for in cases of emergency ; and,
finally, that the immediate cause of foundering
was that she sprang a leak, but, as there was
nothing to show the location or cause of said
leak, the Court could not attribute blame to any-
one. Which means that the ship sank through
taking in too much water, and that it was the act
of God. On one small point only is this cursory
Court of opinion that the Glenelg was not up to
requirements : she should have had a water-tight
screw tunnel, or her after bulkhead should have
been carried up to the main deck, but it blames
nobody for the lack of these things. Apparently
the Court has forgotten all about the awful state-
ments thrown at it by witness after witness in the
early part of the inquiry. It is conveniently
oblivious of that crank-shaft with the crack in it;
it is utterly heedless of those alleged cardboard
plates, only l-16th of an inch thick, through which
it was sworn a seaman put his hammer; also, it
takes no notice of those other portions of the hull
which, it was declared, could not be chipped
because they were too rotten, where the paint was
slapped on, in the hope that it would hold for a
while and “ last their time.” (Age, 2/5/’00.) Also,
this futile Court omits all reference to the fact
that the ship’s boats would not have provided
accommodation for all the people on board.
As to .the cause of the disaster, that was
pretty clearly hinted in the evidence of
survivor Thorn, at a very early stage of the pro-
ceedings. Said Thorn, “I was awakened by a
bumping like the racing of the propeller, then
there was a sharp crash, and shortly afterwards I
saw the water coming into the saloon. The noise
appeared to be aft.” (Age, 21/4/’00.) So that in
all probability either a blade of the propeller
snapped, or the splitting crank-shaft broke, and
the broken machinery crashed through the brown-
paper hull, sending the vessel to the bottom. The
verdict of the Court exonerates the owners and
the surveyors and all the live people, and makes
tilings smooth all round ; and if the dead people
have any objections to make the Court probably
thinks that they ought to get up and make them,
and not skulk in an un-British fashion at the sea-
bottom and think evil of their betters.
♦
The A.M.P. Extension Fad: A Last
Word.
To-morrow (Friday, 20th July) the A.M.P.
holds its meeting to decide whether or not the
directors shall be authorised to extend the society’s
business to England, India (where the chronic
plague is), Ceylon, Burmah, South Africa,
Canada, Newfoundland, Sierra Leone (the White
Man’s Grave), Lagos, Gambia, and other more or
less unwholesome places now belonging to Britain,
also every place, however unwholesome, that
Britain may acquire hereafter. The directors
will doubtless say that they don’t propose to ex-
tend the business to those parts of the Empire
where men perish like flies, and where plague,
cholera, yellow fever, and the like are always
more or less in evidence. And they probably
don’t. But all the same they demand full
authority for themselves and their successors to
blew the A.M.P.’s funds in all these places,
and however much they don’t intend to use
that authority now they may change their
minds, or their successors may be of a different
way of thinking. If A asks B to formally endow
him with a power which, if A likes to use it to the
full, is liable to be utterly ruinous to B, then how-
ever hard A may swear that he doesn’t intend to
use the power, it is safer not to let him have it.
The mere fact that he is so intensely anxious to
get it is suspicious. And the reasons chiefly
assigned by directors for demanding authority
to do obviously disastrous things is ridicu-
lously insufficient. They are mainly : (1)
That the death-rate isn’t much worse in Eng-
land than here (no one dares to profess
that it is better, or as good); (2) that the
interest to be earned on investments in England
isn’t so very much less than here ; (3) that the
N.S.W. Government recently floated a 4 per cent,
loan in London, and if the A.M.P. had had an
office there the directors might have secured part
of it, but not having an office, and not having
sufficient presence of mind to instruct their exist-
ing London agent to tender, and not knowing
there was a cable available, they didn’t. Britain
is one of the healthiest parts of the British empire
outside Australasia, and the fact that no British
office earns such good interest as the A.M.P. does,
or has such a favorable mortality experience, or is
able to pay such splendid bonuses, j.re sufficient
proofs that a large admixture of British business
is almost certain to make the average interest rate
lower all round, and the average, death-rate higher,
and the average bonuses less. The argument con-
stantly advanced by the Board’s journalistic bar-
I’acker, the Sydney Telegraph, is that “ the direc-
tors must know best.” It is a silly argument, and
two-edged as well. The almost-purely-Australian
directors of the A.M.P. doubtless do know bast
about life-assurance business in Australia. It
doesn’t necessarily follow that they know best, or
that they know anything in particular, about life-
assurance business in England —which is the sub-
ject under discussion. Where, for instance, is
Joseph Abbott’s experience of English life-
assurance business, and when were most of his
colleagues in it last? The people who should
know best about British life assurance are the
men who run the great English and Scottish life
offices. They say, by their published returns,
that the best interest they can earn is less than
the A.M.P. earns ; that the best bonuses they can
pay are less than the A.M.P. pays ; that the best
death-rate they can showis worse than the A.M.P.
shows; and that, even to show these inferior
results, they have mostly to charge higher rates
than the A.M.P. charges. Either the A.M.P. is
going to England to produce the same results on its
English business as good English offices do, in which
case the less profitable character of its English
business must reduce the profits all round. Or
else the mostly-Australian directors of the A.M.P.
are going to England to teach their grandmother
how to come in out of the wet, and to show the
English life assurance managers that none of them
know how to run their business in their own coun-
try. As for the large, wild, promiscuous demand for
authority to do business in all other parts of the
British Empire—in all its tropical African and
Asiatic plague-spots —the only defence advance-
able is that the Board doesn’t mean to use the
power if it gets it. And if this writer harassed
Director Abbott for a blank signed cheque, and
the only reason he could show why Mr. Abbott
should give it was that it would never be filled in
and presented or used in any way, probably Mr.
Abbott would say to him, as he now says to Mr.
Abbott : “Why do you want it so badly, then? ”
. ♦
A Very Small Patch.
The Bill for the reformation of Sydney’s municipal
government has made its appearance in N.S.W.
Assembly, and it is a woeful disappointment. It
provides for a Mayor and 22 aldermen, instead of
24 as heretofore. The Mayor is to be elected by
the people, which is good. The Council is to be
wholly re-elected every two years instead of on
the instalment plan as heretofore, which is also
good. The city auditor is also to be elective. The
franchise is to be enlarged, and the new Council is to
have its powers so far extended that it can resume
land in order to widen, straighten and improve
streets, make new streets, and otherwise beautify
the city. And there the good points about end.
The plural vote is so far retained that a citizen who
has property in each of the 11 wards can vote 11
times—once in each ward. And the Bill applies to
the City of Sydney only. There are 41 munici-
palities which make up the real Sydney, and
Premier Lynk proposes to reform one of them
in a small way, and let the other 40 slide
in the good, old, dirty, incompetent fashion. They
are not to have any reform, and Premier LynE
evidently thinks that their highways and bve-
ways don’t require improvement. The city
government can improve its streets if it likes
until it comes to the place where Redfern or Pad-
dington commences, and there the reform is to
stop short. There is nothing in the measure to
hasten the consolidation of the 41 municipal ink-
spots into a real city under a sensible government
system. It doesn’t enact that all current expenses
shall be paid out of revenue, or prohibit the
disastrous old practice of turning revenue-
si lortages into permanent debt. It doesn’t
Erovide full authority to construct public
aths, wash-houses, model dwellings, and all the
other thousand and one things that up-to-date
municipal governments in Great Britain busy
themselves with. In addition to utterly ignoring
40 out of the 41 Sydney and suburban muni-
cipalities it leaves all the country ones
severely alone. It doesn’t extend the area
of municipal government—in fact, it is the
smallest and most gradual piece of reform that
could well be imagined. Yet our late friend, the
plague, broke out in Paddington, Balmain, Manly
—last week it was still at Manly—and other
municipalities as well as in the city of Sydney;
and people died of it in these places as well as in
Sydney ; and the municipal governments of these
places proved about as hopeless and as unclean as
that of Sydney; and, strange as it may seem,
people in these regions, when they die, are quite
as dead as the people of the city, and remain dead
quite as long, and object to dying quite as much.
Lyne’s attempt to- put a patch the size of a
postage-stamp on a hole as large as the Jenolan
caves is pathetic. It is good so far as it goes, but
the spectacle of so very large a man wasting his
time on so very small a patch is suggestive of an
elephant running after a f'y.
+
Concerning a Small Bank.
Dumbell’s Bank (Isle of Man, England) went
smash recently. It was founded in 1874, and had
£50,000 paid-up capital and £40,000 reserve-fund.
The dividend for the last year of its existence was
18 per cent., and as late as last October the shares
(£2 p lid up) were selling at £3 2s. 6d. There was
nothing wrong with Dumbell’s Bank except that
one director and two managers appear to have
embezzled £500,000 (all the capital and reserve
and over £400,000 of the deposits) and the audi-
tors said nothing about it. It was the City of
Glasgow Bank over again ; there, also, practically
the whole of the assets were stolen and the audi-
tors said nothing about it. The curse of the
private-audit system is that the auditors never
say anything about IT. Among all the
Australasian financial institutions which went
hopelessly broke between ’9O and ’94, after issuing
beautifully prosperous balance-sheets right up to
the day of closing their doors, there wasn’t one
case within The Bulletin’s recollection where
the auditors didn’t cheerfully cert i fy to every-
thing as being all right to the very last. And
nobody was surprised. Nobody expected any-
thing else. It is the private auditor’s business,
his habit, his tradition, his bread-and-butter, to
certify to any balance-sheet that is laid before
him —to do it mechanically in short, to be an
automaton with an autograph. He never inquires
into the value of the assets but just takes them at
the price set against them ; if a shortage of a mil-
lion is balanced by putting in as an asset the pro-
note of Ptolemy Physcon, 2000 years overdue at
the Bank of Egypt, it is all one to the average
private auditor. If he asks awkward questions
the directors won’t employ him (it is really the
directors, in most cases, who appoint auditors,
though the shareholders think they do it), and he
will starve. If he asks no questions he can make
a living, and the prospect of being sent to gaol
when the smash comes is very remote after all.
Until there is a State audit by State-appointed
and State-paid officials, whose bread-and-dripping
depends on telling the solid truth, not on
pleasing directors, not one auditor’s certificate in
100,000 will be worth more than its selling price
at the rag-and-bone store. There is no other
remedy. Even the most intelligent, honest, and
outspoken newspapers can’t warn the public
against such frauds as those of Dumbell’s
Bank and others like it. They can only
judge by the printed balance-sheets, and by
such further information as is accessible to
them. If the balance-sheets are faked with
sufficient boldness and the secret of the swindle is
known only to a few men who keep their know-,
ledge as silent as the grave, and don’t drink or* 1
talk in their sleep, there is nothing to go upon.
When these men have gone so far that a huge
smash is certain, and they must either bolt or go
to gaol, and it is merely a question of keeping '
things going till they are ready to bolt, there is
very little that they can’t do. Apropos of which
The Bulletin appends a possible sample balance-
sheet :
The Bank op Anywhere, Limited.
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital paid-up, £2,000,000 Cash .. .. £1,375,000
Beserve fund.. 1,000,000 Advances .. 5,625,000
Deposits, &c. .. 5,000,000 Property, &c. 1,106,000
Profit .. .. 175,000 Owing by other
banks .. 69,000
£8,175,000 £8,175,000
On the strength of that the Bank of Anywhere
can pay a half-year’s dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum (£100,000) and add £75,000 to
the reserve, and make a glorious boom. And
all that is necessary is to have £lOO,OOO of the
deposits left to pay the dividend with, and per-
haps £500,000 to meet sudden withdrawals. It
really doesn’t matter, provided the directors have
nerve enough, and are secretive enough, and have
their carpet-bags packed in good time, whether
the other £7,575,000 have been embezzled or not.
The private auditors will never find out the dis-
crepancy, or if they do it is practically certain
that they won’t mention it. The great City of
Glasgow Bank travelled on balance-sheets like
these for about a dozen years after the inside had
been eaten clean out of it; the auditors said no-
thing, and the public, the shareholders, and the
financial papers suspected nothing. Even its own
staff didn’t know. It ranked, until the very day
it closed its doors, almost as high as such institu-
tions as the Australasia or the Union, or the B.
N.S.W., and its shares were bought at high prices
till the very last. Against a huge and utterly
reckless swindle so ably conducted there is no pro-
tection —except a State audit.
+
The New State Constitutions.
Only one Australian Government —that of South
Australia —has begun to seriously consider the re-
casting of its State Constitution in view of the
near approach of the Commonwealth. When the
Federal Parliament takes over a great deal of the
heavy dragging and dead lift of legislation, with
the prospect that it may take over still more in
the near future, the States obviously want to run
their separate Government machines on a smaller
scale. They want fewer Ministers, fewer depart-
ments, a smaller and cheaper Governor, less pomp,
less expensive frill, not so many ornamental
officers, smaller Legislatures—possibly consisting
of only one House each —and many other altera-
tions. In South Australia the Government’s idea
is, instead of cutting down the old big garment, to
make a smaller new one, and it urges that
the people should elect a Convention to
draft a complete new State Constitution
just as a previous Convention drafted one for
the new Commonwealth. It is a pity that all
the States don’t adopt the same idea. It is a still
greater pity that they can’t agree for all Australia
to elect a Convention by manhood suffrage, as the
Federal Convention was elected, and let it draw
up six new State Constitutions on practically uni-
form lines. No doubt it would be a shock to the
awful dignity of each State that the leading men
of other provinces should have any hand in draft-
ing the Constitution under which its purely inter-
nal affairs are to be managed, but after all there is
no reason why they shouldn’t get over the blow.
Seeing that some kind of new Constitutions are
wanted, or the old ones need repair, to suit the
altered circumstances, the object is plainly to get
the best possible new Constitutions, or the best
possible repairs. Therefore it is advisable to get the
best possible men to do it —and even the largest of
these very small communities is none too well
off for constructive statesmen. No one can deny
that when Victoria or S.A. wants a new Constitu-
tion such men as Wise, Barton, R. E.
O’Connor and Lyne could give some valuable
assistance at drafting it, and that when N.S.W.
wants one, such outside authorities as Turner,
Holder, Peacock, Kingston and Eysh are
better Constitution-makers than any five who
would be likely to form the tail-end of a purely
local gathering of, say, 40 politicians. Even John
Forrest would be vastly better than any probable
extreme-tail-end man in a purely local convention.
By.doing the opposite to what he advised it would
be hardly possible to do amiss; in such an assem-
blage a man who can be relied on to be always
wrong is just as valuable as one who is always
right. The idea of starting Australia afresh with
six absolutely identical Constitutions might be
objected to by some on the ground of monotony,
but if the monotony arose through all the six
being practically perfect it might be endured.
Moreover, the process of divergence would quickly
set in again. It was such a Convention which
drew up the Federal Constitution —described by
Joseph Chamberlain as “a monument of legis-
lative competence.” The States badly want
provincial Constitutions which will also be monu-
ments of legislative competence, and this appears,
judging by experience, to be the way to get them.
Public Office and Private Business.
The average politician who takes office endea-
vours to make the best of both worlds. If he is
dependent on a business or profession, he can’t
afford to leave it; for his office may suddenly
leave him, and he will have neither private pro-
fession nor public position. But there is a wide
difference between keeping a private business
going independently of a public post, and con-
ducting a private business in defiance of the
public interest. The latter is the course frequently
taken by Parliamentary lawyers ; and the latest
lawyer to adopt it is N.S.W. Postmaster-General
Crick. Mr. Crick is at once lawyer and member
of the Cabinet; and he appears in court
before Judges and Acting-Judges, whose
positions or careers may at any time
have to be settled by the Cabinet; and
before police-magistrates who feel that, despite
the Public Service Board, their positions and
promotions may still be greatly influenced by
Cabinet approval or disapproval of their conduct.
(If the Cabinet has no influence upon police-
magistrates, it is a singular thing that the special
commissions entrusted to “stalwart” magistrates
seem to be invariably executed as the Cabinet
wishes.) More, when a Crown-Prosecutor is
sent to plead a case, Mr. Crick may oppose him.
The Crown-Prosecutor knows that it is to Mr.
Crick’s interest to be successful; he knows that
Postmaster-General Crick is a member of the
Cabinet which may at any time have a Judgeship
in its gift ; and what does the Crown-Prosecutor
do? His duty, presumably; but Mr. Crick makes
his duty very hard for him—particularly if the
vacancy on the bench is very near and. very lucra-
tive, and he wants it very badly. Plainly Parlia-
ment should step in to prevent public servants
being placed in delicate positions where their
interests may be opposed to their duty; and
where, consequently, there is room in doubtful
cases for a public suspicion that their duty has
yielded to their interests. There may be no
ground whatever for the suspicion, but if it can
even exist, that is sufficient reason for taking
action to prevent it. The mirror of Justice can
be tarnished by a breath. But there is no need
at this day to pile arguments in proof that the
judiciary should be absolutely divorced from the
legislature. And the lower courts of justice
are no less important than the higher. A police
magistrate should be made as independent as a
Supreme Court Judge—responsible only to Par-
liament. A Minister of the Crown should not be
allowed to plead in opposition to the Crown,
making the Crown Prosecutor handle his case with
gloves, lest his promotion suffer. And Parliament
should end the existing scandal at once.
A minor Victorian Judge had to deal recently
with a well-dressed man who had inflicted brutal
injuries on his wife—among the rest cutting
her head to the bone with a poker. The
case was fully proved, and then the Judge opened
out like this : “You behaved in a shameful and
cowardly way, and there are no circumstances of
palliation in your case. Nevertheless, as you are
apparently a respectable person, I will make the
sentence something lighter than I otherwise
would.” Now even the most foolish Judge must
surely know that a man who beats his wife isn’t
respectable. What was obviously meant was: ‘ You
are a respectably-dressed person, and I will let you
off more lightly on account of your clothes without
asking whether you came by them honestly or not.
If you had come here in bad clothes, even though it
was through paying your debts with rigid honesty
that you were reduced to wearing such seedy
garments, this Court would have fallen on you
like an avalanche.” The law is always a con-
scious or unconscious respecter of Clothes. The
male accused or prisoner with a good suit and a
shiny hat and new gloves and a collar that
isn’t frayed, and the female with a dainty
dress, and glossy hair tastefully done up,
and something beautifully soft and frilly
at the neck and wrists, will always have a
big start of those whose means don’t run to
it, and £5 judiciously expended on clothes may
easily be the hair-weight which, in an intensely
doubtful case, turns the scale as between acquittal
and five years in gaol. It would make justice a
great deal purer if all prisoners were tried in an
absolutely nude state, and witnesses gave evidence
in the same condition (the dock and witness-box
being each supplied with a gas-heater), or if they
were all required to wear long dressing-gowns of
exactly the same pattern. Also,. all lady
witnesses or accused persons might have
their heads disguised in a regulation sun-bonnet
of the sort you see at the Benevolent Asylums
(the State 'to supply these things and to
guarantee that each bonnet and dressing-gown
was washed, boiled and disinfected after use) so
that the Court might no longer unconsciously
lean towards the side whioh had the ravishing
hair-knob. Even then, as the State couldn t well
furnish complexions and artificial teeth, the
parties wouldn’t start quite fair, but they would
get much nearer to it than they do now.
Even the recent news that the Chinese had flayed
a British subject alive and gouged out his eyes
with red-hot irons, and that the fate of the
British population at Pekin was so doubtful that
no one really knew for certain that it hadn’t all
been flayed alive, and that the British at Tien-
tsin were hard-pressed by the enemy, didn’t
raise in Australia the semblance of any really
strong desire to aid the Mother-country in its hour
of trouble. The people who howled with such
unspeakable rage when a Briton wasn’t allowed to
vote in the Transvaal don’t rage worth a copper
about the Briton who is horribly tortured m
Chinkie-land. Even Fitzgibbon is silent as yet.
Surely it can’t be that the whole show of enthusi-
asm for tire Flag, and the alleged sym; athy for
the oppressed Briton who hadn’t a vote, were all
a hypocrisy or a steal or a lie or a
delusion or a drunk—that the rush of volunteers
to the Transvaal arose solely from an idea that
there were land-grants and gold-deposits and loot
there, and that the indifference to the Mother-
country’s troubles in China, and to the insults
heaped on the Flag, and the wrongs of the flayed
Briton, arises from the fact that China is already
too crowded, and there are no land-grants in view,
and no known gold-mines, and no prospective
loot. And if this isn’t the reason —well, why is
Australia so wild about the fellow-subject who
lost his vote, and so tame about the fellow-subject
who lost his skin ? One thing is quite sure : Aus-
tralia is already weary of its new plaything, War.
Ever since the sick and wounded began to dribble
back and extra-taxation commenced to loom near,
you could perceive that tired feeling in the air.
♦
Lieut.-Colonel Burns’s official statement that a
N.S.W. Volunteer officer’s uniform costs £lOO,
and that, consequently, only well-to-do men, or
men with well-to-do friends, can take such ap-
pointments, not only does not excuse the recent
nominations, but reveals a fixed official intention
to keep the higher grades of the service for a
money-caste. Either (Parliament must give the
uniform gratis, or prescribe a modest, small-
priced uniform, or the service will snap in two at,
probably, the very time it will be wanted. A
department which now fixes on a £lOO uniform
will, if let go unchecked, prescribe a £2OO one, or
more, if occasion to serve the ends of extra-gilt
johnnydom presents itself. A £5OO uniform —that
would be as prohibitive as was the old army-pur-
chase system. Will some democratic politician
see to this matter —and keep on seeing to it.
+
Plain Bill Lyne’s Government is making a good
beginning in the way of democratic legislation.
Another of its ideas is to create a fund for the
relief of persons injured in mining accidents, and
for the support of the widows and orphans of
those killed in this fashion. Mining is rather more
dangerous than war, so the need of some such
measure is obvious enough. Every miner is to
pay a license-fee of 10s. a year. Every mine-
owner is to pay a similar amount, and the Trea-
sury contributes another 10s. per head annually.
Allowances are to be 12s. a week for total per-
manent disablement ; in case of death, Bs. a week
to the widow while she remains unmarried,
or if there is no widow, to the guardian of the
orphaned children; and 2s. 6d. a week for each
child till it reaches the age of 14. If the deceased
was unmarried similar allowances are made for his
mother or his small sisters or brothers if they were
dependent on his earnings. Curiously enough
there is no provision in case of temporary or per-
manent partial disablement, which seems a serious
omission. Temporary disablement may last for
months, in which case it is almost as serious as.
permanent incapacitation.
Considered in the lump, the board which N.S.W.
Govt, has appointed to inquire into the Western
pastoral problem is satisfactory enough. Politi-
cally it is non-partizan, anyhow ; for the Govt,
went to all sections for members. If it has one
defect more than another it is that the whole
eight members are, or believe they are, pastoral
experts. Ferguson, who is one of the two Labor
representatives, makes perhaps the least preten-
sions of this kind. It will therefore be a pretty
hard job for the board (of eight) to arrive at a
unanimous decision on the evidence, because,
naturally, the witness whose ideas conflict with a


AGENTS
THE TRANSVAAL WAR !
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 81 Queen-st., Brisbane.
65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Haa 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
Chief Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
board-member’s own will not be regarded by that
particular member as of much account. Still, the
evidence that should be gathered ought to be in
any case of more value than the board’s deduc-
tions from it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Rose of Persia.”
Royal “ Absent-Minded Beggar.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ Term of His Natural Life.”
Palace (12th July) “ Our Regiment.”
Lyceum War Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Manmuvres of Jane.”
Her Majesty’s “ Peg Woffington."
Theatre Royal “ Two Little Drummer Boys.”
Bijou Paul Martinetti Co.
Athenaeum Hall British Biograph Co.
Donald Macdonald—Victorian Tour.
The “ Absent Minded Beggar,” which
took the incoherent floor on Saturday at Sydney
Royal, proved a rather silly and weak-kneed com-
plication on which much high-priced scenery has
been recklessly wasted. Shirley’s heart was evi-
dently not in the work when he wrote it; for
business reasons he felt bound to seize the flying
scalp-lock of opportunity as it passed, so he
jumbled together a flat, dismal, and nefarious pot-
boiler, and cast it at the head of a maddened
public. Coming to Australia when the war-fever
is cooling down, and looked at in cold blood, the
awfulness of that pot-boiler strikes the eye like a
falling tower. Shirley’s Boers are all coarse and
hairy fiends, who propose to murder the British
women and children wholesale—all save the
heroine, who is to be reserved for a worse fate.
As all reports show the Boers to have treated their
prisoners with reasonable kindness, this is evidently
put in as a tribute to British fair play. The Boers
don’t really do anything to their prisoners, being
interrupted by armoured trains and other imple-
ments, but their intentions are strictly dishonor-
able. Hem Baker, in the first act, has no visible
occupation, but lives on a distant relative. In the
second act, the distant relative having thrown
him over, he and his wife and infant are tem-
porarily hanging out in London on the premises
of an impoverished friend—where a Boer tries
to steal the baby. Later on Baker manfully
borrows some money and goes to S’ Africa, where
he does deeds of heroism, but as the end of the
war leaves him still with no honest occupation, he
possibly ends his days in the fruit-barrow busi-
ness. In melodrama the utterly impoverished
hero enlists, disembowels his country’s enemy,
and then embraces his wife and remarks, as the
curtain falls, that their troubles are now over,
and the average audience takes it as a perfectly
satisfactory ending. Yet, as a man can’t live all
his life by eating one dead Boer, the material
improvement is less visible than it might be.
* • • •
All the acts drag heavily, but the first one,
especially, goes on feet of lead. The scene is on
the premises of a flag-manufacturer in London, '
which gives the hired girls an opportunity to
cheer wildly for the Flag while it is in process of 1
Albert Norman, as a Boer, drops
in and curses the Flag promiscuously, and asks
the manufacturer’s daughter to marry him. She
can’t, being secretly married to Baker, who arrives
later, and also cheers for the Flag, and complains
because Norman has treacherously left it on the
floor. Kemp, Harford, and Mrs. Bland Holt like-
wise call in and cheer for the Flag ; so do Arthur
Styan, who is dependent on his uncle, and follows
no useful occupation, and Bland, who is got-upasa
Jew, and cheers through his nose. The flag-manu-
facturer is ruined later on. Styan, like Baker, is
thrown over by his uncle, and he and Bland
and Baker and a burglar are all Pre occupied
Mendicants together. This gathering of the men
who used to loaf on their rich relatives, and the
house-breaker (who blackens his hungry wife’s
eye before he departs and leaves her destitute), and
the Hebrew usurer, is understood to be the up-
rising of Britain against the loafing Boer slave-
owner. The audience, though much excited at
the Boer who only threatens to batter the British
female, cheers Brown, the burglar, who batters
her in reality, and evidently regards him as a
hero. The principal semblance of a plot lies in
the fact that a Boer wants Baker’s wife to elope
with him, which she declines to do for reasons
connected with the Flag. This is the same Boer
who tried to encumber himself with Baker’s baby
with a view to bringing it up in Africa on the
bottle.
* * • *
An armoured train and a review of troops
by a lady who treasonably passes herself off as our
Gracious Queen, and many kopjes and guns make
the “ A.M. Beggar” an expensive pictorial effort.
In that capacity it calls for high praise, but in a
literary sense it is as slow as a benevolent-asylum
dog on a wet day. In the absence of a single good
part, the company seems to feel its position
keenly. The jokes which are put in the mouth of
Moses Holt or Bland Cohen or whatever he should
be called are weary chestnuts about marriage
and pork. The new Kruger isn’t half so bright
as Ned Holloway’s late Kruger at the Criterion,
and Dampier’s “Briton and Boer” was at least
alive, whereas the “A.M. Beggar” is deader than
the procrastinating animal that was left out of the
Ark. Charles Brown’s repentant burglar, who
beats his wife and resolves to lead a better life, is
about the most live character in the collection.
*# * *
The War Pictures pursue their delusive
way at Sydney Lyceum to the reasonable satis-
faction of an audience which evidently doesn’t
much mind whether the sensation is an obvious
fake or not. Yet the fake is at times a trifle too
outrageous. The. great sensation of the show—
the wiping out of Major Wilson’s little force by
the Matabele—suffers not only from the slight
drawback that the foe would have torn the
Ehotographer in eight pieces if he had been there,
ut from the further disadvantage that the event
happened (speaking from the writer’s memory) a
year or two before the kinematographe got into real
workingorder. The Bulletin has even doubts now
about the veracity of the alleged armoured train ;
for all the evidence to the contrary the view might
represent any single-track American railway and the
alleged armoured car looks very like the bare-
sided van which carries the mails on any ordinary
American train. And it has met a man who is
prepared to swear, for a reasonable compensation
in beer, that the alleged inarch of the troops
through Cape Town was really a perfectly peace-
ful proceeding that happened in Manchester. As
you don’t see enough of the town to make it iden-
tifiable, and troops look much the same anywhere,
and the original man who took the photo, would
probably swear to anything, and The Bulletin’s
informant would swear to anything for beer, it is
impossible, unfortunately, to bring this discussion
to a satisfactory conclusion.
* * * ' *
The “Rose of Persia,” by Basil Hood
and Arthur Sullivan, is to be staged at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday. Whatever
Hood’s libretto may be like, Sullivan’s music is
generally a thing which any civilised being is glad
to meet. In any case, it is long since Sydney saw
an absolutely new opera, and there are signs
already that the reception of the Rose will be
great. For the first night d.c. and reserved
stall seats will be 2s 6d extra, the odd half-
crown going to put some meat on our famished
brown brother on India’s coral strand. Coral being
uneatable, said brother is in a bad way just now.
Also a matinee for the benefit of the Children’s
Hospital takes place on Friday, 27th July.
** * *
“For the Term of His Natural Life” is to
go on for some time longer at Sydney Criterion—
at least, no change is yet announced. Also
“ Merchant of Venice” makes a fourth appear-
ance on Friday.
mm m m
Rickards’ Sydney company still meets at
Caddam Woods in the shirty costumes and large
bibs that have become so familiar. Baby CapeHs
a well-grown infant, though not up to Fanny
Powers in vocal sweetness. Alma Gray suffers
from her songs, her tastes being for the mawkish.
Emmonds, Einmersonand Emmonds continue their
farcical sketch, but as they do their clever turns
all at one and the same moment, even the
cross-eyed man in the audience has to lose
one whole Emmonds-Eminerson, which is dis-
appointing. The Animatographe toils through its
turn without any great signs of nervousness.
These inventions are improving. In the first
Cinematographe this writer saw, a man, supposed
to jump out of a window, floated down slowly and
gently, and stuck fast in the atmosphere before he
got to the foot. Madame Cordelia has lately
blossomed out in a new song, an example that
might be followed, and Wallace King has done
ditto with an old one. “She wore a wreath of
roses” belongs to the period when present bald-
heads were young and innocent, and had not yet
painted their noses in the garish hues of Sin, and
THE LADY HURDLE-RIDER, in Fitzgerald
Bros’. New European Company.
THE LATE MR. JOHN RAE, SYDNEY’S
FIRST TOWN-CLERK.
Photo, by J. H. Newman, Sydney.
it sounds as old nowadays as the Jebusite national
anthem.
## * *
Donald Macdonald, now ravaging Melbourne
suburbs with his Ladysmith lectures, will do a
five nights’ season at the Centennial Hall, Sydney,
commencing on Saturday, 28th July. Mac. is
coining money in Melb., meanwhile he puts on
flesh at a most inartistic rate. That’s what grieves
business manager Geach the steadily-increasing
bulk of a star who lives by telling tales of suffering
and starvation. Tne gaunt Mac. who landed in
Melbourne from S’Africa not many weeks ago
was a fine stage-effect, anyhow, whereas the new
Mac. looks very like a lot of other men who get
entertained at luncheon by country corporations.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, the virtues of
H. A. Jones’s comedy get about as much ap-
preciation as can be expected of a public that does
little thinking for itself. “ Manceuvres of Jane ”
belongs to the intellectual order of stage things,
and, although it lias to be farcical to live, the best
jokes in the piece are not very obtrusive. That is
to say, they are not the jokes an overfed person
in the ironmongery-line would laugh at unless he
were forewarned of their whereabouts. Mr. and
Mrs. Brough, as they appear after getting washed
ashore, seem (to the present writer) considerably
less humorous than when they go to interview
model pigs in the first act, but, judging from the
roar of the populace, Mr. and Mrs. B. are merely
acting up to their best business-principles in the
cottage scene, where they exaggerate the truth all
the time. The representative of the hardware-
trade must be catered for, or he would stop at
home and breathe heavily in his armchair. It is
for the sake of him and his likes that Constantia
Gage leans so heavily on Lord Bapchild’s chest
whilst the pigeon-toed peer fights for a foothold
with his hind leg.
• * • •
The charm of Miss Noble’s Jane grows on
acquaintance. Jane is interesting from the
moment of her first angry “ Howdyerdo,” to her
last sweet smile at the chaperon she has manoeu-
vred. Her transactions with Pamela are fresh
and vigorous, likewise her rage at having had her
19iin. waist squeezed by the man at the Magpie
pub. Jane quarrels prettily with the tall, un-
yielding steward, and she forgives him prettily
when he declines to be bossed, and altogether she
is a valuable object lesson for the girls of
Federated Australia. Miss Martheze, as the
creepy Pamela of tender years, continues to
occupy a place of honour at the key-
hole, and as regards all the other people who
were praised in last issue it may be said that they
are not more acceptable than some—Leslie Victor,
MTntyre, Miss Rochefort and Miss Temple—
whose names didn’t get a mention. The objection
to W. T. Lovell’s polite rigidity is now partly
withdrawn, but as a set-off against this concession
to Lovell the bilious scribe desires to complain of
Reginald Dartrey’s vocal powers. Dartrey’s tones
are loud enough to fill two theatres at once, and
as he is otherwise an admirable member of an
artistic co. he may as well be advised to draw his
voice mild in ordinary conversation.
** * #
“ Camille ” is doing a good second week at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.). Dumas’giddy drama would
pay a third weekly dividend no doubt if the
management hadn’t formed a philanthropic reso-
lution to produce Nance O’Neil in a round of
characters for the sake of the public, wherefore
she will be called upon to Peg Woffington next
Saturday. Camille is Miss O’Neil’s most likeable
effect in Melbourne thus far, but it doesn’t look
like the truth. The actress plays to suit Nance
O’Neil, without much artistic regard for the
woman in the story. Dumas’ heroine was a deli-
cate, dainty young person, who so strikingly re-
sembled a French duke’s daughter that his Nibs
fixed her up in handsome apartments, and went
to gaze upon her once a week with a fond fatherly
eye. There’s nothing of the dock’s daughter about
Nance’s lady of the Camellias; she’s just an ordinary
easy-goer multiplied by two. At the beginning
she is excessively callous, and later she grows too
sentimental, and when she goes in for grief she
gets so upset that she has to sit on the floor and
rock herself. And when she sobs face-downwards
on the sofa the rise and fall of her emotion is
about 18in. for each sob. Camille’s death-scene is
not over-colored (barring a melodramatic blue
light on the corpse’s face), but there the positive
necessity for moderation is obvious. A 15-stone
Camille has to be very careful how she falls a
victim to phthisis. In the present show, Miss
Nance gets very moderate support from the co.—
Kingston, Carne, Mrs. Bracy and Barton Hill
being, three of them stagey, and the other one
tame. Barton Hill plays old Duval. The printer,
in last week’s Bulletin, called him old Daniel,
and the wrong name fitted him fairly well.
#* * *
Paul Martinetfci, with his pantomime co.,
started a speechless career at Melb. Bijou early
last week, and the success of this novel entertain-
ment is apparently solid. In “ Robert Macaire ”
the co. gets a formal introduction through a
printed argument. The argument itself is not a
brilliant business circular, but it helps to put the
audience on friendly terms with the characters
before the panto, arrives, and it curves for a use-
ful advt. after being taken home in the audience’s
pocket. Besides, “Robert Macaire ”is a good
name to work upon, for nearly everybody remem-
bers to have heard of Robert at one time or other,
and hardly anybody can quote the historical bear-
ings of the man. Even the argument omits to
explain why a general knowledge of Macaire’s
dingy past should be taken for granted by news-
paper leader-writers. Paul Martinetti and Co.,
plus auxiliaries and scenery, provide a 50 minutes
show which suffers from weak spots in the first
part, and is a stirring comic tragedy at the other
end. All notable pantomimists have been tragic-
ally disposed, and Paul Martinetti ranks as a
master of the craft. The final somersault that
lays him stiff across the stummick of his brother
Alfred is something to see. Melbourne will put
BP with a little superfluous gesture and wire-
drawn humor from an actor who can achieve the
weird effect of kicking himself off his mortal coil.
** * *
At Melb. Royal the “Two Little Drummer
Boys ” will beat a retreat on Friday. Their sex
was not what it professed to be, but under the
circumstances they did very well in holding out
for three weeks. On Saturday the weepful drama
of “The World against Her” will be staged
at _ the Royal, and if the management
revives the long-ago advts. of the Dampier
production, which filled the old Aleck with
grief and woe and orange-peel for about
12 weeks, it is probable that myriads of local fe-
males will come along and shake their heads as
before. Human nature doesn’t alter much in a
few years. The percentage of aggrieved females
remains about the same, also the number of men
who have got to take them where they can drop a
tear. “ The World Against Her ”is a remarkably
frequent opportunity for tear-drops.
The British Biograph Co. pictures lately
appearing on the sheet in South Australia will re-
turn to the Athemeum Hall on Monday, and stay
there four nights previous to shaking up the
animated-picture market in Sydney.
Thr Bulletin sincerely regrets to have to
record the demise of its erstwhile legal opponent,
JVlr. Mahlon Clarice Cowlishaw, who died on
Tuesday at his residence, Potts Point, Svdney,
aged ofi years. Mr. Cowlishaw had been unwell
tor some time and was suddenly prostrated by
what proved to be that most hopeless of all
diseases, internal cancer.
Hon. Dr. Mackellar, M.L.C. <N.S.W.)
has lost his only son Lieut. Kenneth Keith Mac-
kellar, of the 7th Dragoon Guards (aged but 20
years), m battle in South Africa. A fine young
feliow—now merely a withered stalk in the
Rhodes-Chamberlain-Jingo harvest.
Tom Glassey, who has succeeded at the
Bundaberg poll, is said to have toiled for years
m Scotch coalmines. Not for years. At an early
age Tom became a “justice man,’’that is, checker
of the miners’ out-put. His toil in Scotland was
thenceforth to mark up the toil of others.
The Yankee missionaries at Pekin sent
the following appeal to N.Y. World (run by that
clever Hebrew, Joseph Pulitzer) on June 10th
{vide Sydney D.T.. July 10th)
“ Arouse the Christian world immediately to our peril.
Should this arrive too late, avenge us."
Avenge us,” cry the Christian missionary mar-
tyrs of to-day. How like their Divine Master,
who cned, “Father, forgive them, for they know
not what they do.”
Commandant Hixson bobbed-about a good
deal in his recent reason-giving why N.S.W.
Naval Brigade men didn’t volunteer worth a cent
for service in China. The small pay—ss. a day,
as against Victoria’s 7s. fid. —was, he said first,
the principal reason ; then he bethought him that
most of the men are married and could not leave
at a moment’s notice; and finally he settled
down, by way of bed-rock, upon the fact that,
after all, the force was only sworn to defend its
own shores. If there were any need to go behind
the second of these reasons, the third consider-
ation should be an effectual clincher.
Someone long resident in China has been
ridiculing to a Sydney D.T. interviewer, that
Japan wants to “ preserve the integrity of China,”
and says that, though Russia is certain to come
out of the situation with the whole of Manchuria
and Mongolia—about a quarter of the Chinese
Empire—Japan wants to take as much, or more,
for herself, and is merely playing off the other
powers against Russia in order to “ come cranking
in” at the end and “ scoop the pool.” And Japan,
asserts this authority, would in that case be found
more aggressive and dangerous, as far as Australia
is concerned, than even Russia herself.
Died in Sydney at the age of 87, loveable
old John Rae, M.A., first Town Clerk of Sydney.
His Australian history dates back to 1839.
He was an Aberdonian, and was educated at
Marischal College, in his native city. His con-
nection with the civic government of Sydney ex-
tended over 15 years, when he entered the service
of the genera] Government, and was successively
Secretary to the Railway Department, Under-
secretary for Railways, Commissioner for
Railways, and Under-Secretary for Works.
He retired in 18S8. The deceased had keen
artistic and literary perceptions, and his collection
of views of old Sydney is one of the best extant.
Mr. Rae on the night of his death retired in
apparently his usual health and cheerful spirits;
he passed away gently in his sleep. He was a
charming odd man who to his last hour retained a
boyish gaiety and a boyish aptitude for learning.
He read and was enthusiastic over Horace in his
old age, and was privileged by his cherry-like
complexion to wear a red necktie at eighty-five.
The massacre at the Pekin Foreign Lega-
tions—now no longer, unfortunately, a matter of
doubt—is about the greatest horror that has oc-
curred since the Indian Mutiny Cawnpore-
slaughter, to which, by-the-way, the Chinese
affair bears some resemblance in the immolation
of the unfortunate women and children—though
in this case it was at the hands of their
dearest, to save them from the inconceiv-
able atrocities of Chinese torture. The whole
ghastly affair proves conclusively that what it
is customary to call the “ancient civilisation of
China” is, when “scratched,” but a ferocious
barbarism after all. What has the 19th century to
do with such men as those who recently, at Tien-
tsin, skinned an English missionary alive and then
burnt his eyes out with hot irons ? It is claimed
for Christianity that it would alter this ;
but proselytism in China has touched but the
merest fringe of the people, and can never
hope to make any appreciable impression on the
countless hordes in the background—fast bound in
the adamantine conservatism of the East, frantic
with immemorial tradition, and imbued with a
native ferocity which has no equal upon the face
of the earth. It is those who know China best
who despair of her most.


WE ARE NOT • . .
DERATED WATER .
MANUFACTURERS—^
Only .Bottlers of thb . .
Pure Australian ....
Natural Mineral Water,
ZETZ'SPA
From the Ballimore Springs, N.S.W.
ZETZ-SPA PROPRIETARY,
LIMITED,
Famous
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAVY AHD WAR OFFICE-
41 THE FINEST -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.’'
PACKED IN 4, 2 &. 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. & Co,, Ltd., Liverpool. Agents: M. Mty & Co,, Sydney,
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zino Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81°/.
Hy. Harkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-d., Byd
1) : !>. '
Water -stree
ney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Eagle-street,
Larnbton Quay, Wellirujtmi, NZ.;
si, Dunedin; Queen-street, A uokland.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland Government has floated a 3 per
cent, loan of £1,400,000 in London. It got the money by
a hair’s-breadth, the whole amount tendered being only
£1,411,000. The price was £94, less 255. per cent, for
underwriting, which reduces it to £92 15s. ; and expenses
which will probably be from £1 to £1 10s. per cent. ; so
the Queensland Government will get less than £92. In
other words, it gets about £1,250,000 and has to repay
£1,400,000. Therefore it appears that Queensland’s credit
is barely good enough to enable it to borrow at 3J per
cent, just now. Under these conditions, if it must borrow,
the honest process is either to float a 3£ per cent,
loan at par, or, if it floats a 3 per cent, loan at a loss, to
make the loss good by instalments out of revenue. On
the present loan Queensland saves a few shillings per
cent, per annum in interest by adding about £150,000 to
its permanent debt, which is just the same fraud
as if it openly paid part of the interest out of loans.
In fact it is absolutely a case of paying part of
the interest out of the loan itself. If Queensland went
a step further and floated a 2 per cent loan at £75 or a 1
per cent, loan at £4O and thereby saved more interest in
the present by adding more to the permanent debt in the
future, ora nothing per cent, loan at t'2o thereby adding
all the interest to the permanent debt, the public would
perhaps begin to dimly realise the nature of this political
and financial swindle.
Premier Philp says that the reasons why this
3} per cent, loan (it really is that or thereabouts) wasn’t
put on the local market were that the amount
(£1,400,000) was too large and because “all surplus money
in Australia is required for development.” There are the
following reasons for saying that this explanation is a
disgrace to Philp’s alleged intelligence. (1). He never
tried the local market, but as there are £23,500,000 of coin
lying idle in the banks the off-hand statement that
£1,400,000 couldn’t be got seems absurd. The local mar-
ket has been tried lately with 3 per cent, long-dated loans,
certainly, but that is another thing. It has also been
tried with a short-dated 31 per cent, loan, and rushed
it—though that is also a different thing. (2). The banks
are getting plenty of money at 3 and 3} per cent., and
the inference that the Queensland Government’s securitv
is worse than theirs is very rough on Queensland. (3)
The Queensland loan is to be used for development pur-
poses unless Premier Philp is going to waste it all, there-
fore the plea that Australian money should he used for
the development of Australia is just the reason why he
should have borrowed Australian money. At present,
the 23.| millions is not being used for development; it is
lying in the banks. The simplest explanation of the
desire to float loans in London seems to be this : In
London, the Australian Governments act on the advice of
their bankers and agents, and, if a loan is a failure, the
moral responsibility rests on the bankers and agents. In
Australia, they would have to act on their own knowledge
of the money-market, and take the responsibility of
failure themselves. And they haven’t the courage or the
confidence in their own knowledge. And Australia has
to pay for their ignorance.
• * • *
At 31st March, 1900, Maoriland had 11,285 old-
age pensions in force, and the bill £193,718 annually.
The working expenses of the Pensions Department were
only £2360 for the year. According to population, there-
fore, the M’Shiels Govt, should be able to establish a
similar old age pension system in Victoria for about
£300,000 or £330,000 a year. Victoria pays £340,000 a
year in pensions now, but they are not to the aged poor.
« * * *
The N.S.W. Auditor-General’s report for the
year ended 30th June, 1899, is just to hand—it usually
takes 12 months to produce this profoundly intricate
document. One notable feature in it is that the N.S.W.
railways, though fast improving, are still a losing concern.
Recent results are :
31st Dec., 1892 ( year) Loss .. ..£228,362
„ 1893 ( „ ) „ .... 217,958
„ 1894 ( „ ) 148,559
30 th June, 1895 Q year) ~ .... 186,135
„ 1896 ( year) 321,690
„ 1897 ( „ ) „ .... 38,545
„ 1898 ( „ ) 57,129
„ 1899 ( „ ) „ .... 14,107
The accumulated N.S.W. railway deficitisnow £7,844,994,
all the result of building railways with money borrowed
at a rate of interest which the lines couldn’t pay. On the
whole the N.S.W. Government lines have yielded a good
deal more than the average English rate of profit on rail-
way capital, but an enormous amount of the N.S.W. rail-
way capital was borrowed at 5 per cent, and it takes a
very prosperous railway system to earn that amount in a
very empty country.
■» « » *
Sydney Telegraph’s defence of the proposed
granting of power to extend the A.M.P.’s business to
England, South Africa, India, Burmah, the fever-stricken
coast of West Africa, &c. :
“We were again treated yesterday to a homily upon
the text, ‘Contract your business and flourish exceed-
ingly ; expand it, and perish.’ We were assured that
‘ Empires break down from their own weight, and in busi-
ness the theoretical advantage of extension is met by the
practical difficulty of management.’ We wonder whether
our two leading and most expanding banks, or the
greatest and most progressive insurance offices of the
world are troubled that way. Amongst the largest com-
panies in the world are the National Provincial Bank of
England, which has amassed £50,000,000 of deposits
accumulated at 191 offices, and Arthur Guinness, Son,
and Co., Limited, which has a turnover of a great many
millions annually drawn from all quarters of the globe.
Are they to be reckoned as decaying in consequence ? If,
like Empires, they are breaking down from their own
weight, the evidences are, at any rate, hardly so striking
as they might be.”
Pity the Telegraph didn’t think of hunting for illustra-
tions a little nearer home. The City of Melbourne Bank,
and the Federal and the Mercantile all extended their
business to England on the Telegraph’s principle that
size, and bulk, and corporation, and stomach, and dropsy
are the only essentials ; and their English business killed
them. They got more deposits than they could find safe
investments for, so they had to put the money
in all kinds of shaky specs, in order to earn the interest
on these extra deposits—and when the shaky investments
broke they broke also. It was extending the business to
England that was responsible lor nearly all the bank
failures of ’93, and all the public failures as well. Banks
and other institutions went hunting for English deposits
so anxiously that in four years they brought out
£49,000,000 of them to invest in Australia, and not being
able to find sufficient good investments they put much of
the money in bad ones—and the smash followed. Now it
is proposed that the A.M.P., because it is difficult to find
enough good investments in Australia for the income it
already has, and the average interest earned has conse-
quently declined, should go to hunt for more income in
England, and send it out here to make the difficulty of
investment greater arul the average interest loiver. It is
exactly what the banks did before their trouble came.
And the Daily Telegraph, which utterly failed to see
then what the banks’ extension-to-England policy was
leading to, is equally unable to see what the A.M.P.’s
extension policy may lead to now.
Also, by the way, the Telegraph’s argument
knocks its own case badly. The National Provincial Bank
of England didn’t make its pile by spreading its business
to Australia or South America or Hong Kong, but by
sticking to its own country. And the Guinness firm did
not make its millions by opening branch breweries at the
far ends of the earth. They both show what can be done
by the policy which the A.M.P. has hitherto followed, and
which The Bulletin wants it to still follow. And the
Daily Telegraph urges it to abandon the sound example
of the big bank and the big brewery, and quit the policy
which made it and them the great and sound concerns
they are.
The Telegraph, as usual, brings its fine talent
for misrepresentation into the controversy. Here is a
sample from its issue of 6th July :
“ The vast majority of the members of the society will
think their directors know better than either those poli-
ticians or members of the legal profession (most are both)
who have agitated against a wise step being taken for
some reason or reasons which they have been quite unable
to formulate. But the only crime they can suggest is
that the society may be growing faster than Australia is
growing, and so it ought to be restricted. Well, the
restriction argument has proved vastly amusing to a
number of rival insurance offices, and probably they might
not object to see it carried into effect as thoroughly as
might be."
Thus the Telegraph accuses its opponents of
using its own argument. The extension-to-England
crowd pleads: “The A.M.P. Society is growing faster
than Australia is growing. It may not be always able
to keep bloating out at this rate. Therefore, as size is
the one essential, we should spread the business to other
parts of the British Empire.” And the anti-extension
party replies : “The A.M.P. is growing much faster than
Australia is growing—much faster than any English
office, the Prudential alone excepted—much faster than it
ever grew before. Are these results not good enough?”
They never suggested restriction. They simply suggested
that.the A.M.P. should go on as at present, and continue to
be one of the fastest-growing, most cheaply-managed, and
most profitable offices in the world, and be satisfied with
that. And the Telegraph crowd and the extension party
want to follow the example of the Commercial Bank of
Australia, which was also doing well in Australia, but nob
being satisfied went to England for money, and boomed
its deposit business in six years from 5 j millions to nearly
13 millions—and then felt very sorry afterwards. In that
case also “ the directors knew best.”
• * * *
The Bank of North Queensland’s balance-sheet
for half-year to 30/6/’OO sets forth that the institution is
still making headway and recovering from past disasters.
Under these circumstances an account of the disasters
and the recovery is appended :
Profits.
Reserves at June 30, ’92 £4311
December, 1892 .. 6377 6 per cent, dividend
on £250,000 .. £6234
June, 1893 .. 2293
(£50,000 cdpital written off.)
December, 1893 .. 1249
June, 1894 .. 1357
December, 1894 .. 1674
June, 1895 .. 1736 Written off.. .. 10,000
December, 1895 .. 1182
June, 1896 .. 1703
December, 1896 .. 1717
June, 1897 .. 2003
December, 1897 .. 1559 Written off.. .. 10,928
June, 1898 .. 687
(£lOO,OOO capital written off.)
December, 1898 .. 1480
June, 1899 .. 2655
December, 1899 2700 2£ percent, dividend
and dividend-tax
on £lOO,OOO .. 1312 J-
June, 1900 .. 8458 2J „ „ .. 1312£
£37,941 £29,787
• • • *
The B.N.Q. adds another £2OOO to reserve fund
this half-year, making it £BOOO, and carries forward £154.
In the days before the reconstruction reserve fund was
only £3OOO, so the management is evidently profiting by
experience and taking more care to strengthen the insti-
tution than of old. The profits, which include £9Ol
recovered from debts previously written off as bad, equal
the very handsome figure of £6 10s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ capital and reserves; not
reckoning these recoveries the actual earnings of the half-
year are £2556, equal to £4 16s. 6d. per cent, per annum
bn the capital and reserves. The 8.N.Q.. has a large cash
reserve equal to per cent, on all liabilities to the pub-
lic, and a further reserve of £10,500 in Government stock.
The latter is a new item in the balance-sheet, and shows
a wise desire to have the reserve fund represented by
tangible assets.
* • • *
The following are the results shown by the Vic-
torian State Land Bank, or Credit Foncier, or Advances'
Department of the Savings Bank, so far as it had got when
the last balance-sheet was made up :
Expenses in
Expenses in pro- proportion
portion to gross to average
earnings. capital em-
ployed.
30th June, Per cent. Per cent.
1897 .. Loss £1,462 .. £2Ol 7 5 .. £2 12 2
1898 .. Profit 1,608 .. 23 17 11 .. 1 2 10'
1899 .. „ 5,547 .. 14 17 2 .. 0 13 7
Profit .. £5,693
This is very rapid progress, considering that the Credit-
Foncier had to pay interest on its entire capital from the
day it commenced business—unlike a private bank, which
seldom pays anything on its capital till its second or third
year. The Victorian State Land Bank had, at 30th June,
1899, a reserve-fund of £5697, being above profit balance
and some small interest earnings thereon. The profits
for 1898-99, after paying interest on borrowed money,
are about 16s. lid. per cent, per annum on the
average capital. At present, the State Land Bank
borrows money at 3 per cent, and lends it out at 41, but
even in its third year it had made such progress that it
could borrow at 3J and still have a good margin. And
there will soon be a serious necessity for putting up the
borrowing rate to 3}, as well as for making other reforms.
At present the great bulk of the State Land Bank’s bonds,
are taken up by the Savings Bank —the public won’t sub-
scribe to any great extent. The interest, rate is too low.
At a time when the N.&.Wi Government is giving 4 per
cent, for a short-dated loan in London, and the Queens-
land Government has just floated a long-dated London
loan that will cost it about .‘i.j per cent., the demand that
the Australian investor will be content with 3 per cent,
is especially ridiculous. The bonds are liable to be paid
off at anj* time (though the paying-off process, so far as.
the public is concerned, is temporarily suspended), and
this is eminently unpopular. The Victorian Government
had so little faith in the success of its experiment when it
founded the Land Bank that it didn’t feel confident of
always finding- mortgage investments for its borrowed
money, even at 4J per cent., and it reserved the power to
hand the money back to the lenders if the business came
to a dead stop. And the fact that trustees are not
allowed to invest trust-funds in State Land Bank securi-
ties is a grievous handicap. Yet, despite these drawbacks,
the Vic. State Land Bank is a great success, and the re-
turns for the year to 30th June, 1900, when they arrive,
will show still further progress.
* • • *
There is nothing at all bashful or retiring about
the British investor. The Imperial Congress of Chambers
of Commerce, sitting in London, proposes that all British
investments in Greater Britain should be exempted from
income-tax by the provincial Governments because
Britain also charges income-tax on them ; consequently
the Briton with money invested in N.S.W. or Victoria or
S.A. has to pay twice. The fact that it is Britain which
is doing the swindle by charging income-tax on incomes
not earned in Britain apparently doesn’t occur to these
modest individuals. Britain levies income-tax on all
incomes earned in Great Britain, even if they are the
incomes of absentees, and are spent abroad, and pay an
extra income-tax abroad. It also levies income-tax on
money' earned abroad and spent in Great Britain. And
when it doesn’t care about double-banking the income-
tax-payer, why should Australia ?
• • * •
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. (Sydney)
issues a circular, stating that during the first half of 1899
it has largely reduced expenses, that the amount of new
business done promises to break even last year’s very
remarkable record, and that the rate of interest earned
on investments will be up to 4 per cent, by the end of the
year. The 1899 interest-rate was a very humble £3 14s.
And even 4 per cent, isn’t much.
• * * *
Apropos of the accidental finding among the
late James Tyson’s waste paper of £90,000 worth
of bank deposit receipts—what would have hap-
Sened if these had not been found? There is no law in
'.S. W. or Queensland or Victoria compelling banks to
hand over unclaimed balances to the heirs of the late
depositor, or to the State, or even to reveal their exist-
ence. And, bv the wav, what about the other possible
£lBO,OOO worth of Tyson’s deposit receipts which weren’t
found ?
* » * *
They have ideas in the United States. There
the national banks have to deposit with the State as
security for their note issue United States 2 per cent,
bonds to the full amount of the issue. They also pay five
shillings per cent, note-tax. This works out remarkably
well for both parties. The State gets loan-money at 2 per
cent, and guarantees the payment of the notes, which it
can safely do, seeing that it holds their full value. The
banks have to keep practically no cash reserve against
their notes, for the State guarantee prevents the public
rushing for gold even in times of panic. So a bank can
turn, say, £lO,OOO of its gold into 2 per cent, bonds, and
still have the £lO,OOO (in notes which are practically as
good as gold) to lend out at interest. If it can lend out
the whole amount it reall.v, deducting the note tax, is
making £1 15s. per cent, extra profit, less the cost of
keeping its note issue in repair and plus any gain from
notes that never turn up for redemption. The State,
meanwhile, is saving at least 1 per cent. The scheme
would, probably 7, work about as well if the U.S. abolished
the note tax and made the banks deposit the amount of
their note issue in 14 per cent, bonds.
* * * •
• F. W. Browne, gen. manager of the big Aus-
tralian carrying firm of Wright, Heaton and Co., possesses
a unique record. Some ten years ago, at Melbourne, he
managed the M’Culloch Carrying Co., and even in the
face of the expiring boom paid its lucky shareholders 40
per cent, divs. He then took hold of Wright, Heaton’s
business when at low ebb as a profit-producer, and after
four years’ control —four years that synchronised with
four years of drought—he has raised the company to a
40 per cent. div.-paying power. Tub Bulletin is not
acquainted with F. W. Browne, and wouldn’t know him
if it met him in its porridge, but it is distinctly of opinion
that a man who has such a genius for contriving 40 per
cent, dividends during eras of depression is made of the
very sort of material that successful Railway Commis-
sioners are built of.
* * * •
B.H. Prop, has now got its complete concen-
trating mill at work ; it has a 10,000 ton weekly capacity.
Also the co. has got one of the imported briquetting
plants going at Port Pirie ; the object of the latter is to
mould the very fine concentrates and the lead-dust into
cubes, so that the working capacity of the smelting fur-
naces may be increased. It was the choking of the fur-
naces by the fine stuff which lately led to a serious decline
in metal output without any reduction of the fuel bill.
• * •- *
The three-year-old fire in the underground
workings of the B.H. Prop, still smoulders ; it is, of
course, now confined to a small area. There was some
good lead ore over one heavily-timbered portion lately
reached in the open cut, and at some time or other the
heat had been intense enough to melt out the metal,
which was lying in irregular blocks on the floor. At one
time a few months back workmen got close enough in to
ladle out still molten lead.
* * * *
The metallurgy-classes at Sydney Technical
College are still grossly neglected—to such an extent that
several hard-working and necessitous students who last
term paid for instruction which they did not receive
(there being no competent person on hand to give it to
them) have this term declined to pay fees.
• * • *
“ Fuze ” : Re recent remarks in Bulletin about
Cullinga (N.S.W.) field going to be good labor-employer
presently. Can’t see it ! Xmas Gift mine has worked on
its big lode for 12 months, and it is a splendid show, big
and good, and runs ten head of.stamps when water is at
hand. Yet a few face-hands are all that are needed to
keep the battery going; 15 men, all-told, on the mine.
The other prospectors along line as stated, will have their
crushings through this week. Months of labour, and
about four different parties concerned, but writer would
wager the lot will not turn out 25ozs. of gold. Tub
Bulletin is a paper looked to by miners for reliable in-
formation, so I call your attention, as par in question
might fetch men.where no employment, or very little, is
to be had. Scab-labor is already on the field— viz., £2 2s.
per week for miners ; also the other curses—contract-work
and private property. Last-named drags along with it
the sleeping-share—so this is a fairly well-cursed field.
* * » •
Adelaide Critic talks foolishness re Burraga
(N.S.W.) Copper Mine, now known as “ Lloyd’s” Copper
Co., by advising all Australian shareholders (there ave
■none) to get out of it. However, as regards Burraga the
Critic is not alone in its folly. Several mining “experts”
examined and refused the old show at less than half the
priee at which it was eventually sold. The last expert
demanded his deposit back, and threatened action
against the owner for misrepresentation ; whereas, as a
matter of absolute fact, at the very time he and others
examined and declined the mine nearly the whole of the
purchase money was represented by copper on the sur-
face in the form of dressed ore ; matte on the road, at the
mine, and at the Lithgow works ; and copper in the
bottoms of the old furnaces. One furnace alone gave up
some 70 tons of copper when it was cleaned out by the
present co., which has turned out over £50,000 worth of
metal in less than a year, and should certainly double
this production during the next. Writer would like to
give a list of the “ mining men ” who refused Burraga
mine at £35,'000 and £40,000. They are all much wiser
now.
# * * *
Wertago, the resurrected copperfield, out where
the dead men lie, beyond Wilcannia, talks already of one
of The O’Sullivan’s light railways. The distance from
Tarrawingee, a present railway terminus, is about 90
miles. A syndicate is building furnaces there, so the talk
should soon be worth listening to. So far the more one
has heard about [the field the less one has known for
certain.
• .* * •
The Great Central Freehold at Mt. Hope, which
was reported on by Mr. A. T. “ Condemnatory ” Brown,
was underwritten by the vendors of the Intercolonial
Options Development Co., who took 68 per cent of the
shares, the guileless public taking 32 per cent. The £l5O
shares of the Great Central Freehold touched £4OOO each
in Melb. It is a case of the Chillagoe Syndicate over
again, as it is understood that several years will be needed
to bring the G.C.F. to producing-point.
* * » *
So far the Chillagoe directors have not explained
why they have sold £50,000 worth of debentures in
London at £lOO when the Melb. price, plus the Sept, pay-
ment of £25, was equal to £lll. Considering that the Co.
paid £83,000 in commission to get £317,000 in cash—26
per cent of the money gone in brokerage—surely the share-
holders are entitled to some explanation.
* • * *
The Raub Australian Gold Mining Co. (pro-
perty in the Straits Settlements but office in Brisbane)
lately declare a Is. div. and makes a Is. call payable same
day. Pleasant for paid-up scrippers, no doubt, but very
rough on the contributing crowd. When there is a sum
of money on hand, half of which is wanted to pay for
improvements or dead work, the obvious and honest
course seems to be to pay for the work out of the money
on hand, and cut down the div. one-half. Thi9 new
device is simply a method by which the paid-up share-
holder gets his div. while the contributing one gets
nothing. And if the paid-up shareholders are the major-
ity they may expand the system almost indefinitely. They
can decide that almost any work is the kind of work
which should be charged to capital, and keep on paying
themselves handsome dividends, and giving the con-
tributing shareholders no divs. at all, to any extent.
If the idea comes into general use the man with
money and brains will take very good care not to be a
contributing shareholder in a co. where the paid-up person
is in evidence.
* • • •
Croydon tinfield properties are being developed
systematically. Big samples of ore sent to Sydney and
Melbourne have given payable returns. Tin-miners are
agitating for a State battery to help developing field.
Lodes so far are losing nothing in size and richness with
depth, and the stanniferous area is extending on all sides.
Experienced men who have visited field say prospects
equal those of Herberton district.
Re Q. Premier Philp’s assertion that “it had
been abundantly proved that private enterprise could
work mining railways better than the Government/*
“Private enterprise” isn’t working any railways in Q.
The Ohillagoe line isn’t yet open, and, of course, hasn’t
had time to be a success or anything else. And Philp
seems inclined to burk the feasible Atherton Garnet route
in favor of the branch line from the Chillagoe co.’s road.
* * * *
Croydon Notes to June 28: Strong develop-
ments reported at the tinfield. Several new lodes located.
Miners want a State battery to help in proving the field.
- -Gold-mining progresses satisfactorily. Federation
(Bull Co.) going to start again to sink underlie ; £12,000
additional capital said to be available for development
work. The luck of Jimmy Rogers, the erstwhile King
of Croydon, seems on the down-grade. His latest venture,
Tracey’s Block Tribute, went only about sdwt. per ton,
and crushing stopped suddenly in consequence.
Rogers’ Golden Gate (English co.) still turning out good
results. Latest crushings, fortnight’s run, 270 tons for
3140 z. 12dwt. G. Gate Gold Mines Co. (Towers co.)
going down rapidly to catch reef in deep ground.
Morgan’s Block, on same mission, is in vicinity of reef,
also inundated with water ; mine at present idle pending
arrangements to continue sinking. Diamond drill at
Iguana Consols Syndicate’s lease going down satisfactorily
in promising country.
Two mouths’ operations of G. Gate 3 and 4
South Tribute Syndicate, Croydon. Syndicate holds a
portion of Cashman’s 3 and 4 South mine on tribute,
being limited to the employment of 10 men only. Dur-
ing May and June they crushed 1325 tons for 71600z5.
gold valued at £18,821‘125. lOd. Average value of gold,
£2 12s. 7d. per oz., the ore being worth, therefore,
£l5 3s. 9Jd. per ton. After paying £3626 in royalty to
owners of mine, the Syndicate paid during May and June
three divs. aggregating £11,776. Then water gave
out, crushing was temporarily suspended, but another
mill has been secured, and further divs. are now being
ground out.
* • • *
For 6 months ended June 30th, Queensland gold
output was 503,1810 z., of which 12,4140 z. were from
alluvial mining. Total quantity of quartz and tailings
treated on all fields, 644,199 tons—for 490,7470 z. Charters
Towers gave 105,3930 z. from 102,458 tons crushed, and
143,2720 z. from 298,576 tons tailings (nearly half the gold
output of the province). Gympie returned 44,4300 z. from
55,869 tons quartz, and 13690 z. from 1888 tons tailings.
Croydon (4th place) total output was 42,9260 z. Ravens-
wood gave in all 13,4020 z. Towers—calls, £37,597 ;
divs., £145,333. Mt. Morgan—calls, nil; divs., £175,002.
Gvmpie—calls, £53,866; divs., £48,314. Croydon—
oalls, £4324; divs., £36,372.
* * * *
The annual report of Mt. Morgan G.M. Go. for
year ended May 31st shows that 239,276 tons stone were
treated for 187,3520 z. gold, giving to the ton ;
average value, £3 3s. Bd. Stone treated shows an increase
on previous 12 months of 34,774 tons, and the gold an in-
crease of 22,4420 z. ; but average yield of gold per ton
shows a decline of 14gr. Total receipts from all sources
for the 12 months, £796.710, and total expenditure,
£386,990, which includes £186,921 for wages, £49,895 for
stores and material, £39,878 for the new mundic works,
&e. Dividends for last 12 months, £350,000; div.
duty, £17,500 ; and royalty, £8,641.
• • * »
Mt. Lyell.—The offer of £lB,OOO or 6s. per
share for the Royal Tharsis refused by the Directors, with
an intimation that they would recommend £24,000 for
the consideration of shareholders ; the parent co. deter-
mined not to increase the offer. The offer of £45,000 for
the South Tharsis not yet dealt with. Safe to bet they
will want more, though it is far more money than the
mine is worth to present co. At the same time it suits
the Mt. Lyell Co. to buy it at that figure. No doubt they
would get it much cheaper by waiting, but meanwhile
more than the difference would be spent in using barren
silica flux. Somewhat remarkable that the management
did not acquire properties containing siliceous ore-bodies
with a little copper a year or two ago. The Mt. Lyell’s
adversity—the want of silica—is the South Tharsis people’s
opportunity for the sale of the mine at a bigger figure
than it is worth to themselves, and, if they are fools
enough to refuse it, the Mt. Lyell people have the conso-
lation that it is not the only mine in the district where
the siliceous flux want can be supplied.
* » * *
Crown Lyell (Tas.) : As anticipated, the im-
provement was short-lived. A few days’ working and an
intrusion of schist appeared. It was seen and wired to
Melbourne before the manager got below. Most of the
miners sacked ; probably those taking their places will act
likewise under similar circumstances.
* * * *
Tasmania’s agricultural boom of. a year ago
seems to have dropped dead. In 1898 the island produced
2,303,512 bushels of wheat and 2,271,070 bushels oats.
For 1899 the results were—1,093,576 bushels wheat and
1,027,750 bushels oats, or much less than half.
» • * *
The Royal Tharsis is likely to amalgamate with
the Lyell Tharsis and not with the South Tharsis as
certain clever people on Melb. Stock Exchange lately
believed.
» * * - *
Wired that a dredge on Molyneux River, M.L.,
obtained 800 oz. gold for two days’ work.
(Continued on page 25.)


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH
52s 6d ’
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d
42s ’
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan y cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
PAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
PAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
©■
A PLEASING PORTRAIT
OF YOUR FRIENDS
Is the result when taken by one of
HARRINGTON’S
CAMERAS.
An Immense Stock of every Grade, Size and Price for
Beginners, students, or Experts.
From ss. to £5O.
Half-Plate Preftio Senior.
Fitted with Rapid Rectilinear Lens and Pneumatic Shutter, Iris
Diaphragm, View Finder, 3 Double Plate Holders, and Accurate
Scale for Snapshot work. May be used as a Hand or Stand Camera.
Price (complete), £lO.
Harrington & Co. Ltd.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
63T Branches or Agencies in every Colony.
SOCIETY
The first to wear the title of Gov.-General
of Australia was Charles Augustus Fitzroy, whose
memory still smells in N.S.W. As in the appoint-
ment of Hopetoun, Australia was not consulted as
to what sort of a man it liked or disliked. But at
that time Earl Grey, the Joe Chamberlain of the
moment, was not so wholly insolent as the Im-
perial Govt. now is, for the Earl made offer to pay
the salary of the Gov.-General. “I should not
think it fair,” he wrote, “to claim the right of
appointment and impose on you the duty of pay-
mg the salary.” The inconsequential Legislature
*1 however, instead of straightening out
the difficulty, decided that, whereas it could not
appoint, or have a voice in the appointment, of
the chief official, it would, at any rate, retain the
unique honor of paying the whole of his salary.
* * * •
The probability now is that the Federal
Parliament will be housed, during its sittings in
Melbourne, not in the Exhibition Building, as at
J 1 I s , P ro P°sed, but in a specially-erected wooden
bunding m Parliament House yard. It will cost
at least £25,000 to put up the place, which will be
made to communicate with the library and the
palatial halls in which. the local Parliament will
talk about roads, bridges, drains, and parish
pumps.
* • * *
John Ferrier, under arrest for shootirm
Miss Aubrey, at Dalton (Yic.) on July 2 is
receiving characteristic treatment from the Aus-
tralian press in town and country. His record
true or imaginary, has been printed by scores of
papers. His shooting in Sydney, alleged em-
bezzlement in Victoria, and general career are set
ao\vn m naked type, and the Vic. police are repre-
sented as saying that they believe he is a much
worse scoundrel than the narrative discloses,
iriow, in these circumstances, is Ferrier to get a
fair and square jury trial under the law ? One of
the uses of a Public Defender would be that such
an official would be in a position to take cognis-
ance of press or other reports which jeopardised
tair trial, and to immediately indict the offenders
for attempting to interfere with the course of
justice. At present such offences are nobody’s
special business, and if the accused be without
influential friends, he is practically convicted
before trial.
♦ * * *
M hat Anti-Sweating League Sec. Mauger
characterised as the worst case of sweating ever
brought to his notice was that of a young man
who entered Vic. Customs Dept, in ’94, as an ap-
mtice, at 2s. a day. During the last six years
AS YOU LIKE IT.
"Dld you tell Sissy T opnatch that I was running after that long fool of a brother of hers?”
Me! No, never. I only said he was making you awfully tired!”
he had grown into a man of 23, and has long been
employed doing a man’s work, but the Dept,
still paid him the sauie old 2s. a day !
* * • *
One can tell pretty well what sort of a
drought it has been by reading even the report of
the N.S.W. Federal Electorates Commission,
lately tabled. At Thackaringa, partly mining
and partly pastoral, in Sturt electorate, 71 per
cent, of the names have been struck off the rolls
through removals ; at Yandarly (Wilcannia), 70
per cent., at Nuntherungie (Wilcannia) G 2 per
cent., Pooncarie (Wentworth) 48 per cent., Menin-
die (Wentworth) 42 per cent., Wentworth 37 per
cent. For the whole district of Wentworth the
removals total 33 per cent., for the Lachlan 30 per
cent., for Bourke 24 per cent. In the last four
years there has been in these districts an absolute
net loss of (say) 20 per cent, of the adult males.
* * * *
The Orange complaint about the special
Gqvt. grants to the Sydney R.C. hospitals (St.
Vincent’s and Lewisham) is useful in drawing
attention to the lack of Govt, inspection of all
institutions receiving help from the Consolidated
Revenue. Under the Public Institutions Inspec-
tion Act, 18G6, all such places are required to sub-
mit to it ; but it is no one’s particular province
to make these inquiries, and, as a matter of fact,
no inspection is ever made. Presumably the
large institutions pay professional accountants to
do their work, but many of the smaller ones em-
ploy honorary amateurs only ; and, though the
matter is brought under the notice of succeeding
Governments, nothing is done. Huge sums of
money go out of the Treasury yearly, and there
are only the societies’ receipts to show what is done
with them.
* * * *
The coincidence of the President of
N.S.W. Public Service Association being elevated
by Govt, to the Public Service 'Board has mate-
rially altered the views of many of the. higher
officials in the departments towards that body.
The elections for the incoming Council are to be
held at the end of the month, and several of the
big men are known to eagerly await a “ numer-
ously-signed requisition ”to stand. The rank and
file of the service, however, look askance at the
idea of a council unduly officered by the heads of
departments or their chief clerks, the effect of
which would be to ruin their object in establish-
ing the Association.
* * * •
All the Sydney tram-accidents do not get
into the papers. Soon after H.M.S. Europa
reached this port a petty officer on leave attempted
to board a tram at Circular Quay. The driver
started before the man was ready and he fell
underneath the wheels. One foot had to be
amputated and he received other serious injuries!
The Railway Commissioners, with the Lawson
case in view, offered him £6OO compensation,
which was accepted. Under the regulations of
the British navy no pension is given to men
disabled off duty and consequently the unfortunate
man will receive nothing from the Admiralty.
* * * *
Still they come ! A Canterbury (M.L.)
lady has received from her brother (serving in
S’Africa), and proudly exhibits as trophies—
ostrich-feather tips, a Dutch prayer-book and
catechism, a love-letter (the pathos of it), also a
marriage-certificate (Wanted, an iron - shod boot
and a strong leg behind it), as well as a half-
sovereign, with two holes in it, sewn on to a pair
of trousers for a brace-button.
Most of Sydney M’sL.A. advertise their
devotion to their constituents by the easy method
of securing gratis a load of blankets
from the authorities, which fact is
duly noted in the daily press. A
short time ago one of the well-
to-do Eastern suburbs founded
a Ladies’ Benevolent Society.
A few pounds were collected
to relieve some temporary
local distress, but with better
times the need for the Society
passed away and it died a na-
tural death. The President
of the Society returned home
quite recently from her travels
abroad. She had totally for-
gottent hat the Ladies’ Bene-
volent Society had ever
existed, and was consider-
ably mystified a day or
two ago to find dumped
down in her hall two or
three large bundles of
cheap blankets. The car-
ter showed her the ad-
dresses on the goods, and
insisted on delivery. She
learned, on inquiry, that
the indefatigable M.P.
for the district had some
hazy notion of a society
in that division of his
electorate, and, remem-
bering the address of its
president, had sent on
the blankets. The unfor-
tunate lady is now, with'
the aid of her friends and
neighbors, endeavoring
to get rid of them.
“D. ” : Saw two
pickpockets dash into a
side-street to investigate
a purse one of them
had snatched from a
stylishly-dressed woman.
“Well?” said Light-
ning - Fingers, peering
over Greasy - Hand’s
shoulder. “ Yah!” Greasy-
Hand pitched it down a gra
mg. ‘ ‘ Three blanky pawn-tickets and a flea ! ”
* • * *
Ihe whirligig of things. Six or seven
years ago, before drought wiped the surplus stock
off the Western N.S.W. plains, John Howell
and one or two others put up a big boiling-down
and meat-preserving factory at Menindie, on the
Darling; and among other plant a big stock of
tin-plates was laid in. But the huge plant never
had a chance to. work ; and the other week the
jump in the tin-market made it worth while
taking back the stock of tin-plates from the heart
of Australia to the port from which it was shipped
six years or so ago.
* * * *
Died recently, aged <B4, Mrs. Robert
Lowe, of Wilbertree, near Mudgee—the first
white'female to take up her residence in Mudgee.
Which recalls a “black” story that shows how
scarce white women were in Mudgee even in 1840.
An old man, still living in the West, says that in
that year he was one day at Blackman’s Inn,
Mudgee, when a. well-dressed man came riding
into the yard with a young gin seated behind
him. She was good-looking and clean, dressed in
a clean skirt and ’possum rug. The horseman
was a Govt, official, who had come in to open the
court. He lived down the river, but always
brought the gin with him for fear her blackfellow
would take her away in his absence. Mrs. Bur-
gess, the cook at Blackman’s, always got half-a-
crown to provide dinner and keep the gin sober.
The latter belonged to the Bathurst tribe, was
quite a beauty (for a gin), and was named Dithabba
(meaning flower) corrupted to Biddy. That
official founded a First Family, too !
One portion of Thomas Rose’s law reform
bill, now dangling .in N. S.W. Legislature,
provides that in all civil actions, the Judge shall
determine “ all questions of law and fact, but upon
tne application of either party to the suit, the Judge
snail order a jury to be summoned to try questions
of fact.” Which comes simply to this: one party
will say, “Your Honor, I’m quite satisfied that
your Honor’s decision on the facts will be abso-
lutely correct.” Then the other will have to agree
or say: Your Honor, I’m not willing to trust your
judgment on the facts. Gimmeajury.’’ Inthelatter
case, the Judge—a certain kind of Judge, anyway
will purse up his mouth, scowl at the impudent
suitor and grant a jury, whacking into said suitor
on pomts of law. . If there must be a change made
IP t* lis branch, it. would be better to leave the
’ i ge to decide without direction of suitors, as to
whether the facts are so obscure that the assistance
of a jury is necessary.
* * * *
Vic. Govt, bacteriologist, Dr. Cherry,
attributes to infected milk the great majority of
the 800 tuberculosis deaths per annum in Victoria
of children under 10. Hardly to be wondered at,
in view of the fact that—as the 3 to 4 per
cent, of the animals found at the Melbourne
Abattoirs to be infected with tuberculous
are nearly all bullocks—it is impossible to
estimate the extent to which dairy-cows are
affected. And, in any case, Dr. Cherry points
out, the big business mistake will come home to
roost the moment tubercle-bacilli are discovered
m Victorian exported butter. Perhaps, when the
pocket speaks, the wholesale milk-murderer will
listen.
In some cases the loud cry of the N.S.W.
policeman for a pension from the bankrupt pen-
sion-fund is pure make-believe. He won’t drop
out on pension unless he must. He, by the time
A BROKEN HEART.
“ Could yer spare
the price of a beer,
mum; I’ve a wife and three kids starving a
home, and I can’t face ’em unless I’m hal-
hoozed.”
a full pension is earned, is mostly barnacled with
perquisites, and the day he goes on pension the
barnacles are scoured off. For instance, one
officer is entitled to his salary as pension, but
besides his salary he is allowed £l5O a year for
house-rent. Another has his gas, taxes and water-
rate paid. Another receives the services of an
orderly in addition to salary, and so on. These
extras will all disappear when the veterans retire,
and as at their age they are not required to do
much —anyhow, they are much better off in har-
ness than out of it. The loudness of their cry
is proportioned to the barrenness of the Fund.
* * * *
Cardinal Moran, referring to the recent
eviction of the Carmelite nuns at Marrickville,
Sydney, said that in purchasing the property the
nuns had made a bad speculation, and the Catholic
Church was not prepared to pay thousands of
pounds on a matter of sentiment. It is certainly
reassuring tp know that Holy Church has ceased
to spend money on “sentiment.” Meanwhile
the nuns are being housed privately by friends,
and the Cardinal cheerfully adds: “As regai ds
any future arrangements, I have no doubt that
Providence will arrange all things for the best.”
Good old Providence !—it always comes in handy
when people are not inclined to “ part.”
* * * *
The steamer Australien last week took 15
tons’ weight of empty bottles from Mildura
“temperance” settlement!
HISTORICAL PERSONAGES.
BENEVOLENT OLD GENTLEMAN : “Well , my little
girl, what is your name?”
LITTLE GIRL: “ Victoria Royal Jubilee Jones.”
B.O.G.: “ Indeed! And what is the little baby’s
name? ”
L.G.: “’E’s my brother, and ’is name is John
Redvers Buller Tugela Spion Kop Jones.”


HARDY BROTHERS, 13 Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
E:
Electro-plated Tobacco
Box, 355.
Large Stock
of
Gentlemen’s
Requisites.
in
Sterling
Silver,
Ivory,
and
Ebony,
<5
1
Sterling Silver Match Boxes,
from 10s. to 28s.
New Goods
of the
Latest Designs
received
by
every mail.
Illustrated
Catalogue
sent free on
application.
Handsome Sterling Silver
Match Holder, 355.
WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AND SILVERSMITHS.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
110 0011V1
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING lOL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Melbourne Health authorities were lately
wondering how that fatal case of plague happened
in one of the outer suburbs. Chief Factories’ In-
spector Ord, in a report to Prahran Council, sug-
gests how it might happen. He had inspected
the premises of a firm of marine dealers and
bedding manufacturers, and found “five women
picking rags in a half-open shed exposed to the
winds and to the dust from a flock-teasing
machine. Walls and windows were covered with
dust and cobwebs. Rags and boxes of rags and
flock were all over the shed. In a low, ill-lighted-
and ill-ventilated room upstairs men and women
were making mattresses. The whole place wasdirty
and wretched and should be pulled down.” Only
a few weeks before the local health-inspector had
overhauled the whole city and had discovered no
nuisance worth mentioning. Apparently the
gentleman thought a marine store was the proper
place to manufacture nice, new, clean bedding.
* * * *
Understood that the next Bishop of Bal-
larat will get a reasonable salary at the start, with
every prospect of fatter times in store for him.
Bishop Thornton was drawing only £6OO a year
when he decided to shift camp back to England.
No wonder that Thornton felt tired of wearing
episcopal gaiters on these terms. As a clerk at
£3 a week it would have been easier for him to
“ live up to his position ” and escape calumny on
the score of meanness.
* * * *
F.C.” : Ran across my St. Kilda
acquaintances —the alleged Greek Gypsies—at
Ringwood, 16 miles outside Melbourne, t’other
day. Such property as they have acquired during
the past year is wholly of the landed variety, and
is carried on the person. They possess two ex-
press wagons in an advanced stage of senile decay,
a couple of ponies of a frugal breed, and two
alleged tents, structures composed wholly of bags
sewn together and thrown over poles. Seven
men, ten women and a tribe of children make a
push of 38 altogether. Apparently all their
clothing is worn permanently—and they need it
this weather. The wagons were empty ; the
“tents” luxuriously furnished with carpets of
spear-grass and gum-leaves; their only visible
garments, other than those worn, were a few red
bandannas spread out to dry. Several of the
kiddies were almost naked, while the thermometer
was vainly trying to get into the forties. They
had no fire, though there was abundance of wood
at hand. Asked one of the men if he didn’t find
it cold sleeping in the tents this weather. “Oh,
THE CASE CONDENSED.
THE BULLETIN bEING rather tired of the
Marshall-Hall discussion publishes this zoological
view of the situation.
DIGNITARY (up the tree): “My dear Professor,
I can't let you play that tune in my yard.
Hence this cocoanut.”
no ! we sleep in ze wagons. Ze vomen sleep in ze
tents.” They get themselves disliked by visiting
adjacent houses, knocking, and, when the door is
opened, calmly entering and taking a seat as if
they had come to stay. Also, they demand
money, in return for which they will condescend
to read your hand. Sixpence seems to be the
lowest coin accepted, though a “ tray ” and a loaf
of bread are not refused, but donor gets a poor
“ fortune ”in return for that. So far as can be
gathered their intention is to travel round Vic-
toria until they finally peg-out from cold or
a too great aversion to work or something. No-
body really knows where they came from.. They
certainly are not Greeks. They look unaccount-
able enough to be extinct Babylonians.
* * * •
Victoria’s war-celebration postage-stamps
came out so late, and consequently fell on such a
flat market, that they seem likely to do little
more than pay for paper and gum. Instead of
the expected £3600, net proceeds are so far only
about £6OO, and the demand is almost dead.
Query by Dr. Ross, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), the
meteorological crank who is always asking the
Ministry if it will ask Astronomer Russell why
rain falls down instead of up ; or why it is colder
in cold weather than in warm weather; or whether
he is of opinion that a four-sided triangle standing
up horizontally during the recent wet weather,
with one end of it leaning on the isobar and the
other end in a public-house drinking with the
barometer, if it met an oblong square that had
cold feet, was calculated to make Borchgrevink
feel better towards Wragge than he does now, or
whether it would cause £ll9s. to go mad and
bark on a milestone :
1. Will he obtain from Mr. Russell, 8.A., Govt. Astro-
nomer and Meteorologist, a report on the recent cold
weather and phenomenal fall of snow that occurred all
over the colony, and the probable cause of the same com-
pared with the previous prolonged and disastrous
droughts through which the colony has passed of late
years ? 2. If similar cold weather and an unprecedented
fall of snow has ever previously been experienced in these
colonies ; if so, when, and to what extent ? 3. Is there
any likelihood (meteorologically or otherwise) of similar
cold and phenomenal fall of snow recurring in the future ;
if so, from what cause or probable causes are such atmos-
pheric perturbations likely to occur ; and, if so, are there
any means or known meteorological laws by which their
advent may be accurately or approximately foretold ?
It might occur to any less devastating gentleman
than the ever-inquiring Ross that if the late fall
of snow was unprecedented there couldn’t have
been a similar one before. That point didn’t
occur to the devastator apparently.
* * * *
Owing to the fact that Maoriland girls
decline to work for the wages offered by Bell and
Co., wax-match makers, of Wellington (M.L.),
the firm has imported girls from ’Ome to do the
work. The damsels have now arrived and express
disgust at a land where there are no penny doctors
(poor girls !), no cheap gaffs, and where Govt,
interferes with sweating and “phossy-jaw.” No
doubt the ’Ome lydies will soon assimilate M.L.
democratic principles and necessitate the firm
again having to face the music.
* * * *
The soi-disant democratic S. A. Advertiser
(run by a knight) proudly claims the credit of
having suggested sending the toy local gun-
boat Protector to China. As is only natural, the .
’Tiser’s loathsome contemporary, S.A. Regis-
ter, simply thunders against the idea. Both
papers are painfully Jingo, and the Register
opposition is therefore merely prompted by
annoyance at the opposition rag having forestalled
it in this crawlsome matter. The Protector’s
commander and crew are all, in a sense, amateurs.
Walcot, the first commander, long since returned
to England. Capt. Creswell (his successor) was
recently promoted to Queensland, and the original
crew were paid off years ago.
* » * •
Extract from letter from an Australian
mining-engineer in China: —
The strictures of Dr. Morrison (a Geelong boy, now Lon-
don Times correspondent at Pekin) on the missionaries
are, in my opinion, rather overdone. . Of course, there are
many narrow-minded ex-grocer’s assistants amongst'the
missionaries, of whom it is well to fight shy if yon can >
but, on the whole, they are excellent company, ahd ever
ready to oblige. Dr. Morrison’s name is, of course,
strictly tabooed in missionary circles. The attitude
of the natives towards us is one everlasting bland smile.
However, we are always accompanied by a large armed
escort, which would bring smiles to the face of even the
most malignant Chinaman.
* • * *
It is estimated that five million heathen
have been baptised during this century. No doubt
baptism is, in most cases, a form with the heathen,
as it is with people in this nominally-Christian
country. Granted that the five millions are
genuine, how small the number appears when it is
considered that the heathen world has increased
by 200 millions during the same century ! 35 mil-
lions of these heathen pass annually to the grave,
not having heard of Christianity. It is said that
about 4000 converts (of a kind) are made every
year in China. What an insignificant number
compared with the fact that 1400 people die every
hour in China, so that in one day 33,000 of them
have for ever passed beyond missionary reach. Is
it worth while, then, to send missionaries to
China to stir up anti-foreign hatred which results
in massacre and war ?
• . • *
Two lady-missionaries in China—a Scan-
dinavian and a Yankee —have taken unto them-
selves indigenous hubbies. And the other mis-
sionaries “no-likee”; the men-missionaries, that
is. The Chow seems to succeed with the female
missionaries just as he so unaccountably does
with so many other alleged white women. And
once a woman takes to a Chinaman there is no
attraction left for her in any other sort of man
whatsoever.
* * • *
Editor Bulletin.— A last word re N.S.W.
Education Minister Perry and the Patriotic Fund
(in Jingo capitals). The “official” by whom
teachers were circularised to “part up” to the
fund aforesaid was “F. Bridges, Chairman of
Committee no underling, anyhow ; official
envelopes being used. Minister Perry “knew
that some could hardly afford donations.” Yet to
every teacher was a copy of this insinuating circu-
lar sent. Also, enthusing over the “magnificent
result” of the audacious cadge, the sending of
which hundreds of teachers resented as a mere act
of blackmail, Mr. Perry remarked, in effect, that
not one, he thought, refused to subscribe. Of at
least a dozen teachers of writers personal
acquaintance, there was not one who didn t have a
distinct abhorrence of the movement and its
object: yet all subscribed. Ugh ! Let Bulletin
readers judge!— Pedagogue.
* • * •
“ Grafter ” to The Bulletin :
At a certain Q’sland mining-town hospital the cook
is an ex-railway navvy, and a brother-navvy, who
was a patient in the hospital, having had some words
with said cook, hauled him out of bed to have u satisfac-
tion.” Next morning the “patient” was arrested and
charged with the larceny of two eggs ; but practically
as a breaker of the peace in the company-bossed hospital
—he got six months’ “ hard.” Said co. owns the whole
neighborhood, body and soul!
The Jingo plague appears to be subsid-
ing as well as the bubonic. At a banquet
and presentation t’other night by leading
inspectors and public-school teachers of Syd-
ney and suburbs a fine musical programme
did not include one patriotic song. Yet
the Minister for Public Instruction pre-
sided. Not so long since this “ominous
omission” would have been made the
ground for a departmental investiga-
tion and “ disloyalty’’-hunt.
One healthy sign about Maori-
land is that the Anglican Church is
complaining that “colonials” won’t
enter the church, the pay is so small,
and that parsons have to be im-
ported. The sect which won’t pay its
parsons a fair screw, and the sect whose
parsons aren’t willing to work for an
unfair screw, has got to Go.
• * * *
The list of candidates for va-
cancies in Melb. Old Colonists’ Home
includes an old lady whose son,. the
indignant committee has ascertained,
draws a salary of £375 a year.
George Lynch, in Westminster Gazette :
We are coming back to England in a ship laden with
the human wreckage of war —the wounded, the maimed,
the sick, who to their graves will carry the maiming of
their sickness. There are, amongst these men, those who
will crawl about the world lopsided, incomplete cripples,
or those who will he perpetually victims to intermittent
or chronic disease ; but there is a worse than any of these
disasters to the victim. The man without a leg can get
along with a crutch. The man who loses his sight from
the earth-scattering shell can at worst carry a, label to
tell that he was blinded in the war, and his charitable
fellow-countrymen will give him enough to keep him
enjoying life through the channels of the four other
senses, and he will still admit that it is good to be alive.
We are carrying back the men who have lost their
reason at Magersfontein and other battles ; two have
been mercifully treated and have lost it completely the
padded cell must mean a certain unconsciousness ; but
the greatest, deepest pity of which the human heart is
capable is called forth by those who are maimed in mmd.
Long lucid intervals of perfect sanity give them time to
learn the meaning of the locks and bars. Yes, I know ,
I went Off my head after Magersfontein,’ one poor fellow
tells you ;• another repeatedly asks, “ Will they put me
into an asylum when I go home ? ” What a home-coming .
The Glory !
• • *
The luck of drunks, again ! A Brunswick
(Melb.) constable lately swore that a carter, whom
he arrested for being “under the influence, tell
off his dray and rolled beneath the wheels, and
that, though a ton and a-half of metal passed over
both his legs, he escaped with a few bruises. Ihe
Bulletin doesn’t guarantee this yam, it merely
states that the constable swore it. But is it really
luck, or does alcohol induce, with insensibility to
pain, a state of imperviousness to injury ?
• * * *
In the funeral column of the Melb. Argus
recently the friends of one Casey, deceased, were
notified that the corpse would receive the atten-
tion of a certain undertaker, and that the funeral
would start at 11 sharp. A second advertisement
however, notified that another undertaker would
conduct, and that the funeral would start from
the hospital at 2.30. The first ghoul won.
A FOREBODING
FROM TIPPERARY.
MRS. O’HARA: “It’s sorra I
am, Mrs. M‘Gee, that your
pore ’usband as bin took with
the bubonic plague. An’ only
last Sattiday noight the O’Hara
comes home an ’ sez, ‘ Take it from „
me, Kathleen O’Hara, that Tim M‘Gces got
a rat in his garret! ’”
HIS REFUGE.
ACTO R: “ What was that row in the stalls during
my big scene last night? ”
MANAGER : “ Some fellow quarreling with a lady
in front of him for taking off her hat.”
Vied Judge Hamilton, after pointing out
Marshall Hall’s syntactical shortcomings in, for
instance—“ Bishop Goe improperly had an inter-
view with Judge Hamilton, who he well knew
had,” &q., now himself writes to the Augus— “ to
consult any friend or person whom he thought
could help him,” &c. The objective-relative,
however, not only knocks Judge and music-man ;
it too often gets between the mental legs of jour-
nalists—of a sort, anyhow.
* » • *
W.C.T.U. people are urging Premier
Holder to use his influence to close all S. A. hotels
on Peace Celebration Day, owing to the “terrible
drunkenness ” which characterised the Mafekmg
outburst. But Holder, although a pious temper-
ance man himself, says he daren’t. Moreover, a
Peace Day mob, yellow and sullen under the bloat-
ing and dyspeptic influence of tea and buns, would
be as dangerous as the beer-sodden multitude of
Mafeking Day.
*•■ * *
The legality of the Sunday shave has been
re-established in England. By an Act of the
sainted Charles 11. barbers are placed on a footing
with surgeons, and entitled to let blood. And
they do so even unto this day.
“ Alba ” : Recently a certain Sydney
citizen nearly lost his wife. He didn’t quite
lose her, but only great promptitude and
calmness and presence of mind on his
part averted the disaster. A bagman
distilled poison into her ear, and the
poison worked so that she eloped
with him to a convenient watering-
place much used for that purpose. The
husband heard the news a few
minutes after they were gone, and
ran them down in a cab. I made
friends with the hotel boots,
and he told me the rest of the
story in a rich foreign accent :
“It was aftare dinnaire ven
ze husband come in ze cab.
He says, ‘My vife is here
wiz a big drummaire.’ Zen
he go to ze sitting-room door,
like ze perfait zhentleman wiz
his hat in his hand, an’ says,
‘Mary, you come home wiz me
now?’ An’ she says, ‘Beel, is
zat you?’ An’ he says, ‘Yes,
Mary, it is me, Beel. You
come home, Mary.’ Zen ze
drummaire turn on zem wiz
terrible oaths. ‘Stan’ ’way
from my samples,’ he says,
* an’ for hevvm’s sake close
ze door an’ keep out ze
bloomin’ dashed cold
vind.’ Zen ze man an’
wife go outside. ‘Beel,’
she says, ‘ did you
bring my cape?’
An’ Beel says, ‘Yes,
Mary, I did bring
your cape.’ Zen zay
go away in a cab. I
could not sleep zat
night for ze snore
of ze big drum-
maire.” But
some
men
are
not gentle-
men. Writer
has a friend
known as Ironbark
Bill who chased his wife
and her bagman to Paris.
On hearing that Bill was
in France the guilty pair
fled to the top of the Eiffel Tower. Bill
followed them to the highest turret, caught
the bagman by the hair, and cast him out into
space in a southerly direction. A few hours later
there was a great thud of bagman somewhere on a
pavement in Toulon.


NECKWEAR
Charming Variety
AND
Profusion
Lace
Scarves, and
// Eibbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
£
All Drapers Everywhere.
61)086 T6BS haye wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _ Sydney, July 17, 1900.
My Dear Myek.—
Lord Hopetoun as Governor-General is the only
subject talked about this week. Sydney’s first
impression was that the appointment would give
Melbourne a heavy pull over Sydney. But some-
how deeper reflection reveals a doubt. “To
know people too well is the curse of modern
society, where remoteness yields to civilisation
and high pressure.” Hopetoun knows Melbourne
in and out. He only knows Sydnfey out. Then
add to his inspired knowledge the Wallington’s
scientific assessment of Mrs. Smellbum Jones’
claims to an invitation-card, and you will see that
Sydney has really something to congratulate
itself upon in this appointment.
The only item to be chalked on Melbourne’s
little slate is the heavy attempt Potts-Point once
made to marry Wally to an heiress. A man
doesn’t object to the attempt if successful, but
nothing came of it in Wally’s case, and he may.
Lord Hopetoun lately confided in “M.A.P.”: “I
went out to Australia as Governor of Victoria and
spent quite the happiest years of my life there.
The first impressions I got of the colonies were all
thoroughly and unmistakeably British. At my
first levee held at Government House one of the
earliest presentations was that of a Waterloo
veteran.” But he omits to say that these
thoroughly and unmistakeably British institu-
tions umped him out, and brought him to a dead
faint across an arm-chair, after shaking a thou-
sand odd hands at his first “ let-’ein-all-come.”
His British institutions are further belied by
the following yarn, which he spun with much
relish. “In the Australian back-blocks I have tra-
velled a great deal, and wherever feasible always
wore the native bushman costume —riding-pants,
colored shirt, and broad-brimmed hat. I recollect
once, at the close of a hard ride—undertaken at
the instance of some members of the Ministry,
who were my travelling companions—l emerged
from the mallee scrub well in front of the others.
Mud-covered and generally dishevelled, I rode up
alone, to the heart of the township where the
principal residents were waiting to present an
address of welcome. After a few minutes I ven-
tured to ask what they were waiting for. * We’re
waiting for the Governor,’ said the spokesman of
the party. ‘Well, I’m the Governor!’ I said.
My remark was greeted with incredulous laughter,
and it was only when my friends overtook me
that the unbelieving mallee-scrubbers were per-
suaded of my identity—small blame to them ! ”
Some wholly unreliable person told me this
story about how a warm-hearted person at the
Bush .Evening Party took leave of Lady Mary
Lygon and gave her his fatherly blessing. He
was more or less husky; one of Nature’s gentle-
men—which is said to be the worst sort. He
thanked Lady Mary for a pleasant evening, and
added impressively : “ An’ I hope ye’ll find a nice
young Australian man to keep company wid
before long.”
Society made an episode of Mrs. Willie
Mitchell’s sale. For two days, everybody from
the Points gathered at Longwood. The sale
assumed the proportions of a great “At Home.”
As for the selling, prices ran high. The lively
interest always shown in this society - leader’s
movements was livelier than ever, and, for the
first time, practical. Buyers even carried off the
“Holy Family” and other Old Masters bought at
the Wentworths’ sale a few months back. A
Florentine mirror was a cause of a little excite-
ment. The fair purchaser, after eager attempts to
obtain the glass, became suddenly discontented,
and tried to get out of her bargain by compacting
with a dealer. The mirror of Venus didn’t trans-
mogrify Cybele, or Pallas, or anv others of them —
did it ? By the way, Mrs. Mitcbell will keep up
her retirement at Moss Yale until she goes to
London next year.
It has just come out that the quilt raffled by
Mayoress Harris at the Sydney Press Bazaar last
year, was won by Dr. Salmon, who is going to be
milady’s son-in-law shortly. The lucky man has
kept it carefully since with a view to furnishing,
probably next October just before the Cup.
Elsie Hall’s Indian-Famine Concert filled the
Town Hall last Wednesday. Like most artistic
temperaments, the gentle pianist can buffet
harder for others than for herself. The fund pro-
fits by her efforts to the extent of over £l5O.
A very toney performance will be Madame
L’Eclair’s theatricals at the Lyceum this week.
All the dress-circle sold as soon as the plan
opened. Everyone is asking, “Who is Madame
L’Eclair? She is Mrs. de Pentheny O’Kelly.
She was Miss Sophie Forbes, the vivacious
daughter of Judge Forbes, and sister of the gentle-
man who used to be so well-known here in
private theatricals. Her dancing classes are
heavily patronised by Society. She teaches high-
kicking, and all that sort of thing, but the dancing
at her entertainment will not be as French as her
name might lead you to hope—l mean suspect.
For a committee of well-known women went
down to watch a rehearsal last week. They sat
in the front row of the stalls. They inspected
with gimlet eyes. Finally, they passed the ver-
dict that society was not going to show too much
nether tuck. Of course, I wouldn’t tell you this
only that the entertainment will be over before
you read it.
All the dances are coming with a rush. The
“ Pretoria Ball,” in aid of the Boys’ Brigade, is
fixed for Thursday, 2nd of August, at Pad-
dington Town Hall. Mrs. Playfair and Mrs. J.
A. Dean are working hard to make a success of
this hop. The Freemasons’ ball comes off on July
27th at Sydney Town Hall. St. Vincent’s belated
ball is dated Sept. 2nd. . \
The concert that goes to the suburbs or the
country is becoming quite a paying institution.
John ■ Lemmon© and Marie' Nacelle have been
touring the backblocks with splendid lurk. I hear
loud rumors of an exceptionally clever elocutionist
from the country who is helping largely with the
co.’s successes, and later on, I believe, we are to
hear him in Sydney. Another travelling co. has
just been formed by Frank Downs, including
Maud Dalrymple, Florence Mack, and Reginald
Goold. The new co. starts operations at Chats-
wood, and work outwards.
From Paling and Co. come the “Mafeking
Waltz,” by Zara Strahan, a bright, fetching piece
that doesn’t depend on its title altogether; and
the “Soldier’s Last Message,” by G. Vincent, a
song that suffers from the debility the name would
lead you to expect.
“The Absent-Minded Beggar” was received by
a goodly audience at the Royal on opening
night. The scenic effect was splendid. Miss
Frances Ross, as Kathleen Ivor, looks much
too fresh and clean for an outpost camp, and the
nurses also have a picture-book effect. Miss
Harrie Ireland saunters through her part, not by
any means looking her best. Mrs. Holt makes
a plump and pleasing bugler-boy. The phe-
nomenal baby plays its part with aplomb;
how they, trained it to the perfection of
quietness is a query many would like to hear
answered. The palm in frocking goes to Miss
Fitzmaurice Gill, who artistically combines tur-
quoise silk and black chiffon. The armoured train
was quite a feature of the evening, and for a few
moments it came at such a pace we wondered if it
would land among the audience.
Our artists are getting ready a very special
entertainment, to be given to Nelson Illingworth,
who has lately suffered a severe illness. As Mr.
Illingworth is personally most popular in art
circles, apart from his reputation as a sculptor,
the affair promises to be heavily patronised. His
Ex. will be there—although the name, “A Night
in Bohemia,” will characterise the fgte. I believe
the Town Hall is to be draped to represent the
Latin Quarter, and a fraternity called “L’Ecoles
des Beaux Arts” will burlesque certain pictures
in the Art Gallery, and exhibit a realistic show of
pictures—whatever that may be. All this sounds
very new and inviting, so I will only add that
August 29, at 8 o’clock, will see the novelty begin.
A theatrical engagement is much buzzed over
this week : —Dorothy Vane and young Mr.
Menzies, of Melbourne. They are going to be
married in August, and the Convent—l presume
—is indefinitely postponed. It is ever so much
more pleasant to live at Menzies’ hotel than at any
Convent. I fancy that the only person who ever
took the Convent notion seriously was Dorothy
herself, and even there I have my doubts.
Apropos of Menzies’ Hotel, the present man-
ager thereof, Mr. Smith, is coming to Sydney to
manage the Australia as successor to Mr. H.
Edwin Moore, who leaves shortly for his native
America. Great alterations are to be made at the
Australia, which is in future to cater for a much
wider circle.
At Grafton Police Court the other day, the
solicitor asked a lady witness : “ How do you
know that the looking-glass was in the room on
the day before you missed it ? Was there any
special reason why you should have noticed it ’ ”
The P.M. answered the question by interjecting:
“Special reason! Fancy expecting any woman
could resist the temptation ! ”
While grief for the death of Mrs. Julian Ashton
is still so new and poignant, it is hard for
those who knew her well to coldly sum her titles
to affection and esteem. She was justly considered
a clever woman, a woman who thought for herself,
a sincere and conscientious woman. For many
years literary critic for Sydney Daily Telegraph,
her work was always interesting, and always
kindly. Before that, there was a time when, on
the platform and in the press, she argued enthu-
siastically for the freedom and advancement of
women, even (what is hard for a woman to do) in-
curring social blame rather than yield her honest
convictions. With Mrs. H. E. Russell and Mrs.
Gullet, she founded the Sydney Women’s Literary
Society. Mrs. Russell died about a year ago;
Mrs. Gullet within the last few weeks, and now
Mrs. Ashton follows her friends and co-workers.
She was aged only 49. Many will hold her long
in memory.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ One reason for the popularity of the Earl of
Hopetoun in Victoria was that he knew how to
be easy without being free. Walking down
Collins-st. one day, Howard Willoughby, editor
of the Argus, met the fresh-faced young Governor
m ordinary walking attire and by himself. ‘ How
do you do, Mr. Willoughby?’ said the Earl,
affably. ‘Now, where have I seen that face
before ? ’ mused the absent-minded pressman ;
‘no doubt it is some young fellow I’ve helped to
a billet. How are you ?’ he responded, still more
affably. ‘ Getting along all right, I hope. That’s
good, that’s good.’ Afterwards, when the mistake
flashed across Mr. Willoughby, he explained the
matter to the Governor, who was so tickled that
he used to repeat the story himself, saying that it
was a great tribute to his air of innocence and in-
experience.
“Melbourne will undoubtedly be glad to get
Wallington back with the Governor-General.
True, he is a bit of a snob (this not meant offen-
sively)—any Governor’s private secretary must
necessarily be that—but he is, a most amiable and
competent snob who thoroughly understands
snobbing and doesn’t make a boggling mess of it.
Gov. Brassey couldn’t understand ‘Wally’ any-
how. When Uncle Tom first came to Victoria he
wanted to do all sorts of wild things, and the dis-
creet Wallington used to rub his smooth chin and
suavely murmur, ‘ Better not, better not.’ ‘lt was
all better not, better not,’ said the de Bressi im-
patiently after he and Wallington had parted ;
‘ bless my—er —um —soul, it was—er —better not
from morning to night.’ But, observe, when
Brassey ‘chucked’ Better - not - Wallington he
began falling off in the sea, in popularity, in
Albert Park, and in all sorts of ways.
“At Govt. House ball on Friday night (the
crowd was chiefly women) Lady Madden’s glassy
green gown glistened like a summer sea. Sprays
of flowers broke through the stretch of sea. Dia-
monds made the dress still more luminous.
Neither of the Madden girls wore gloves, by the
way. Many vapor-baths are said to be partly
responsible for the clear complexions and match-
less freshness of these charmers. A black and
silvery net veiled Miss Ruby Madden’s white
satin frock, while her sister, in uniform pink,
tripped round like an animated rose. Mr. Frank
Madden’s daughter—a tall fair girl in spectacles—
made her debut in a straight-hanging Princess
robe with virgin flowers thereon. Most mothers
followed their budding daughters round the ball-
room with their bouquets and a hungry look.
Miss Woollard, daughter of the official with the
long moustache who makes such brilliant bows at
the Opening of Parliament, was the most attrac-
tive of a large crop of debutantes. She is tall,
slim, and graceful. Watching them dance in a set
of their own, one came to the conclusion they were
a remarkably innocent crowd of comers-out.
“ There is a pretty little to-do about some invi-
tation cards, sent out by Acting-Gov. Madden’s
aides in franked envelopes. A conscientious
postal official did the right thing in declining to
pass them, making the recipients pay 4d each.
Col. Campbell says it was all a mistake—done by
a subordinate —you know the sort of thing.
Franked envelopes are only for use on official
business. Of course the Acting-Governor himself
is not to blame, and it was enough to take the curl
out of his moustache for such a mean thing to be
done in his name.
“ The Skating Gymkhana at South Yarra Rink
was the social honey-pot where the Naicest
gathered on Thursday night. The excitement
and the draughts were intense. Onlookers deve-
loped colds in the head, and varied the entertain-
ment with sneezing crescendoes, while the rinkers,
arrayed in little more than a short white skirt and
bloomers, stirred up a blue-nose breeze as they
whisked round. The majority of the performers
wore very skimpy skirts and glove-fitting jackets,
which set off the figure to advantage. In the
four-in-hand competition Mrs. Wesley-HalPs pink
and white powdered team struck the brightest
note. Cavalier hats dotted with pink roses,
clipper-trim white frocks and reins of roses formed
the equipment, but the skating gyrations not
being extravagant, it lost the prize. Lord Richard
had to allot the casting vote, but as he had sug-
gested the rose reins and so on, he didn’t think it
fair to give it. So Mrs. Charlie Lempriere driving
the fittest four—the tallest and most dashing—
with unpretentious reins of cerise ribbon, carried
off the much-contested prize. Miss Templeton’s
hunting team came third.
The Paster Ball agitates the heart of woman,
and ev&ry feminine eye reconnoitres the hoardings
to discover a suitable poster-girl. One fetching
young widow whose glory lies in a wealth of fair
tresses is going to appear as someone’s hair-
restorer. A musician of considerable circumfer-
ence talks of going as Bubbles. The Naicest who
have pioneered the idea, are not concerning them-
selves with sets ; they are urging the rank-and-file
to do so, while they intend to review the poster-
panorama from the balcony. Some rare curios in
the way of demi-semi-nude studies are promised.
. “ Quite recently a Jewish maiden was rehears-
ing the marriage ceremony as a dumb show, at a
Masonic Hall, when she espied something silvery
on a background and what looked like wreaths of
flowers at the furthest end of the room. Flitting
down to investigate, the damsel came upon—a
coffin. She has discontinued dumb-show nuptials
for the present.
“ One of the wounded officers at the front has
sent an order to a Collins-street camera-snapper
for 150 photos, to be sent to the various Melb.
people he enumerates on four sheets of fcp.
Before said Adonis left these parts, he dumb-
founded the photographer by ordering 12 dozen to
be struck off, and sent to his nearest and dearest.
This second order must be a list of those next
near and dear.
“Canon Potter has launched against Marshall-
Hall the charge that he recommended some stu-
dents to read Tolstoi’s ‘ Kreutzer Sonata ’ for the
sake of the art-teaching in it. The Canon pro-
bably got the fact from The Bulletin. He says
of the book : ‘ There is almost nothing about music
in it from first to last, but it is throughout a very
dirty and disgusting diatribe against Marriage.’
It is truly amazing that any man who has read
Tolstoi’s book should have written that sentence.
The ‘ Kreutzer Sonata ’ is no more a diatribe
against marriage than Shakespeare’s 4 Othello ’ is.
Mr. Potter also seems to have skipped the
passages in which Tolstoi with great subtlety
traces the relations of music and emotion—
feverishly anxious, no doubt, to get to the other
parts of the book. And, anyway, the spectacle of
the author of such immitigated piffle as ‘The
Germ-Growers ’—probably the trashiest story ever
written and published in Australia—throwing
gutter mud at a literary artist of Tolstoi’s attain-
ments is something like a dirty little boy befouling
the robe of a prophet.
“The Philharmonic’s “Damnation of Faust”
was a big success. The plot of the music, so to
speak, was unravelled on the programme for the
benefit of the Philistines. There must have been
lots of Philistines present, for whenever you read
to the end of the leaf the sound of turning over
the page was as the noise of a flight of pigeons.
Faust’s adventures make an exciting allegory, and
grown-ups seem to relish music in the narrative
form after the manner of a youngster who pleads
“ Tell me a story with a cake in it.”
“Mr. Sugden, the Master of Queen’s (Wesleyan),
was responsible for the readable Faust programme.
He’s a blue-eyed, broad-shouldered, rather blunt-
tongued Englishman, who has made the leaders of
his denomination very angry by putting in a good
word for Marshall Hall. Mr. S. says that for
years he has gone to the ex-Professor’s orchestral
class and his daughter has attended the Conserva-
tonum -and 'though they’ve both listened their
hardest they’ve never heard the director do any-
thing but roar harmlessly as any sucking dove.
Good people say that if Mr. Sugden hasn’t heard
anything bad more shame for him. He that has
ears, &c. The master of Queen’s has never been a
prime pet of his employers. When Governors’
wives, &c., are taken to functions at the College,
their host is apt to tread absent-mindedly on their
trains or to forget to offer his arm. And Wes-
levans set such store by manners, top-hats, and
tail-coats. Somebody wrote to the paper this
week to wish that another John Wesley might
arise at the present moment, presumably for the
express benefit of poor Mr. Sugden.
night Janet Lady Clarke saw
Manoeuvring Jane ’at the Princess in one of her
numerous blends of white silk-muslin, black bro-
cade and jet. The lady with her wore a lovely
cloak of mossy pink velvet-brocade. On the stage
Grace Noble’s frocks take the palm for daintiness.
A powder-pink has tiny green ribbons, run through
flat lace flounces and a bodice threaded with
green. Her toques, too, are far too pretty for a
wearer bent upon love in a cottage. All the audi-
ence seem glad when husband-huntress Constantia
Gage (Mrs. Brough) finally ropes in her quarry,
Lord Bapchild (Mr. Brough). Why shouldn’t
pluck and go win the ‘ brush ’ in the matrimonial
field, as elsewhere ?
“ Nance O’Neil, alleged apostle of stage realism,
unwittingly converts many of feeble faith in
realism to a strong belief in more artistic, if less
‘natural,’ methods. For instance, Camille’s
attacks of sniffles are life-like weep tactics, but so
long as a stage-mourner contrives herself to feel
the grief she pourtrays, I guess her audience will
feel it too without much assistance from ’kerchief
demonstrations.
“As Camille in country retirement, Nance
looks really sweet and womanly with her stray
fair curls, innocent white muslin and meek black-
velvet touches. Don’t you hate four-post beds on
the boards ? Such prosaic, utilitarian objects !
One looks instinctively for a small table at the
side,, laden with night-lights, spirit-lamp, and
baby s bottle. Then when a moribund crawls
from the blankets in . a crumpled night-gown, on-
lookers vow inwardly never again to grumble at
the histrionic heroine who pines away in a becom-
ing silk-crdpe neglige on an artistic couch.
doesn’t somebody speak seriously to
Ldith Berry touching her absurd appearances as a
stage handmaiden ? Ambition to scintillate in
tragic roles (r6le is the word where tragedy is con-
cerned) must really be the matter with Miss
Edith, for when required to speak a few lines and
look spry in an apron part, her air of settled
melancholy gives one the ‘blues.’ No reasonable
novice could ask for a brighter little show than
feu to the damsel of the rueful countenance in
Magda,’ and yet she talked to Magda’s sister
about a bouquet of flowers as though there were a
death in the house and the expensive blossoms
had been sent with a black-edged card. Miss
Berry, I take it, ought to have been a casual
gleam of sunshine in the dull German home—the
sort of gal who gets joyfully excited over the least
disturbance of the domestic routine and lives in
hopes of marrying the baker. Instead of which
she seemed to come into the parlor like a forebod-
ing of disaster. She’s just the same in ‘ Camille.’
Was there ever a French lady’s-maid who con-
versed about Madame and her wraps in an Edith
Berry manner ?
“Touring Bananalanders, who remember the
present Mrs. Mount Morganaire D’Arcy (nee
Nina Boucicault) as a light-hearted, leggy school-
girl, sometimes pay their respects to their old
acquaintance at her gorgeous diggings in London.
Compatriots give this Cinderella of to-day no
credit for beauty, though they describe her as
‘smart ’ and divinely clad. Her married step-
daughters are on friendly terms with their pro-
parent, though their elder sister, the wife of a
captain in the Guards, declines to chum with her
mother’s successor. Mr. Nutting (Mrs. D’Arcy’s
former husband) did not languish long in single
bliss after the divorce. His present wife is a
connection of a well-known Northern legal clan.
“Miss Mary Boucicault, who was given a
benefit in Melbourne when she went ’Ome to
train her voice, is heard of as singing ‘ dainty
little French songs ’ at London concerts in aid of
wounded Australians. Violet D’Arcy, her step-
niece, a young lady of dark foreign appearance,
has also studied under Marchesi, and thereby
hangs a tale—for while taking lessons in Paris,
the millionaire’s daughter was placed in residence
with her stepmother-to-be, then Mrs. Nutting.
. “ME Rignold is said to tell droll stories of the
time when he witched American women with the
blonde beauty of Henry the Fifth. The hotel in
New York where he kept himself shut in from
observation was besieged by worshippers intent
on meeting their god face to face. They bom-
barded his mysterious laager with letters, bunches
of roses, verbal messages, trinkets, locks of hair—
but all in vain; Handsome George would see no
strangers. He made his journeys to and fro the
hotel in a closed carriage, and he just rushed along
the corridor with a man on either side to hide
him as much as possible from the languishing
gaze of maids, wives, and widows. ‘lf they had
got a fair look at me it would have given the show
away,’ says Mr. R., who never was half as vain as
he was painted. To see a certain popular actress
at the races in an unpretending black jacket and
grey hair sets one thinking of how Henry the
Fifth took care to preserve his glamour.
\ ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fop the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
D«MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
hats. hats. hats -
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
NEURALGIA.
Winter brings with it many anxious
thoughts to sufferers from all kinds of
face-ache and neuralgia. You can obtain
immediate relief by taking a Special
Neuralgia Cure made by
C. E. NEWMAN,
King Street, Sydney.
Price, 2/- By Post, 2/3.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There has been only one Smith Ministry
in Australasia under Responsible Government.
One F. Smith was Premier of Tasmania for 3£
years in the late ’so’s.
One of the late squatter Donald Cameron’s
troubles in the heyday of his prosperity was the
persistency of people in taking him for the
Donald Cameron who used to write the Australian
bush romances.
“ Scribe ” : If asked to sum up the leading
characteristic of Editor Windsor, of the Age, the
only man who has edited both Age and Aiigus, I
would say, “ Contempt for news.”
Editor Wyse, of the Pastoral Times, has
died at Deniliquin, aged 55. He was the first
white child born on the river Murray, and lived
his half-century there and thereabouts.
Mr. W. P. Reeves, M.L. Agent-General,
tells people in London —“I am an Imperialist
and a Radical—just like Campbell-Bannerman.”
So far, Reeves has not worn Court dress.
Died in Adelaide a few days ago J. F.
Thom, who reached S.A. in its first year, and was
in Col. Light’s survey-party which laid out the
city. Two others of the party are still alive.
R. C. Baker, who was Q.C.’d the other
day, has been 36 years at the Bar. He was the
first native-born South Australian to sit in the
Leg. Assembly and Leg. Council of that province.
The ten members of the present Yic.
Cabinet divide equally the £10,400 set apart for
Ministerial salaries. The first time in Victoria
that every Minister has been placed on the same
level.
The new secretary of the Victorian
Licensed Victuallers’ Association is named Robert
H. Lemon. Lemonade! A few years ago,
Sydney’s grog-paper was edited by a man called
“ Lush.”
Earl Belmore, Gov. of N.S. W. in the early
seventies, is now senior Irish representative peer,
having been elected in 1857. He was born in ’35,
married a niece of W. E. Gladstone, and has three
sons and nine daughters living.
John Dennistoun Wood, who was Attorney-
General and a prominent politician in Victoria
40 years ago, now lives at his native “ Dennis-
toun,” near Bothwell (Tas.). He has thrown law
aside for life, and the other day was advertising
for a “ Bullock-driver —good wages.”
Of the four notables who were named for
the Commonwealth Gov.-Generalship, the suc-
cessful Hopetoun is the youngest—born in 1860.
Selborne is a year older—lBs9—while Jersey and
Lome were both born in ’45. Lome practically
dropped out of the contest when he became Duke
of Argyle. Selbome married a daughter of Pre-
mier Salisbury.
Geo. Hutchison, Conservative-elect of
Patea, M.L., who has been a thorn in the side of
Seddon’s Govt, for years past, finding his political
cause hopeless announces his departure for
B’Africa to settle there. He is known as the M.L.
Joe Chamberlain, from his really extraordinary
likeness to the illustrious screw-maker —which is
enhanced by his orchid and eyeglass.
The golden wedding of Edward John
Eyre, celebrated early in April in Devonshire
(Eng.), calls back nearly 70 years of Austra-
lasian history. Mr. Eyre, now in his 85th
year, landed in Sydney in 1833, and almost
at once embarked in sheep-farming. He
took up runs in South and Western
Australia. He was appointed magis-
trate and protector of aborigines in
every province he resided in. He was
made Lieut.-Governor of two divisions
of Maoriland, and after a visit to Eng-
land was appointed Gov. of St. Vincent,
and later of Jamaica. This last was his
Waterloo, his methods of crushing re-
bellious natives smacking too much of
the distinguished Draco. His wife, a
Miss Ormond, of Melbourne, he married
in 1850. He still enjoys life.
E. H. Wittenoom, the new Wes-
tralian knight, doesn’t deserve even
that. But the conferring of the
knighthood on him shows how cheap
the bauble is. His grandfather was
first chaplain on Swan River penal
station; he himself began as a
jackeroo up north, got a few head of stock
together, took up country on the Murchison,
started a store and made a pot by supplying the
diggers, was in the old nominee Leg. Council for a
year or two, and in ’94 got a seat in the Assembly.
Six months later, being a good Groper, he was
made a Minister, and after that did nothing in
particular except make the absurd “ ten-foot rule’’
which was pretty well at the bottom of all the
subsequent alluvial diggers’ trouble. Presumably
as a reward Bigjohn sent him off as Agent-general
—and the other thing followed quickly.
“ Smiler ” Hales when on his way to
S’Africa offered his services to Hackett, of the
Western Australian. Said Hackett, “Your
style does not suit my class of readers. It is
too much after The Bulletin fashion.” Hales
trudged across St. George’s-terrace to Lovekin, of
the Morning Herald, and quoth Lovekin, of the
Morning Herald ; “Do you seriously think you
can be a war-correspondent ? My paper would be
discredited if I announced you as a special war-
correspondent.” Then “ Smiler ” wired to David
Syme. Answer: “ Arrangements already made.”
.And yet “ Smiler” is now a top-man among the
correspondents—getting £lOOO a year from London
Daily News. The prophet and his own country
once more !
It is related that a recently-appointed
M. engaged in trade had a unique method of
sacking employes. “ Patsy ” (his son) doesn’t like
ye, and “Denis” (another son) doesn’t like ye,
and I begin to think I don’t like ye myself.”
Chief Justice Way has the nomination of
Q.C. in S.A., and the coincidence that President
Baker ratted on his Federal colleagues to support
the Privy Council appeal is said by some to ac-
count for his promotion to silk. It would be hard to
find any other explanation.
The Alex. Berry whose representatives
are pressing N.S.W. Govt, for 6J acres of fore-
shore at Ball’s Head Bay, near Goat Island, has
been dead over a-quarter of a century. Most of
the land he acquired went to him as free
grants from complacent Governors. He explored
Shoalhaven district nearly 80 years ago, and sat in
N. Leg. Council for many years.
Win. Bradley, saved from the Hawkes-
bury flood when a 6-year-old boy (8., 14/7/’00),
was one of the partners in the big coaching, squat-
ting and contracting firm of Cobb and Co., the
other partners being Walter Hall, Jas. Ruther-
ford and Frank Whitney. Bradley built Went-
worth Court (Sydney), on leasehold ground, and
“batched ” in one of the top-storey offices.
“Sammy” Tomkinson, M.L.C., who is
85 years old, and who is the most conscientious,
consistent, and obstinate Conservative S.A. lias
ever seen, has been seriously ill of late, though all
reference to the fact has been kept out of the
papers. He sits for Central District, and should
a vacancy occur the seat would be a gift to ex-
Premier Kingston if he still desires to enter the
Council.
Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens (son of
the famous journalist) has just been gazetted
inspector under N.S.W. Prickly Pear Destruction
Act. When Dickens first arrived in Sydney as
M.L.A., Premier Parkes invited him to his house
in Balmain and assured the new member that the
highest post in the political service was easily
within his reach. You mustn’t now talk of politics
to Dickens.
Apropos of the impending big R.C.
shivoo at Sydney to celebrate the partial comple-
tion of St. Mary’s Cathedral. Long ago old Jack
Robertson, when N.S.W. Colonial Secretary,
officially attended an elaborate R.C. ceremonial
in company with a political friend belonging to
that creed. After awhile Jack got tired of the
(to him) somewhat dry proceedings, and devoutly
whispered : “By Jove, Tom, what I’d give for a
fine cool brandy-and-soda ! ” “ That’s all right,”
replied his friend, who, at an opportune moment,
led him out to the adjoining presbytery, where
the desired draught was produced. “My word,
Tom,” remarked old Jack, wiping his beard,
“ This is the only true church, after all.”
THE RETORT CASUAL.
“Garni yer low; yer
ain’t no class; yer
muvver pawns ’er
chairs and drinks ’er
clothes."
“ Well, I’m better ’n you, anywiy. Yer muvver
buys her grab on tick, an’ she ain’t paid
fer the false teeth she eats it with.”
At dropping fortunes and picking others
up there are few in Australia to equal John de
Baun, now of Westralia, where, according to daily-
paper reports, he has sold his inuch-talked-of Mt.
Higgins claim for £20,000 and an interest. De
Baun, an Anglo-French Canadian, made and
dropped one or two piles first at Silverton and
then at Broken Hill, and he has repeated those
performances at the W.A. goldfields, and later at
Perth. When not otherwise occupied he always
has a big law-action on hand.
C. G. Duffy owed his knighthood to Glad-
stone, whom he called “the liberal leader of the
universe.” Almost the first speech made by the
G.O.M. in the Commons was in defence of slavery.
An enemy once said that the cost of his education
and all he possessed had been wrung from the
bleeding backs of his father’s negro slaves in the
West Indies. Gladstone p'ere might have been
present in the Liverpool theatre when a distin-
guished actor, who had been hissed, thus hit out:
“Who are you that dare to insult me? You
wretches, do you not know that every brick in
your accursed city was cemented with the blood of
a negro?”
“ THE lASS THAT lOVES A SODJER”
HER: “ But why are you in such a hurry to get married ?”
H IM: “ Well, you see, the chaps will be coming back from the front soon, and then nobody else
will have any show.”
Captain Hixson, head of the N.S.W. naval
forces, first touched Sydney in 1848, but it was as
surveyor of N.S.W. coasts in 1861 that he made
himself a thorough Australiaif. He was then a
man of great strength and tireless energy, lhe
present generation know him best as president of
the lately-executed Marine Board. The captain
stands in the relation of father-in-law to two of
the Messrs. Fairfax, of S.M. Herald.
One of the certainties for Yic. Federal
Senator is Dr. Jack Quick. He arrived in Ben-
digo as a boy, and used to feed stampers. Then
he got into Bendigo Advertiser office, fold-
ing papers and doing odd jobs. Next he bios-
somod into a police-court reporter, studied and
passed his matric. From Bendigo he went to
Melbourne, and while on the Age took his Uni-
versity degree. During the Constitutional fight
in ’7B he was returned for Bendigo at the top of
the poll, and Victoria knows how well and per-
sistently he has fought for Federation.
“ Long 'Un ” to The Bulletin :
Recently struck in one of the dailies a yarn headed
“ Karri Davies and the old Boer,” relating how, in the ’Bl
war, the much-boomed Ikey and an old Dutchman shot
at one another from behind rocks for over an hour, both
being finally carried in insensible, with their hats riddled
and heads furrowed like a ploughed field. Knew it was
a fairy-tale because Karri, whom I knew a decade later in
Australia, could not have been over 12 years old at the
time. He did not seem, when I knew him, to be the sort
of man who would revel in such a risky pastime ; still,
they run in all shapes, and you never can tell. A week
or two after, came across same story, word for word, in
Tit Bits, giving the names of both parties, and Karri
wasn’t one of ’em.
Jethro Brown, Professor of Law in Tas.
University, who has just resigned and gone to
England to be married, is one of the coming Aus-
tralians. He is only 30, and although educated
at Cambridge and possessing a most irritating,
quite-English drawl, is a thorough democrat. It’s
utterly unnatural to hear Radical principles
pumped up by that English-University-haw-haw
when you quite expect to hear ponderous periods
about "the rights of Proppahtee and the danger of
giving the mob a voice in the government of the
country. The Professor was born in 3.A., and
last year was Acting-Professor of Law at Sydney
University.
That venerable Sydney practitioner, Dr.
Horatio G. A. Wright, figured prominently at the
trial of O’Farrell, who attempted to assassinate
the Duke of Edinburgh 40 years ago. Dr. Wright
had gone to Clontarf m the same boat as O’Farrell,
and had passed the trip discussing with him the
comparative merits of Melbourne and Sydney
architecture. O’Farrell had then the loaded re-
volver in his pocket and his purpose was fixed,
but to the doctor he seemed an entertaining and
well-informed man. Dr. Wright was emphatic in
stating in the witness-box that O’Farrell exhibited
at that stage no indication whatever of a diseased
mind.
“Old Jack”: Tom Moser, veteran jour-
nalist, who lately died at Sydney, was at one time
editor of the Western Post, Mudgee, N.S.W.,
then run by one Laurence, popularly known as
“ Rum-and-Onions.” This scribe succeeded him.
“ Moser was all very well,” said Rum-and-Onions,
“and a wonderful clever man. But he was a
sight too clever for this ranch. If he reported a
agricultooral show he’d always lug in some damn
fool named Virgil. He’d tell yarns of garlanded
bullocks and skite about ox-eyed Junos. But he
did good, clean work, only it teas aggravating to
be asked by this and the other what it all meant.
I didn’t know, and it ain’t pleasant for a man that
runs a paper to say so ; Don’t you write over the
’eads of this community, young man.” I didn’t.
The tug was to get to the level.
Mainly about Way :
Samuel James Way, who hopes to climb to a Life-Peer-
age with a seat in the Lords and personal acquaintance
with “ Wales,” is a little man of slightly over 5 feet, and
with equal proportions of volubility and energy. Samuel’s
father, a Bible-Christian parson, came to S.A. half-a-cen-
tury ago, and the future great and little Chief-Justice
was then a humble lad of 14. They apprenticed him to a
farmer, but the precocious youth rebelled, took to law,
and had the most brilliant Bar career in S.A. history.
Symon, recently a bitter critic, was one of his partners ;
and Kingston, articled to him for years, rebelled and
went on his own because he wasn’t made a partner.
Samuel appointed himself Chief-Justice in ’76, over the
heads of Gwynne and Stow, and what Gwynne said is
another story! Way has an ample fortune, and owns the
very farm to the owner of which he was apprenticed. His
recent indiscreet action in meddling in political matters
was the great mistake of his life, and alienated the in-
terest and friendship of his two most powerful friends—
Kingston and Symon.
An ecclesiastical link with the early days
of Victoria (then Port Phillip) died last week at
Launceston, Tasmania —Archdeacon Hales, well
up to his 80th year. He was born in the North of
Ireland and when four years old came with his
father, an Army officer, to Sydney. Was taken
soon after to Hobart and remained five years on
the Derwent. Thence he went to India, then
back to Ireland, graduated at T.C.D. in ’45, and
was ordained next year. Having married, he soon
after joined Bishop Perry and Dean Macartney
en route for Port Phillip (1847). He was stationed
first in Gippsland, then practically a terra
incognita, and afterwards at Heidelberg. In 1854
he became incumbent of Holy Trinity Church,
Launceston, a position he held until his death.
He was a very broad-minded man, an accomplished
scholar and writer, and was possibly the oldest
clergyman in active work in Australasia —Dean
Cowper, of Sydney, being now practically out of
harness.
Of S. Australia’s four Judges, including
Dashwood, of the N. Territory, all have been poli-
ticians, and all three southern men have been
Ministers. Judge Boucaut was Chief Justice
Way’s political chief ; but Way, being Attorney -
General, had the disposal of the vacant Chief
Justiceship. Boucaut was a member of six
Ministries, and led four of them. At different
times he held every portfolio except Education
and Chief Secretary. The lovable Bundey’s
Ministerial work was confined to the Attorney-
General’s, Justice and Education offices. J. H.
Symon had his one brief experience of office
as Mr. Bundey’s successor.
There is a suburban M.P. known through-
out his electorate as “Promising (say) Billy.”
He never straight-out refuses his constituents
anything, but ingeniously puts them off ; procras-
tination has been reduced by him to a fine art. A
carpenter out of work lately approached him with
a request to find him a job. “Well, well,” an-
swered the member, “What a pity ! I’ve just
this minute heard of a good thing for a plumber—
Government too. Suppose you can’t do plumb-
ing ? What hard luck ! But I’ll see what I can
do.” Applicant was a little doubtful about the
good faith of Promising Billy,” and sent a pal of
his to him to pose as a plumber hard-up for a
job— Govt, job, if possible. “Anything of a
stonemason?” queried the M.P. “Now that is
a pity. Everybody got his plumbing done when
the plague-scare was on. A big contractor down
the city has just asked me to look out for a good
stonemason. Couldn’t you take that on? Well,
1 am sorry. However, I won’t forget you next
chance I get.”
TRADE TRICK OF SPEECH.
THE MAJIR : “ Ha, Mr. Spinks, back from your
mission to Patagonia ? How long is the
‘trouble' likely to last there? ”
REV. MR. SPINKS: “Trouble? Why, the place
is in absolute peace.”
THE MAJOR: “Of course; that's the trouble.”


Wolfe’s Schnapps
, The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
“ Ghost ” : Aboriginals have some curious
methods of carrying things. The ear is a favorite
place for money. Any silver-piece, up to a “ bob ”
in size, can be safely stowed away therein —3d.-
pieces and 6d.’s inside, and a shilling to act as a
hd. Knives are generally carried on the head, the
blade being clasped down on to the hair. Matches
are also stowed away.in the hair, amongst other
things. Talking of hard heads, I once saw an
aboriginal nipper of 10 sitting on the ground and
holding one end of a steel drill in his hands, and
every now and then letting the other end fall on
his head, in .time with the song he was droning.
“My word,” I said, “you gotein hard fella
butta ’ (head).” “ Yaas,” sayshe, “ all same that
feller ! ’ —pointing to the drill.
* * • *
“ Tin ray ” : “ W.J.” (B. 19/5/’00), re
ploughmen. Can’t recollect seeing a woman
ploughing, although have often heard cookies’
daughters talk about it. I have only worked for
cookies in harvest-time, and have then seen
women at all sorts of farm-work. Out from
Blanchetown. (S.A.), _ 1 once saw two girls
(Germans) driving a stripper each. I have worked
on haystacks with cookies’ daughters several
times, and once had a job wheat-cleaning on
Murray Flats (S.A.), with a young woman and
myself at the winnower, and the old man strip-
ping. I found winnower very heavy turning, and
got knocked-out quickly, whereupon the damsel
took the handle and turned away merrily. For
shame’s sake, I presently offered to give her a
spell, but smin. tired me, and she went ahead
again. At dinner-time, I told her I should have
to give up, whereupon she explained that she had
screwed a nut up every time I took the handle
and opened it when she did—just for devilment.
• * * *
“R.H.”: What 1 no noxious rodents in
Bathurst ? Rats ! Years ago a mate and myself
camped in an empty house in that city of parks
and sharks, and, coming home late first night, we
found our flour-bags gnawed to pieces, and con-
tents scattered about the floor, while four or five
white-snouted ratshastened to their holes. Watched
next night, and killed seven. But, alas! they
weren’t worth sixpence a head then. This is im-
pressed on my memory because of the terrible
oracles we had to work along a hungry track to
accumulate said “ dust ” for a camping-day. Also,
in a casual way I here remind you that we’ve all
got rats —and some of us wombats.
• * * *
‘ R-H.” : “ J.S.T.” (B. 30/6/’00) is right.
Galahs and cockatoos do strip the bark off limbs
containing their nests to keep goannas from raid-
ing the eggs or young birds. All Australian par-
rots do this as soon as a nest-place has been
chosen. Most of them only strip round entrance
of nest, but galahs often strip the whole limb
down to the trunk. But, alas !as soon as the
undressed limb is dry the goanna can climb it
easily. Also, the bark-stripping advertises the
situation of the nest to crows, snakes, goannas,
men, and other enemies; which goes to show that
even natural instincts are fallible.
SOCIAL DISTINCTIONS IN THE BACK-
BLOCKS.
SOLICITOR : “Now, tell the bench what you said
to the defendant.”
WITNESS (servant in an hotel): “I sez to ’im,
‘ Brown,’ I sez, ‘jist you git oout.’ An’ with
that ’e”
P.M.: “One minute! Do you always address
the hotel-boarders like that? Do you never,
by any chance, address them as Mister
So-and-So?”
WITNESS : “ Corse I do, yer Wushup—the coffee-
room gents; but this Brown—’e was only a
dining-roomer!”
“M.A.L.”: Re “Trav.” (8., 30/6/’00).
Meat is being sent from the Coast here (Rock-
hampton) to the west by rail. The Lake’s Creek
Works lately sent out one order of 89601b5. of
corned beef ! In the west, nevertheless, the
drought is not so bad as further south.
♦ • * •
“ Lynd.” : Met two men some 12 months
ago who had built a boat in which to voyage from
Gunnedah, N.S.W., to the mouth of the Murray.
They had then got as far as Walgett, 200 miles,
straight, from starting-point, but 500 miles by the
river’s oourse ; and would have to do about 3000
miles more to complete their voyage. Did any
Bulletin reader fall in with them or their remains
further on ?
“G.R.H.”: Re ca
nivorous plants. The pit
cher-plant (nepenthes) Fas
the mid-rib of its leaf
elongated into a stout ten-
dril, terminating in the
“pitcher.” This tendril,
between the blade and the
termination, is covered
with small hairs pointing
towards the cup, and per-
mitting insects to reach
same, but greatly retard-
ing, if not preventing,
their return. On reaching
the lid, they discover, on
the lower surface, a sweet
exudation; consumption
of which stupefies them
(“ Quaff, O quaff this kind
nepenthe !”) so that they
fall into the interior well
of plant, where they be-
come “beef-tea.” Looks
like deliberate catering,
doesn’t it ?
* * *
“Ben Sun ” : Re
hares ‘ ‘ stringing-on ” dogs
(B. 30/6/’00). Knew of one
that camped in the same
place for years. When
‘ ‘ started ” he used to lift
one ear and one leg, and
E otter along in irregular
ops till sure that his pur-
suer meant business. Once,
taken-up by fresh dogs
when blown, he lost his
tail and only saved his
skin per medium of a hol-
low log, and that paddock knew him no more.
* * • *
“ Matabele” to The Bulletin :
Be the suggested. acclimatisation in Australia of the
S. African eland. This animal is now so scarce south of
the Zambesi thah the British Government has proclaimed
it “ royal game,” thus bringing it under the protection of
a £lOO fine for its destruction. It will, nevertheless, in a
few years be quite extinct, save upon a few specially-
guarded reservations. The eland is the only antelope
which carries any fat, the rest, though sometimes as big
as a bullock, being as skinny as kangaroo. The largest
eland I have seen went 23001 b., and stood about 18 hands
high. We got two kerosene tins full of fat from it, and
the marrow of its leg-bones served as butter for days.
The bull eland has very thick, though short, horns, and,
despite his bulk, he can go at a long, swinging trot for
hours ; though he’s soon done if you gallop him hard from
the start. By the way, Elands-Laagte, of which we have
recently heard so much, means “ Elands Valley.”
• * * «
“ Yarrum ” : Anything is good enough (in
N.S.W.) for pigs’-feed. Have just seen a bullock,
rotten with tuberculosis, driven away to be
slaughtered and, perhaps, boiled. Man paid Bs.
for the animal, and reckoned it was “ dirt-cheap.”
And the pig is perhaps more susceptible to tuber-
culosis than any other animal, even man.
* * * *
“ S'elpme ” : Re animal chivalry. I know
of a camel (lead) and horse
(shaft) turn-out, in which the
pair work together as quietly
as bullocks: but when loose in
the yard, where they each have
a feed-box, trouble begins. The
camel usually gets outside his
feed first, and then charges the
moke open - mouthed, scares
him from his box, and sur-
rounds the balance of his feed.
When, however, the horse was
invalided for a time and the
camel went to toil on his
own, the latter each night
when turned-out would walk
up to the moke, have a look
at him, and then dispose of
his own supper without his
eu s t omary commandeering
proceeding. But as soon as
the horse was put to work
again, the camel renewed his
old games.
“N. d. W.” : As
“ Pelican ” (B„ IG/6/’OO)
says, the report of a gun
would certainly not reach a
fish in time to enable it to
“get ” before the shot reached,
the water. I have shot scores
of fish basking on the surface of
the water—aiming not towards
the centre of the back, but (as
“ ,P.” says), about Gin. on the near
side, on account of refraction.
* * * *
“ Canip ” : The centipede is an eagerly-
sought part of the echidna’s diet. In the bush
will often be seen pieces of heavy bark and flat
slivers of wood, recently turned over as if by man.
This is done by “ porcupine ” in search of ’pede.
* * * *
“ Vril ” : Was for long baffled by a sen-
tinel wood-duck that used to post himself on a
dead tree whilst the flock fed, and give warning
with his “ nark-nark ! ” as soon as I was getting
nearly into range. So I jammpd a No. 1 wire-
cartridge into a 12 shell, with 3Jdr. of powder
behind, took a choke-bore, and sidled-up till the
old boy on guard began to get restless. Then 1
flopped on the ground, used about 2ft. Gin. eleva-
tion, and let her go. Result, a badly-bashed
cheek to me and death to the duck—single pellet
through head. Distance to foot of tree from firing
point, 106yds.
* * * *
“Delta”: Re size of goannas (8.,
30/G/’00): Was camped with three others once
in S. Gippsland, near Tarwin. River, and one
morning a hoary old goanna came crashing like a
bullock through the ti-tree, steered straight to the
camp, and proceeded to get. outside potato-peel,
decayed fish and all the camp refuse scattered
round. Came to breakfast every morning after
that, and kept the camp clean of scraps till we left.
Don’t know his length for a certainty, but one day
he crawled through the 6xB tent, and, before his
tail was half through the door, his head was out
prospecting under the canvas at the back.
“ Sfcon ” : Curious that a male emu will
sit on a batch of eggs until they are half-hatched ;
then leave, and, when the young are hatched, try
at every chance to kill them ; though his mur-
derous intentions are generally defeated by the
care the hen takes to keep the chicks out of their
unnatural sire’s way.
* • * •
How’s this for nerve ? Near Stawell
(Vic.) recently, one Flynn got mixed up with a
five-furrow plough, one of the shares piercing his
foot from heel to instep. Being alone, the plucky
fellow removed the pressure by using a shovel as
lever, and then, with a hammer, knocked his foot
off the share 1
* • * *
“Wat Tell” : Can any Bulletin reader
explain why river-fish so rarely bite in winter ?
What do they live on at that season ?
• * * *
“ H.S.” : Details concerning the recent
fitting with artificial teeth of that Mudgee pastor-
alist’s valuable ram would be interesting. Does
the ram take his new teeth out and drop them
into water when going to bed ?
A railway cot-
tage, planted in a
desolate spot at
the foot of the
Rimutakas (Wel-
lington, M.L ), is
allegedly the
nightly rendez-
vous of ghosts in-
numerable, and
one night within
its walls is usually
enough for the
most nervy rail-
way man, who is
invariably found
camped on the
line in the morn-
ing with cheeks
of paste and a
ratty look. A
new hand on the
section married
t’other day, and
was shifted to the
lonesome locality.
He didn’t mind,
but when told to
occupy the hauut-
ed house he
threatened to re-
sign on the spot.
Being unsaleable as a curiosity, the dept, is now
thinking of burning the place down.
* * * *
“ W.P. ” : Saw a tame magpie go
one better than “ Pel’s ” crow (8./23/6/’OO). He
chummed in with two wild ones, and watching a
favourable opportunity, grabbed with each leg
one leg of the other birds, and held on for a couple
of minutes, but was at last compelled disgustedly
to let go. He belonged to a policeman.
* * * *
No demand for wheat in M.L. this year
—nothing but “oats,” “oats.” An Otago farmer
lately placed a line with a local firm for sale. An
offer was obtained, and submitted to a farmer who
indignantly rejected same, saying it would pay
him better to feed rats on the wheat and sell them
at the current price of 4s. a dozen.
f “ A.J.H. ” : Near Moss Yale, about Nov.
’B9, I chased a fair-sized black snake into a clean-
bottomed waterhole, where, after crawling around
awhile, he lay still. I thought, “ All right—you
can’t stay there long, I’ll wait for you; ” but
after watching him for fully an hour, I became
tired, and got a pole to jab him where he lay.
Had often seen snakes swimming, but did not
know they could stay under water and on the
bottom for so long. Query: Is there any limit to
the time they can do so ?
* • * •
H. J. M’Cooey : The “slender, black
snake, ringed with narrow white bands ; length
about 24in.,” inquired about by “W.J.” (B.
30/6/’00) is probably a species of Vermicella , in
which case it is venomous. But, without examin-
ing the specimen, it is impossible to speak with
certainty.
* * * *
“Rotter”: In this “distressful coun-
try.” (Queensland) the Chows manage to collar the
white woman, and the white man puts up with a
black one. I know of a man on the Barcoo who
has for “companion ” a lubra who costs him 12s. a
week for opium. Ugi; *
O’REILLY’S PATENT.
Ploughing on horseback at St. George, Q. Also ploughs at night by affixing
a lantern on tripod. A cocky’s son arriving from the war minus a leg Or
two can plough with this patent.
‘ M.F. : It may interest some Bulletin
readers to know that the swallow remains here
(King Island, Bass’s Straits) the whole of the year •
no doubt on account of the mild climate we enjoy.’
* * * *
“ Thurla ” : Re the inquisitiveness of the
emu (“ Eller,” B. 16/6/’00). I have often brought
emus into easy gunshot by just waving my hat
Once brought a mob of nine to within 20yds of
me by waving my bridle and then standing quite
still. Two shooters on Calga station profited
much by this characteristic, as, when the squatters
on the plains were giving Is. a head, they scored
700 m three weeks, using for a lure a red parasol
Emus at times are very destructive to the young
lambs, racing after and killing them by jumping
on and kicking them; hence the head-money on
stations during lambing. J
THE MULGA MAIL .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here no swift hoofs fling the gravel,
Here no golden headlights glow;
There are ways for news to travel
Other than by Cobb and Co.!
Like a worn and storm-tossed sailer,
Broken-masted and distressed,
Now and then some bluegrass whaler
Drifts upon us from the West .'
And we gather items daily
As these derelicts go by;
How they’re shearing on Belalie;
How the Cuttaburra's dry;
How the Border’s red with ruin
Fiom the rabbit and the drought;
How the floods have filled the Tuen
From the big rains further out.
And we bring the beef and damper,
And we boil the billy slow,
While the blear-eyed river-camper
Names the names of long ago.
Heavy roads and knocked-up horses,
Storm-stayed steamers, rifted rail l ,
Flooded creeks and watercourses
Never stop the Mulga mails.
And the talcs of passing shearers,
As they steer their lean steeds South,
Are like music to their hearers
And like honey in the mouth.
So they name the well-known places,
And we listen as they speak
Of the fun at Culgoa races
And the feed on Wild Horse Creek.
Western mails! And we are reading!
And we feel to them like friends!
Let them leave their horses feeding
On our richest river-bends !
Let them stay and talk a season —
There is time enough to roam !
And our hearts make plain the reason—
They have brought us news from home!
WILL OGILVIE.


SIA-VB
YOU
NOTICED
That our advertised
low-priced watch—
F* & R
is fully jewelled ?
The movements are on the Lever principle.
They have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
They are jewelled in 10 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are made in every style of case.
They are stem-winders.
These Watches go with
profound accuracy, stand
hard riding and knocking
about, and last a life-time.
Gent’s Silver Open-face, 427-
Gent’s Oxj'dised ~ 26/6
Gent’s Silver Hunting, 50/-
Genfs „ Half-Hunting, 65/-
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-st. (Only),
SYDNEY.
(Showing Monogram on back of Watch,)
25/6
43/-
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A beautiful story, which ought to be true,
though it probably isn’t, comes from the United
States. A big brewery was being erected in a
Pennsylvaniatown, and the local Methodist parson,
having used in vain all ordinary means of preven-
tion, prayed that divine vengeance would fall on
the accursed beer emporium and wreck it. A
few days later lightning struck the brewery and
set it on fire, and it ivas wrecked. Some other
places that had not been prayed against were also
wrecked—but that is a side issue. Now the own-
ers are suing the parson for 50,000 dollars—the value
of one brewery destroyed by some person acting
at his instigation —and he lias either to disclaim
all responsibility by saying that his prayers were
utterly useless and had no influence at all in the
matter, or else admit responsibility for the
damage. And as the destruction of breweries is
illegal the latter isn’t a thing to be done lightly.
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
“ Geoff.” : Daring the ’9B heat-wave
I was, with a mate* putting up a line of
split-fence on a N.S.W. station, and we
had to hump the timber a considerable dis-
tance on our backs (112° in shade). After
finishing that job we were put on to weed
the corn-crop with our hands; but after a
day of this my mate “performed.” “ First
of all,” said he to the boss, “you make a
horse of a man, carrying timber; then you
turn him into a scarifier. Why, d you,
you’ll want me next to swallow a ball of
'twine and make myself into a reaper-and-
binder!” Then he kicked nearly half-an-
acre of corn over the fence with his great
feet, and left.
m * ♦ *
“Moa” : Re cowdung as fuel (B.
l/5/’OO). In many of the elevated mining
regions of Otago (M.L.), where there's no
timber but manuka-scrub and brown lignite
coal is expensive, cowdung is gathered and
stocked in summer for use as fuel in winter.
A thin, dry cake burns brightly, but if the
stuff is thick or damp it smoulders and
smokes. I remember once how tw
thrifty Scotch women, who were neighboi
and each owned a “ coo,” used to havemucl
altercation at the gathering of the fuel, a
to which particular coo it belonged to.
Matters even came to a court-case.
“ B.B.B.” : Wat T. (8., 23/6/’00), in
inquiring about the “ Coolawine,” refers, I
think, to that rare native animal known to
a few South Australian aboriginal tribes as
the “ Koo-loowin.” It is similar in shape to
the river-turtle, and has a soft down on the
body; which latter, when “plucked,” feels
like gutta-percha. The creature burrows in
the earth, and is of nocturnal habit. Have
never seen one myself, but possibly some of
your contributors can enlighten.
Gran. : The “ coolawine ” enquired about
(“Wat T.,” 8., 23/6/’00) is simply our old friend
the koala, or native bear, under a new name. I
fancy the term is aboriginal, and has references to
the animal’s peculiar voice. “ Coolawine ” and
“wherang” (orthography not guaranteed) for
bear and rock-wallaby, are commonly used on
some of the coastal rivers.
• * * •
“ Imray ” reminisces interestingly :
A departed industry that is worth an inky tear is cod-
fishing on the Murray. The plant was inexpensive—£2 or
£3 would buy boat, lines, hooks, net, and a month’s
tucker. Then you drifted down stream till you saw a
likely fishing-ground, and you pitched your camp on the
river bank in a land where it never rains. With your
tomahawk you then cut (say) 50 “ springers ” (a springer
is a tapering mallee rod, perhaps 10 feet long, pointed at
the thick end), which you carried in the boat, and where
you thought fit drove one into the bank, overhanging the
water. Five feet of schnapper-line hung to the end of
this, with half-way down a swivel like that of a dog-chain,
a sinker and a large hook. Then at the end of the rod a
bell —the further from the camp, the bigger the bell ;
nearer, a jam-tin with a stone in it would do.
Then for bait you netted silver bream in the
shallow lagoon close by, cut a large one into
four and baited your hooks a little before sun-
Bust of aboriginal woman, by Nelson Illing-
worth, recently purchased by the Trustees of
N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
down. Presently you heard a bell ring. Into your
boat for perhaps half a mile pull up stream. The boat (a
light flat) went fast, and the bell kept jangling. Leaning
over the boat you felt the line, and the springer replied
to the fish’s plunge. Carefully you placed your hand in
the gills and pulled in, maybe, a 401 b. cod. With a pack-
ing needle you threaded a tether (swivel and all like your
line) through the frog of the under-jaw or through the
nose, and tying up to a stiff peg in the running stream —
not in an eddy or a backwash —your fish lived for a fort-
night. Then, listen! Another bell, down stream this
time. Away you went, ran up alongside and repeated
the process. About 11 they ceased biting, and you turned
in till daybreak. When you had a ton or two, you lashed
your dry pine logs together, hitched the tethered fish
around the frame, tied the raft behind your boat, and
drifted down stream to Morgan (S.A.) At first the
fish would plunge and rear like a mob of colts, and some
“ AFTER LIFE’S FITFUL FEVER ” THE PICTURE PAINTED BY MR. JOE WOLINSKI, IN
COMPETITION FOR THE N.S.W. SOCIETY OF ARTISTS’ TRAVELLING SCHOLARSHIP.
would drown, but they got quite tame by and by, and you
could lean over and scratch tbe backs of some of the
biggest and most sensible with a piece of stick, and they
liked it too. The big fish, however, were not the
best to eat; and anything over 301 b. or 401 b.
was rank—6 or 7-pounder being the best meat. On a po’e
near the railway-station you hoisted your fish, prepared
them according to instructions, and packed them on the
train. At the post-office you would find your cheque for
the last lot waiting. Ah, me 1 Going to town. Those
glorious nights upon the Murray 1 Thebroad, moonlitriver,
the gaunt gums arid towering cliffs; the wail of the
distant dingo from the muttering scrub ; the opium-
lethargy of drifting. And then we’d meet one of Ohaffey’s
three-deckers ploughing up-stream, with its electric-light
ablaze on the trees, and the awakened cockatoos a-shriek-
ing. Its after-wash made quite a storm for our little
boat, but we lay back and listened to the music and the
singing as we drifted round a bend. Well Iwe earned a
decent living, but they turned their King William street
cookies loose on us, ploughing, ringing, building and
destroying, with their haggard looks and bent backs,
sordid and slaving because of the earth earthy, and we
passed on.
Officially reported that during 1899 the
drought reduced the number of sheep in N.S.W.
by 5,027,490, and cattle by 83,693.
* * • »
The determined front which so many
shearers are showing against shearing cancerous
sheep is to the credit of the men and the interest of
the public at large. In fact, the law should keep
off the market the wool of sheen recognised to be
cancered. The latest rule of the Pastoralists’
Association, “ that no shearer will be compelled
to shear wet or cancered sheep,” does not go far
enough. Its very statement makes its meaning
suspicious.
When the Rockhampton butchers lately
raised the price of meat, a Cheap Meat Co. started,
and did roaring business for two days, when an
inspector appeared and kerosened all the meat on
the co.’s premises, alleging it to be emaciated and
“unfit,” &c. Then the C.M. Co.’s manager (who,
by-the-way, previous to purchasing, had had the
meat passed by a Govt, inspector) called in the
principal Health Officer, who pronounced it
wholesome. There’s a fish-like smell about that
kerosening transaction strong enough to taint all
the meat in Rockhampton.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
The notorious Isaac Gordon, probably
England’s cleverest and most infamous usurer, who
was lately foreclosed on by the coffin-maker,
hated his family with a fine healthy hatred, and
during his life resolutely refused to have any deal-
ings with them. He liked to see all his clerks
well dressed, and whenever he found one wearing
shabby clothes he invariably bought him a new
suit —if he hadn’t done so just immediately before.
No clerk was ever known to ring-in a double on
him. But Isaac loathed his brothers and sister,
and the only time he offered one of them 6d. was
when he volunteered to pay the youngest brother’s
passage to Russia provided he would stay there
for life. He had a wonderful belief in himself,
and when told that he hadn’t a week to live
he scoffed and informed the medico that he
would see him under the sod. So he disregarded
the warnings, and went on his way to death cheer-
fully, and neglected to make a will. As a conse-
quence his four brothers and one sister retire from
any further financial worry with £lOO,OOO each.
It will make Isaac curse in his —well, wherever he
is. Nearly £30,000 was found in Gordon’s rooms
after death. He had to keep it there. Bankers
are not a sensitive race, but latterly the name of
the ferocious usurer smelled so badly that no
reasonably-safe institution would take his account.
To keep it meant losing so many other accounts.
When you treat a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any sase re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Marion C. : It is a hard case; but you must
consider the fact that the time of such a dentist is well
worth (to him and to such people as can afford to pay
him) two guineas an hour. Clever dentists, like clever
surgeons, don’t grow on every gooseberry-bush. Present
writer knows a dentist in Australia who has earned £9OOO
a year, and has for years 'averaged over £4OOO a
year, though he takes things easily... .W.M. : “Please
make as comicable as possible.” Alas, William ! —it is
more lamenticable than anything else Eller : The pre-
fixing of another name to modify the “Smithiness” is
not a fresh subject of remark. “ They all do it 1 ” —from
Archbishop Saumarez Smith, down Nicodemus : But
your observation applies to every other art as well as to
music. The best work —from the technical point of view
—is never the most popular Organ : Sydney Town
Hall instrument has its air pumped by a 9-h.p. gas-
engine. Hydraulic power also available if necessary
Hard C. : All we could make out of your vilely-blotted
screed was that you call a doctor a “ disciple of Epi-
curus.” Not so far wrong, either, as regards some of ’em.
E.W.K. : One item no good, and other not new Quex :
Of course we accept the P.M.’s denial that he was on the
Bench in the case in question ; but the local paper
(3/5/’00) named him as having sat... .Eller :On the con-
trary, the pig is a good swimmer—a fat porker floating
very high in the water... .Frank S.F. : Couldn’t enter
into such details. Facts very curious, if they are facts ;
but you credit the colt with three of the articles in ques-
tion Rex: But cocks are not “trained to be game."
If a bird isn’t bred game, no training will make him stand
the steel.... Theo B. : “The ‘knock-out’ blow is likely
to cause death.” Not the “point” blow, at all events.
Nearly all prize-fighting fatalities have been due to blows
under the ear or over the heart.. ..Cecil P. : You take
the whimsical “Scotty” too seriously. And you err
yourself ; if by “ barramundi ” you mean Cerato-
dus Forsterii. The “'lung-fishes ” link the fish —
not with the mammal —but with the batrachian....
R. Torhoe : The British, French and Russians took part
of the Chinese territory (Hongkong, part of Manchuria,
&c.), and the Chows want it back. The British took
much Boer territory (Natal and the Diamond Fields, to
say nothing of the Cape itself), and the worst thing
alleged against the Boers is that they wanted it back.
The Boers objected to the Outlanders who came among
them to get gold. The Chinese objected to the Outlanders
who came among them to get converts. Both wanted to
get rid of the foreigners. Both did the first act of open war.
But the Boers only gave the Outlanders notice to leave
quietly by train ; the Chinese went in straight for slaugh-
tering them wholesale. And yet this country went raving
mad against the decent white opponent, while it doesn’t
rave worth a cent against the murderous yellow one
Subscriber (Wycheproof) : Well? A.P.R. :We are very
weary of that dull, old “bogged-up” lie... .Jacky’:
“ This is a fact! ” And a poor little obscene fact it is !
Nigger-yarn old; pig-story not worth print R.I.P. :
To hand ; will be considered... .1t.1.P. No. 2 : Have made
you “Seven-O” for distinction Annie R. : “Loafer”
is a commonplace-and-water about a lay figure who came
down in the world through drink.... A.G. : The yarn
about a bereaved and deserted heroine who suddenly
crows in the last line and proves to be a fow r l, was a good
enough joke when new' G.II C. (Tom.): Wide general
assertions, but no details G.F.B. (B.) : True. We are
very sorry for it C.L. : Ogilvie’s book, “Fair Girls
and Gray Horses,” post-free from BuLLETiN-oftice for
6s W. Bax: Can’t possibly read such copy. Please
write in really black ink on really white paper* and keep
your lines wide apart E.P. : His (“Orion’s”) name
wasn’t Richard “ Henry ” Horne ; it was Richard Hengist
Horne Ahan : Not force enough... .J.M.I. : Long,
dull verses... .Delta : Didn’t make us lift even one eye-
lid P.C.O. : Some points; not enough W.R.L. :
Wants interest Spinifex : Wild and weird and weary.
... .Chatticus : Too mild... .Milky : Bit tedious Boer:
Received... .O.M.H. : Declined.... Waiti: Little allegory
unsuitable J.O.G. : Not worth postage Jacky: If
he says so, we suppose he did Erebus : Letters
from ’L are mostly the same old yarns about
the stoker and the furnace. Do invent a new ’L....
Juncus : Pars, may do. Verse, 16th class H.J.P. :
Not strength enough in the handling.... P.H.C. : Style
lacks simplicity and force. Use fewer words and less-
tawdry epithets Ben Sun : Dog-yarn may possibly use.
Shirt-story too long and labored.... Zip : Will probably
print Mitty : Will consider... .Roughrider : “ Squeak”
humorous but too rambling and inconsequent... ,Wm. S.
(S.A.): The gent who.wouldn’t be received into Tophet
has been done before and better J.E.M. : Has some
merit, but lacks spirit and style ; and, in any case,
don’t write on both sides of the paper Kodak :
Idea rather ancient, but treatment may condone
Jellyby : Lost-in the-busli stories are so common that
24-carat treatment is required ; and yours is about 9....
Karl C. : Will consider w'hether the good workmanship
will carry the improbability Maud D. (pen-name illegi-
ble) : Not too ill-written : but the bowelless Lothario of
that stamp—very rare in real life —is too well-worn a
“property” of women’s fiction Para: Hare subject
run-down. And what kind of “harriers” did you take
out 'possum-hunting? Long-Un : Yes; to hand....
P.PI.G.: Ah Chong’s baptism a hoary chestnut Kiwi:
Vhy not get it typewritten 1 It is a most dreadful ordeal
to read such MS Milky : Too long and tedious—Het.
T. : Vague, inscrutable emotion Malanai : Consider-
ing J.0.G.: Found us cold and left us frozen C. 8.:
Don’t dispute the sentiments, but you bore like an auger.
....Louie L. : Blank T.S. : Your horizon wants widen-
ing. .. .B.R. : Poem in seven fits and a handspring sent to
the asylum Zadig 6: Gone to meet 1,2, 3, 4.
Bemm: Decide it’s rather early for Chinese war-
poetry. Come back in summer... .F.A.A. : Chestnuts
all! Lunaria : N.Y. World ; S.F. Examiner E.G. :
Well, he has served his sentence ; say no more about it—
The Digger : Pretty well done, but lacks interest Amb.
G. : Ballade a bit strained in ideas and “ groggy” on its
metrical pins Yarrum, Wat Tell, and others : Hare
and rabbit speed question done with Wat Tell: Transi-
tory London Punch chestnut H.M. : Approaches
power in places, but is weak in others, and follows too
much the regulation maniac-story lines Will J. :
“ Black Sheep ” better than your usual, but still not up.
Glenira : Ideas good, but not well-enough dressed—
J.C.G. : Too slight A Jay Bee : Too long-winded and
floundersome Ferrara : Rhodes-suggestion may do.
Your objection to the lion-emblem is fantastic. It’s tra-
dition—not zoology—that weighs in such matters
Percy P. : Prose-sketch, not enough in it. Verse, smooth
enough; but the “ sparkling-wine ” business has to be
very sparkling Simon H. : Too slight Amb. G. :
One or two may do. The adjuration of Australia to
“take up her swag” is a truly heroic idea!....W. J. :
But the mere description of a well-known “ have” doesn’t
make a story Ben Sun : “ Spirit” unequal, but pos-
sibly alterable into shape. “ Catalogue,” past praying-
for Haldeco : Shows some skill, but is too trifling for
print Michael G. : You have some imagination, but
appear hopelessly to lack skill Gobung : “Sluggins,”
very stiff in the metrical joints ; “ Dinner,” inane in the
extreme Kodak: Good snap-shot Nicodemus :
Well-meant, but ineffective Wat T. : “ Lizzie with
a little stiffening—will “ g0.”....81uey : “Kellow” will
go—“ Ah Kee ” won’t Man: Too frisky... .Tom Cat:
Very old F.S.F. : Contradictory—even if it were
usable Sancho : Thanks Nemo: Letter received
with thanks... .O.D. : Not much good in any of the pars
sent.. ..An Old Member of the A.M.P. : Proxy received
and forwarded to right quarter 6xB: Better have a
calm, dispassionate beer and think it over —M. (Bal-
larat) : Not having seen “ Baby’s ” song, this paper takes
no interest W.A.P. : Mere fact that Chinaman hit
larrikin and then ran amounts to very little, and fact that
a man struck a match on his pants in a lady’s presence
amounts to less.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS-
D.A.F. : Very ancient indeed.. ..A Fact: Too dull to
be anything else.... Unavailable : Jud, Wm. Jar, F.V.G.
“A.G.T.” criticises the Sydney Paint-ers’-
scholarship pictures:
The general impression no doubt is that Wolinski should
have got the scholarship. But the scholarship was for
three things—painting of a head, a landscape, and com-
position. The composition, naturally, would rank first.
As it turned out, Wolinski did the best composition,
Lambert the best head, and Howard Ashton the only
landscape in the show. Wolinski threw the scholarship
away; looking at his work as a whole, it is difficult to
realise that the same man painted “ Life’s Fitful Fever”
(it deserves all praise)—the utterly empty, gaudy land-
scape on one side of it, and the flat, badly-handled head
on the other. They were things he had by him, and his
landscape was painted years ago. Lambert’s work is
more or less equal, and the head that got him the scholar-
ship is a capital piece of painting : for his composition is
not much more than meritorious. The color is not too
good, and for such a draughtsman the drawing in the
figures is poor ; the girl’s hip has lost itself in her lumbar
regions, and one arm might have been modelled in wax
and melted out of shape a bit, and the legs of both figures
seem out of proportion. Howard Ashton came second.
His landscape is there—skilful, simple, very
refined and poetical; if his composition had
been anything fat all. Unluckily, it can’t be
excused. What was Howard Ashton’s was common and
gross in conception, badly drawn, and violently and
crudely colored : the rest of the picture was, more or less,
Greiffenhagen’s, taken from “ The Judgment of Paris,”
and not improved in the transition. The best man has
got the scholarship: the “Black Soil Plains” proves
that; only it’s a pity he did not make a better show.
Embryonic Art.—A Black-and- White man’s son
and heir, aged 7. displays a turn for the morbid.
Compare Australian treatment of Presi-
dent Kruger—the lampoons, the effigies, the in’
suits—with this from one of “Smiler” Hales-
letters to the Daily News :
In many of the public places pictures of our Queen and
members of the Eoyal Family have been hanging side by
side with portraits of notable men, such as Mr. Gladstone,
Lord Salisbury, Mr. Chamberlain, and Mr. Rhodes.
During the course of the war all kinds and conditions of
Boers hxve had free access to the rooms where those por-
traits to be seen, but now I find that no damage has
been done to any of those pictures, excepting those of
Mr. Rhodes and Mr. Chamberlain. This has not been an
oversight on the part of the Boers, for I defy any person
to find a solitary picture of the two last-named gentlemen
that has not been hacked with knives. But the Queen
and Royal Family photos, have in every case been treated
with respect.


“LEGGO!!”


When peace is declared in S’Africa South Australia proposes to ce!
brate the occasion by liberating first-offenders from the gaolc
THE PREMIER. SILENT.
William John Lyne declines to express
arty opinion.
Nightly prayer of first-offending burglar
“ Oh, Lord, let peace reign through-
out the Universe—and the sooner
the better! ”
“It was stated a few days ago that
the distinguished Chinese statesman, Li
Hung Chang, had been summoned from
Canton to Pekin, and that he was medi-
ating for a cessation of hostilities, but in
response to the requests of tfie foreign
Consuls in the southern city, who feared
that his departure would be the signal
for a revolution there, he abandoned the
journey."
Poor old Li ! After what happened to
his yellow things during the war with
Japan he will be lucky if-he has a stitch
left to his back when the present compli-
cations are over.
Premier Lyne is a man of mystery. He
is always “ declining to express an
opinion ” or receiving secret cablegrams,
the contents of which wild horses could
not drag out of him. Let’s see : How
would he make up as a Sphinx ?
The Chinese have a humorous way of cutting off the feet
of their prisoners of war and then dumping the stumps
* into boiling tar.
Small Bo? (to returned veteran): “ Here S bite
boots yer ordered before yer went to the
war, and the boss says he must have the
money.”
Melbourne, Sunday.—Energetic preparations
are being made among the Victorian naval forces
for the despatch of 200 men, accepted by the
Imperial Government, for service in China. The
Government has decided that the rate of pay shall
be 7s. 6d. a day for the men,
with proportionate increases
for warrant - officers and
officers.
Right-Thinking Party “So,
my fine fellow, you are going
to China to fight for the
Crown ! ”
Naval Volunteer ; “ No,
sir, I’m going to fight
for three half-
crowns t ”
THE UNEMPLOYED
PROBLEM.
Mr. Storey said that there
were a number of clerks anti
shop-assistants out of em-
ployment who deserved
consideration at the hands
of the Government. (“ Hear,
hear. ”)
Why not start a Government -Hat Factory and place
Mr. Storey in charge?
EHE COMING TUG OF WAR
issS?
ought to look. y PoWerful glaB8 ‘ HIS may 1)6 Been “ tower trying to look as impartial as a Gov.-Gen.
CARTOONLETS.


%
/
N
SAUNDERS
«17 CEORGES T
SYDNEY
BIS
£==j
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “The Challenge,” 16s; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
buaa uom uliam (Single or Uounle; £2
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 16c. Solid GoML
£6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. ¥\u*
Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart. Full Size
10s, small 8s 6d.
Gold Brooch, 5s 6d. Special value,
A. SAUNDERS.
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 ss. Hunting
Oases, £2 10s, £3. Written guarantee.
Send for Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold 2-Bar Pearl Set and Red Stone Scroll
9os.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d; Extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold 15s ; 18c. Gold 20s. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s 8d
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Wish Bone and Pearl and Tnrqartw
Bee, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Gold 3-Bar and Red Stone Brooch, IBs.
Very Neat.
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold, 8s 6d and 10s.
S Front, 15c. Gold, 12s 6d and 15s.
Send lor Last.
A. iVUMJbBS (Attillf).
Werw Model |-pl*te, Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled, 16s 6d ; Silver, 35s ; Gold,
£2 15s. These Brices are Specially Reduced.
A. SAOTSTBIBBS,
SPECIAL MALE ROTHEBBA*
Full Cap, £3 10s : Extra Jewelled OkatutwHU/stter
Balance, £4 10s ; Keyless Full Cap, £6.
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed.
A. SAU jN jjiLrco (Agent).
(Ladies’ Waterbury Watch, Keyless,
13s 6d ; Pure Silver, 30s ; Gold, £2 16s.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDEKB.
Gold Keyless Waltham, f-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s : 14c. gold, £5 5s ; Extra Quality, £7 10s,
£lO ; 18c. Gold, £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£3, £4, £5. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISe. 0«M New Secret Name Brooch, IDUmends,
£3; Diamond and 2 Rubies, Hi 10tj Cheaper
Si vie, 25a. Any Name FRKJL
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 15c. Gold Key, Heart b Ivy Brooch,
35s ; 18c. Gold, £2 ss. The Very Latest.
4sr SAUNDERS.
Registered Bc. Gold Amethyst ißroooh,
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, &#-
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 15s. Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Link, 20s; 15c. Gold
355. Silver, 4s.
Ooid H«rt & Dumbell Links,
12s «d ; 14c., 26s ; Silver, 8s £>d
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style Gold Links, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 22s 6d ; 15c.
Solid Gold, £2 2s. Silver, 4s 6d.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbell Links
oc. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Links, 18s 6d, 20s
255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d Extra.
OHARM.
Gold Mizpah, 4a
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Brooch, 10s 6d. Our
own Registered
Design.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
Horseshoe, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Oharm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, 12s 6d.
Name Free.
CHARM.
Gold, Amethyst,
and Pearls, 158 6d;
15c. Gold, 265.
Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Charm, 10s.
Very Latest.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Gold, with
Enamelled Post
Office, 10s.
A.SAUNDERS
CHARM, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d
Special Reduced
Gold Trilby Rings,
5s 6d ; with Ame-
thyst, 7s 6d ; with-
out Chain, Ss 6d.
Gold Bell and Chains,
4s Cd 3s 6d 2s 6d.
A. SauiVDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold 1900 Pearl & Diamond Brooch, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to Match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 7s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Erin-Go-Bragh B ooch, 17s 6d;
15c. < old, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A SAUNDERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s
18c. Gold, £2.
Send (or Size Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
*4 10s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, £3, £3 10s, £4*
£4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Old English
Coin, Gold Mounted,
10s.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss, £3;
16c., £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizpah Brooch, 12s 6d
Silver, 4s 6d.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s 6d.
Our Newest Gold Bird and Bell, 6s 6d
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
#c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Hand-made 1
Solid Gold,
IBs ; extra
heavy, 30*.
a. Saunders.
Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
6s 6d, ,g 6d, Ids each ; 16c. Gold
268 : »9u UoM. 20s ; ext”.’
dot, 40b. Send for card.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flag Brooch, 20s.
Ours is the Australian Flag.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition—A Special Easter Shew
or Send for our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book
FREE ANYWHERE.^^
A. SAUNDERS
Loading Art Jeweller,
Bis $ 817 fieorge St.
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
BTATION,
‘fiaupfijj


OUR ROYAL BLUE BOOK
is a 1900 publication, revised right up to the
beginning of this month. It contains 50
pages of interesting matter devoted ex-
clusively to our Federal Clothing Depart-
ment ; also 140 illustrations.
Kindly send us your address (on a penny
post-card will do) and we will post a copy to
you FRsiE.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Federal Clothiers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
BRANDT BROS.*
‘primus’ Bath Heater
Burns KEROSENE—Ho Wick.
2J
(m
Hot Water Instantly.
No Chimney Pipes or Plumber’s Work required in fixing
You can fix it yourself. NO FUMES. NO SMELL
Price, from 75/- each. Send for Catalogue.
1 Primus’ Room Warmers
to any Kerosene
y-'
can be
fitted
Gas Stove. Price (made of Steel), 15s.
each; Brass, 255.
BRANDT BROS.
236 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
and 422 and 424 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
A scheme for combining Melbourne,
North Melbourne, Flemington, and Kensington
in one municipality, and thus saving three need-
less mayors and town-clerks and other appurten-
ances, is trying to get into shape. But it is a
solemn fact that, though Sydney, Brisbane, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide have all been thinking hard
for a long time about consolidating their much
sub-divided and misgoverned cities under one
strong municipal government on a democratic
basis, nothing at all has been accomplished as yet.
There have been tons of literature and acres of
conversation about union, and everywhere the
thing is still only “ in the air.”
An Australian lady of alleged pleasure died
some time ago. For 30 years she had been the
strange woman, mentioned by Solomon, whose
footsteps lead down to Gehenna, and Solomon
was an authority on strange women. But at last
she felt the cold, skinny fingers of approaching
dissolution at her painted throat. She sent for
some of the good Sisters of the class who go round
fighting Satan in the last ditch of an ill-spent life.
They came quickly, the assistant sirens were sent
away, and the large bull-dog-faced gentleman-
boarder Jackey, who was wont to keep the unruly
guests in order, and wallop the lady of pleasure
herself when she required it, was placed on a
limited supply of beer and stole about the mansion
in awe-struck silence. He told gents who called
in the small hours that “ the old woman was going
to peg-out and that the place wasbust-up.” He also
informed them that no matter what happened he
was orlrite—the “old woman” was worth
thousands, and he was to be the heir. The lady,
with the contrariety of her sex, had paid him good
wages for spanking her, till at last he felt that she
really owed him a debt of gratitude. The
only thing that troubled him was that he
might have to share the lot with a certain
Christian Chow for whom the “old woman’
had always evinced a most singular affection.
The Chow was the other standing curiosity of
the establishment. He had been converted by
the Salvation Army, and had called at the den of
pleasure to remonstrate with the owner on her
sins, but, having come to pray, he stayed to j
whoop. Thereafter, he remained a converted
Chinaman, but with a weekly relapse—every
Thursday evening he came in and became drunk
at the “old woman’s” expense. Outside the
house, Jackey and the Converted Chow and the
Sisters who were wrestling to save the old harri-
dan’s soul were supposed to be about equal
favorites for the money. At last, the painted-one
died penitent and made a blessed and beautiful
end. Her will left nothing to the Converted
Chow, and stated that the deceased was so shocked
at the wicked life led by her assistant and
partner, the bull-faced one, that he wasn’t to
get a cent. It went on to say that the writer
was grieved and heart-broken at the wicked-
ness of “the girls”—the former denizens of
her house, out of whom she had made her money
—and that if any of these fearful creatures ever
approached the now-purified domicile, they were
to be deservedly “run-in.” The document ex-
pressed the testator’s undying gratitude to the
Sisters who had tended her, but sajd nothing
about money. It bequeathed £lO to testator’s
very aged mother, and expressed a hope that the
decrepit old party would repent. And then it
left the rest of the pile—a good many thousands—
to a Protestant mission in China ! And the things
thfit various people said, about the painted woman
who had repented were numerous.
For IDore Than One Hundred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not bt
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
« matchless for the complexion.”
NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep !
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
'ILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night wliile you sleep,
and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S
RE-IN VKSORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts ; to
such men Electricity and the lle-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on W eak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
Si
9
SSr
*
n 63
%y*i
ft
i
if 7
-m w m
mw mm
wmm
m
y/'^vr
'VVS
TT PILLS the blood with the fire of
J youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BODY BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles £1
AND
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not, let
If you are Sic, or We* try my SK Menwho WanTTo *e Strong
Call or
Apply:
CUT
rate
divetg- store,
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Cut-Rate Price list Post Free on Application.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
geo. Roe * Co*
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
UMI
GrO TO TTTIT.T-
-' IG GLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real £ood stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Sjtripb
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
S3j~ per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
X
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRAIMUMA
Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists i
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
X
Important Announcement to our City and Countrn
Constituents. 9
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro’-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale*
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
Seddon advocated sending a contingent to
China “because it would make the whole outside
world talk of us, and ask ‘ Where is New Zea-
land?’ “Butchered to make a Maoriland
ad vertisement. ”
John Norton, judging by a letter printed
in his own paper, is evidently a candidate for the
Federal Senate. Also, he will probably be Mayor
of Sydney if election is determined, as proposed,
by the vote of the people.
For the Federal Parliament, S.A. Labor
Party has decided to run five of its own men—
three for the House of Representatives, two for
the Senate. The Party takes a preliminary ballot,
choosing among 16 Barkises.
The irony of it ! W. W. Collins, M.P.
for Christchurch (M.L.), is bringing in a Bill to
abolish capital punishment. Yet Collins is an
ardent Jingo, and was quite eager to send hun-
dreds of men to S’Africa to kill perfect strangers.
Looks very much as though Kingston and
Holder have broken at last, or must break. It is
wonderful that they have worked in harmony so
long. There will not be room for both Kingston
and Holder, two South Australians, in the first
Federal Ministry, and if Barton forms it Kingston
ought to be a certainty, if he cares to go in. Hol-
der’s chance disappeared when Reid’s chances of
the Premiership were frozen out. The long S. A.
figure-juggler will, it is said, .reach after an
inter-State commissionership.
Laurenson, member for Lyttelton (M.L.),
says that Federation would be a
serious matter for his province,
because in a Federal Parliament
Maoriland could always be out-
voted by the other provinces.
Obviously, therefore, the only
remedy would be to give Maori-
land so many members that it
could always outvote all the other
provinces. But Laurenson should
look nearer home where the same
painful state of things exists. His
own town of Lyttelton (popula-
tion 4200) is always liable to be
outvoted in the Maoriland House
of Reps by the other parts of the
couutrj (population 780,000).
Therefore it is quite plain that
Lyttelton will never be safe till
it gets enough members of its
own to outvote all the rest of
Maoriland. In fact, no place will
be safe till every place has more
Parliamentary representation
than all • the other places put
together. This matter should be
looked to.
Dr. Cockburn’s term of
office as S.A. Agent-General ex-
pires next April, and, with
Federation so near, it is doubtful
whether he will be re-appointed,
although he is pleased with the
po3t and has been a great success in it.
He would like to be Federal High Commissioner,
but some local statesman, of whom the dominant
party in Parliament wishes to be rid, will most
likely get that cosy and lucrative billet.
Friends who are in Kingston's confidence
state that, when the right time comes, he will
stand for the Federal Parliament, as every M.P.
is willing to release him from his hasty pledge that
he will stav in local politics until the Leg. Council
agrees to Household Suffrage.
Most opulent Australian city Chinese resi-
dents are believed to be favorable to the Reform
Party. The few interviewed decline to express
definite opinions for fear of assassination on their
return to the Flowery Land, or even in Australia,
at the hands of the secret societies.
The engineer of Vic. water-supply depart-
ment presents a huge scheme for making an arti-
ficial river, about 365 miles long through the sad,
dry west at a cost of nearly 2| millions. This
great work is to amble about half-way across Vic-
toria and moisten, in the west country, 3860
farms of 2560 acres each.
Minister Crick’s announcement that under-
stamped letters addressed to members at Parlia-
ment House, Sydney, will be considered official,
and that members will thus escape the shortage
and fine, amounts to an invitation to all corres-
pondents to so address members and send their
letters understamped for economy’s sake.
After being knighted, only two South
Australians have ever formed a
Ayers, in the early seventies, and Jbhm-Downer,
in the early nineties. And neither Ministry
lasted much over a twelvemonth. In-Ayers’ case
it was also simply a reconstruction, though not a
single one of his old colleagues rejoined him.
The result of Bundaberg (Q,) election
shows that Glassey(who achieved an almost 2 to 1
majority) picked his constituency well. Bunda-
berg is a sugar-district, living on kanaka labour,
and all the employers’ influence went for the
former opponent of kanaka labour. Boodlewraith
came out without disguise to help its new ally.
A newly-appointed member of N.S.W.
Leg. Council admitted the other day the proba-
bility of the abolition of that Chamber on the
establishment of Federation, but asserted as an
opinion common among the Councillors that
when the Chamber is abolished all members then
6 k® authorised to retain the title
Hon.” and carry a free railway-pass while they
livtf.
There will be much heart-burning in the
Q. Labor camp when the wily Philp introduces
his private-railway schemes. There are certain
Northern constituencies hungering and thirsting
for railways State lines, if possible, but railways
at all costs. Some of aforesaid constituencies are
represented by Labor legislators, who will be
sorely tried and tempted when the scramble
comes.
Such entries as “ unforeseen expenses ” in
N.S.W. Estimates should be closely scrutinised
by members of Assembly. Under such headings
are crowded most of the mean little jobs which
Ministers wish to hide. Although paltry in
amount, the. way the sums are sneaked in is often
so contemptible that if Parliament were brought
face to face with the fact tricky Ministers would
lose office.
Chaffey Baker, President of S.A. Leg.
Council, considers himself almost a certainty for a
similar billet in the Federal Senate. Baker is not
so young as he looks (he is within a year of 60),
and has been in S.A. politics for over 30 years.
He was Education Minister in Colton’s Govt, of ’B5,
his other colleagues being Kingston, Coles (now
Speaker), Playford and Rounsevell. Baker has
ever been opposed to the masses ; he practically
founded S.A. National Ass.
N.S. YVales Parliamentary roll-collectors
should, while collecting the names of males for the
forthcoming elections, collect also the names of
females of full age. It would be very little
extra trouble, and a comprehensive roll would
then be ready for the first election after the pass-
ing of the Woman-Suffrage Bill. If the Bill fail no
harm will be done, whereas if women be now
omitted the whole ground will have to be gone
over again before females can vote.
When some Victorian Government rises
up and really builds the Mildura railway, that
province will be about as much staggered as
Sydney will be when its North Shore bridge and
city railway are finished. Most provinces have
some petrified proposition on hand—an old stock
job which has been so much
talked about that the way to
do it has been forgotten. The
North Island Trunk railway
and the Otago Central are
Maoriland’s petrified propo-
sitions; the Mildura line is
Victoria’s ; the Sydney city
extension is N.S.W.’s.
OVERHEARD IN THE CEMETERY.
MILLIE : “ What are you thinking of little Lena?”
LITTLE LENA : “ I'se won’rin’ at R.I.P. What it's
for !”
MILLIE: “Oh, I don’t know. Roman Catholics
in Perjury, I s’pose.”
The Westralian Parochialists have two
tariff jokes. One is that under Federation the
high tariff of Victoria will be fastened on Wes-
tralia, and that province will be ruined by taxa-
tion. The other is that under Federation the low
tariff of Victoria will be fastened on Westralia,
and that province will be ruined by insufficient
revenue. And both yarns seem to do equally
good service.
A Popular Convention is suggested to
formulate a scheme for effecting Constitutional
economies rendered necessary in S. A. by the com- -
ingof Federation. Tory-boss Stirling, dictator
of the Council, however, boasts that he will pre-
vent the Convention from receiving power to con-
sider either the extension of the Council franchise
or the advisableness of doing with only one House
after Australian union comes.
Under the U.S. shipping laws no foreign-
owned vessel can engage in the coasting trade— i.e.
can trade between one U.S. port and another!
The U;S. annexation of Hawaii makes the trade
• between that port and San Francisco a coasting
trade which can only be carried on by American-
owned vessels. So the U.S.S. Co. of Maoriland
has to drop out of the San Francisco trade or else
leave out Honolulu as a port of call.
The statement in the Australian dailies
that Admiral Seymour intended waiting for Sept,
before marching on Pekin reads very queerly to
anyone who knows the locality. The Peiho River
and a large part of the Gulf bf Pechili are frozen
over m Nov., and even the inner waters of Chifu,
Port Arthur, and Wei-hai-Wei are not always free
from ice. So as much of the campaign as remains
unfinished by end of Oct. must needs stand over
till Spring—March, in that quarter.
Wharton, M.P.’s Flogging Bill was
rejected in the (Tory-controlled) House
of Commons by 123 votes. Eleven
years ago the same Bill triumphantly
passed its second reading, though for
other reasons it did not become law.
Even more significant than the
numerical turn over was the personal
value of the debate ; for the Home
Secretary, who backed the Bill in ’B9,
now spoke strongly against it, and ex-
plained his change of conviction by the
fact that “ he had seen something of the
administration of the criminal law
since he had become Home Secretary .”
South Australia, with but a
handful of people, and with a mania
once for changing Govts., gives some
men what surely come near being
fiolitical records. R. B. Andrews
afterwards Judge) was Attorney-
General seven times. Arthur Blyth
(afterwards Agent-General) was in 11
Ministries ; and so was Henry Ayers.
John Hart was in nine Ministries ;
and the whole lot lasted only 4’ years
42 days. A dozen men in the pro-
vince have held office for less than 20
days.
“ Brahmin ” to The Bulletin :
These Indian famines are chiefly due to the European
way of doing- things. Every spare ounce of wheat or
other cereal is bought up and sent out of the country,
when the monsoons fail, the empire is starving l in*a
month. In the days of good King Akber, Govt, grana-
ries were constructed which held millions of tons of grain
They used to laugh at famines then, but now the hat has
to be sent round all over the world for the starving ryot.
King Akber s granaries still exist, but they are always
empty. The money-lender and the merchant live on
India s famines.
A short Bill, now before N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, provides that any person passing himself off
as a doctor when he isn’t one may be fined £5O;
also £5 a day for the continuance of the offence, or
12 months gaol. When Australia becomes a little
more honest and thorough it will go further and
impose a £5O fine on the man who professes to sell
a bankrupt or salvage stock at 50 per cent, reduc-
tion when he is only selling his own old stock with
10 per cent. off. Likewise the man who sells the
fuaranteed hair-restorer which doesn’t restore anv
air.
Victoria has already been divided up into
23 electorates for the Federal Parliament which
have all received native-Australian names except
Brunswick and the Melbourne constituencies.
“ The hon. member for Joorweit, Yalooka, Indei
or Boonurrong ” will perhaps sound strangely at
first, but it is to be hoped that the admirable
precedent will be followed by N.S.W. and the
other federating provinces. Waterloo, Robertson,
Manning, St. George, Hay, and such-like old-
world names can be well left to the local legisla-
. ture.
The new Melbourne evening paper will,
it is said, be an accomplished fact ere long.
Mayor M‘Eacharn (a candidate for Federal
Parlt.) must have his organ to fight Fink, who
already has his organ—the Herald. Some queer
things will be seen in the newspaper world before
long. One man ambitious of political honors—he
has been a failure so far—has conceived the
brilliant idea of getting his paw on several local
papers, and wants to amalgamate two “society ”
weeklies. But if it comes off others are ready to
spring up.
Premier Seddon has received a decided set-
back from the Imperial Govt., which has declined
to be enthusiastic over that annoyed politician’s
scheme for a black-and-yellow South Sea Federa-
tion without first consulting thfe Commonwealth
of Australia. As the Australian constitution was
framed without reference to Maoriland, and as his
own impudent “protests” after the Bill had
passed to the Imperial Parliament were ignored,
the relative importance of Australia as compared
with his own little kingdom should now be forcibly
brought home to the gentle Richard.
Three anti-Federal yarns from Perth
Morning Herald published in this order :
The Federal Government will require £7,170,000 to
enable the departments taken over to be kept going, to
provide for the “ new services,” and to enable the quota
of three-fourths of the net revenue to be returned to the
States.
It. is admitted that, whereas £6,000,000 is now collected
by the colonies, £8,000,000 must be collected under
Federation.
We are told on the authority of Mr. Coghlan that the
cost of federal government will be at least £2,500,000 per
annum—probably much more. This implies th") raising
of a £10,000,000 tariff. °
If the Referendum had only been delayed i nonth
longer Brother Alick’s paper would pi ibably
have swelled its prospective Federal taiiff to
£40,000,000 a year before it was finished.
Tasmania proposes to extend its Leg.
Council franchise by giving a vote to every holder
of a freehold worth £lO a year (instead of £2O) or
a leasehold worth £3O a year (instead of £80). It
is further intended to establish manhood suffrage
for the House of Assembly, whereas the present
suffrage gives a vote to persons who are on the
Assessment Roll as property-owners, or who have
put in 12 months residence and have an income of
or exceeding £4O a year. Also, the Bill now
before Parliament abolishes the time-wasting pro-
cess by which Ministers have to seek re-election
on taking office, and enacts that no member shall
hold a seat in State and Federal Parliaments
simultaneously. Which is good, so far as it goes.
If it went further and put both Houses on a man-
hood-suffrage basis, the Council to be elected by
the island as one constituency ; provided for a
joint sitting in case of deadlocks ; cut down the
membership one-half, and doubled the salaries, it
would be still better.
A recent Federal speech at Perth (W.A.)
by a Mr. J. Gardiner afforded Perth Morning
Herald a fine opening for the elaborate inaccuracy
which seems inseparable from Parochialism.
Gardiner stated that out of the 11,515 persons
engaged in manufacturing operations in Wes-
BEHIND THE SCENES.
HARDRESS GREGGAN : “ They can say what they-
like, but I’ve had notices for my brogue.”
KYRLE DALY : “ Yes, so I should think — week’s
notices.”
tralia, only 3419 would be affected by the aboli-
tion of interprovincial duties when the Common-
wealth is established. The Morning Herald
stated that he said only 3419 persons would be
unfavorably affected by the abolition of inter-
provincial duties. Later on it began to allege
that he said only 3419 persons would lose their
billets through the abolition, etc. Now its stand-
ing howl is to the effect that “even the Federal-
ists admit that 3419 persons in our small popula-
tion will be ruined by the abolition,” etc. So the
snowball grows.
George Throssell, the loudest and bitterest
Parochialist of the Westralian Govt, and a leader-
of the anti-Federal movement, in a letter to Perth
Morning Herald :
While I am as certain as you can be that we cannot for
long keep out of the union, that the mere impact of four
millions of people upon 180,000 must, of necessity, sooner
or later force us into it, and, further, that we are probably
exaggerating the evils likely to attend federation for this
colony, our resources being too great and too varied to
permit ruin to result—still, believing all this, seeing that
it is acknowledged that our position will be much inferior
to that we now occupy, and possessing the privilege of
the referendum, I conceive that we should make a bold
fight in support of our convictions.
When even the leaders have taken to calling
theirs a lost cause what cheer is there for the
human beasts of burden who hump the ammuni-
tion at the rear of the Parochialist army ?
About the finest sample of Provincialisb
assurance and mendacity up to date is the declara-
tion of Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald that the
Federal Govt, will introduce cheap colored labor
and “all our (Westralia’s) restrictive laws in
regard to alien labor will go by the board.”
This is especially good coming from the Chow
and Afghan and all-manner-of-miscellaneous-
nigger-lnuinted land of slavery—the land where
they “indenture” the unsophisticated black-
fellow. The evidence assigned is that section 26,
clause 51 of the constitution gives the Federal •
Parliament power to make laws dealing with
The people of any race, other than the aboriginal race
in any State, for whom it is deemed necessary make
special laws.
The clause obviously gives the Federal Parliament
power to shut out, expel, tax, or otherwise dis-
courage the cheap black and yellow laborer, and
it was obviously inserted for that purpose. Bub
the anti-Federal gang, with that glorious men-
dacity which makes a big halo round its head,
generally speaks of this as a clause providing for
the wholesale importation of niggers. Sydney
Telegraph started that amazingly impudent per-
version, and Perth Morning Herald borrows th&
second-hand lie of the East and passes it off
proudly as its own lie.
VROW’S STOCKINGS AND ORDINARY
MAN’S SOCK.
A correspondent at Draghoender writes: “These are
regarded as one of the curiosities of the campaign. They
describe more fully than words the fatness of the Boera.
This photo, is of an average size of many stockings that
are kept for constant sale by the local storekeeper ”
Sydney Evening News, June 30.
This is surely the climax of the war-correspondent's
exploits.


PALING’S * PIANOS
THINK OP THESE NAMES WHEN BUYING
Arc RcpGtatioi)
BOildcrs.
PALING’S
Stock as well
EVERY
KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
Such as
Violins
Cornets
Banjos
Guitars
Mandolins
Autoharps
Accordeons
&c., &o.
LOWEST PRICES.
ji jt jt j*
Call or Write for
CATALOGUES.
STEIJNWAY
PIANOS
BRINSMEAD
PIANOS
EEURICH
PIANOS
UEBEL
PIANOS
ECKE
PIANOS
VICTOR
PIANOS
BELLING
PIANOS
HIGH GRADE GOODS AT LOW PRICES
W. H. PALING #O’ L TO 338
GEORGE STR€€T,
sypHey
And at
BrisbaQe
Newcastle
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Remedy.
HYDATIDS AGAIN CONQUERED.
TWELVE YEARS A SUFFERER.
DOCTORS DIFFERED.
VITADATIO CURED.
READ MR. EDWARD ELLIS' TESTIMONY.
Newcastle, April 24,1900
Mr. S. A. Palmer.
Dear Sir, —For the past twelve years I have been a
sufferer. I have been treated by doctors in Wallsend,
Hamilton, Sydney, Rockhampton, and various places, but
without success ; they all failed to diagnose my case.
Some said I suffered from kidneys out of order, ulcers on
stomach—enlarged liver —pleurisy, &c. ; but Vitadatio
soon showed the disease, and I am now heavier than ever
I was in my life. The hydatids have come away in great
quantities, as witness to this I have given two bottles of
same to your manager in Newcastle. I am thankful for
the good health Vitadatio has given me, and will be 1
willing at all times to tell others of its marvellous virtues.
(Signed.) EDWARD ELLIS,
Vitua-street, Lambton, N.S.W.
Formerly of Rockhampton, Queensland.
Witness: W. J. Fist,
Hunter-street, Newcastle.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5 s (id; Small Size, 3s 6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s (id.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney..
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
fcTASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Don’t
Experi-
ment ..
with Cheap Grade
Cycle Tyres.
tV-
/"
imilSP’
3
It Costs too much (Honeyl
Leave that for the cyclist who wants to buy experience.
When purchasing tyres always specify
MULTIFLEX
B
and thus ensure getting a Reliable and Dtiralble
Roadster Tyre. Guaranteed by us to carry you over
all classes of roads for 12 months.
Beware of Imitation Tyres offered as
“on the Dunlop prinorpSs.”
DUNLOPS are only genuine when the
Cover and Tube bear this
TRADE
MARK.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
JJSD AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)
Jessep, M.P. for Waverley, whoso fervidly
denounced the action of the Lyne Govt, in (as he
averred) illegally providing funds for a new
operating-theatre at St. Vincent’s Hospital,
Sydney, and who was mainly responsible for the
sectarian outburst last week in N.S.W. Assembly,
was made to look very foolish by the publication
of a letter he wrote in June, ’9B, applying to Govt,
for 50 pairs of blankets for the local branch of the
(R.C.) St. Vincent de Paul Relief Society. Jessep
had a great run for the Waver ley seat in July, ’9B,
and his religious views did not prevent him from
cadging votes from the R.C. portion of his con-
stituents. As a matter of fact, there was nothing
illegal in the Government’s grant to St. Vincent’s
(which, by the way, is the hospital used by the
men of the Australian squadron), and as to Govt,
inspection, it is clearly set forth in the Act that
any institution accepting Govt, aid is inspectable
by Govt. In justice to Jessep, it must be added
that his pretext for the attack (this hasn’t been
pointed out in the papers) is that the Ministry,
instead of openly making the grant, stowed the
item away among “Unforeseen Expenses.”
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas 00. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
The Bundaberg Philpocrats made a bad
blunder when they nominated and subsequently
withdrew Duffy as Ministerial candidate. Up to
this remarkable stroke Glassey had posed as the
Independent Democrat, but the withdrawal of
Duffy at the instigation of the Govt, (in the
interests of Glassey) placed the ex-Leader of the
Labor-party in his true colours as a political rene-
gade, pure and simple. But a few months ago
the Q. Govt, organs were unanimous in deriding
Glassey as a legislative blunderer of the first water,
and most sensible Labor men were uneasily con-
scious that the strictures were well deserved. All
of a sudden the Courier, and the small fry that
follow in the Courier’s wake, discovered that
T.G. was a heaven-born statesman ; that he was
“ still true to Labour principles,” but possessed of
the “ true spirit of manly freedom,” &c., &c., &c.
The change of attitude was Prompt and Beautiful.
The chairman at the recent 12th July
Orange meeting at Sydney Town Hall announced
that his body intended to raise the standard of
the men representing the people in Parliament,
and among the means to be adopted was the
raising of the sectarian cry at the Federal elec-
tions ! With such examples as Wilks and Jessep,
M’s.P., before him the Grand Master can be well
excused for stating that local politics are on a low
level. The rottenest era in N.S.W. political his-
tory was when Parkes and his vulgar, unlettered,
sectarian puppets ruled the land. Those were
indeed the halcyon days of Orangeism—the days
when at a 12th of July shivoo you saw on the
platform perhaps 30 of the gang all a-row, and
more than proud to exhibit themselves. Now,
you can only find three M’s. P.—people like
Jessep, Wilks, and Law—game to parade their
old-world rancour, and try once more to rend
asunder a peaceful community. Even Brother
Perry, the Minister for Education, finds it i >n-
venient to stay at the meeting or show himself on
the platform—he has important business in the
Assembly.
Brisbane Govt, organ on Chinese troubles:
"The Boxe s consist of the scum of the people, and have
adopted as cheir motto —“ China for the Chinese.”
The audacity of the Chow ! Perhaps, however,
he has heard from his brethren in Australia that
some folks in this country are also possessed of a
motto built on similar lines.
Queensland, the first of the Australias to
offer armed help to England to crush the Boers,
was the last of the Australias to agree with the
Imperial idea of managing the Australian
Squadron.
The stupendous Malmesbury (Vic.) reser-
voir, which supplies Taradale, Fryers, Maldon,
Huntly, Sebastian, Chewton, Bendigo, Castle-
maine, Eaglehawk and Haywood, did a rather
serious burst lately ; and by the time it is repaired
all the above towns may be going about with their
tongues hanging out and be compelled to wash
their faces with lemonade. The official in charge
thinks the burst may be due to the fact that no
repairs have been done for at least 14 years, and
it is suspected that certain ironwork meanly and
surreptitiously rusted itself through when the
Department wasn’t looking.


Banking, Publie Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs^
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3KT.S.-W.
montdepietej).*!l.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)'
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manageb.
City Mutual Life
I c . *
•&» Assurance Society
Limited. . . ,
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
OEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 George Street ( faciri s- rßrid s e - Bfc ) Sydney.
Directors : JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. JJ.d. o/ Jjondon.
(Fidelity Guarantees. limp. liiahilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘M:U,an, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. IT ass all ; Perth, A. W
Farouiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
file Bank of Dorth Queensland
1,1 M I'l’KI).
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
-THE^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—pouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3.196,353 0 O
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esa., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Oflice: 1 liishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IV tw
SYDNIOV -
SOUTH wales:
273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Havmarket Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
F
air girls
2nd Edition.
AND GRAY
Price 4/6.
HORSES.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., July 21, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Sat., July 21, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIItIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
\ Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Sat.., July 21, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., July 24, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., July 28, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, July 21, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., July 28, 12 Noon.
LtJOINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
T i > € TrOstccs, €*€c6tor£,
AND
AgSOCV Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
.. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
1 ’ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, i
etc. For tariff, ap;ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Bank of New South Wales . i
Established 1817. i
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0 !
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0;
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
f
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLalrin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office- Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New !
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
V DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAVINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 eaota
PLAITS and TAILS,
201 n. long, 6/0. all real hale,
CUTTINGS «s COMBIKQfI
worked up, 2/0 per 02.
We ore the cheapestio bm>
Walla for all Bair Work
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.’wigz^ll.
110 William Street,
•orner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prico List.
rJWPpt attenfcioD given to Oountvy Ot4tA
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”),
extra, illustrated, 6s.
Cloth
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Lalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
lANGLANI) VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE>
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Stvdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY,
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
Steamer.
Tons, Commander.
From
Sydney
Destina-
tion.
MUNCHEN ... 4536 A Krebs . July 25 Hongkong
STETTIN ...| 2478 J. Niedermeyer Sep. 5 Singapore
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCIIER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
PCRCY PHILLIPS,
"Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING-, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^
HAVING- made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
, assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring 1 Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of X»ady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mailboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and J OU\G.
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Pish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously', direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716*4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p ORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping'at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
July 20.
S.S. Wollowra, from Melb.,
Tuesday, July 31.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
July 20.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as- under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AMD FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Pnssenf/er A cco nnnodntion, Attendance and
C'nislne unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE - British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, *35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to *llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to F. WHITE, Acting Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker g jo’s pne
* —TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland p, >rts and Port Darwin.
Steamer. 'jTns Commander. Leave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms ...'August 4
GUTHRIE ... 2500 W. G. M‘Arthur September 1
EASTERN ...3600 Wintbrop Ellis ...September 22
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George ... October 18
1 1 I
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
H)‘|lairaith,(|| < Eacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. P. cprleta-y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6?00 tons, under Postal Contract u itb the
French Government, calling at MIiLBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDF,, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
AUSTRALTEN Sellier August 6
V.DELACIOTAT Fiaschi Sept. 3
POLYNESIEN Chevalier [Oct. 1
August 9 Aug. 11
Sept. 6 Sent. 8
Oct. 4 Oct. 6
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 t 0 £7o’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGIISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


W:,
... - : ' .* .. f * « . ' *
ifgamsp
iPPPiiW I
' (J ji > , : /«h
► \ <' *\* Ip «
M
The COOILALTA VINEYARDS, from
Photograph.
M
Lightest Wines- in Australia
J A. WILKINSON
Offices :
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)
jKllenbunjs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
Tf|e “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of lile.
Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, *B4, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
ART JEWELLERS, &c.
f?
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
WATCH MANUFACTURERS
LATEST LONDON NOVELTY TIE CLIPS.
Plain Gold, 8s 6d pair. Smaller size, 5s 6d.
Set with Opals, Pearls and Turquoise, 15s pair.
Lucky Sham-
rock CHARM,
set with 2
Amethysts, or 1
Topaz or
Ohsidion, 4s.
Smaller size, 3s.
LATEST LONDON’ NOVELTY.
SILVER-PLATED BELTS.
Will fit any size Waist, 7s, 6s 6d, 6s, and 5s 6d each.
20 Different Patterns.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope,
and Charity
PENDANT,
5s each.
With Pin and
Chain, 8s 6d.
AUSTRALIAN BOOMERANG BROOCH.
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy, 265.
Solid Silver,
Extra
Heavy, 7s 6d
2
SOLID GOLD NECK CHAINS, 16in. long.
Pattern No. 1 2 & ,f a
9c Gold 9s 15s 15s 15s
15c'. ~ 13s 6d 23s 6d 22s 6d 24s
SOLID GOLD LONG MUFF CHAINS, 54in.
Pattern No^ g g( y_ 57 / 6 tQ 80/L 32 /6 to 95/. 75/. to 5/5/0
SOLID GOLD BELL BANGLES.
3-Bell, plain, 24s ; engraved, 255; 5-Bell, plain, BOs; engraved, 31s 6a.
Please send for our Illustrated Slips
of Novelties. All Articles sent Post
Free to any Address.
Fitted with Kej padlocks, 10s extra.
Sterling Silver Chain Bracelets, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
9c. GOLD,
255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
Extra Heavy and Wide,
60s, 70s, 80s.
Children’s,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15c. GOLD,
£2 ss, £2' 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
Extra Heavy and Wife,
£5 10s, £6 10s.
Children’s,
32s 6d, 37s 6d.
PLAIN and RICHLY ENGRAVE > BRACELETS,
Solid C old, 18s 6d, 20s, 255, 3Cs, to 40s.
15c. Gold Gem-Set BANGLE, 1 Lovely Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires, 52s 6d.
Gold Pin and Chain Charms, with
Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6/6
Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ „ 4/6.
Heart, 7/6 ~ 5/0
Cross, 8/- Larger size, 16/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6,
10/-
We have an
Immense Stock of
Fancv
HAT PINS,
from Is 6d to 5s 6d
each.
Solid
Silver
HAT
PINS,
Length
7 indie s;
Any
Initial.
Extra
Strong,
3s.
Each.
Gold, set with One Finest Quality Amethyst, Topaz, or
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
Our New Gold Bamboo Bangles, 22s 6d: Broader, 32s 6d ;
Children’s size, 14s. Hundreds of other Patter ns.
9c., 10s 6d ; smaller,
6s 6d ; 15c., 12s 6d ea.
Novelty Pin, Chain, and Gold Emuor
Kangaroo, 8s 6d. Charm, only 5s each.
Latest Novelty Lyre and Treble,
Olet Brooch, Extra Strong ana
Finely Finished.
15c. Gold
and
13 First
Quality-
Pearls,
255.
15c Double
BEOOCH,
with Chain
and Treble
Clef,
455.
Gold Pin, Chain,
and Gem Set Wish
Bone, 7s.
<s>
FULL SIZE
GOLD HEART PENDANTS.
We have an immense variety.
Full size. Smeller do.
Set with 9c. 15c. 9c. 15c.
Diamond 55/- 60/- 35/- 40/-
Sapphire 17/6 20/- 15/- 17/6
Turquoise 15/-17/6 12/6 15/-
Pearl - -15/- 17/6 12/6 15/-
Ruby - -17/6 20/- 15/- 17/6
Opal - -15/- 17/6 12/6 15/-
PlainGoldlO/- 13/6 7/6 11/-
REGISTERED CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
Brooches : Silver, 3s 6d ;
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
Solid Gold
BIRD PENDANT,
Set with 17 Lovely Opals, 15s.
POST FREE
Raised Centre.
N
E
W
G
O
L
D
Silver
2s 6d
each.
poft!
Solid Gold, 5s 6d.
Plain Patterns,
4s, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s
to 255.
As officially returned, the British expendi-
ture over the S’African war to end of March totals I
£23,250,000 —quite a million a week. Since then 1
the British taxpayer has had to find money to buy
and ship to S’Africa 40,000 horses to replace those
expended by Gen. French during the 100 miles
march from Orange River to Bloemfontein.
These horses cannot cost less than £4O a. head
landed in S’Africa, and that means a trifle of
£1,600,000 ! French has, so far, destroyed,
say, £4,000,000 worth of horses.
How history repeats itself ! Take a few
extracts from the story of the Highland Jacobite
rising of 1745. . The invaders excited the greatest
terror in tlie hearts of the English people because
of the horrible stories of their barbarism industri-
ously spread throughout the country. “ Every-
body said the Highlanders ate little children.”
We find this in the Chevalier Johnstone’s
memoirs:
They affirmed in the newspapers of London that we had
dogs in our army trained to fight, and that we were in-
debted for our victory at Gladsmuir to these dogs, who
darted with fury on the English army. They represented
the Highlanders as monsters, with claws instead of hands.
In a word, they never ceased to circulate, every day, the
most extravagant and ridiculous stories with respect to
the Highlanders. The English soldiers had indeed reason
to look upon us as extraordinary men, from the manner
in which we had beaten them with such inferior numbers,
and they probably told these idle stories to the country
people by way of palliating their own disgrace.
The religion of the Highlanders was a subject of
endless scoffing, too, and tales of their disgusting
hypocrisy in kneeling and praying “like Chris-
tians ” were recited from one end of England to
the other.
Concerning George Reid as a barrister :
Much has been written and said of ex-Premier G. H.
Reid as a politician and even as a “ practising ” states-
man. Let us look at him as he appears at the Bar, earn-
ing his bread and holding his briefs with no small measure
of success.
Calumnious critics, in the years of Reid’s Premiership,
were wont to taunt him with having failed in his profes-
sion. Within two terms he has effectually silenced them,
and the generous-minded will congratulate him.
Reid in his wig, gown and eye-glass is a comedy to
begin with, and when he addresses the Court, or cross-
examines a witness, he is funnier still. Also, he manages,
every time, to have the laugh with him.
Reid’s return to the bar created much interest. His
most resolute parliamentary opponent, Attorney Crick,
arranged his first brief. The case was a capital one, and
Reid managed to get a verdict of manslaughter. . Since
then he has been in much demand both in the criminal
and civil courts. As an advocate Reid’s methods are
entirely original. As a rule barristers, from the latest-
joined junior to the most seasoned Q. 0., employ exactly
the same terms, put points in the same way, are as con-
cise as a geometrician and as fixed in their legal course, as
stars in the firmament. Of course, they display varying
degrees of ability and brilliancy—of acumen and aptitude.
But they are followers of a fashion professionally regarded
as immutable.
Reid, on the other hand, is legally, intellectually, and
constitutionally unconventional. While he evinces a
knowledge of the letter of the law and a clear conscious-
ness of its scope and restrictions, he is deliciously un-
trammelled by barristerial tradition. He amazes the
habituated Bench, startles the strictly formal Bar, a,nd
strongly interests those having a daily acquaintance with
court-procedure. But his knowledge of human nature,
his appreciation of the niceties of his cause, and his grasp
of detail serve his purpose with surprising effect when he
puts the issue to the jury. His methods may petrify the
Bench, inconvenience rival counsel, and outrage all
tradition ; but it is little George cares as long as he gets
his points home with the jury, and frees, their, minds of
any obscurity or doubt. If the boom in Reid's briefs
continue, the ex-Premier threatens to revolutionise the
musty advocacy of the N.S.W. Courts.
Legislative sanction is sought for the con-
struction of a “mono-rail express-line” between
Liverpool and Manchester (Eng.) The single rail
is to be placed on steel trestles 4ft. high with guide
rails lower down to steady the cars. It is proposed
to run at 100 miles-per-hour speed with a 10-minute
service. With rail-speed like this and turbine-
driven steamers which can be constructed to do up
to 60 miles per hour, it looks as if reality were
shortly going to out-do even Jules Verne’s imagin-
ative flights in this direction.


DON'T be left behind on a “Good enough.”
A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
is cheaper in the end.
Factories— Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
V.-oncies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
SEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
THIS
is the
BICYCLE
THAT EVERYONE
is
TALKING ABOUT
The Famous
The Famous
RED BIRD
The favorite of the Commonwealth and pride of Australia. Every week its sales
the public have now proved it to be the very best bicycle built.
are increasing, because
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD.
64 KING STREET, BYDNEY.
Tel. 3160.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The V.R.C. handicapper scored a record this
ame m the Grand Nationals. Hurdle and steeple were
each captured by aged “duffers” carrying the 9st. mini-
mum, inn the two runners-up humped only IBst. lolb.
DMween them. Last year Valdis and Mysore won the
double ' under burdens that averaged 9st. go by
these tokens handicapper Dakin is beginning to “ err on
the side of leniency ” (as the newspapers say) in his treat-
ment or horses entered for big jumping races with no
form ro credit. Or he errs on the side of severity as
regards those that run often and win occasionally. The
fault is very evident in the history of the G.N. Hurdle
ltaee, anyhow. Of the 20 winners listed from 'Si to 1900,
only nine have carried more than lOst.; ten were favored
with something less than lOst.; and the other one started
from the lOst. mark. Owners of recognised good per-
formers over the little sticks get little encouragement to
enter them for the swell hurdle race of the year.
* * * *
The V.R.C. Grand National Steeple pro-
duced as big a surprise as G.N. Hurdles a week before.
H inner—Rosebud—carried little or no money—hundreds
to 8 going begging. Time (6.39 J) is a record. As
already remarked, successful nags in the big“lepping”
race don’t come .from lower-weighted ones as a rule.
Fearless 11. (9.9), Daimio (9.3), and Mysore (9) carried
the lightest burdens home previous to Saturday,
when Rosebud humped 9st. Event was instituted
ln ar *d since_ then only two mares have won
Ruby (12.7 up) in ’BB and Rosebud. Race, as such,
proved a big disappointment, for Butler, Chelsea (an
amateur in the saddle), Leeway, 8.8., Euro, Pirate and
Crusado came down, and the hot-pot Mysore ran off—
six . ou ? of 16 Btar ters to fight out the finish.
Worth mentioning that three previous years’ winners
Hayseed, Floater and Mysore—were among the “ field,”
and former ran third. Daimio credited himself with two
successive victories in ’94 and ’95. No other nag yet
scored twice.
• • • •
When Rosebud won the Steeplechase, two
lengths in front of Wallaby and eight lengths ahead of
weary Hayseed, there came a long, ghastly silence, broken
only by the fitful, gladsome blasphemies of the “ books.”
And then the assembled thousands of punters had a
sudden inspiration. It came to them all at once, or
nearly so, and on every part of the course the question
was put by everybody to his nearest neighbor, “ What
would Rosebud have paid in the Tote? ” Ikey Mo’s price
about Rosebud was a modest 33, or in some cases 50 to
I—the same old orthodox “ h’any price” that he had
offered against Aquarius for the Hurdle Race. But,
probably, Rosebud was a more general “ skinner ” for the
Israelites than even Aquarius had been. Tub Bulletin
knows of at least one leading metallician who actually
laid a £lOO bet against Aquarius on the course, and was so
wroth at having to pay away anything at all that he in-
sulted the lucky punter. If the same bookmaker failed to
scoop the whole pool over Rosebud his anger was probably
awful. Mysore, of thedoubtful temper, didn’t mean to try to
win the G.N. Steeple, as it turned out. The favourite was
decidedly loth to take the logs and the stone wall in front
of the Stand, still his jockey managed to keep him up to
his work for about 2j miles. In fact, he was going fourth
with an excellent chance of victory when Crusado fell at
the fence in front of him, and he—ran off. Which was
just what Mysore had been expected to do at Caulfield
where, however, he ran kindly enough. He is a good
natural jumper, like all the Wellingtons, but being
troubled by the remembrance of an unlucky fall which
happened him last year, he runs off quite as naturally as
he jumps. This is more creditable to Mysore’s head than
to his heart. Also it is distressing for his backers.
• * • *
Aftermath of Aquarius’ win in G.N. Hurdles is
still d Appears that both he and second nag—
Rackstraw—were lame the day before, and latter could
only take swimming-exercise. Rackstraw went so
gingerly on race-morning that it looked even then as if he
might not line up. Aquarius’ people admit that the
gelding wouldn’t have been sent had he not been paid-up
for—they thought they might as well have a run for their
money. Said that a blacksmith at Mordialloc (Vic.)could
have had Aquarius for nothing. Nag had broken down
several times, and on one of these occasions was so bad
that owner Connelly got full and tilled, and abortively
asked Vulcan to take him as a gift.
• * * •
What an unsatisfactory game it is ! Chit-Chat,
the Ballarat horse from Scobie’s stable, started in three
flat-races at the V.R.C. meeting. In the first two goes
Chit-Chat got a good run and an easy win each time, but
in the third something brought the flier down, and he re-
turned to the birdcage with blood on his head. Signifi-
cant fact that the “ books ” were always ready to lay 10
to 1 against Chit-Chat for the race wherein something
brought him down.
* * * *
The backers of coincidence should have flattened
out Ikey Mo badly over the G. N. Hurdles. One Wagga
man landed a wager over Aquarius, which he backed
because his town was mostly under water, and the people
were roosting on the fences waiting for it to go down.
Best handicapping seen about Sydney for many
a day was in the big event at Warwick Farm on Satur-
day, which fell to the rankest outsider of the race—
Turbine. Four finished almost in a line ; other three
were Ambition, Coal Queen, and Wat Tyler. Owing to
similarity of colors, judge had Promise’s number hoisted.
Mo., fearing that the “skinner” was slipping from his
grasp, started howling as he only can howl for the
mistake to be rectified. His hig retinue of “ guns,”
“ whisperers,” “ lug-biters,” &c., &c., joined in, and
things were very hot until the change was made.
* * * *
Extract from letter from Lieut.-Col. Kelly,
Commanding Officer Vic Contingent, A.I.R. ; “Transport
Victorian, Off Beira, 21 5/’OO. We are all (horses and
men) in first-class trim ; but we are fretting very much
over the one horse we lost. He was dying at Langwarrin,
and was condemned, but in some unaccountable way
smuggled himself up. to. Flemington, where he was con-
demned again. Then he turned up on Port Melbourne
Pier, where he was condemned again ; but, when we got
out to sea and counted our horses, we found we had one
over, and, hang me !if it was not this very brute. We
nursed him and pampered him for our reputation’s sake ;
but, notwithstanding all, the brute died—l believe from
pure spite.”
* * * *
The fight between Bill Doherty and dark-hued,
lathy Peter Felix for Australia’s championship filled all
available space in the huge Metrop. A.O. Hall, Ultimo
(Sydney), Monday night. About 1500 turned up and paid
£l, 10s., ss. and 2s. 6d. to see the show, which was lively,
interesting, and at times very exciting from first to last
of 20 rounds. Felix (13st.) had 6in. advantage in height,
goodness knows how many in reach (for his length of limb
is abnormal), and a stone the better of weights ; but his
defence was bad, and Doherty got in on him time after
time when he had no right to. Odds of 6to 4 were laid
on the white, and they were justified, for never at any
period was he in serious trouble—albeit, he often bothered
the other map.' First ten rounds saw things fairly even,
the black,, perhaps, holding a slight lead. Felix lost his
head frequently in critical situations. Once he had Doherty
going if he had only known how to make the most of the
opportunity. Cognoscenti were satisfied that Doherty
was a good and dangerous fighter after the second 3min.
The fourth round was redhot throughout, and onlookers
were crazed with excitement. Doherty had the eighth all
to himself, and 2 to 1 was freely offered on the “ little
’un ” as he sat down for the much-needed minute’s spell.
After the tenth, Doherty was in front throughout, treat-
ing Felix’s lefts with contempt, and getting in on him
every time he (Felix) flung his right, which he did often—
foolishly (as it left him very open) and ineffectually, be-
cause it,wasn’t much good. The only knock-down of the
battle occurred in the 17th, when Doherty got home hard
and true on the point, dropping the sable giant like a
cock. Felix stayed down ldsec. and came up dazed.
Doherty might have won then but for the gong’s sound.
Subsequently there was nothing much done. The black
weakened a bit, and didn’t display the same zest. Referee
McDonald declared in favor of Doherty, and the decision
wa» applauded. The feature of the fight was the wonder-
fully good condition both* were in. Mick Dooley chal-
lenged the winner, and they’ll probably be matched this
week, as Doherty is agreeable.
* • * •
“Old Timer” : Saw the Felix-Doherty affair on
Monday night and was interested. Doherty fought a
fighting-man’s fight from end to end—cool, gritty, and
aggressive. Felix was the gymnasium boxer as far as
effect went, though not in point of skill, for he has a lot
to learn. His legs are wider apart, bringing his 6ft. 3in.
of stature down to perhaps only two or three inches more
than Doherty’s sft. 9in. He kept using his right foolishly
and aimlessly, thereby giving Doherty opening after
opening. Never saw a man lead so much with the right
as Felix did, and then it was only a chop—something
after Paddy Slavin’s style, but not carrying anything like
the same amount of power. If he had been
content with sending in his left only the result might
have been different, for Doherty couldn’t have scored
so often. There wasn’t much damage done. Felix’s face
was puffed up a lot, while an old cut under Doherty’s left
eye bled freely, as also did his left ear. Doherty shaped
a heap better than most people expected, but the black’s
showing was disappointing. He hasn’t improved much
—if any—since the “ Slogger of the Seas” (Tom Ball—a
foul worse-than-average fighter) made him look so silly in
Sydney years ago. Peter Jackson looked on and com-
mended the decision, which he said was beyond cavil.
Doherty deserves the honor, for he is a fighter and a man
—every inch. Though Dooley beat Doherty in Westralia
a few months ago, he’ll have his work cut out next time
if Doherty is as well as on Monday night.
* * * *
Struggle between heavyweight butcher Tim
Nolan and that fat, slow back-number, Bill Jennings,
drew a big crowd to Metrop. A.O. (Sydney) last week, but
as a fight 'twas a farce, though genuine enough. The
methods evidenced were very crude and suggestive of the
way pugs, fought before Fig’s time. Both would get up
against each other, with faces smothered by arms, and
push and shove for all the world like a pair of old billy-
goats butting; if one slipped t’other punched. They
would come from their chairs for every round—left
shoulder up and chin buried behind it in mortal dread of
stopping one with the “point,” and indulge in more
charging and propping, while the crowd roared again.
The only feature of a goat-fight absent was the sound of
the clashing horns. It was undoubtedly the most primi-
tive-looking affair lately seen in Sydney, and lasted till the
end of the eighth round, when Jennings capitulated,
asserting that his left hand had “gone again.” His
mauleys have been very crooked for years. Jennings
could fight once, but can’t now. Nolan is simply a bul-
lock and nothing else. There’s not the faintest tinge of
intelligence about anything he does beyond the effort to
keep his chin protected. It was nothing but tearing and
forcing from end to end, and left one marvelling how
such men could possibly be designated boxers.
• * « *
“Cocker” Tweedie bad a soft snap at Golden
Gate A.O. (Sydney) Saturday night, when he faced
Meares—another “ Rocks ” production, but a very “ sick ”
exponent of the game. Meares caught one punch on the
point half-a-minute after shaping up, looked for a soft
spot, fell, and lay there amid a pandemonium of hoots
and jeers. Referee courited-out the prostrate man, de-
clared the thing “ no fight,” and gave Tweedie a fiver
as compensation, thus punishing “Cocker” for the
management’s mistake m making such an absurd
match. Meares never was a fighter, and, physically, he’s
unfit to undergo any severe ordeal.
* * » •»
“Gore”: “Old Timer” (B. 7/7/’00) is hardly
fair to “ Snowy ” Sturgeon, whom he seems to class as
wanting in gameness for sprinting away from his opponent
in the ring. Well, doesn’t the fact that Sturgeon was
able to keep away from such a “rusher” as Cribb show
that the former is as good on the defensive as the latter is
on the aggressive ? It takes an artist of the first water to
successfully elude another in the ring and save himself
from going over the ropes during over half-a-dozen
rounds. Sturgeon showed marked ability in eluding
Cribb ; and Cribb showed that he was not so good on the
aggressive as many think him. [“Old Timer” said
nothing about want of gameness. He merely remarked
that Sturgeon’s heart never appeared to be quite in it—
and, as for Cribb being “ not so good on the aggressive,”
the man hadn’t entered for a foot-race !]
• * * *
How Australian pug.-material has deteriorated
since Foley and Jackson left off showing ’em how to do
it is evidenced by recent happenings in ’Frisco 1 Un-
disputed middleweight premier of these parts, Tim
Murphy, was handily licked by Al, Neill (whose reputa-
tion was purely local) a few months back. Now latest
mail tells that last month Neill went under to Moffatt,
a third-rater from the Eastern States, who was thought
so little of that nobody came along to back or “ manage ”
him.
* » * •
Dear Bulletin.—Present writer, during his
ring-side experience, has seen a great number of “knocks-
out,” and is certain that 50 per cent, of them were abso-
lute flukes ; many of the others also being open to much
doubt. Extreme nicety is required to get home a real
“outer” on a man dodging all over a 24-foot ring ; and,
anyhow, the knock-out is not boxing—it is a premedi-
tated attempt to kill! “ boxing” contest nowadays
presents mostly the pitiful spectacle of a pair of heroes
hustling and shuffling and smothering around after the
chance of a “knock-out.” Foot-work, head-work, and
“science” generally are “not in it” to-day. Stand stiff
as stone and hump your shoulder up to cover the “ mark”
seems to be the golden rule of the ring nowadays. Result
—either a long-drawn and wearisome worry to a draw,
or one man flatten ed-out more by accident than other-
wise. People who do not seek murder or sudden death
are getting tired of these one-hit exhibitions.— Theo. B.
**. * •
Cabled last Thursday- that Australian premier
sprinter Stan Rowley annexed a 100yds. scratch race at
Stourbridge (Eng.) in lOsec. This is about up to Rowley’s
best form here and equal to British amateur record-
shared in by Wharton,' Bradley (twice), Downer and
Cooper. World’s best (9 4-5) belongs to American
amateurs Owen Wefers and Duffy, and J. H. Hempton
(M.L.) and W. T. Macpherson (N.S.W.).
X * X *
Dear Bulletin, r—Let me point out re the
N.S.W. Public Schools’ Annual Sports Meeting(l9th Sept,
next) that masters and teachers of each school which has
pupils competing should ein attendance to see that the
boys get a chance for the events they are entered for.
The advertised programme should be followed instead, as
was the case last year, of half-a-dozen events being com-
peted for at the same time, to the shutting out of boys
entered for more than one of them. Also, for obvious
reasons, no events should be judged by masters of schools.
And the running in the walking contests—which was last
year so freely permitted—should be strictlv dealt with.
In this year’s 440yds. Age Championship Walk 13-year-
old boys have 15yds. start, 12-year-olds 30yds., and 11
years and under also 30. Surely if a 13-year-old has to
give a 12-year-old 15yds., the 12-year-old" should give at
least 45 to the 11-and-under. The throw at the wicket
also (advertised this year, as it was last, as from cover-
point) will not, it is to be hoped, be again contested on
the full throw from wicket to wicket. Why advertise
conditions and then ignore them ? This annual school-
gathering is a marvellous one, and it is a pity that its suc-
cess should be marred by such defective administration.
—II. Stockdale.
* * * *
M.L, has a strong man “Samson,” who pro-
mises well. He is only 21, stands sft. 4in., and scales
lOst. 71b. So poor a showman is he that the weights of
his several lifts are not exaggerated an ounce. After four
months’ practice he joined Dix’s Variety Co., and is with
them now. The M.L. man puts up 1451 b. with one hand,
and 2271 b. with both, also holds out Jcwt. with an arm at
right angles from body. Youth and consequent imma-
turity of development considered, his measurements are
eye-opening : Biceps 15in., forearm 12in., and shoulder
18in. T’other night Wellington man of brawn and thew
Doyle Ftested “ Samson’s ” weights, and voiced this :
“ My experience of strong men is that they are the
greatest frauds in the show business. This man evidently
doesn’t know enough to be a fraud. I consider him a
prodigy of strength.”
* » • »
The Hordern Premiership Cricket Shield, won
last year by Central Cumberland C.C., was handed over
to that club recently. During the evening it was men-
tioned that the premier club will next season be aug-
mented by many notables, including Iredale (of Waver-
ley), Coningham (who is running a duck farm in the dis-
trict), and other well-known players.
• * \ * *
Joe Darling is at present in Tasmania, which
province will almost certainly hold him for good. He
has practically bought a station, and S.A. cricket will see
him no more. Whether he will play for Australia again
is a question probably of form at the time. Joe has
embarked on station life again at the earnest solicitation
of ex-miller John Darling (his father), who is living in
retirement at E. Melbourne, and is a very wealthy man.
* * * *
Bowler M’Kibbin has secured a billet with an
Adelaide timber-firm, and will probably play with Pt.
Adelaide club next summer.
• * • •
Albert Trott has only been a moderate success
with the ball f&r Middlesex this season and has been al-
most an absolute failure with the bat. His best bowling
so far is 9 for 190 against Somerset in the first week in
June.
• • • •
“ Coo-ee ”: A member of present N.S.W. Govt,
was once patron of Tambong (N.S.W.) C.C., and promised
a guinea bat for season’s highest average score, but the
prize never materialised. This occurred three years ago.
Winner has long since given up all hope of ever treating
the natives of Tambong to a day’s leather-chasing with
that bat; but politicians have a weakness for this sort of
thing. Remember one possessing a Hibernian-flavored
French accent promising a 20-guinea prize, to be won
three times by swimmers. Clubs he it to were so
impressed with his liberality that they banqueted him.
The 20gs. were won, but they never came, though said
politician’s memory—like that of present Minister—was
jogged often.
* * * •
Interprovincial football struggle between Q. and
N.S.W. on Sydney Cricket Ground Saturday attracted
15,000 people. There was nothing fetching about the
match insofar as fine points are concerned, but it was
lively enough. But many ordinary club contests have
more to recommend them. Forwards occasionally shone
when spread out, but combination was totally absent on
both sides; in this respect Q’landers —though playing
and practising together for weeks—were worse offenders
than mother province’s reps., picked but three days
previously. Prior reports were to the effect that the
Bananalanders formed one of the best sides produced by
their province—despite the factof the forwards being some-
what light, and, as the constitution of the N.S.W. team
met with general approval, something extra was looked
for. But it didn’t materialise. Game ended 11 to 10 in
favor of N.S.W. The visitors with just a little luck in the
last few minutes might have won. There was too much
“gallery play” by individuals who frequently made—
or tried to make—themselves prominent on occasions
when combined work might have effected a big difference.
■*■***
Maoriland football is in full swing. At
Waitekauri v. Auckland match five of the Paeroa players
were injured. Leg broken—smashed scalp—3 ribs broken
—broken nose ; the fifth man was rendered unconscious
for four hours.
* • • •
N.S.W. Champion of Champions bowling
tourney—wherein only champions of different affiliated
clubs competed—ended Saturday in a boil-over. Smith
(Strathfield) and Bradbury (Vic. Park) were the two left
in. Bradbury had the “ soft things ”of the competition,
while Smith accounted for what seemed the toughest
tasks—Howe (Redfern) and Reeder (Balmain). Both
opened and kept on playing below average form for some
time. Each seemed nervously anxious. Bradbury often
played on the back hand when the opposite was the
proper game, and once he “drove” without the slightest
prospect of benefit accruing. Result was a miss, and
Smith scored with every bowl—4. Scores were now 12—
11 in favoj; of Bradbury. Smith never notched another
point, and Bradbury won with 10 to spare. Outcome of
this match illustrates the luck of the game. Dozens of
bowlers would readily play winner, but comparatively
few would care about tackling Smith.
* * * *
Melb. C.O. is promoting a bowling tourney for
the individual premiership of the provinces and expects
200 devotees to forward their half-sovs. The £lOO thus
subscribed will be cut up into £5O (first), £2O (second),
£7 (third) and £3 (fourth) prizes. Nothing is said as to
what will be done with the other £2O, though ’tis stated
that if less than 128 entries come to hand a pro-rata
reduction will be made in second, third and fourth prizes.
M. is wealthy enough to have done the thing properly
(if it wanted to do it at all) and chanced the number of
competitors.
* * • *
Latest from Australian Fred. Lane doesn’t in-
dicate much likelihood of great deeds (so far as he is con-
cerned) in Eng. during present swimming season. Effects
of influenza are still with him. Doctor examined his
chest and lungs and said they were perfectly sound.
Necessity for seeking informatio n in this connection
points to the possibility of the little top-notcher’s health
not being as heretofore, especially when same communi-
cation tells that it is not Lane’s intention to do much
swimming this year, that he has lost all enthusiasm for
the sport, and when the summer is over will return to
Sydney. Lane’s physique never did strike writeras being
that of a champion, though he did some very big things.
AtlastTowns and Wray have come to terms about
a match for the English championship. They’ve agreed
to get to it next month on the Thames for £2OO a-side,
and sports in the old country are agog re the event, as it
is over 12 months now since Towns annexed the title from
Barry. Towns’ objection to the Tyne was the immense
amount of traffic there. “ Might as well row from London
Bridge to Chelsea,” said Tom Sullivan—Towns’ close pal.
“ I know something about it. I rowed Harding there
five years ago, and our race had to be postponed day after
day for a week.” Tom thinks it’s a good thing for the
N. man—Towns.
» • * »
Yankee mail last week brought news of sculler
Ned Hanlan’s resurrection. What memories of far-back
days and rowing happenings the name conjures up ! Ned
has been in Boston some time coaching college-crews and
has made such a good impression that moneyed men have
offered to back him against champion Jake Gaudaur for
5000dol. a-side. Said that the old-timer is getting into
such prime trim that he is sure to give the wily Canuck a
great shaking-up, and if Jake won’t come, then Ned’s
going after some of the other big guns. Newpaper reports
are that Hanlan will get very close to rowing in his old-
time form. Difference in age won’t cut much of a fi<mre
in the result, for Gaudaur is no chicken.
**■ * *
S.A. and Victoria meet at lacrosse on Melb.
C.C. ground this Saturday (21st), and probably the best
game yet played in Australia will result. S.A. team is
the strongest available if Dawson, its champion attack
gets over. Included in Vic. team are Drew, the erstwhile
S.A. champion centre, and Bounin, another one-time S.A.
crack. The S.A. team is the fastest yet turned out bv
that province, and, unless Vic. lacrosse has greatly
advanced,.should win.
Phin Thompson —elder brother of bookmaking
Joe, and Jack, and Barney—who died in his sleep some
nights ago, was at one time a brevet-colonel in the U.S.
army. He was a white man and a humorist. On one
occasion he started a subscription-list to obtain funds for
the relief of “ a dear old friend ” of his, who was seriously
ill and unable to attend to his business. Phin was
popular, and everybody he applied to responded gene-
rously. But he would not take the money immediately.
“ I am only the secretary to the fund,” he explained.
“ I’ll put your names down, and you can pay your sub-
scriptions to the treasurer when he conies along at the
end of the week.” In a few davs Phin’s list was yards
long. At the end of the week some subscribers called to
pay over. “I am glad to inform you, gentlemen, that, I
see by the cablegrams, my friend —my dear old friend,”
said Phin, wiping a joyful tear from his eye, “ has almost
recovered from his illness, and will soon be able to resume
the duties attached to his high position. Your generous
offers to assist him in his time of trouble need not, there-
fore, be carried any further.” Then it turned out that
Phin’s “ dear old friend ” was the late Czar of Russia, who
had been about that time attacked by one of the fits of
illness which presaged his end. The father of Phin and
the rest of the Thompsons is, by the way, still alive, and
nearing 90 years of age.
* • * *
Dear Bulletin. Wal.” (B. 30/6/’00) errs in
saying that the “ Tom Morriser” style of top is not now-
obtainable, and that the art of making such tops “ must
have died with the ancients.” Herewith I send you a
couple of such tops, and further point out that at the
time mentioned by “ Wal.” there was in Liverpool-street,
Sydney, a turner named Steel, whose tops were quite as
famous as the Morris, and used to fetch from Is. 6d. to
2s. The accompanying tops were made by a son of this
Steel. It’s the cheap made-in-Germany article that has
knocked these tops out. —A.G.S.
m m m *
Hundreds of attempts have been made to pro-
duce and market “ puncture-proof ” tyres, the idea pre-
vailing that the perfect tyre is one which is impervious to
puncture. It is impossible, however, to produce a tyre
that is proof against puncture without sacrificing the
resiliency or spring, which is the all-important feature of
a pneumatic tyre, and, in fact, the present perfected
Dunlop Tyre so seldom punctures that cyclists only waste
time in seeking for patent puncture-proof device.*
m * * •
Smiler Hales —now picturesquely romancing in
London Daily Mail about things South African — takes a
lively interest in boxing (which, by the way, he seriously-
injured in Sydney by the luridity of his reports), and
when he was in a bad temper would ask a man in training
to “ have ’em on,” and would beseech him to “ hit me—
dam it, hit me hard ! ” He thus once besought that
brilliant amateur, Dick Sandall, at Sydney Am. Gymnas-
tic Club, and the result was that Hales came staggering
into the Referee office so much dismayed in his
“ thinker ” that he believed he was in Broken Hill, and ex-
plained that he had been among the miners, and that
they had stoned him with slag. Then somebody, who
had been at the club when “Smiler” and Dick were
boxing, came along and explained that lOst. 31b. Sandall
(who couldn’t box light, anyhow) had landed Hales a
couple of his awful rights on the “point.” “Smiler”
wasn’t properly himself for a week after. Another time
he asked George Dawson to “ hit me hard,” and “ Gentle-
man George ” promptly banged him on the solar plexus,
and pretty nearly killed him. These two painful experi-
ences of the difference between the artist and the dile-
tante cured Hales of going for “keeps” with crack
boxers.
That lump in a man’s
stomach which makes him
irritable and miserable and
unfit for business or plea-
sure is caused by indi-
gestion. Indigestion, like
charity, covers a multitude
of sins. The trouble may
be in the stomach, liver or
bowels. Wherever it is, it
is caused by the presence
of poisonous refuse matter,
which Nature has been un-
able to rid herself of un-
aided. In such cases wise
people send down a health
officer, personified by one
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, to search out the
seat of trouble, and re-
move the cause. One of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
will remove a very big
lump, and act as a gentle
laxative. A short course of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills will cure indigestion
(permanently). They also
cure constipation. “For
the past eight years I have
endured much from constipation and piles; no
medicine seemed to do me good,” writes Mr. Wm.
Burke, Bridge-road, Glebe, N.S.W. “At night
I could not sleep, and by day I was too drowsy to
do my work. Nothing I took could free me of
pain until I tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
and now I can say they are the best remedy I
have ever known, as they do not gripe or
weaken, and yet do all that is said of them. I
am a better man to-day than I have been for
years. It is a grand cure.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills positively cure biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, dyspepsia, headaches, liver and
kidney complaints, piles, pimples, and blotches.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, price, Is l|d
per bottle, or six bottles 6s 6d. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Dep6t), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and full name blown thereon.


DERBY
TOBACCO
It is considered
the finest and
best Smoking
Tobacco ever
imported.
There is nothing like
DERBY
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY,
LEE-METFORD CARTRIDGES, as used in the Transvaal War.
187 PITT STREET,
LEE-METFORD CARTRIDGE PLAIN CEDAR PENCILS—Price, Is.
TEF-METFORD CARTRIDGE PENCILS, with Silver moveinent-Price, 3s. 6<L
LEE-METFORD COMBINATION PENCIL and KNlFE—Price, 1». 6d.
LEE-METFORD FRUIT KNIFE, with Sterling Silver Blade—Pnce, 2». Cd.
SOLID GOLD
LEE-METFORD
CARTRIDGE CHARM.
Price, ss. 6d.
SOLID GOLD LEE-METFORD CARTRIDGE BROOCH.
Price, 11s. #d.
STOREKEEPEPERS
IN
ORDERING SUPPLIES
DO NOT FORGET THE WORLD RENOWNED
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
*A
None Genuine without the Signature on the Bottle.
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
Agenta—VTßQOE, SOM & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN fc 00.; Sydnay.
Insurance Opinion, July, 1899: Not only
does the vigorous and enterprising Colonial Mutual
Society increase rapidly in point of magnitude, but it also
exhibits all the features that are characteristic of a pru-
dently managed life office.*
The carelessness of certain steam-users in not
looking after their boilers and the results of neglecting to
clean them regularly when incrustation takes place has
often been pointed out in Tub Bulletin. A disencrustat-
ing boiler compound known as “ Litofuge, with a world-
wide reputation, is being placed upon the market by vy.
and J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, who
upon application will be pleased to forward catalogues to
those interested. “Litofuge" compounds are powders
without soda, fatty matter or injurious chemicals, which
injure rather than improve boilers. Its action is mechani-
cal and its introduction into a boiler causes no foaming.
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
x * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* » * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebiated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows ’ (either or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offeied
must be subject to inspection.*
» » * *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts ofiron-work.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Boning hiodicif,
100 sovs.
Distance,
130yd8.
To be bun on Friday Afternoon, Aug 24.
Nomination, 10s.; Acceptance, 10s.
NOMINATIONS, Wednesday, Bth August; HANDICAPS,
Monday, 13th August ; ACCEPTANCES, Tuesday, 21st
August, 1900. Entry Forms and full particulars may be
obtained from the undersigned.
WILLIAM HUNT,
Kelso’s Hotel, Oxford-street, Sydney.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El' ! is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
° ffiCe ‘ Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS
rpo CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
A pr- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
« IMPERIAL” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
« IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets. _ , r, j i
u MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.,
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
[A Card ] Established 1853.
ROBERT BYRNE,
LAND and ESTATE AGENT,
GOVERNMENT VALUER . . .
333 Collins St., Melbourne
(Ground Floor). Next Commercial Bank.
Properties in City and Suburbs for Sale .... Tel.
Loans Negotiated. 9 1 269.
Properties Registered^on^List^without^Charge^^^^^^^
Publications.
mg»
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYUYEY,
The directors of Mt. Welcome mine, Mitta
Mitta, Vic., who are also directors of the Oassihs Go. at
Glen Wills, believe they have got hold of a similar mining
proposition. With a knowledge of the Oassihs mine they
have determined to erect a complete gold-recovering
plant. A 20-head battery has been bought, a new and
up-to-date cyanide plant will be established, and a small
chlorination plant will also be installed. A Tangye pump
will draw enough water from the Mitta Mitta all the year
round to amply supply all the various processes. The ore
can be carried from hoppers at the tunnel mouth direct
to the battery, and the delivery will be automatic.
• * • *
New Moon (Bendigo) : Last half-year—l4,4so
tons, 48860 z. ; average, 6dwts. 18grs., enabling divs. to
the amount of £9600, or Bs. per share, equal to about 60
per cent, of the value of gold produced. This represents
a shrinkage of 18grs. per ton on previous half-year.
Grand total to date : 213,012 tons, 86,8900z5. ; average a
little over Bdwts. Divs., £104,128. Amount called up,
£11,560. Upwards of £20,000 spent on machinery-all
came from gold. Statement of receipts and expenditure
an object-lesson to directors extravagantly managing
in London mines thousands of miles away. Cost of
management, including directors fees, £149 16s. mere
is a pathetic side to the picture : ‘The development
work of the mine has been well attended to, but, so tar,
the lower levels have not shown any of those rich runs we
have had, and still have, in the shallow workings But as
these lower workings are having the advantage of a good
method of working from the start, and there being a little
gold distributed throughout these workings, we have
every reason to expect some of them to develop payable
quartz before the present richer veins are exhausted.
Writer thinks very little of the hope.
* * * *
A party of confiding miners are at piesent
sinking for gold at Clifton Springs, an incipient township
on the western shore of Port Philip Bay, \ ictoria about
the last place to look for gold. They are thus expending
their labor and money on the word of a spiritualistic
medium. Some years ago another seer induced a syndi-
cate to prospect for coal at the Red Bluff, just across the
Bay. They raised several tons of red clay and sand, but
nai-y a black diamond. The gold-seekers have, so far, got
down 140 ft. and have got several promising specimens of
granite, also a few of good road-metal. Spirits know
nothing about real mining.
Bendigo, Victoria’s chief reefing field, proposes
to celebrate the jubilee of the discovery of gold in the
province by holding an industrial exhibition in that city
in 1901-, Gold to the value of £68,000,000 has been won
from the Bendigo fields.
Otago dredging boom has opened up a new field
in answer to the cry of “what to do with our boys. A
voung dredge-master has gone to Canada to run a dredge
there, at £7 a week, passage paid—half-salary during the
voyage. Two others have been engaged for Vancouver on
similar terms. A high premium is now charged to those
wishing to be taught dredging work. #
Maoriland dredging has had a big slump.
Causes, over-flotation of ce.’s and difficulty of getting
dredges built. Although contract* have be*n let for
building all over M.L. and Australia, demand is at least
two years ahead of supply ; the plague *care and conse-
quent erratic Australian steam service have accentuated
the trouble by keeping many dredges without portions of
machinery, the contracts for which were let in Australia
12 months ago. Many really first-class claims floated last
vear, and which saw big premiums, are now at a dis-
count, owing toscrippers being “weak” and unable to
hold on. Meanwhile, the dredges working con-
tinue to get good results. Hartley and Riley
averages almost lOOoz. weekly—Vincent runs from 90 to
160oz.—Junction Electric, to say nothing of that pheno-
menal 12340 z., has had returns varying from 350 to 150 oz.
weekly, whilst the lesser lights get handsome divs.
Heaven keep Britain from ruling the waves of the Moly-
neux 1
* • •* *
Geologist Brown has returned from Tarcoola,
S.A.’s latest nor’-west goldfield, “ strongly impressed,”
and believing that the rich finds go down. Brown is in-
variably over-cautious, and his dictum will lead to the
new field being thoroughly tested. The Holder Govt, con-
templates the test of a battery—the best of all.
* • * *
The S.A. State gold mine at Mount Torrens,
which is worked in order to keep the Govt, battery and
cyanide plant going, is by no means a high-grade show ;
usually a trifle over lOdwt. is got in the battery, and 2Jdwt.
by cyanide. Yet it more than pays, though at times the
reef pinches exasperatingly.
* * * *
Hannan’s Star—now working the Diehl process,
Capital £225,000—182,000 shares issued ; selling in London
a month ago at 275. 6d.—have been double the price.
What they are worth is an entirely different matter.
Reconstructed and made many calls in one form or
another. Never a div., and no hope of one. Magnificent
machinery, but a poor mine, as proved by its erushings,
the highest of which was 5910z5. for a month, the average
being about 3000z5., and for the last four months, none
have been reported. Next to the Btfulder Main Reefs,
and Chaffer’s, and there is nothing in that to recommend
it.
• • • *
Northern Associated : The developments of
this mine continue good at the 400 ft. level. “ The stone
is literally covered with gold and teiluride, and good
judges give the lowest estimate as worth between 30 and
40oz. per ton. The face of the drive looks like a jewel-
ler’s shop. In consequence of the rich ore now being
worked in the mine a changing-house for employes is
being erected, and the rich ore is bagged as it comes to
the surface.” No doubt this is the gilded pill. Neverthe-
less, it has better developments than any other non-pro-
ducer on the field, and is controlled by a man who knows
his business.
••• 9 '
Golden Horseshoe—June production, 5552 tons
milled, 57210 z. ; 3286 tons cyanided, 22400 z. ; 2184 tons
slimes, 1058 oz.; from concentrates, 2990 z.; total gold out-
put, 93180 z. A magnificent return, somewhat lower than
last month’s; but if it were all profit it would not pay a
fair mining interest on the price of the shares, which
gives the mine a value of nearly £4,000,000. The shares
are known to be dangerous selling, and that alone
accounts for the present price. A great mine with greatly
inflated value.
• * * *
Lake View Consols June output — 3ooo tons
sulphides, 42740 z. ; 415 tons oxidised sands, 2170 z.; 2813
tons slimes, 9410 z. Total bullion at mine, 54050 z. ;
shipped ore, 108 tons, 2800 oz. ; total gold-value, £31,468.
Costs —expended on plant and machinery, £7030; on
mine development, £2633; on working costs, £13,016.
Total cost for month, £22,679. It is appalling to think
that this big yield only shows a profit of some £9OOO,
equal to £lOB,OOO a year. Of course the expenditure on
plant and machinery will be reduced, but it will never
cease altogether, and apart from this the return proves
the great cost of working mines at Kalgoorlie.
• * * •
The Westralian market. One paper: “The
market was extremely quiet to-day consequent on the
non-arrival of London quotations.” Another: “To-day
was the quietest experienced on ’Change for some time
past. In the absence of cable quotations from London
little inclination was shown to operate and business was
very limited.” A third : “ The share-market in Sydney
was very dull yesterday because no late prices were cabled
from London. Sydney and Adelaide markets are mere
reflections of London in Westralian ventures and weak
reflections at that.” At last their eyes are opened to the
palpable truth to which they have been so long- blind.
What a falling off in a fortnight! Lake Views were then
£l6, they are now just over £l3—a drop of nearly three-
quarters' of a million. Ivanhoes ten days ago touched
£l3; they are now down to £10 —a £600,000 drop—and
when they drop another £600,000 they will be quite up to
their value. Associateds, at 655., can stand
another drop of half-a-million and still be half-a-
million too high on what is now showing. Per-
severance show a drop of less than £l, and may be con-
sidered worth the money; Boulders, too, are very
steady. Associated Northern, 45s. —a small fall in the
face of splendid developments. Market absolutely dead
in Sydney, and very quiet throughout Australia, all on
account of cable interruption and London. When this
occurs again writer suggests that the members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange should employ their time in
playing marbles in Martin-place to keep up the excite-
ment of business. At time of writing buyers and
sellers were standing off one another, like a ship away
from the coast in a storm. In some instances there was
a difference of nearly £1 in their respective prices.
Ivanhoes —buyer, £lO 5s ; seller, £ll 2s 6d—and 200,000
shares in the mine. Rabbits !
* • * •
Expert v. expert is the latest phase of the W.A.
Associated management muddle. Expert Angove (ex-
perienced mine manager) states that it is unnecessary to
have an underground manager while employing a general
ditto, with three shift-bosses to supervise things under-
ground. Expert Frecheville opines that the first thing is
to secure a practical, active underground manager. And
both are right—when the mining knowledge or otherwise
of the general man is taken into consideration. With a,
practical man in charge, an underground man is not
necessary, as three shift-bosses are employed in any case.
But when, as it is so often in W.A., the gen. manager is a
metallurgist or something, with no experience of under-
ground work, it becomes a necessity to appoint one man
as head of that department. In Vic., practical miners are
put in charge of the mines, while one general manager
supervises the affairs of a dozen ; else they could never
haul 6dwt. dirt 3000 ft. and pay divs. out of it.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (chairman, Frank Gard-
ner). Last year’s output, 22,734 tons, yielding 45,2830 z.,
bv milling, smelting and cyaniding. Gross prone,
£105,131; average yield, exclusive of tailings, loz 12dwt.
per ton. Average value of tailings, 14dwt. Profits applied
to the erection of the new sulphide plant, the largest on
the field, with a capacity of 250 tons a day. Min ®
great shape, has more ore in sight above 500 ft. level than
an v other 24-acre block on Kalgoorlie. Oxidised ores almost
exhausted. Not much doubt about success of sulphide
plant, though writer has reason for believing that the cost
of treatment will be greater than has been estimated, and
that insufficient attention has been given to depreciation
of plant, which will be rapid and great. Undoubtedly a
great mine, well-managed above and below. It has five
lode formations, that known as the Lake View being the
largest, and, taking it all round, the best. Manager
Nicholls lately declared that he could maintain with the
new plant, for three years, a 7500-ton monthly output of
ore averaging 30dwt. Nicholls is a man who says very
little, and nothing that he does not mean. Apropos, some
rich oxidised-ore developments are reported from tne
Perseverance.
m * *
Many Westralian co’s., full of faith that
Patman’s special Providence would somehow save them
from the need to pay the duty under the Act of last
session, have neglected to furnish the returns of their
profits ; and now Supreme Court actions are being
warmed up for them.
The Bulletin is informed by Messrs. Randle &
Willis, Martin Place, Sydney, that the list of the Ovens
Valiev Gold Dredging Co., Ld., whose prospectus appeared
in a recent issue, has closed, the co. having been success-
fully floated ; it will be registered in the course of a few
days. The legal manager is Mr. Walter Hardie, 133 Pitt-
street, Sydney.* m „
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M’Creerv, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furmsn par-
ticulars at once.* - ,
The representatives of British, foreign and
southern capital are chasing all over the country for gold,
gold and silver, copper, lode and alluvial tin, molybdenite,
manganese, and choice mines in all stages of development
such as Queensland and Tom Coventry, Telegraph Cham-
bers, Queen-st., Brisbane, can supply. The deduction is
obvious.* _ .
* * * * .
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table in-
stalled at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating mill at the Conrad Mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without recrushing. The result of the Wiltley
test is a high grade concentrate, and tailing waste show-
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
« * » •
Broken Hill Proprietary Block 14 Co. Ltd.
Broken Hill, N.S.W., 25th August, 1899.
Mr. Taylor Horsfield,
Bendigo,
Sir,—This is to certify that I have seen your Rock
Drills worked by your representative (Mr. G. Bone) on
this Mine and I have much pleasure in expressing my
entire satisfaction with the manner in which they acted.
(Signed) J. Evans,
Underground Manager.
Horatio Bottomlev has bought the London Sun
newspaper, and in tha first issue under Bottomleys
ownership » We.traUan ” writes in favor of certain stocks
in which this arch-boomster is known .t° be Jargeiy
interested. Hess, of the Critic, offers to give £5O to any.
charity Bottomlsy likes to name if he can prove wcs-
tralian ” has a bona-tide existence independent of Mr.
Bottomley and his hangers-on.
• • • •
Bottomley’s pits —his Australian mines.
The Arctic mining-excitement is increasing with
the progress of the spring, and the Klondike gold c.ean-up is
expected to total the tidy “spring-cleaning of 20,000,000
to 25,000,000 dollars’-worth. A mining expcait’on nas
started for the N.E. extremity of Asia, where the leader
has from the Russian Govt, a 20-years concession of a
territory as big as the State of California. Another
mining expedition, backed by Frisco capital, ®tartc
from that city, under the leadership of Prince Dolgoron-
koff, for the Siberian coast.
**~ • *
There are big sulphur deposits in Papua, says
Gov. Le Hunte. At Seymour Bay, on Ferguson Island, an
exploring party found a hill of sulphur A shallow
stream was found to issue out of a sulphur lake, the
pass through a plain of sulphur, where care had to l e
exercised to avoid breaking the crust. One ot tne
Governor’s armed natives did break through, andßaided
himself severely. Sulphur deposits lay
difficulty in running a light tramway to the bay, wmen
affords good shelter for shipping. There should be money
in this. t .
Hannan’s holds many ex-Rand miners at the
present time. They all think the Australian miner far
better off than his S’African mate. They* see a
tion of wages ahead ; there are so many Kaffirs, who only
want £2 a month and will work ten hours a day.
* * * .
A new amalgamating-table is being used with
considerable success in W.A. Instead of being sluiced
over the mercury, the crushed ore is forced through it.
A much higher extraction is claimed for this method than
is obtainable per ordinary table. The fact that it can be
forced through—the specific gravity of mercury being so
much greater than that of stone andwater-iscluetotbe
construction of the table. An elaboration of tlm dea
which the inventor claims will amalgamate telluncle as
easily as free gold, is promised.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp.’ Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.
The claim that in libel actions N.S.W.
juries shall have power to pronounce not only on
the damages but also on the costs is likely to
receive early attention in Parliament, as the
rough draft of a motion now circulating indicates.
This is not the first time the question has been
raised. N.S.W. records actually show a case
legally determined in accordance with that claim.
In the libel action Whitfield versus Caswell tried
before C.-J. Dowling in 1837, the jury returned
a verdict of “ one farthing damages and_ each
party to pay his own costs.” The Chief-Justice
demurred for a while to taking the latter pait. of
the verdict, but after argument agreed to certify
in terms which corresponded with the jury s
finding. Therry appeared for Caswell, and
Plunkett for Whitfield.
“ Bung ” to The Bulletin :
In Austin Chapman’s Hotels - Diminishing (N.S.W.)
Bill there is provision for the removal of a licence
from a district where there may be too many hotels to
another where one may be more urgently needed—such
as a newly-developed mining field, a new railway town-
ship, or the enlargement of an existing town or
village (see sections 3 and 4). It would be
well if this bill were passed before the Darling
Harbour and Rocks Resumptions took place. It is pro-
posed to allow a removal of licence to hotels within the
area resumed. According to the local option clauses of
N.S.W. Liquor Act, removals are limited to the ward.
Place all the licences now in the wards within the unre-
sumed portions, and competition, already intense, will
prove intolerable. Chapman’s Bill would admit of a wide
field for removal—the whole province instead of portion
of a ward. Should there be a city railway the same diffi-
culty must be met. By the way, this is really Copeland s
Bill,' but on quitting N.S.W. Assembly the present Agent-
General bequeathed it to Chapman.


One account states that ex-Boer-General
Cronje, now at St. Helena, is descended from one
Pierre Crognet, who fled from France at the time
of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, and
settled at the Gape in 1698. But the Glasgow
Herald strives to make out that Cronje’s
father—ye ken I —was born at Auchencairn, and
bore the name of M‘Crone, and adds that
“ save for accidents of birthplace and upbringing
he (Gronje) is a pure Galloway man, and perfectly
qualified to figure as the hero of Mr. Crockett’s
next novel. . . . After all,” complacently con-
cludes the pawky screed, “ there is something im-
pressive in a Scotchman however disguised ; and
no doubt it was the subtle and magnetic influence
of his captive’s ancestry that made Lord Roberts
Eut on his gold-hilted sword for him and order
im a champagne lunch.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Be certain proposed railways : ”
Dear Bulletin.—Good as a play to note certain N.S.W.
N. Western and Western papers’ persistent agitation for
railways calculated to benefit their own particular local-
ities. Some eight months ago, Wellington started the
bill rolling with a scheme to connect itself with Werris
Greek, and consequently with both the N. and N.W.
lines. Well, the Public Works Committee made a feeble
attempt at an “ inquiry,” and cheerfully trailed a herring
across the concern by suggesting a line from way-up the
AW. line to— Brewarrina! Fancy that! Wellington,
with the moral support of Armidale, Tamworth, Dubbo,
Orange, etc., still agitated, with result that, some months
later (in May) part of Works Committee held another
inquiry, both at Wellington and Dubbo. Now, at that
i lentical moment, some more of the Works Committee
were inquiring into the whooping of Curlewis (a platform
and about eight houses a dozen miles from Gunnedah)for
railway connection with (don’t faint) Gilgandra
(population 200). Said whooping was from a paltry
few w th petty coal-mining interests, and was joined in
the chorus by Gunnedah, which is big enough and old
enough to know better, but which also has private petty
e tal-mining interests to consider. Curlewis is a one-eyed
little hamlet which will never be any bigger, and the
awful Gilgandra is 50 miles from a railway or anywhere.
After considering the pros and cons for the past six
months, writer is of opinion that, if the Lynk Govt, is
serious about any of these lines, then one from Werris
Creek to Dubbo (or Wellington) will confer the greatest
and most lasting benefit on the greatest number of people ;
but as to whether it will pay or not he isn’t prepared to
give an opinion. In any case, the Govt, should come
down with all the weight of its feet on the wild Curlewis-
Gilgandra proposal.—H, Dunlop.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ’’
CORSETS
’HtLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Ken owned Corsets have been entirely Tie
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape,, and me-
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
w.
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B.—Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. STOBLSSSX:”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-> Ld-> London-
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
( Registered.)
rpiIESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
•*- out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. 6d. per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co.,
Druggists, 272 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
byadminjstering EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, brain & blood,
quickly & permanently restor-
ing to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Price posted, 7/6. Kocke,
Tompsitt &Co., Druggi-ts, 292
Flinders-street W., Melbourne.
t* COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM”
DEAF]
fcKAel
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Mrs. E.
/LYNN
UNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Maovkrn,
January i6tli, 1896.
“ I liave used your'KOKO’uow since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf aud Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing lor the Hair Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Rest Preparation for the
Hair, i=. 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARiGOPAS GO,, LTD,, ■
16, Bevis Marks, hondon, I\ng r and.
ROCHESTER LOP<f
Collins Place Enst, HJolljOlirilG
Private Boarding Establishment
Most Central and Healthy Position in
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town 1.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND,
Proprietress.
LADIBS !
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing -Chair. Ever3’ requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEM,
New South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDN EY.
THE WORD
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings.
SergesiTvee
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped e.ery two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stsmp ae not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
Wellington, Somerset, Cng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colon es, and Metropolitan Police,
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
(Qj
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOGDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, Sydney. j
D.S .MAI R
2 p
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
CUARAMTEED 12 MONTHS.
"DEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
- LJ wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED, Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
Tailoring^^-^
1 .
POOR OLD HfITTE
He toils not,
Neither does he spin,
T>UT he turns out a REAL GOOD
SUIT, with Extra Pair of Trou-
sers, for £2 25. ; and a clinker for
505. ; and 3 Guineas Hand-
made.
A DRESS SUIT, Silk-faced,
from 635.
A CHESTERFIELD OVERCOAT
for 555. upwards.
• Q
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
C.G.HATTE
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Are probably aware of the
fact -although many peo-
ple obviously never give it a thought—
that there is a strong and intimate affinity
between your feet and the state of your
health. This remark is not made in any
personal manner, but simply with a view
to drawing your attention to the necessity
of exercising care in the choice of foot-
wear. Poor shoes do not keep out damp,
and many a fatal illness has had its
origin in wet feet.
COMMON-SENSE URGES
You to dispense with cheap and ill-made
shoes. They are positively dearer in the
end, and, for your health's sake, should be
avoided.
The ‘ HERZ ’ Shoe
Is the shoe you ought to wear, because it
is as near perfection as a shoe can be.
LEATHER. The finest quality pro-
curable.
SHAPE . . Elegant and permanent.
PRICE . . Just right for high-class
goods.
Sold by HUNTER’S everywhere
Medical.
6*
_
I^3
<r\
53
s=:
«^s
©
c/>
o
m
V?
m
OF ALL CHEMISTS
'throughout Great Br i i th e Colo ni ■
'Linum Catharticum Pills pmrj/%tub
“ s ‘ COACUUNE •
Transparent Cement, for all Broken Article
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New & Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Free._^
EUCRASY
Address or call on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 CollinB-Btreet, Melbourne, Vi<s.
Publications.
SEARCH
THE
WIDE
WORLD
OVER
And you will not find any Musical Publications tnat
compare in variety or value with the
Australian..
Music looks
Price, 1/-
.. or..
Posted, 1/2.
No. 52 (Just Published) contains
10 Pianoforte Solos
No. 51 contains
of Moderate Difficulty.
25 Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
A Perfect Gem. Get it for your Children.
No. 50 THE CRIEC ALBUM, contains
21 Magnificent Pieces
By the Famous Composer, EDVARD GRIEG.
No. 49 contains
49 Little Songs for Tiny Voices
This is another splendid number you should have
for the Children. It is certainly a marvellous
Shilling’s worth.
No. 48 contains
11 Pianoforte Pieces
Moderately Difficult. A splendid Drawing-
room and Teachers’ Number.
No. 47 contains
12 Selected Songs
Including Gounod’s Serenade.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST, which will he sent
Post Free for the asking.
8*- If either of the above Numbers are not obtainable
at your Musicsellers send direct to
Allan »|i Co. proprietary [td.
Music Publishers,
276 & 278 Collins st., Melbourne
THE SECRET SOCIETY, BY dr. hodgson, m
HODGSON’S TALES OF MEDICAL STUDENTS.
All Booksellers and Stationers.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co. Ltd., Syd*
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sj dney.
FORBXGKT STAMPS-
pHEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
4O Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ;10 Bulgaria, 6d; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia w'll supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
Btep in. It considers the whole subject from tiie time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chanters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bitsin prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. C stamps, 2d. cxlra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with oneyoulove. Anglo-American Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET of ßO R o A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX «13, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
lI.LUST T=t -A- TED
Address, PRIVATE,
TyITH numerous anatomical
* ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
CAULPIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS, 1900.
J, I, MILLER’S SMTIHG PAMPHLET
And Athletic Record.
Price Is. All Booksellers and Newsagents.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “Prick Warung.” Paper covers,
193 pp. ; 6d.


Herr R ASSMUSSEN’SALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAGUE and other Fevers.
Pills once or twice a week
Blood is impure take the
' daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
® aDD iy Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing,
wards, a PPJf take 4- drops on a piece of loaf sugar each
Handkerchief, **nd to bed . t£ P ke two Alfaline Liver and K'«*ney
Eve ? M I g L ,*+uo ilfaHne Vitality Pills for a month or two; if the
T—Juiubes freely; if the Nerves are weak take the Remedies are absolute PREVENTATIVES AGAINST
if Constipated; use the Alfaline Eucalypt J and jujubes and the Alfaline Herb
Alfaline Blood Pills. The Alfalme Eucalyptus on all OTHER FEVERS.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAMREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
He-.ual Remedies.
IMPORTANT
. ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
~ATfaline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
~TTead ~ Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
To any chemist or
Pittent Medicine
~dealers for the genuine
~A If aline Remedies .
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies .
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH” winch
coSs most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
ADVK€ FREE.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIIIUSSeiI>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HanS RaSSmUSSeiI.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d, Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Colds, consumption, bronchitis,
and Influenza, Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235, 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for ail kinds of headache* no matter how caused. Is* pei*
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, os, Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Complexion Beautifiei*— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion,
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and os,
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza, Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ,
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Cora Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions* Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tuna
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST.,
BRISBANE: 160 Queen-st (near Creek-st.)
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke-st. <op». East. Markets)
ADELAIDE! 154 Rundle-st.Cnr.York H'tel)
N~Z~WELLINGTON: 91 Lainbton Quay «
i3 ! ERTH,W,A.: 481 Hay-st.
next Whites’, Coach-
builders.
')
I KALGOORLIEi Hannan-st, (next Lindens)
The recently-published autobiography of
the late 0. H. Pearson, ex-Victorian Minister of
Education, and ? able leader-writer for Melb. Age,
is the wail of a disappointed man. He complains,
among other things* that in early life he was
jockeyed out of the Chichele Professorship at
Oxford by Bishop Wilber force, and that m
Victoria he was promised the Agent-Generalship
Which was given to Murray Smith. Pearson was
a literary artist, and a speaker of culchah with
the Oxford drawl, but he was no more fitted for
Parliament than was John Stuart Mill. In no
sense a man of affairs, he wanted to he tlm intel-
lectual head of the Liberal party, and he became
(apart from his masterly newspaper articles) the
weakest joint in its tail. He never got oyer the
story told of his attempt at sheep-farming m
South Australia, just after he first shook the dust
of the old country from his feet. Having m a
paddock a lot of ewes which refused to breed, he
asked a waggish neighbor what was the matter.
“ Turn the wethers in” was the advice given and
promptly acted upon. J. B. Patterson got him
his fin t Assembly seat, and as this service produced
none of the gratitude which his sponsor looked for
the pair were enemies ever after. When Pearson
resigned his seat in the Assembly to make room
for Graham Berry on the latter s return from
England seven years ago, Premier Shiels offered
to make him Parliamentary Librarian increasing
the salary from £6OO to £lOOO a year; but Pearson
preferred to be secretary to the Agent-General
(Andrew Clarke), at £BOO believing that he
would eventually become Agent-General. And
he went to London, despite medical warning that
his lungs were unfit to bear the winter. The Pat-
terson Govt, tried to make use of its hold over
the Age protege to secure the support ot that
journal. Failing to obtain the much-needed
assistance, Patterson dismissed the unfortunate
professor, who died a fortnight afterwards. His
widow receives a small pension from the English
Civil List, in recognition of her late husbands
literary performances, which were high-class, but
pessimistic.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
nress your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I < AN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
whicn are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs.
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, S’orc-,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per b *x. Prepared b\
AI BERT, 7J, Earringdon-street, London, England.
Agents; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers shou.d
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medico 1.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears,, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smeli, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
MEDICATOH.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Nofi)e Catarrh Cfcr€ Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never tails to CUBE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYO.II, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT VTC.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tin constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAYAIS
Highly recommended
ior weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET -
“A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/< has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
xt does not blachen the teeth.”
sot.n BY CHEMISTS AM. THF. WOBT.D OVEB.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
mOIAR CIGARETTES
Difficult}' in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Couchs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMA.CI.T & CO f S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE
'taka'
Oantion.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROHCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial
We grant every purchaser
of our
KLKCTItIC
JiKITS and
A mi A NCKS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.'—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
/ Cures all EYES
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .-—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rb., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, AULPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my Invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
Bubonic
to
si
REGISTERED.
Plague
Can be Prevented
By Using
ECKERSLEY’S
ITJentholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6; Small /-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
I Cure Fits
You are
, not asked
•to spend
any money to test whether my |
remedy does or does not cure )
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, \
&c. All you are asked to do is to \
send fora FREE bottle of medi= j
; cine and to try it. 1 am quite
; prepared to abide by the result. '
; A Valuable and Safe Remedy. ;
I APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. <
’ H.G. R00T, 28, Endsleigh Gdns., LO N DON. |
HEALTH ANP STRENGTH
■ I may be secured without inconvenience by taking
Dr. HOPE’S LIFE SYRUP. Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do yhu fe el generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Restores the shattered constitution to vigorous
H manhood.
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address : —HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the VV OUST CASE of DRUNKEN*
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT,
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —MALINC REMEDY CO.,
88 Elizabeth-street. SYDNEY.
ETTHi
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
rto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


Newfoundland, with its iron, coal, silver, gold
and lead deposits, its great pine forests and its
well-watered agricultural lands, is certainly rather
different from the dry wildernesses of Westralia.
And if Newfoundland went down heavily under
the provincial system the chances are that Wes-
tralia will go down with a much worse smash.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Mr. A. F. STOCKS,
SURGICAL & MECHANICAL DENTIST,
492 OXFORD ST., PADDINGTON.
What the Telegraph says : “Mr. Mattick, a pastovalist of
Hargraves, possesses a valuable American ram, which has
found great difficulty in masticating his food, owing to
the loss of two front teeth. To get over this trouble, Mr.
Mattick called in the services of Mr. A. F. Stocks, a
dentist passing through Hargraves on his way to Hill End.
Mr. Stocks was highly successful in inserting' two artificial
teeth in place of the ones the ram had lost. No sooner
was the operation completed than the ram demonstrated
the success of the experiment by vigorously attacking
some fodder which was supplied. This is probably one of
the first, if not the first experiment of the kind in the
colony.”
A gentleman while going to Hill End on the mail-coach
asked a fellow-passenger, who was a parson, if any of the
sheep in his flock wanted a set of teeth.
What the Mudgeb Guardian says : “ Mr. A. F. Stocks.
This gentleman has established a large and extensive
connection during his visit to Mudgee, as surgical and
mechanical dentist.”
May be Consulted at 402 OXFORD BTREET,
PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Hours—9 a.m. till 6 p.m. Telephone—64 Paddington.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
LINCOLN, STUART& CO.
* PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pi ces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 425,
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds. Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material,
£3 3s. To m eapure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. Gd.
Dress Suits, to measure,
£5, Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
Kid ng Breeches. 255.
Hiding Habits. <fcc.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suits
215., 255.
famous Ballarat Serge
\ Indigo dye, 255.
Lon? Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers,ss. ltd.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s Gd.
Tweed Overcoats, 21sr
Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2s. Gd., 3s. Gd.
4s. Gd.. s*. Gd.
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs. 10s Gd.,l3s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. Gd.,7s. Gd. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. Gd., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
rants Is. 9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors. Is. White shirts to measure.
Gents* Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6s. 9d., 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters, so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book. “The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posttd free
Write for them.
Public Companies.
JVTEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE
Jl3I PIETE D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the shareholders
in the above Company will be held on TUES-
DAY, 31st, upon the Company’s Premises, at
11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT,
Manager.
Business: —
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet ;
to elect Two Directors in the room of H. B.
Cotton, Esq., and William Gallagher, Esq.,
whose term of office expires by effluxion of time
(both these gentlemen are eligible for re-elec-
tion, and offer themselves accordingly); to elect
two Auditors for the coming twelve months
(Messrs. J. B. C. Miles and J. H. Davies are
eligible, and offer themselves for re-election);
and to transact any other business that may be
brought before the meeting in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th July, 1900.
NEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be closed from the 16th to the 31st instant,
inclusive.
By order.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
Manager.
Dated 16th July, 1900.
Not a Guessing Competition.
A RECORD. We
»old 6000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/C in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/- extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
\
a JEWELLED, FULL-DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
for postage. i
H. POTIER & CO.,
53 ROYAL ARCADE,
V^SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Tlie 01c3L Griiard.. '
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 21,
For the first time in Australia, the latest London Success,
The Hose of Persia.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
-J* HE AT RE ROYAL, ‘
BLAND HOLT’S
TRIUMPH OF TRIUMPHS.
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
ALL ENTHUSIASTIC 1 ALL FULL OF APPROBATION.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
EVERY EVENING EXCEPT FRIDAY,
For the term of
“ HIS NATURAL LITE."
FOURTH SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY.
FRIDAY, JULY 20,
"MERCHANT OF VENICE.”
WILL BE REPEATED.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
THEY HAVE ARRIVED,
America’s Greatest Comedy Trio, unquestionably Artists,
EMMONDS, EMMERSON and EMMONDS,
Splendid Success of Mr. CHAS. SEEL, PROFESSOR
ALMOND, DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, PAUL’S 1900
CENTURY ANIMATOGRAPHE, Billy M’Olain, M.
Cordelia, Alma Gray, Roy Cashin, and all our Great
Double Co. Plan at Paling’s.
-po THEATRICAL. COMPANIES.
TO LET by Tender, closing 2nd August, 1900,
the Town Hall, Young, for Show week (from 10th
to 15th September, 1900, inclusive), subject to
usual conditions. Deposit of 10 per cent, to
accompany tenders. Seating for over 500. Further
particulars can be obtained from
C. EDMUND SPARK,
Council Clerk.
Town Hall, Young, July 12,1900.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of the World’s Greatest Pantomimists,
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in his
Masterpiece, ROBERT MACAIRE.
THE FLYING JORDANS, VENUS and OLAF
SCHRADER.
WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, Mr. Tod' Callaway, Dr. Leigh,
Dora Taylor, Eva Lee, Violet Bishop, E. Brinkman,
Fred Duncan, Alf, Lawton.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
FRIDAY, JULY 20, LAST NIGHT of
“ Two Little Drummer Boys ”
SATURDAY, JULY 21,
Frank Harvey’s Great Emotional Drama,
the world against her.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is, Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THIRD WEEK of
THE MANOEUVRES OF JANE.
Mb. Brough as LORD BAP-CHILD.
Mrs. Brough as CONSTANTIA GAGE.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and
the Grand.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■* (Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. JVC. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.,' Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, JULY, 20,
LAST NIGHT of NANCE O’NEIL as CAMILLE.
SAT., JULY 21, NANCE O’NEIL as PEC WOFFINGTON.
Thursday Afternoon, July 20, at 2 p.m., Matinee
in aid of Melbourne Hospital,
NANCE O’NEIL as HEDDA GABLER,
in Ibsen’s world-famous play.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
qpOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JULY 21, at 3 O’clock,
Scbcrek’S Orchestra.
(50 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR HERR BENNO SCHERER.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES •
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RITISHBI O G R A P H.
(From Palace Theatre, London).
THE ONLY GENUINE BIOGRAPH IN AUSTRALASIA
WITH GENUINE BOER WAR FILMS.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
Eight Performances Only—4 Nights and 4 Matinees,
Commencing MONDAY EVENING, JULY 23.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Commencing SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 28,
Four Weeks Only.
EXHIBITION MELBOURNE.
TN€ AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
At Poverty Point.
“ Sfogato”: In B. 14/7/’OO Signor Della Robbia is
credited with comparing Lalla Miranda’s acting in
Rigoletto to that of Tietjens.. If there was much simi-
larity, Lalla must have been a funny Gilda, for the part is
that of a timid, shrinking young girl, whereas the
characters which Tietjens pourtrayed were all of heroic
mould, such as Norma, Lucrezia Borgia, Semiramide, &c ;
about the lightest role she ever essayed being that of
Margherita, in “ Faust.” Tietjens was a woman of com-
manding presence and immense tragic force, and had a
voice which for resonance has seldom, if ever, been
equalled. Della Robbia’s comparison is as if one should
say that an actress who had played, say Sweet Lavender
recalled Ristori in “ Medea."
A Southern paper alleges that an Australian songstress
(name not given), who went ’Ome to study under Mar-
chesi and electrify the Old World, is now drawing the
twopenny bitter beer in a Pimlico (London) bar. But so
many prospective Queens of Song from this end have dis-
appeared in London that it is difficult to identify the
beer-puller. She seems to have disappeared not much
worse than a good many others. Anyhow, she is evi-
dently meeting her fate with grit.
“ Musical ” Sydney is a cold corner for musicians. After
many years of good and conscientious work yet another
has “thrown up the sponge” and fled. The talented
Aug. W. Juncker sailed last Saturday for London. For
many years he was conductor of the Dunning Opera Co.
His charming song, “ I was Dreaming,” achieved a suc-
cess seldom equalled in Australasia, and is now known
and admired all over the world, but, as is often the case,
most of the profit found its way into other pockets. His
opera, “ A Romance of Corsica,” a most melodious com-
position, was left severely alone by the Sydney public.
Juncker was bora in Cairo, Egypt, where his father was
German Consul.
“ 8.5.” : Re The Bulletin’s remark of last week that
“ Queen Elizabeth ” is “said to have been written” for
Ristori. That is so. See Ristori’s biography, p. 272 :
“In 1854 I thought of adding to my repertoire the part
of Queen Elizabeth in the drama of that name by my
illustrious and much-lamented countryman, Paolo' Gia-
cometti ai. 1 further on : “ Everything was ready and
the public were eagerly expecting the new play." Ris-
tori, in analysing the play, certainly does not say that
she died in darkness. Indeed, she elaborately describes
the facial expressions she used, and mentions how “ after
a brief struggle with death I sank to rest and lay with
glazed eyes surrounded by my courtiers.” The glazed
eyes wouldn’t have been very effective in the dark.
In the interests of fair play all round the booming of
Nance O’Neil calls for a little timely ridicule. Business
is business, but that’s no reason why a travelling show
with an abnormally large leading lady and a number of
new tactics should get a too easy loan of the Australian
public for a few weeks. Nance O’N. is going to play an
Ibsenic heroine for the benefit of Melbourne Hospital, and
the advt. of the event states that as Miss O’Neil is de-
termined to reserve ‘Hedda Gabbler’ solely for the
Hospital matinee it will be the only occasion on which
Australian playgoers will have an opportunity of seeing
the brilliant American artiste in one of her most famous
characterisations.” Melbourne doesn’t want any visitor
who is hustling for a living to miss the chance of working
a “ famous characterisation ” for all it is worth. If
“ Hedda Gabbler ” is any good as a money-making show,
it would be taking advantage of Nance’s generosity for
the Hospital to accept a sole performance of the cranky
drama, and if it isn’t a great popular attraction in other
countries wjiy make a special favor of the determination
te reserve it for a charitable purpose ? Nance’s advt is a
little too thick, all things considered. There may be a
few people who crave for what they will call the
intellectual treat of an Ibsen drama, but Melbourne as a
rule would prefer to see Nance wave her gory hands in
the penny orful version of “ Oliver Twist ” which
Sydney people have reported to be “ one of the most re-
markable performances ever witnessed on the Australian
stage.”
“W.E.P.”: Re observation (8., SO/6/’OO) that Nance
O’Neil could draw crowded houses to a naughty play like
Magda. This scribe’s experience is that the naughtier the
play the more the Philistines flock to see it. But it
remains to be seen whether Nance could draw crowded
houses for a week to Ibsen. Hedda Gabbler is one of
Ibsen’s finest plays, and the one least calculated to pain Fat-
man. And as Hedda we shall have an opportunity of
judging Nance as a “ restrained ” actress. Hitherto she
has let herself go pretty freely, but she can hardly do this
in Hedda. There isn’t even an opportunity for that voice
of hers. Hedda’s voice was just a plain, ordinary one,
but the things she said were calculated to hasten a man
to the devil. There is nothing melodramatic about
Hedda except her final exit, and that’s behind a curtain,
and without a scream. If Nance can satisfy the Ibsenites
in her rendering of Hedda, and fascinate the people who
say there is nothing in Ibsen, she might be voted a real
front-ranker.
“ Ingomar,” it seems, is to be seen again in Melbourne,
with Nance O’Neil as the Parthenia whom Essie Jenyns
pictured so charmingly. “ Macbeth ” was promised, but
Rankin pointed to his embonpoint as a reason why he
couldn’t play the name part, and they are not likely to
look elsewhere for a Mac. All the same a tall strong
Shakespearian actor with a mighty voice is usually to be
found in Melbourne if anyone wants to stage “ Macbeth,”
in a hurry. Augustus Glover is that sadly misused
tragedian. The present generation has no idea of what
Glover did (when he played With Bandmann years ago)
and could do again to-day. ’Gustus looks about as young
as ever. Born in Scotland, of a Spanish-Italian mother by
a French father, the big fellow who lately swaggered
around as Porthos in “ Three Musketeers ” is a fine robust
artist—wasted.
Ernest Hogan, the “coon” comedian, who tookaco.
to Honolulu, sued the Oanadian-Australian Steamship
Co. for 20,000d01. damages, for refusing to carry his co.
to Vancouver in the Miowera in terms of the agreement.
He got a verdict for 2500d01., and the co. did a grand
united sand-jig and wing-dance thereover. The S.S. Co.
was bound to “ fall-in,” anyhow; for, though it pleaded
“ plague ” to prevent the passage of the coons, it had
made no such demur in the case of whites.
F. : Sydney’s rotten Corporation charged Wiegand five
guineas for the use of the city organ for his benefit con-
certs ; and, not satisfied with this, actually grabbed out
of the first takings (before a protest could be laid)
another guinea for the use of the instrument for a half-
hour’s rehearsal in the afternoon preceding one of the
concerts.
Probably the line which evokes the biggest yell of ap-
plause in the “Absent-Minded Beggar” (Sydney Royal) is
that in which Frances Ross says that she loves the British
flag because under it all men are equal, and the white
man, and the black, and the brown, and the whity-brown,
and the blotched, and spotted, and mottled enjoy liberty
and justice alike. And probably, if Miss Ross fired off
that beautiful remark at Perth, in the slave State of
Westralia, it would fetch quite as loud a cheer. More-
over, it is quite likely that the Westralian nigger-owner
and nigger-driver would wave his enthusiastic hat in
absolute sincerity. Even in the Southern States, in the
days of Uncle Thomas, you could raise a deafening cheer
for the Flag of Liberty any day.
“ 0.” : “ Nance O’Neil has not yet made stage-love or
allowed it to be made to her 1 How about ' Camille ’” ?
Also, writes “Seven 0.” : “Writer has forgotten‘The
Jewess ’ in which Nance cuddled and kissed to much
purpose. If people want to see her at it, they should
induce her to revive that play. It will make up for all
the love she hasn’t made in her other parts.”
When Miln, the ’Murkan actor, was playing in Mel-
bourne, the now-defunct Daily Telegraph of that city
complacently announced the celebration of the thou-
sandth anniversary of his performance of Hamlet.
Nobody had previously supposed him to be the senior of
Methuselah. Apropos, a notable Chicago criticism of
Miln’s Hamlet was—“ Mr. Geo. 0. Miln played Hamlet
last night. He played it till 12 o’clock.”
Major C. F. N. Macready, of 2nd Gordon Highlanders,
now in S’Africa, is a son, per second wife, of W. 0.
Macready, the great tragedian. He is a good amateur
actor and very fond of the stage, though his father deter-
mined that no child of his should tread the boards. A
son by the first marriage was in Melb. in the early sixties,
when Barry Sullivan gave him a show as Oapt. Absolute,
in “ The Rivals.” He facially resembled his father, but
was a frost as an actor, and descended from high comedy
to super-ing.
The latest part written to suit Divine Sarah is that of a
well-preserved grandmother who falls in love with a
middle-aged bounder, and upbraids her son for chasing
the bounder from her amorous arms.
“P.A.”: Used to enjoy listening to .
[Name of actress judiciously omitted.—Ed. B.] I asked
her if she was Spanish, and if she liked Australia. Not
that I had any intention of giving it to her. She said:
“ No. I am not Spanish ; I am an Ostrich. I no lik
Owstralee ; de climitt is ver’ fonny—put me right off my
head. Las’ night Igo sleep in mine own bed, und dis
moning I vake oop I fin* mineself in bed mit my hoosband.
I am mooch surprize of myself.”
Wirth’s circus is returning to Australia after seven years
absence. The,big show and the great menagerie of sea-
sick animals are just now supposed to be rolling some-
where in Torres Straits. Opens at Cooktown and works
the coastal towns to Melbourne.
It is understood that Nance O’Neil will appear as Tess
of the D’Urbervilles in Melbourne.
When Barnum was running his big museum in New
York his band was generally understood to be the worst
on earth. A musical aspirant applied for a billet. “How
much,” asked he, “is it worth to play in your band?”
“ Well, about lOdols. a week for you.” “ All right, I’ll
join.” On pay-day the new hand went for his money.
“ Oh,” said Barnum, “ you must have misunderstood me :
it’s lOdols. you owe me. I can’t let you fellows torture
my visitors for nothing.”
Young Raimund Pechotsch, a one-time Sydney “ juven-
ile prodigy,” is now solo-violin at the Chevalier Recitals
in Queen’s Hall, London.
A New York paper' reports that the taking of one
famous Boer-war picture, which has since been greatly
appreciated for • its accuracy and life-like character—that
of the battle of Colenso—led to serious trouble. It was
taken at Orange (New Jersey, U.S.) The manager hired
an immense number of British soldiers in new uniforms
with guns, and Boers with guns and false whiskers ; but
just as the armies were drawn up, and the struggle was
about to begin, the Boers struck for 8/- a day. Not
getting it they put their whiskers in their pockets and sat
own. The British troops also struck and threw their
guns over the fence ; and it was only by the exercise of
great managerial tact that there was any battle at all.
A novelty is a floating theatre which is being
built in England to tour all the fashionable watering-
places. It is rather a small affair as an experiment, being
of but 100 tons burthen, and drawing only 20in. water.
The little auditorium is to seat 338 people, while another
three or four hundred will be able to look down from the
promenade-deck above on to the show beneath. It might
seem a doubtful sort of investment till it is stated that it
will have a license to supply “ refreshments.”
Heard coming away from “ The School for Scandal ” :
“It’s funny; but I liked her in ‘ Elizabeth’ much better.
My oath 1 she did go to market! ”
It is related of Quinn, the celebrated comedian, who
was a very famous Falstaff, that, asked to play the part
in his old age when he had lost all his teeth, he said,
“ Gad, sir, I’ll whistle Falstaff for no man.” Huge Nance
O’Neil, when asked to play in “ The School for Scandal ”
again, should say, “ I’ll overwhelm Lady Teazle for no-
body.” Nance, playing the graceful, frisky heroine of
Sheridan’s masterpiece is like a steam-roller playing the
part of a child’s go-cart. Had the author contemplated
such a massive Lady Teazle he would not have let her
hide behind a mere screen in the great scene in the fourth
act, but would have prescribed a hoarding.
.“ Sphinx ” : “A bold cross-heading, ‘ A Woman’s Back,’
caught my eye when looking through The Bulletin, the
other day. Thought it might be the title of a short
story about Nance O’Neil and was aggrieved to find it
, part of a pill advt.”
New Zealand Loan and M.A. Co., Ltd.,
report for week ended Saturday, July 14th, that
Wheat Market is in a state of suspense, awaiting
cabled news from London which will regulate the
Srice and volume of business likely to be done.
leanwhile the co. has received good grain from
several districts, and the prime portions of the
consignment easily realised 2s. lOd. per bushel, ex
truck ; while good descriptions brought 2s. Bd. to
2s. 9d. : pinched, 2s, 6d. to 2s. 7d.; and , whole
chickwheat, 2s. 2d. to 2s. sd. per bushel.
There is a general idea that the French
are the only people who know how to eat, but,
judging by an astounding return received from
the North German Lloyd Steamship Co. what the
Germans and the passengers of all nations who
are within their ships don’t know about the art is
not worth learning. During 1899 the provisions
put on board for use on the voyage inoluded
4,417,9581b5. meats of various sorts, besides 12,290
hams,_ 35,301 calf-heads and sweet-breads, and
1726 live cattle and animals killed en voyage. In
the fish line the passengers seem to have had
either the voracity of pikes or the numbers of
the sea-shore sands, for they devoured 486,9251b5.
besides a million of oysters, crayfish, fowls and
game. But these are sordid details—it is when
the co. begins to reel off the list of good drinks
that the soul of the listener is stirred within him.
Sherry; Madeira, Port, 9387 bottles; Cognac,
13,579 bottles ; liqueurs, 34,581 bottles ; Claret,
87,147 bottles and 211,392 litres ; Rhine and
Moselle, 100,749 bottles; Champagne, 35,854
bottles; while the lager-beer bottles numbered
1,238,739.
WHAT IS “ D.C.L.” ?
“ D.C.L.” is a brand applied to whisky, and is a
guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and of
a pure and wholesome spirit. Ask for “D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch.*
Bigjohn Forrest has turned Federationist,
but the kind of Federationist he has turned is
hardly worth having. Recently the Westralian
Premier delivered an alleged Federal oration at
Bunbury, though it was mostly a wail that Federa-
tion was inevitable, and wound up with :
I would be sorry, however, if any words of mine should
influence anyone either one way or another.
To put it another way : “I hope I haven’t con-
vinced anybody, or converted anybody, or ex-
plained anything, or thrown any light on
anything.” In the other provinces even the most
dead-alive politician hopes that his words will
have some influence.
An ounce of Scrubb’s Cloudy Ammonia
added to the bath water will thoroughly cleanse the
skin when it is irritable and soap is objected to.
It will make the flesh white and firm in tone, and
is also an excellent water softener; in fact, a
little of the ammonia is a great improvement
even when bran, almond meal, or oatmeal are
also used; and when there is a tendency of the
skin to excessive perspiration—especially during
hot weather—it is invaluable as a||remedy.*
There is an interesting piece of paternal
biography in a courageous letter by Prof. Orme
Masson (Chemistry, Melb. University) on the
Marshall-Hall case. Mason explains the “Kreut-
zer Sonata ” incident: when M.-H. recommended
his students to read the book, he had forgotten all
about the drift of the story and remembered only
the passages about music ; and when the rest of
the book was brought to his recollection, he with-
drew the recommendation to read it. Says
Masson:
I remember a complaint in Edinburgh that the pro-
fessor (now emeritus-professor) of English had prescribed
“ Troilus and Cressida ” to his ladies’ class as the subject
for an essay. The great play was objected to as contain-
ing indecent passages. Nobody suggested that these
were in the professor’s mind when he chose the play, but
it was thought that he ought to have remembered them. I
believe he changed the subject for the essay, and the
incident closed.
The reference is, of course, to the chemistry-pro-
fessor’s father, Prof. David Masson, the author of
the standard life of Milton, and editor of the
standard edition of Milton’s works.
A N.S.W. Labor-caucus is not always
ruled by a majority vote. Sometimes, intellectual'
and aggressive weight count against mere plu-
rality, and five or six members have dictated to i
the fourteen or fifteen. The rank-and-file are not
infrequently unequal to the pressure of the
leaders. A threat of resignation of several seats
in the House once enabled five Solidarities to
bring an overwhelming majority to sweet reason-
ableness. That’s how Reid got Left.
At last week’s Sydney Orange celebration
Grandmaster Wheeler had much to say re the
S’African war, and the Australian contingents,
and the loyalty of Orangemen who, he inferred,
were the only people who had shed their gore to
any extent for the Empiah. Mr. Wheeler care-
fully avoided any allusion to that other Orange
G.M., the county Cavan auctioneer, who was in
command of the Boers at Nicholson’s Nek.
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney, Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
The fact that Newfoundland, the one
province which stood out of the Canadian Federa-
tion, has declined miserably, and the inference
that Westralia, if it stands out of the Australian
Commonwealth, may do the same, has roused up
a lot of Groper parochialists to explain. This is
Moorhead, M.L.A.:
Newfoundland had been trotted out on Wednesday
night. Of all the great federal unions, Mr. Gardiner held
up this miserable little rat. He held up that miserable
little rat as a horrible example of stopping out of a federa-
tion. Did his friend know where Newfoundland was ? It
was not in Collingwood. Newfoundland was a wind-
swept, fog-enveloped island. Federation could not give
land to a country ; gold in its mines, or timber on its hill-
sides. If the Lord made it poor the devil could not make
it rich.


LA GRIPPE
Comes Like a Thundei’b oXt
Expulsion
Rapid and Complete.
The Case of
MRS. MARGARET GATLIN.
( Investigated by a Reporter.)
No more mysterious or insidious disease
has come to curse the modern world than
influenza. How it arises no one knows ; its
nature none can explain. With brutal im-
partiality it slays high and low, rich and
p oor —all are liable to attack—each cf us
sooner or later falls a victim, so that cases of
remarkable cure and recovery have universal
interest; and surely no more desperate case
has been recorded than that of Mrs. Margaret
Catlin, of 121 Perry-street, Collingwood,
Me bourne, an old and respected resident of
that neighbourhood. Our reporter, hearing
of the case, promptly called at the pretty
cottage residence, and heard from Mrs.
Catlin herself the details of her case. Mrs.
Catlin said :—“ The influenza struck me
like a, thunderbolt, there were no prelim-
inary sjinpcoms. I remember I was in the
garden hanging out some things to dry ; my
hands were raised to peg some garments to
the line, when my legs went from under me;
it was as though a violent blow had been
struck across the back of my knees, causing
them to collapse, for down I fell all of a
heap. After that I became very ill, for over
three weeks not a bite of food passed my
lips that did me good, for all I ate was
immediately vomited up again. I suffered
from au agonising headache, accompanied by
“'burning flushes; my heart would go pit-a-pat,
pit a-pat, like a little bird fluttering inside
my chest; then this feeling would turn to a
lump, which would rise and rise till it came
to my throat. Not only had Ino appetite,
I came to loathe the very sight aud smeli of
food. Even tea and toast that they brought
to my bed to tempt me made me feel quite
sick when I saw it. Neuralgia pains took
me in the forehead, and settled over one eye
with a piercing agouy, as though a red hot
nail was being driven there. Then these
pains would spread all over the top of the
head with a feeling as though a heavy weight
was pressing on me there ; and so sore would
my head remain after one of these attacks,
chat I could not comb my hair. This neu-
ralgia would spread to my face, jaws, and
neck, so that I hardly dared to draw my
breath.”
“How did you sleep, Mrs. Catlin?” en-
quired the reporter.
“ I could not sleep at all, for every bone
in my body ached and was racked with pain,
every bone from the crown of my head to the
soles of my feet. I became thinner and
thinner from want of nourishment, tjll I
was nothing better than a living skeleton.
My eyes got red and raw, they burned like
fire, and hob water ran from them con-
tinually, so that Btrangers thought I was
crying.” „
“What remedies did you try, Mrs. Gatlin.
“ Quinine and iron, and other tonics of
that kind, but with no good resulb, till the
thought occurred to me to try Clements
Tonic. I first came to hear of that wonder-
ful remedy when I was on a visit to my son
in New South Wales. He is in a country
district in the railway service, and I found
that amongst the employes Clements lonic
is the accepted remedy in all cases of sick-
ness. At my wish my family sent out at
once for a bottle of Clements Tonic, and after
taking only two doses I was able to eat a
little for the first time after three weeks’
starvation ; andtheneyt day, that is, on the
Monday, I was able to leave my bed and sib
up in a chair. The effect of Clements Conic
was something marvellous, so rapid and
complete was the change it effected in my
condition ; it seemed to pour life and energy
into my veins, to brace up my shattered
nerves, while at the same time it chased all
the pains I have told you of out of my body.
Neuralgia, headache, lassitude, weariness,
sleepiness, all flew away like evil dreams to
the recuperative power of Clements Tonic.
And this is not all. In my own family with
my sous and daughters Clements Tonic has
done wonders in cases of diarrhoea as well as
influenza, and you may be sure I have not
been slow in recommending Clements Tonic
to my friends.”
“ Will you allow me to recommend
Clements Tonic in your name, Mrs.
Catlin ? ”
“You mean in the papers, I suppose.
You are quite welcome to report and print
what I say—for the truth must do good—in
any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Margaret Catlin. of 124 Perry-st., Coliingwood,
Melbourne, in the Colony ot Victoria, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of three folios and
consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Toaic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
manner my statement—which I give voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions ofan
Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons
making a False Declaration punishable for wilful
and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Coliingwood, in the Colony of
Victoria, this 24th day of January, one thousand nine
hundred, betore me,
~ J. GARDINER, J.P.,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the Central Baili-
wick of the Colony of Victoria.
« h. \
yi
4
r'.CiJ
111
r
•Oj'if*
ft
gg
Vi
,V)\
When
writing
please
mention
Tuk
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACi let DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
' Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
[strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
iDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
-LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
] Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
(They impart vigor and potency to every function,
• brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. .
THEY WILL GORE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 |
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 |
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 330 (
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and (
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, (
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to — (
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney {
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
%kk
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
- REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
This is the Latest Type I
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONE!
Frioe, £7*
TALKS! SINGS!
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action
Records, 2s 6d ; Needles, Is 6d.
I Send for New Illustrated List —FREE.
■ XS" Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oedershaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*O DDESF'Y COMIFJETITXOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
' OOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours : —Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors -GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco,Perth,W.A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
LOST!
That is the constant cry
of the Shopkeeper
SOMEHOW
who hasn’t a
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER.
To mafoe Leakages
impossible,
THE
NATIONAL..
Cash Register
IS
THE
MONEY
KEEPER
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.


earne’s
*x* Ka^-m
Bronchitis Cure.
hembdy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUCHS!
A Lady in London.
A MART YU TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
• BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
he mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, anil you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense success
it was. Yours faithfully,—-—.”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“Yon will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I, have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfullv,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
• -
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
©
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broohitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
• •
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing hgs all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” ©
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody,—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ©
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial. —JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Brorichitis Cure T got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
«
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects. —CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 30
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CIIATER & 00.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days. *
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without lhe medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. 01. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
66 DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
Jjro you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh..
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Illawarra,), wear SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS,
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
osr
FINE SILVER.
_
■
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL A WARS. A”
..BUAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLIOM
HIGHEST FKICES PAID POP, ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Wkuvbkeg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F <m
INFANTS
■
9
m
.
m
m
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
Bmtish Medical Jouskal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Saved from the Jams of Death.
A BILE BEAN MIRACLE.
Skilled Physicians Baffled. Patent Medicines
utterly failed. Case corroborated by
Justices of the Peace, Friends and
Neighbors.
It is safe to say that no testimonial has ever been printed in any paper in Australia or England
which gives such convincing proof of a marvellous cure being effected by a remedy as the one we
publish from Mrs. Maria Weekes, of Springfield, Eugowra, New South Wales. That lady has been
literally rescued from the jaws of death by Bile Beans for Biliousness, and it is the positive duty,
not only of those who are ailing, but of the medical profession, to carefully read her symptoms and
perceive the miraculous cure achieved by the world’s renowned remedy, Bile Beans for Biliousness.
The following is what Mrs. Weekes says in a letter dated May 26th, 1900: —
“ About thirty years ago I first commenced to suffer with Indigestion. After eating I had terrible
pains in my chest, like a heavy weight pressing down, accompanied by a fullness after eating. I began
to get pains in the back and side which were almost unbearable, and bursting headaches would follow.
1 tried many remedies for these complaints, but none of them did me any good. As time went on I
continued to get worse, and nearly always felt tired and drowsy. My limbs were powerless and con-
stantly aching. I was very much depressed in spirits, and suffered dreadfully from biliousness, which
would make me feel very sick, and my head would swim around. I was miserable, disagreeable with
(Appearance of the Only Genuine.)
m /A£>,
f£"AAfS&
Vl/OUSMJES.
Headache. Constipation, Indig’es
L.iver Affections, Dizziness, Piles
ond clean the complexion
1/U
RICE
Per Box.
dose - i to 3 Pais *,
at Bedtime.
of
O ;/£■
each
everyone and everything, matters continued to get
worse, and everything I would take seemed to give
me no permanent relief. I consulted the best doc-
tors in Parkes, Forbes, and Canowindra, but it was
all the same. The doctors seemed unable to under-
stand my complaint, and dozens of times I have
been at death’s door. Everything that could be
thought of was done for me, and almost every con-
ceivable remedy and treatment was resorted to, with
the same result. Hundreds of pounds have been
spent with doctors and in medicines to cure me, yet
I was compelled to suffer on.
“I was recommended to try your Bile Beans for
Biliousness, but had little faith in any medicines,
having tried so many. However, I thought I would
give them a trial, and am now right glad that I did,
for after I had taken a few boxes I began to feel
better in every way. 1 resolved to take a thorough
course of the Beans, and after taking ten boxes I
passed two gall stones, and, would you believe, after
taking eleven boxes I passed over fifty gall stones.
This, accompanied by severe liver trouble, must have
been at the root of my sufferings, and nothing but
Bile Beans made the wonderful change in me. I
now take an interest in life, have more energy and
ambition, in fact, I feel a different woman altogether,
sjsm m
•
''"'Ucuin**
A
J>
2Vx
I
S 3
s\\
(Photo, of Mrs. Matia Weeke^,)
which I truly owe to your Bile Beans. Everyone in this town can certify to my illness
and cure by the Beai>, and I know they will be pleased to endorse my which
are nothing but the t nth. Before I post this to you I will ask some if the residents here
to read, wliat 1 liave written and sign below.—Yours gratefully,
“We can also certify that the above
statements are true —
't-
The enormous success of this
preparation the world over is the
best possible proof of its great
worth. Millions use Bile Beans
annually, and thousands say they
are an undoubted specific for
biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, bad blood, pimples, piles,
costiveness, dizziness, fullness
after eating, influenza, rheuma-
tism, debility, and for a general
toning of the system. Obtainable
at all chemists’ and storekeepers
13id. per large box ; or from the
Australian Depot, Bile Bean
Manufacturing Co., 30 Pitt-street
Sydney.
The Labor-saving Jones.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jems wag the most energetic man in our
Railway Station. He was in charge of the
(roods Department, and was considered the smart-
est book-keeper in the service. Auditors were
afraid of him, for Jones had travelled much, and
had been in turn oh every section of the railways of
his province, and had kept a book in which he
carefully requested all auditors who were not satis-
fied with his system of accountancy to write down
their proposed amendments. In course of time,
he found that the auditors contradicted the in-
structions they gave down South by those they
gave up North, and that the errors of the back
country were the correct methods of the coast
section. To Jones this seemed an absurdity, and
when the latest auditor attempted to jump on him
in a superior manner, Jones told him he was suf-
fering from a very bad memory, and went on to
speak disrespectfully of auditors in general and
that one in particular. The auditor suspended
Jones, and that young man went to headquarters
and interviewed the Commissioners. Then the
Commissioners interviewed the auditors, and the
auditors felt very sore on the subject. In future
they always addressed Jones as Mr. Jones, and
treated him as a man of great attainments.
The local stationmaster was also afraid of Jones,
and addressed him as “Mr.” And on one occasion,
when far gone in whisky, he informed the writer
that he prayed every night and morning that
Jones might be seized with a fit or a desire to go
to the far interior of Brazil.
Just subsequent to Jones’ triumphant rein-
statement, after wiping the floor with the
kings and councillors of the Railway Depart-
ment, I was placed under the command of this
paragon. His office was a peculiar place. The
walls were covered with all sorts of mysterious
ready-reckoners, which I never learned to under-
stand. Jones understood them thoroughly, and
by a glance at them could give the correct answer
to any railway-problem that might be sprung upon
him. He also had a mania for labor-saving
machinery. He used the first fountain-pen I ever
saw, because it saved the labor of continually
dipping the pen into the ink-pot. He rode round
the shed on a bike because it was a saving of
labor. He fixed up small electric-indicators which
told him when a train was approaching, so that he
should never waste time looking out of the window
at the end of the shed, or going over to the platform
10 minutes too soon and then idling away valuable
minutes in talking with the imbeciles who ran
that portion of the station. In his home, every-
thing was done by machinery, and his wife made
her own dresses on a sewing-machine which was
worked by a baby engine driven by a tiny gas-jet.
When I had been about three months in the
office, I found that Mr. Jones had one weakness,
as great as all his attainments together, and it was
Beer. He never enjoyed beer that he had to pay
for. When he had to pay for it he never drank
more than one glass, but if he got it without pay-
ment he never stopped drinking till the beer was
finished.
There were two breweries—Cygnet and Sons,
and Steele, Jacks and Co.’s. Both sent enormous
quantities of fluid joy up-country by rail. The staff
had the run of both breweries, and, on an average,
received about a quart per man per day, but that
was not enough for Jones. It involved a dreadful
loss of time to bike around two breweries, and
Jones brought his giant intellect to bear upon how
to broach the casks in an autistic way. He solved
the problem by producing a glass tube about nine
inches long and an inch in circumference. It was
just the thing. Through it one could get a good
mouthful of beer at a pull, and thereby escape
the sudden intoxication which overtakes a man
who drinks beer through a straw. Mr. Jones ad-
mitted to me, in a burst of confidence, that there
were only two ways in which beer ever made him
drunk—drinking it through a straw, or eating it
with a spoon out of a soup-plate. The straw set-
tled him the quicker of the two.
He was a generous fellow, and kindly allowed
the rest of us to have the loan of the tube when
there were more than six barrels in the shed at
once. True, he used to interrupt us about every
five minutes for the loan of the tube to save his
life. One day Barton, the loader, let the tube slip
into the barrel, and for the life of him could not
get it out. Jones nearly went mad, and tried all
sorts of ingenious tricks to rescue the instrument.
It was one of Cygnet’s barrels. Cygnet always
examined the interior of his returned empties,
and we wondered what he would think when he
found that glass tube in the barrel. Two weeks
later Cygnet and. the manager appeared with the
glass, tube, and asked Jones confidentially did he
think any of the engine-drivers had a spare gauge-
glass which they kept for tapping tlie beer in
transitu. Jones said lie shouldn’t wonder if they
had, and looked very shocked, and asked them to
leave the tube with him as a clue. Cygnet said
he thought he would take it with him and keep it
as a curiosity. Jones looked disappointed.
Next week Jones appeared with an improved
apparatus. It consisted of a glass tube with
a flap of indiarubber round the end of it,
and joined to this was a long, thin indiarubber
tube, with, at the end, the mouthpiece of a
baby’s feeding-bottle. When the staff gazed upon
this they were paralysed. Jones, with a bright
smile, proceeded to show how it could bo worked
without leaving the desk. There were six hogs-
heads in the shed, and they were rolled up
against the single-board wall of the little office
wherein we worked. The tube of glass was in-
serted through the spigot-hole, and the india-
rubber flap held it in position and kept air out.
The rubber tube came up through the wall and the
desk, and Jones could sit on his high stool with
the mouthpiece in his mouth, and swallow beer all
the time he was working. It was a splendid idea ;
it worked perfectly—for Jones. None of the rest of
us could get a pull at it on any account, and were
forced to go across to the brewery to slake our
thirst.
It was 3 o’clock ; Jones was hard at work with
the baby’s-bottle arrangement in his mouth, and
the rest of the staff were in an agony of thirst. As
Jones gave no sign of slacking-off or taking a spell
we went across to Steele, Jacks and Co.’s. . We
stopped there about half-an-hour, and had several
glasses of half-and-half. Then we strolled down
to the cellars and got a big bottle each and started
back leisurely for the shed. We had just got to
the door when we noticed that the head of Jones
was not visible through the window of the office.
Then we were staggered to see him lying on the
broad of his back with a silly grin on his face,
while from the baby’s bottle apparatus trickled
a steady stream of beer over the warehouse
book down into his mouth. We looked at
this terrible apparition, and rubbed our eyes to
make sure that there was really beer enough in the
world to upset Jones. Then, as we were about to
enter the office and pick him up, we heard a step
on the gravel, and, looking up, saw the station-
master approaching. Realising that we were none
of us fit for inspection, we hastily scrambled be-
hind some sacks of potatoes and drew a tarpaulin
over us. ,
The stationmaster walked down the shed and
seemed astonished at the deserted appearance
thereof. He peeped into the office and would
have passed on, only Jones gave a gurgling sound
which caused him to glance up at the roof and
then look in at the delivery window. Even then
he would not have seen Jones, but that infernal
mouthpiece stood there on the desk, pouring forth
a thin stream of beer. This remarkable sight took
the stationmaster in at the door, and he saw Jones
lying at the foot of the desk. He looked at him
for a moment; then an expression of intense
joy spread over his features, and he rubbed his
hands. He stepped over to the tube and smelt it.
Next he wet his finger with the beef that trickled
from it and touched it with his tongue. Then he
took a good long pull at it himself. He seemed
to like it, and had another. Next he got out a
few sheets of foolscap and wrote for about tea
minutes. Having finished his writing he shifted
Jones out of the way, and sat on the seat with
the tube in his mouth, and a pleased smile spread
all over him. I was just beginning to get drowsy—
I think I had nodded—when there was a sudden
crash. I looked down into the office with a start —
the stationmaster had fallen off the stool.
We waited a few moments, and as he didn’t
rise again we climbed out of our hiding-place and
went into the office. Jones was snoring loudly.
The stationmaster was sitting against the leg of
the desk, and the beer was trickling down the
back of his neck. He looked at us with an owlish
expression, and remarked in a thick husky voice :
“ Yesh, I rang; I’ll have a long beer, pleash.”
(Turning to an imaginary companion): “ Whatsh
you goin’t’ have, my dearsh?” We laughed at
this, and asked him who the lady was. “ Eesh in
the drinks and some hamsh and other zhings,”
he said. We held a hurried consultation
—some of the public might arrive at any
moment —and while we were talking the S.M.
spoke again : “ Ish it any obligation on your partsh
to sherve ush ? ” I handed the beer-tube down to
him, and he seized it hungrily and put it in his
eye. At last he got it into his mouth, and about
two minutes later fell over on his side, dead-drunk.
We made a little square of goods and hogsheads,
laid the two drunks in it side by side, and left
them there to recover while we read the papers
the boss had left on the desk. One was a docu-
ment suspending Jones for drunkenness on duty,
and the other a full report of the state in which
he had found the “ auditor’s terror” ; also a strong
reflection on his dishonesty in stealing beer and an
urgent recommendation that Jones be dismissed
the service as a warning to others. It furthermore
said that he could not undertake to manage the
station as it should be managed unless an example
was made of Mr. Jones.
Next' morning the stationmaster tore those
papers up, and Jones resumed duty at 9 a.m.
The new time-saving beer-drinking apparatus
was destroyed.
HERMES.
m . ~ . , c , i , c
lo be read ill the light ot the accounts Ot
the recent British “blocking,” at Lorenzo Mar-
quez, of huge quantities of food and clothing in-
tended for the Boers “The British prisoners at
Nooitgedacht are huddled together on the open
veldt, exposed to extreme climatic changes. Their
clothes are in rags, and afford poor protection
against the biting easterly winds, and the over-
recurring diet of mealies is unaccompanied by any
other kind of food to maintain fair health,
Ex-Indian Judge Humphrey Page lias left
Tasmania for England in disgust, with his wife
and family. He has never got over his utter de-
feat at last general election. Months before that
contes t Humphrey took a room in Hobart, which
he made j bs headquarters, and this was turned
into a club for his supporters Smoko and liquor
were dispensed liberally to Page’s brigade, and
• * a reconna f sance in forC e” of some
part of the constituency was made. Five hundred
lood men and true we’re all that were needed to
make , up the quota under the Hare system
of voting, and oi polling-day the ex-Judge had
that number of absolute “ promises ”—and more.
according to law among men whe h«J a better
show When Page saw the state °f things he
looked blank, and ™‘ ld ? fo *, f did
way met a friend whom ( he told that he didn t
know how he could face home. Mrs. Page had
been one of hw most energetic canvassers and he
would be the first to bre&k. to. her I;he ■ degndmg
news. Perhaps the cruellest thmg in the busi-
ness was that he had been rejected for E. l.
Miles, at whose return even the Macquane Har-
bor bar was moaning.
«« j- *» to The B ULLETIN re the “ change of
front in Rudyard Kiplmg:
Eleven years ago the American way of speaking English
was unfamiliar and repugnant to him, and then he wrote
fchat the Americans who professed to pity him for speak-
with „ an E n gi; s h accent,” were themselves speaking
ag j ar ag j ie wag concern ed the “ language of thieves.”
To _ d Kipling is Americanised (through living in Ame-
rica) and he uses the nasal accent and the dialectical
phrases which sounded vulgar or “flash” in his ears
aforetime. This is not necessarily a change of front on
Kipling’s part. He has acquired the Americanisms of
phrase and accent because they are infectious. Man is
an imitative animal, and if a man gets settled among
le w h oS e language is different from his own and
as f ly imitated> he can > fc help speaking as they speak.
p oa i language is very infectious, likewise nasal twangs,
provincial dialects, and the language of the cockney
gutter, or the stable. Touching the comparative ease
with which English provincial dialects are imitated, I
r a 0 n m q^° a te le 3
middle . a | e d Italian who spoke “ Yarksheer” English like
a na tive of the country, He had spent only 15 months in
England, he said, but all the time he had been in York-
shire. The artificiality of these country dialects lends
itself to imitation, as every character-actor knows. The
Italian aforesaid could not have learned to speak high
English— i.e., Gladstonian English—fluently m 15months,
rj,[ ie accen t 0 f we il-bred, unaffected people in any couiltry
i s the hardest for a foreigner to speak without a foreign
tone. Kipling’s tongue probably is not Americanised
up to the highest American (the Southern Staters’) stan-
dard. I guess that-he talks the Godarn di-a-Zect of
Amurkan cits, m general, which is remarkable for its all-
round sameness. The accent and the voice tone of the
average New Yorker seem to be identical with every
other fellow’s tone and accent. Language and utterance
are both of them machine-made. If Kipling ever had a
vocal individuality he has lost it, but there’s no evidence
of his having elected to lose it. More likely he has be-
come the victim of his imitative faculty.


WEAK LUNGS • <
CONSUMPTION
ANGLER’S PETROLEUM EMULSION combines the antiseptic, soothing
and healing properties of a specially purified petroleum with the tonic
qualities of the Hypophosphites of Lime and Soda. It is prescribed
extensively by eminent lung specialists, and is used in the large consumption hos-
*{^>
[!VP
iV
v*£
»*•
OOS*
•I'
I**
ftt*
top
**
o.^
eo*
fi**”
Sfitr
»**■
sv*
&
0
aw
Mf
<V%
w 9:
&*>
»>«
©&'
a«
osjy*
4'* c
•fl*
u**
L/
E>*
H 6 '
*r
<**
«e'
C*
oa^
v**s
O
MS 5 *
to* 1
&<«:
K
x
pitals. Under its use appetite is restored?
indigestion, assimilation and nutrition are
greatly improved, the weight is increased?
and a greater vitality and power of re-
sisting disease is secured. In the ad'
vanced stages of consumption it is of
the greatest value in relieving the
distressing symptoms —such as
cough, night sweats, and
diarrhoea. It is a great help
and comfort even in the most
hopeless cases. Unlike Cod-
Liver Oil, it is pleasant
to take and agrees with
the most delicate
stomach
getter Than
Ced-[iverj)il.
Better than Cod-
Liver Oil, more palat-
able and more helpful in
every way, it has posi-
tively no equal in Bron-
chitis, Weak Lungs, Con-
sumption, Chronic Cough, and
all wasting diseases. We say so because physicians say so, and because they keep
on saying so. It has been prescribed by the medical profession of the United
States since 1881, and by that of Great Britain since 1892, and is largely used in
the hospitals of both countries. It is already in use by many of the leading medical
men of Australia and can be obtained of the principal chemists in all the large towns.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession
In United States since 1881.
In Great Britain since 1892.
In Australasia since 1898.
ENGLISH TESTIMONIALS.
INCIPIENT CONSUMPTION.
FROM A WELL-KNOWN CHEMIST OE
LEEDS.
76, Briggate, Leeds.
Dear Sirs, —For some considerable time I have
taken an interest in a poor widow, Mrs. Medd, 24,
Ney-street, Leeds, whose husband died some
years ago of Consumption, leaving her three chil-
dren to provide for. About two years ago the
eldest was taken ill, and died of the same disease.
A year ago the second child began to show similar
symptoms—no appetite, cough, and loss of
weight. Fearing there was little chance of doing
her good, but determined to try, I took her to
Dr. Rollinson, who was then practising in the
town, who examined her. He found very distinct
symptoms of Phthisis, and on hearing about her
father and brother, gave very little hope of her
living more than a few months, advising cod-liver
oil as her only chance. On hearing from me later
that the child was wholly unable to take the oil in
any form, he very fortunately recommended your
Emulsion. lat once procured a bottle, and think
it is only due to you to let you know how very
satisfactory the result has been, quite beyond ex-
pectations or hope. She has gradually but regu-
larly increased in weight, her cough is gone, and
her appetite come back, and I can hardly tell you
how grateful her mother is.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) J. C. REINHARDT.
CONSUMPTION.
98 Algernon-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Dear Sirs, —Some two years past last Novem-
ber my health and strength broke down. I was
received into the Royal Infirmary of this city,
where I was treated for Incipient Phthisis. My
case was rather an anxious one, being reduced in
body to almost a perfect skeleton. While I lay in
this low state my physician prescribed your Emul-
sion, making the kindly remark that I was the
first patient they had ordered it for, and that he
hoped and looked for great results, which were
fully and practically realised. By the end of the
first week I felt my strength gradually returning,
very soon after was able to stand up, eventually
to get about, and at the end of two months able
to leave the institution. I returned to my work,
and have kept at it ever since with the exception
of one or two short intervals. During the whole
of this time I have off and on used your Emulsion,
which I have proved to be my sheet anchor. I
can fully endorse all you claim for it, whilst lay-
ing special stress upon the fact it is pleasant to
take, and (the most important of all to invalids)
there are no eructations after taking it, such as is
common with the best of cod-liver oils.
(Signed) RONALD McDONALD.
A FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE
on receipt of 4d. for Postage. Mention “The Bulletin.”
Caution
Ours is the Original Petroleum Emulsion. It is made with a special oil obtained
from particular wells, and carefully purified by our own process. Imitations made
with ordinary Pretroleum do not have the same effect. Simply asking for Petro-
leum Emulsion will not do. You should ask for
Angler’s Petroleum Emulsion
And be Save that You Get It.
Of All Chemists and Drug Stores, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Mead Office: 32 Snow Mill, London, LJnyland.
The Ship of My Heart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She has been sailing years and years;
Hull-down on a bygone sunset she vanished with
all my dreams,
I have followed her wake with wonder, I have
hidden her track with tears,
I have watched from the lonely cliffs for a million
ages, it seems.
Oh, the joy of her scented sails !
She was fettered abeam with roses, she was laden
with lilies abaft,
She carried the blue of the hills and the pink of
the blossoming dales,
And the dearest of all girl-lovers looked down
from her decks and laughed.
And I watch on the cliff-tops brown
For a silver sail in the offing, for a gleam on the
rainbow foam,
For the sweeping dip of a seabird’s wing when
the whispering tide goes down,
To bring me the message I fain would hear —that
the Ship of my Heart comes home.
Now the grey mists cover the sea ;
I am almost weary of waiting, with eyes long set
to the tides,
But I know she is sailing homeward with sea-
winds singing a glee
In the heart of her rocking ropes, and the seaweed
over her sides.
And I know she will come some day,
And the beautiful love of my boyhood’s heart on
her plunging bows will stand
To fling me the snow-white roses she wore when
she went away,
And shout me a word of her laughing love, a cable-
length from the land.
And the anchoring chains will fall,
And the wind will lull and the horses white feed
slow to the purple sea ;
And I shall know when I hear her voice, when I
hear her passionate call,
That this is the only love of my heart that is
gathered again to me.
N.S.W.
W ILL H. OGILVIE.
Engaged.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was nothing for him, and he turned away
from the stage-door in bitter disappointment. It
was the last theatre left, there were no companies
going out, and he was at his lowest ebb.
It was a bright morning, and all the world
seemed working. He could not endure these
active streets, where money was clinking on all
sides, and returned to his lodging. This was on
top of a large barrack-like building, given over to
lodgers of all sorts. On the ground-floor was a
laundry, where brawny, bare armed women ap-
peared through a mist whenever the door opened.
He threw himself on his bed, thinking how to
avoid thinking. There was no glimmer of a
chance for him. A country actor of small reputa-
tion, without clothes, money, or the ingenious
brilliancy that does without either, he had been
employed by second-rate managers and no others.
A clerk in a warehouse ten years ago, he had
beoome stage-struck. Most of his former fellow-
clerksbythistimewore frock-coats, had money, and
were prosperous. He had thrown away his chance
of their prospects —and for what ? He turned
over his notice-book —taken that morning to the
rejecting manager—for answer. It was bulky
with cuttings of papers, from Thursday Island to
Kanowna—some written by his managers, some
in return for drinks ; a few genuine. Everywhere
his name, Tom Midcliffe, was underlined in ink.
There was his first hit—in Feeney, at Charters
Towers. What pains he had taken with it —what
a triumph the drunken Irishman who wanted to
punch his head for the performance. Ten years
he had been in the business, and had learnt to
“ take a situation, ” let humorous lines sink into
back-country brains, and claim credit for
the consequent laugh ; make - up for all
the types of conventional melodrama, from the
red-nosed comedian to the aristocratic heavy;
to even play a lover and hold the attention
—of Cobar—and had at all points the merits
of that despised mediocrity, “ the good
useful man.” He always wrote in applications
for engagements “ late Geo. Rignold’s C 0.,”
as he had once doubled a corpse and a gaoler
at the tail-end of a season with that manager.
Actors he had started with had passed him and
got on—some by talent, more by or with the addi-
tional aid of audacity, style, women, or the good-
fellowship of hard drinking. But though Mid-
cliffe had dazzled a barmaid in Binalong, she had
no metropolitan influence, and a rebellious liver
kept him sober ordinarily, so he lacked male
friends.
He would have to pawn his wardrobe for his
immediate wants. He emptied it out of his box
—a collection of motley shabbiness, stained with
the dust of all Australia. He heaped the articles
on the floor on a newspaper. Besides clothes
there were old letters, plays, stray parts, a few
wigs, a “ Hamlet ” which he had once studied.
He recalled his early enthusiasm when he went
into the bush and spouted scenes of it. At the
bottom was an old album.
The first photograph in this was a faded one of
a girl posing in tights. A dainty face, a graceful
figure tapering down to exquisite ankles and
pointed feet, could still be traced in the dim silver.
She had been the immediate cause of his being
stage-struck. The clerk’s salary was spent in
seeing her, and buying her photos and sending
her Howers. He dreamed romances of going on
the stage, meeting and marrying her, and both
being stars together. For he had been that
modern rarity—the young fool all-faithful to his
folly. But they had never met, and he had
almost forgotten her. He pulled it from the
album and read the name—Yi Fane. Turning it
over, he had quite forgotten the lines on the back,
written in elementary stenography, which he was
then studying for the office. It was a vow in
verse to dedicate his life to the drama and—Yi
Fane.
As he deciphered them—for one never forgets
stenography altogether—the wasted years passed
in review. His rosy youthful imaginings stood
side by side with the present cadaverous reality.
A bitter feeling of injustice at being made a
superlative fool without being able to blame him-
self swelled within him. For the absence of any
active vice denied him this solace —it all seemed
so cruelly unjust, so spitefully malicious. Some-
thing like a sob came into his throat as he gazed
and thought. With sudden passion he tore the
photograph into fragments, kicked his wardrobe
all over the room, and flung himself on the bed,
swearing and sobbing by turns.
Most of us forget our ideals, luckily ; but when
they do make themselves remembered, their
mockery is in malicious proportion to their
illusiveness.
•
“Young man, would you oblige us with helpin’
of us with the mangle ? We has 60 shirts to get
done by to-night—most of ’em polished, too —and
our young man has left us all of a sudden . . .”
It was Mrs. Chirrup, the ground-floor laundress
—very short, fat, and out of breath from the three
flights of stairs.
“ But I come up myself, ’cos the exercise keeps
me down.”
She explained her demand more fully, glancing
at the scattered clothes and Midcliffe’s appearance.
The daughter had gone out to find where Bob—
the defaulting mangier—had gone, and this made
them more short-handed.
“ Would the young man .”
Midclitfe assented active exertion would
deaden thoughts of despair. Mrs. Chirrup led
the way, with many apologies for troubling him.
“You’ll never know when it’ll come in useful.
Mangling is a h’art. As, when you’re married to
a well-edrcated young woman, you’ll find out,
when the sheets ain’t smooth.”
Midcliffe followed her into the soapy steam of
the laundry. Through the haze he made out piles
of linen being counted and made into parcels by
Mrs. Chirrup’s youngest daughter, and an ironing-
board where an amazon was busy with a heap of
collars. The irons were heated on a special stove
holding a dozen at a time. The air was hot,
moist, suffocating, and peculiarly pungent. Mrs.
Chirrup explained that this was from the leather-
cuttings which fed the stove.
“ Which we get from the factory at the back.
They burn well and we get ’em for the trouble
of carting them away. Besides, the smell is
healthy.”
Then Midcliffe was introduced to the mangle, a
huge affair with a weighted box dragging on
rollers by chains from a wheel with an alternat-
ing action. It was fed by another daughter.
“I used to do the mangling myself, as helps to
keep me down—only I like to do the polishing
myself, and that pile will take me till 11 to-
night.”
Midcliffe turned the handle, the little girl
placed the articles under the rollers, and Mrs.
Chirrup resumed her polishing-iron again, thank-
ing him in gasps between each stroke, and the in-
terrupted operations proceeded. Outside on
the verandah another amazon was busy with a
washing-machine and a wringer. Mrs. Chirrup
screamed occasional directions and received
screaming replies without a break ; the
child fed the mangle and attended to
customers without giving Midcliffe a mo-
ment’s spell. The energy of the place took him
away from himself, and he began to feel the
healthy-mindedness attendant upon tired muscles.
Then came dinner. Midcliffe’s plate was well
filled and kept so. The talking was as hearty as
the eating. He was told all about the truant Bob,
who appeared to be an erratic youth ; how he
could play the concertina and do a breakdown.
Midcliffe was complimented by Mrs. Chirrup on
his staying-powers. Bob, it appeared, always
wanted rests when the work was heavy. He also
gathered that the daughter who was away looking
for Bob would be intolerant of a successor. They
also spoke of the rise in meat, the competition of
the Chinese, the establishment of a rival laundry
where they used a patent starch, a gold stud
found in a shirt that morning .... but Mrs.
Chirrup always harked back to her troublesome
proportions.
“It’s me happetite, and it’s the leather that
gives it to me. This morning, I was 34 and a
bit. Do you know, I’ve tried everything, and I
cannot get thin.”
“ Try my business,” said Midcliffe, but without
bitterness, because he had fed well and was smok-
ing some of Bob’s tobacco, which Mrs. Chirrup
had given him.
“ And what might your trade be ? ”
“ I’m an actor.”
“ I knew ! ” screamed Mrs. Chirrup. “ Didn’t
I say so, Maria ? ”
The amazons stared with new interest.
“Don’t I know ’em ! Why—l was on the stage
myself once. Look, there’s my picture over your
head. Maybe you’ve heard of Vi Fane ? ”
Midcliffe looked at the picture—it was a replica
of the one he had destroyed !
“ You—Vi Fane ! ”
“Yes, that was me before I got stout. I gave
up the dancing and went into drama, but only got
worse, and at last I had to give that up too, as
Vi Fane wasn’t going to play comic old women.”
Midcliffe very slowly recognised in the good-
natured and generously-proportioned figure of
Mrs. Chirrup, features of the dainty dancer that
had lured him to the footlights. Instinctively he
looked towards her feet. They were lost in
bluchers, but the skirts somehow suggested ele-
phantine extremities. Gradually he noted traces
of her old smile lurking in the pendulous cheeks,
and even the bluchers made an effort to point the
toes and take the first position.
“ Me darter what’s away looking for Bob is mad
to be a dancer too, but I won’t have it, as she
takes after me. The stage is all right if you ain’t
got a h’appetite—once your waist reaches 25,
managers is cold to you and the opera-glasses turn
on someone else.”
A light-footed young girl skipped in through
the shop.
‘ ‘ Mother, Bob’s gone on the stage —he’s a Roman
soldier with Julius Knight’s company.”
She was like the Vi Fane of former days, and
she was plainly envious of Bob’s luck.
Mrs. Chirrup then offered Midcliffe Bob’s place.
He accepted. While turning the mangle he heard
a whispered colloquy between mother and
daughter.
“ He’s an actor, too, my girl.”
“ And he’s going to work in a laundry—he can’t
be much good.”
The girl came in to inspect Midcliffe. He
smiled—which was foolish, because it wrinkled
his eyes. She went out again.
“Mother, isn’t he gray? ”
THE STROLLER.


Unable to Sleep, Could Not Eat,
Nerves Upset, Joints Swollen.
A Grand Family Medicine, Good for all from the Young-
est to the Oldest. After the Doctors had Failed to Cure,
Health was Quickly Restored by takiftg
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
9*
i 'Jr
« Not imif/ ao-o I was extremely ill. I could not sleep, eat, or work. My heart would throb
violent* slightest exertioli. My nerves were all upset and my joints were swollen so I
a stepped tQ andl completelydiscouraged. A friend then per-
suaded me to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Fills. In a few days I felt better and it took omy
two bottles of the Sarsaparilla to restore me to complete health. . cure( j hi m
“My husband has taken Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with the greatest benefit ' too. « ™ rea “
nf general debilitv, and purified his blood wnen he was suffering lrom Do Liis.
“ f have’Jven A® Sarsaparilla' to my children withttie most wonderful effects.
It keeps their blood pure, Guilds tliem up, and makes them strong.
This is the testimony of Mrs. Julia Osborne, Grand Junction Koad, Eose-
water, Adelaide, So. Australia. She sends us her family photograph, which we
give above.
Good for all members of the family; hence its name
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You must certainly be convinced that Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a most won-
derful family medicipe. It takes out all kinds of poisons from the blood, tills it
with life-giving power, and is the strongest nerve-tonic you can take.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Splendid Medicine for Children.
The cure is hastened hi taking AYER'S PILLS, a pleasant and easy laxative.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE'S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
BE SUEE YOU OET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. (id.
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYfcZQBT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
P&i&lFs
rIOT , Bilioug and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach Sick Headachy
ti • .. ~ t' i c , ~,i 1 aft or Meals Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, 1 lush-
EEteiara. zv&m- i
B “ Sc/tM’S FILLS. token n. directed, will quickly restoto females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system, hor a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
he -world. Pull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9td, Is and 2s 9d each.
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dm E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the 'imformation em-
braced in its covers. _ , , , ~ ,
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unab ndged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Spf.echks and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of W rustling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomkt’rFortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40illus. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d. , '.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
IS on posueu.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted. ,
NOTE —SJR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
bv him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
SIR ROBERT BEftR, 16 Park Str«*t, SYDNEY
wmm iasi
mm
f SeN'Sen & I
| FARIUNGDOH A*J ENUE\
i LONDON. \
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
m
PERFuue
&tsy
Vi
tie
W
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
will cure That Hacking Gough
That Troublesome Cold
*? That Annoying Influenza
BONNINCTON’S PILLS
REMEDY for BILE, JNDIGESTIOI
DISORDERED LIVER.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
...FOR...
Cycle Tyres
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Tube 1 6 6
Outer Tyre, Canvas and Rubber, 15s. and 0 18 6
Outer Rubber Covers ... 0 8 6
Inner Tube, complete, with Yalve ... 07 0
Inner Tube, not joined, without Valve... 0 5 0
Re-rubbering Old Canvas ... 12s Gd and 015 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wearing Strips, Regular, l|in. wide ...0 3 0
Wearing Strips, Regular, attached ... 0 5 6
Dunlop Valve 0 16
Victor Rims *... 0 6 6
Palmer Tyre, Single Tube Fabric ...150
Rubber Solution and Patching Rubber.
BEST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
fyists Sent on Application.
We do Repairs.
PERDRIAU&CO.
268 and 270 GEORGE ST.,
Between Hunter and
Bond Streets.
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Oneen Street, Melbourne;
Broo’tman’s Building, Adelaide.
I
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
... IS THE ORIGINAI
PLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<s>he Abbot
J. k J. MAXFIELD, PnoPRS., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
®i©@o
«flU'
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
so
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
&c CO.,
w_ c. .'Fix.nD'RXiDG-^:
DYEPS & CLEANERS,
40 yojtK NiKiiiKr, Sydney
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by yost trom all Ike iolonies promptly
■■ w ■
G-eorge and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
■RTTTTFT? ®© « cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only-Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
fiU 11M pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored blitter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your'orders' to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is clear
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company. H P^arwk^ e “ a lydiiey
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOB, THE MANUFACTUBE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE 1
-A.3VT33
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Boasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS ROLLS PUL
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING AND OILS
■
Steam Pumps
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
We Have Stood the Test
—AND —
Walther’a Saddlery
LEADS IN QUALITY AND PRICE.
TRADE
TO
MAKE
MONEY
No. 1 Stockman’s
Made on strong tree, with
plated bars, plated over head
and round cautle and double
gullet plate, hogskin seat,
fitted with stirrup leathers
and split-leather girths.
£2 17s, Oc3L.
BY BIG
TURNOVER
AMD
SMALL
PROFITS,
P e Ji ve f red freight Free to any
is sent with order, or 5 per cent
colonies. • gSa' CUT OUT THIL .
2| per cent.
or railway station in N.S.W., if
mnt allowed to any of the adio
U ERTISEMENT, and we will
' ' Bonus.
C. H. WALTHER & CO.,
24a HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Send for our Illustrated Price List
Th.e Best in Australia.
;*F~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY ~
S a OLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
3 There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to tiie Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
SECOND-HAND
AND
TVfEW FURNITURE
" (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
PI Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
fin f ° r the Fu , rnishin - of the HOME of best
wheref cin a y nd i^pe C ot? 88 “ Pl ' ioeS Char * ed else -
JNO. C. NOVELL & CO.,
Telephone loil! B*"' 8 *"' (3 d °° rS PMt Huncer ' st '). SYDNEY.
