

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
E
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GUARANTEED pure cocoa, ante extract
op m:aet.
R. <3r. wAtkiuts & 00.,
XO7 Kent Street, Sydney,
m g a ___ —FOR —
iVlimng and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
mn
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
WINE!
WINE !
__WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST W?NE^>
AUSTRALIA.
{t3T Send for Price List
Ment ion this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co, Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.,
& c°
’B5 Pitt
SYDNEY
Ruston
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Proctor & Co.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
BCCBKrXJEIIC
--■Vi Tin 'in
STEAM ENGINES
XHERA.SE[:iKrG-
and BOILERS
MTA-CHIKTES,
AND PUMPS.
SA.W BEKTOHCES, &c.,
&o.
THORNE’S
A! WHISKY.
SANDEMAN'S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
BTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
m
f {
n
HOBA.HT.
Hadley s Orient fjotel.
HAfiy
JjJOTIC® TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEOR6E HOTEL, opposite,St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable-Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Vibtoisia. INCLUSIVE' TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Hay, ©r 2 Guineas per Week.
oo
— :
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month— THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
5£
PI OWEBR
LEATHER
mltibkJ
TKe Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Duisabjlity and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. V,,nnu,,s
X3U7
, LTD.,
SfcX'«3«3"fc,
"SToarlc
x SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
(6
Tales of the System.”
W- i'E.ICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
“ WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
Messrs. T. C. WILLIAMS COMPANY, of RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.,
have prepared for this market a
HIGH-GRADE TOBACCO
Under the Bi*and of
“WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
The knowledge which the manufacturers have gained in supplying the favorite
brands of Welcome Nugget, Victory, and Diadem, enables them to confidently
recommend Wealth of Nations
TO ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists and Stores.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED •
Ediswaa - Lamp.
EDI SWA
)rls==i-:r; ! =’
r
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.'
COMPLETE - RELIA-
BILITY.^
Hmx no Worthless
Imitations.
m maju p
United Electric Light
Oo. f Ltd.
Austr ataman Branch : 16
WYOTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY;."
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
s “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE
AGENT*}
'
X*p-ve «8z
Georg « Street,' S-TItNIZY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 21.—N0. 1046. J
[Saturday, March 3, 1900.
Beysterecl at the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
Colds,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
mn
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
I). A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
A
SUITABLE FOR OLD
AND YOUNG
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
.. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . v . .
Sold by all chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or from • the Proprietor—G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT—S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
THE RED PAGE.
Astronomers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Red stars and white in the heavens—
They gem the vault above ;
The night is flushed with starshine.
But where’s the light of love ?
She says; “ Their hosts outnumber
The sands beside the sea.”.
His heart in silence answers,
“ One were enough for me."
“Solone—each seems so lonely,
So out of touch and thrill.”
A thought takes shape, he whispers,
.“ Some things are lonelier still.”
“ And yonder, two together
Swing mingling gleam and gleam.
Was aught so sweet ? ” He whispers,
“ Yes, hearts that flieet in dream.” ' ■
“ Yon lies a lordly cluster,
A gay and gallant show.
What holds them thus together ? ”
“ ’T is kinship binds them so.”
“ Kinship ” —she turns, half-laughing,
“ And they so far apart! ”
“ Yes, star to star is wedded,
As sometimes heart to heart.”
“ The Goal Sack—that the Goal Sack!
But why, ’t is full of eyes ;
I always thought it starless,
A desert in the skies.”
“ The common view,” he murmurs,
“ That seldom sees aright;
So souls that men think starless
Hay glow with hidden light.”
The great dome wheels above.them,
The shutter slides and jars :
He speaks of seas lone-breaking
On a crimson coast in Mars.
Speaks on of nightly watches,
Of legion hopes and fears,
Of marchings in the midnight,
And thoughts that drink of tears.
“ Sad with such friends ! ” —her wonder
Upon the silence chimes—
“ The stars so glad.” He answers,
“ My heavens weep sometimes.”
“ How strange your words ! ” —she nears him—
“ Your heavens '! Pray make me wise.”
“ Come close, look up—they sparkle,
My heavens are in your eyes.”
The darkness hides her blushes,
She seeks for words, and so
The heavens bend down in kindness
And set his night aglow.
RODERIC QUINN.
Bulls.
THE gaiety of nations”? Hardly that.
But G. R. Neilson's “ Book of Bulls”
may be fairly said to add to the gaiety
of the individuals who have it. It
gives to chuckle and reflect—and if there is
anything worse in the World than reflection
there is nothing better than chuckling.
Laughter holding both his sides is too
superlative you go over the edge of
enjoyment into the superfluous swing- back,
the unnecessary recoil. To walk, in the
Frenchman’s notion, is to perforin a physical
action ; to Ji&ner —c’est vivre ! So, laughter is
too physical, too gross. While you chuckle
you retain your intellectual supremacy, you
are master of your fate and captain
of your soul. When you laugh you
yield to the ancient ape and the ancestral
son of an ape. “ Man is the only animal
that laughs,” is he ? Then he has one more
peculiar occasion for regretting his sad lot.
■ But “man” is not “a man.”- The species
need not dominate the individual. And
The Preacher is unpleasantly pregnant with
his thorns which crackle under a pot. Ne
quid nimis: stop at the chuckle !
G. R. Neilson does not date his “ Book of
Bul(s we are beginning to add Poetry,
and even other matters, to Goldsmith’s
“ Women and Music should never be dated.”
The idea has virtue ; for beautiful things* by
Keats’s hypothesis, should be ever Afresh
and. young—else they could not be joys
for ever. As between Bulls, Music, Poetry,
Women (in an ascending order of merit) the
burden of convincing is all with Women ;
for conviction in the other cases goes without
convincing—if there is no conviction it is
because the argument is not Music, not
Poetry. < But Women have always the con-
sciousness that they are dating themselves—
whence the need to bring Convention to
their assistance, and to declare the axiom
that everything which rustles a petticoat is
seventeen in the Nature of Things, and
remains seventeen despite all imaginary
evidence to the contrary. Perhaps Gold-
smith saw Woman sab specie aeterni —the
(possibly) older handing to the (pro-
bably) younger a perpetual transfer-
ticket, like the American trams. Perhaps
his underlying thought was that you
can always ride from elder to younger, that
the Whole Sex is included within the five-
cent radius, and that Women en masse should
never be dated because the Sex remains
young, whatever the fate of the individual.
Perhaps
' We were talking about Bulls. Though
Neilson’s book is n’t dated, it issued but a
few months ago. It includes the Edge*"
worths’ famous essay, for long out of print,
and many modern examples no less worthy
than those the Edgeworths adduced. The
I,’s defined a bull as a laughable confusion
of ideas ; but that is not the essence of
bulling. A bull is essentially a contradic-
tion between phrase and sense, between
letter and spirit, between the actual state-
ment and the possible implication. It is full
brother to the epigram, with only such differ-
ence as. we expect between brothers/ An
epigram is an antithesis with a sharp edge,
in which the word fulfils the meaning. A
bull is a sharp-edged antithesis in which the
word defies the meaning. Spurgeon’s dull
sermon, “ like a dish of beef all horse-
radish,'’ very fairly hits the boundary-line
between epigram and bull. It.is a bull,
because its self-contradiction is abso-
lute ] but it is much rather an epigram,
because one conceives the contradiction
conscious, welcomed for the effect— and so
justified by rhetorical art. For the first
principle of rhetoric is that you may defy all
the rules of grammar, all the formulae of
mathematics, even all the laws of Nature—
as long as you secure the effect, i.e., an effect
which you could not secure while maintain-
ing the rules and the formulae and the laws.
One reason why the Irish mind runs to
bulls is because its ideas are so brisk, so
nimble, that they cannot be kept within the
walls of language ; they are perpetually leap-
ing over, or gliding under, or rushing round.
The Irish mind has intuitions (like the intui-
tions on vvhich Kepler founded modern astro-
nomy) which rise superior to demonstration,
and appeal to slower wits as bulls. It brushes
aside irrelevancies of verbiage to concentrate
itself on the main idea ; yields on minor
points to triumph in the major—which is
the best of mental generalship. For ex-
ample, take the bull which Leigh Hunt
never tired of reprinting. One Irish brick-
layer bet another that the latter could
not carry him up a ladder to the top of
a house in a hod—and the house-top was
reached in safety. “ Well,” said the man
who lost, “ you ’ve bate me, divil a doubt of
it ! but, shore, at the third storey I had
hopes. ’ You see, he concentrated his wits on
the vital point—the wager ; caring nothing
for the incidentals of the fall.
It may be argued, of course, that when
concentration means inability to cover the
whole mental field, to observe all proximate
effects in relation to a cause, then concentra-
tion shows a lack, is a defect.' It depends.
Sometimes the diffused intelligence is better ;
sometimes the concentrated ; but the concen-
trated goes farther—flashes more brilliantly
forward. If you can trust even some of the
stories debited to Boyle Roche, he was much
more a wit than a blunderer. The suggestion
to chalk the thin duellist’s outline on the fat
one, and count no hits outside the chalk-
mark, is so witty that the hull becomes in-
visible. And the saying that the best way
to avoid danger is to meet it plump has a
similar defence—if it needed defence. So
with Sydney Smitli’sdrops of rain which varied
in size from a shilling to eighteen pence ;
and the club member’s complaint that the
hot water in the lavatory was quite cold, and
what was worse there was none of it.
A more typical bull, because more ob-
viously unconscious, is that of the lady who
denounced smoking. A gentleman didn’t
agree: “There’s my father, who smokes
every day of his life, and is now 70
years old.” “And if he had n’t smoked
he’d probably be 80 by this time,” re-
torted the lady. Or the whist-player s:
“ I should have got home if I had played my
usual game ; but I never do.” Or an
O’Brien’s commentary on the passage of
Gladstone’s Irish Church Bill : “ Thank
God ! the bridge is at last broken down that
has so long separated the Irish from the
English peoples.” Or the nurse-girl’s reply
to her mistress’s “Can’t you keep the baby
quiet?”—“Shure, mum, I can’t keep him
quiet unless I let him make a noise.”
The Donegal sailor, who lost his footing
aloft, and dropped almostat thecaptain’sfeet,
fell in another bull - category. “ Hallo,
sir, where do you come from ? ” cried the
captain. “ From the North of Ireland, yer
honour ! ” That leaves room for a misunder-
standing ; and it was a mere blunder, not a
bull, when the Limerick alderman depre-
cated the proposal to buy a dozen
gondolas for the use of tourists on the
Shannon—“ It would be enough to get a
pair of thim, and let thim breed.” A true
bull was that of the Parnell Commission
witness, taunted with running away from a
revolver. “ Better,” he said, “ better to be
a coward for five minutes than dead all your
lifetime.” Or the squire’s reply to the
butcher complaining trade was so bad that
he couldn’t sell a carcase before it grew
tainted—“ Then why not kill half a cow
at a time ? ” Or the stevedore’s bawl down
the hatchway.: “ How many of yez is down
there?” “Foive!” “Thin half of yez
come up directly!” Or the colonel’s answer
to the sergeant who reported that all the re-
view ammunition was exhausted. “Then
why the divil don’t ye sound ‘ Cease bring ’!”
(This takes precedence of the local
militaire’s order when he got his men
mixed on the drill-ground, and could n't dis-
entangle them “ Men ! er-—sort your-
selves ! ” Not a bull, of course.)
And now,' who will send us some good
Australian bulls, with. as. much corrobora-
tive detail as possible. ?
—— v
Most American readers are content to acquire
opinions ready-raade, a-t the literary slop-shops.
Here and there you come across a stimulating
iconoclast. For example—
Any one whose recent reading has been •onflned to
short stories and modern novels, and who happens to re-
read one of his ancient idols written at the beginning of
the present century or earlier, may be reasonably certain
of either a great shock or a great slumber. How our
beloved ancestors managed to wade through their novels
of seven or eight volumes, without skipping a volume here
and there, or how our British brethren still manage to
endure a story diluted to three which, by all the
rules of art, ought to be told in less than one, becomes a
greater marvel every day. But then time was no object
in ]the dear old canal-boat days !
“1 am trying to re-read ‘ Vanity Fair,’ ” confessed a
gentleman recently. “ I have gone to sleep over it five
Summer nights and have only covered one hundred and
fifty pages.”
“ Oh, keep on,” consoled his companion. “It gets in-
teresting after the first two hundred pages.”
The short story has relegated to the eternal past the
uninteresting two-hundred-page introduction, and for
that reason, if for no other, thousands of novel-readers
will rise to call it blessed. The page-upon-page descrip-
tion which does not describe has been similarly super-
annuated. In the truly modern novel each chapter con-
tains much of the condensed art of the short story.
By coincidence, only the other day a Briton
was recommending Walter Scott as a splendid
writer of books to go to sleep with. The three-
volume reference is, of course, an inaccuracy:
there are no three-volume novels printed nowa-
days. The American continues—
“ Henry Esmond ” has often been referred to as “the
greatest historical novel in Fnglish.” It may have been
—once. “ Richard Carvel ” deals with the same period.
Nothing could better indicate the progress which has
been made in the art of writing than to take these two
novels and read them, one immediately after the other.
The interest in one case is immediate, and absorbing
enough at least to entice a reader on and keep him rea-
sonably wide-awake. The characters are promptly and
clearly outlined. They move about, from the first, like
living men aind women. The local colour, the picture of
the times, is in itself a fascinating study. In the other
case there is one superb dramatic situation, a situation
perhaps not surpassed in literature. The swords are
broken, and a young prince loses a kingdom for a woman.
A story which might have been told adequately in 20,000
words is dragged out to 200,000. And yet, if one were
found with the temerity to suggest that “Richard
Carvel ” is a greater novel than “ Henry Esmond,” a host
of those who had not read the one for twenty years and
had never read the other would feel shocked beyond
measure.
The writer of this is one Gr. W. G-erwig. Sam.
Johnson defines curio if/ as “ a whisperer of insinu-
ations ’’—but this is irrelevant.
It is interesting to watch the rise and progress
of a new author in England. The number of
critics whose appreciation can be trusted is small
indeed : while some few are too enthusiastic, the
undiscriminating mass regard new writers almost
with .But if the stranger .presses his
claim, and his advocates clamour sufficiently on
his behalf, uncomprehending opposition gradually
changes to an equally uncomprehending espousal.
In tKe beginning Stephen Phillips did not
generally receive the praise to which he was
entitled: now he receives the praise to which
he is not entitled. “Paolo and Fran-
cesca”' is spoken of as “a memorable work,”
“ a masterpiece of tragedy,” and soon. At the
Australian distance, we can see quite clearly that
it is nothing of the kind. This “ tragedy in four
acts ”■ is no tragedy at all. The plot gives the
author a peg for his phrases .and emotions. The
persons give him an opportunity for varying his
emotions and phrases—for turning fresh facets to
the light. But of, strength, grip, actuality, there
is nothing. The characters are shadows cast upon
a monologue by Stephen Phillips. It is thin, and
sweet, and fluent —and makes no advance upon
“ Marpessa.”
The parallel which has been drawn between
Stephen Phillips and the local Arthur Adams is
enforced by the former’s latest work. There is a
difference in scope, and a little (singularly little)
difference in style ; but the tone, the fibre, of the
two writers’ minds seem almost identical. Some
of Phillips’s phrasing lines might have come from
Adams’s book—
Ah ! can you think it is not sweet to breathe
The delicate air and flowery sigh of you,
The stealing May and mystery of your spirit ?
And the most quoted passage of Phillips’s play
repeats the idea of Adams’s “Lament” not
novel there. It is the speech of the barren
Lucrezia —
Have I not in my thought trained little feet .
To venture, and taught little lips, to move
Until they shaped the wonder of a word ?
lam long practised. O those Children, mine !
Mine, doubly mine ; and yet I cannofc.touch them,
I cannot see them, hear them—does great God
Expect I shall clasp air and kiss the wind
For ever ? And the budding cometh on,
The burgeoning, the cruel flowering :
At night the quickening splash of rain, at" dawn
That muffled call of babes how like to birds ;
And I amid these sights and sounds must starve—
I with so much to give, perish of thrift!
Omitted by His casual dew 1
And . this passage, from Adams’s play “ The
Minstrel, ” needs merely a touch more exuberance
and a few irregular rhythms to be pure Phillips—
The Minstrel. No, no ! the sceptre that a singer holds
Is mightier than a king’s. You sway a state,
And I mayhap one heart; you proudly build
Vast temples, teeming cities, and I weave
A little song of love ; and when the years
Have come and passed, your cities and your fan*
Lie shattered, broken, desolate—but no I
Out of the silences that guard the place
A peasant sings my love-song to a maid.
The Queen. “T is so, and yet
The Minstrel. You scatter royal gifts.
Shower largess on a shouting populace ;
And I bestow upon one troubled heart
The language that makes love articulate,
And lets a dumb and solitary grief
Flow like reviving tears. I swing a bridge
Of sympathy from soul to lonely soul;
And borne upon the current of my song
The hand that gropes shall find the hand that guides,
And Grief whose tears are shed shall comfort Grief,
And Sorrow still her sobbings on the breast
Of Sorrow.
-*.
Robert Buchanan’s assault on Kipling in Dec.
Contemporary Review is too biased and undis-
criminating to be fully effective. But there is one
thrust which tells. Kipling wrote fondly of his
larrikins in “Stalky and Go.”— ■
“ India’s full of Stalkies ” [says the Beetle]—Ghelten
ham and Haileybury and Marlborough chaps—that we
don’t know anything about, and the surprises will begin
when there is really a big row on.”
Well, says Buchanan, they have. And he adds—
The spirit abroad to-day is the spirit of ephemera
Journalism, and whatever accords with that spirit—its
Vulgarity, its flippancy, and its radical unintelligence—is
certain -to attain tremendous vogue. Anything that
demands a moment’s thought or a moment’s severe atten-
tion, anything that is not thoroughly noisy, blatant, cock-
sure, and self-assertive, is caviare to that Man in the
Street on whom cheap Journalism depends. . . . Kipling
represents, with more or less accuracy, what the Mob is
thinking, and for this very reason he is likely to be for-
gotten as swiftly and summarily as he has been ap-
plauded. . . . Savage animalism and ignorant vainglory
being in the ascendant, he is hailed at every street-corner
and crowned by every newspaper. To-morrow, when the
wind changes, and the silly crowd is in another and pos-
sibly saner temper, he is certain to fare very differently.
A reiteration of the obviousbut the obvious
frequently needs reiterating. Buchanan’s blunder
is in seeming to measure Kipling’s literary value by
the extent to which he panders to the no-morals
of the Mob —a confusion of standards.
—"
H. 1). Traill, editor of Literature , has mec his
last day. A moderate talent, a considerable cul-
ture, a work and evanescent memory.
He began Literature rather heavily, but improved
it; and it may claim to be on-the-whole best of
English literary weeklies, steering midway be-
tween the learned Athenaeum and the. popular
Academy.
English police have seized' copies of Dr. Have-
lock Ellis’s “Studies hr the Psychology of Sex ”
and Professor Fere's “Pathology of the. Emo-
tions ”as obscene publications. The police being,
of course, Virgil’s “ monstruiii . . . oui lumen
ademptum.” / . t
Lord Rosebery drops into literature again with
a short life of Peel —far below his Pitt.
Is it a matter of Australian interest that
D—gl—s S—d—n no longer, as editor, ascertains
“ Who’s Who ? ” The paragraph goes in wonder-
ing.
Even The Athenaeum cornea to it : “To us it
seems that poetry must have fire and charm—the
memorable idea, the unforgettable phrase.”
Perhaps John Norton’s best alliteration came
extempore —his worst come extravagantly. • “Look
at him ! ” he said of the opposing scoundrel in a
libel-action, “erapulously clutching his clammy
carcase ! ” (Only it was n’t carcase:)
London Ru-neh claims to have made 270,000
jokes to date. No wonder it is tired.
Publishing gossip represents (1) Doubleday
and McClure as coalescing with Harpers; (2) not
coalescing on finding that Harpers owe one man
<£3,000,000 (query: dollars ?); (3) ending their
own partnership.
Owen Seaman’s “In Cap and Bells ”is second-
crop work, much inferior to “ The Battle of the
Bays. ”
The adjuration of Kipling to drop some decent
work into the- public hat when he’s finished
“ killing poetry with his mouth ” (Randy Bed-
ford’s parody), wants only Kaiser Wilhelm’s voice
,to be unanimous.
One critic of Tolstoi’s uncompleted story
“Resurrection”':—“Seems written by Zola in
collaboration with Isaiah.” Zola, it will be ob-
served, takes precedence.
The English are discussing if copyright should
be perpetual. “And if it were,” asks the Society
of Authors’ secretary, “ who would get the profits?
Not the authors ; the publishers ! the publishers
would levy the tax on unborn generations ! ” To
which reminiscent publisher Kegan Paul gives
point by asking who, besides Dr. Johnson and
Tennyson, wrote really good works and lived by
them 'l—saus other profession or independent
fortune.
Printed that when Bill went to the Transvaal
his wife was observed to look sad, and a friend
offered comfort®,for her loss. “Oh, it. ain’t ’im
I !m troubling aboiit, ” she is reported to have said. *
“ It ’s them pore Boers. Bill’s such a terror when
he starts.”
How heavy The Saturday Review has become
since Frank Harris left it !
“Ah, Sarah, the everlasting April of your
smile ! ” — Enraptured Bernhardt interviewer.
THE BOOKFELLOW.


SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
}
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of beet
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices oharged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (8 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHGEA, &c., bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS OF ENERGY, etc.
Has cured Thousands for the BLOOD, SKIN, NERVES,
RHEUMATISM, etc.
“ WORDS OF WISDOM.” This Free Book about the
Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40 pages of
useful information, and will be posted in plain cover
absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address— The Irvine Homoeopathic Co., corner Hunter
and Bligh Streets, Sydney, N.S.YV.
30 Days’ Trial.
CHLOROPYHE
m
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. AVe mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), griving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
n
INDIGESTION.
«*Never fails.
*y / Per Bottle ,1
L*l~ Postage
WASHINGTON .H .SOUL&C?
160 PITT STREET
&£, SYDNEY.
mn
Y Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot Irom any Chemist.
S Proprietor STEPHEH GREEN,
S 2lO Lambeth Rd., London, S.B.
/ Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
s should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCO VEKY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never faUs to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”). BABCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthi' constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
•preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/t/ias all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
u does not blacken the teeth ”
"’ll nv CHI M'“TS All THF WDIIID OVFR.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
The Life of the System.
numisM.
WHEAT SEASON, 1899-1900
All Grain held in Trust on Account of
Consignors . *
Storage Accommodation—Spacious and Unrivalled.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Ag*ency Co., Ltd.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London. London, B.c.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market ol London by
FRANK JA.RVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE.& CO., Queen BRISBANE.
Victoria-JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores - Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
m
n
mn
VO.
: <&.<£
COMBINES WHISKY
.PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH"f\BSOLIITE PURITY
$
0^
L)U^
vvh^ r£
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHOKPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for* POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
•REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
J A
:!Carriage Paid,
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing' to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
-1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEFOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
'll ,T. V. Oldershaw, Manager. Nearly opposite G.P.O.
LADIES !
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Ever}' requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
New South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Paorl Thief Are you SUFFERING from
". B ■■ ■« ■ Eczema, or any kind of Skin
Disease, Barcoo Rash, or Rot, Old Sores ? PETROLEUM
OINTMENT will cure you. Price, 10s.: two pots, No. 1
and No. 2.
Rheumatic, Neuralgic and Gouty Complaints. PETRO-
LEUM EMBROCATION is infallible. Price, 2/6.
Piles (outward or inward)—PETROLEUM JELLY gives
immediate relief in all cases. Price, 2/6.
Corns, Bunions, Warts, and other excrescences. PETRO-
LEUM PASTE has cured thousands, and will cure you.
Price, 1/6. Patients in Sydney and suburbs may obtain
advice and treatment at their own residence by appoint-
ment. No Extra Charge. Either of the above remedies
will be posted to any address. Postal Notes or P. 0.0.
payable to
G. H. BARTLEY, 49 Hunter Street;
or Box 683, G.P.0., Sydney.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Rainey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
m
MEDICATOR.
Norpe Catarrh COre Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
« COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM ”
THE
DEAF
BEAR
/'COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
DRUNKENNESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—B. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
n
DEAF
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing;. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Tbs B. ai?d N.Trcatrocot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying-to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated." There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care.by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars .and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians; Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
Enrol
mMM
n
mn
ñ
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
MAITLAND 0. March 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the
above.
Name
Address
m
Doncaster H. April u.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEBSALL.
Please allot me,
Name.
—shares in the above.
Address
Sydney 0.
April 16;
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ATT,.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name,
Address.
Adelaide 0.
May 9
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


In Canterbury Archbishop Benson’s Life’
by his son, it is pointed out how economical he was*
He saved bits of string, and even the gummed
edges off postage - stamps. Three Hundred
Pounds a week. Only this and nothing more.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
mav be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHdPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours,. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 Jd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
wK'oe
Kill-V
A\±,
)^rN5E(i
Beware 1 "
isof laiTaTions.
nm
£IV3
HIVH
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a
woman.
Every other
physical at-
traction is
secondary to
it.
If your hair
is too thin or losing its luster,
get
Growth
becomes
vigorous
and all
dandruff is
removed.
mn
Haiir
visor
It always restores color to
gray or faded hair. Retain
your youth; don’t look old
before your time.
Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puri-
fies the blood and clears the
complexion.
Prepared by
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
jftwfßfimi
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You. will never regret it.
Boxes 1 /li, of all Chemists,
an. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
ACiStraliao ftlQttial Proyidcpt Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
iT3T Send for Price List. 1£&
H. HXLLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
n
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
|y| JT[_|_|N ’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
M ELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
Qjla QstJZ
*** '*?*
’kvu"
‘frvA. -^{
|iwwv/^
t* /v~
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Palling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. i/», a/6 and 4 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO., LTD.,
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
JHOMSWS
NEW Model, “ GLOVE .FITTING"
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely lie-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long tvaist.
R
r
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B.—Old Model Corsets, always in stock.
mi i <
TO BE HAD OF ALL SEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. ?
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-> Ld-, London
mnm
n
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
nm
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
n
1111 Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
KT.S.'VC. Carriage «8z Saddlery Ma.nf' Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying- from us.
Our One-man Sulky, ±'s; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can." They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
rent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL >o. 2
£8 18/6
mn
Delivered at any Wharf er
X.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Poet’s Visitors.
Klinj-ling-ling-ling ! They’ll be breaking
That poor bell-rope clean in two.
Would to Heav’n the Deuce were taking
All the noisy, ringing crew !
“Boy ! Who makes that row appalling ?’
“Sir, an ancient, dowdy dame,
Wrinkled, crinkled, comes a-calling ;
Wisdom is the lady’s name.”
“ Boy ! To sober statesmen send her
Or to sages grey ” (I said),
“ They may possibly attend her—
As for me—l’m sick in bed.”
Kling-ling-ling-ling /
“Boy ! Who’s there?” “A frowsy, frigid,
Rusty-dress-enveloped dame,
With an aspect stern and rigid—
Madame Frugal is her name.”
“ Tell her that I’m not at leisure :
She would bid me scrape and save ;
Songs and flowers are all my treasure—
Songs and flowers are all I crave.”
Kling-ling-ling-ling 1
“Boy ! Who’s there ?” “A young and slender
Smiling dashing sort of dame,
Blest with eyes of bluest splendor,
Freedom is the lady’s name.”
“ Let her in ! But, stay—the darling
Seems to chirp and chatter so—”
“Sir—she’s loud as any starling.”
“Starling?—Thunder ! Let her go !”
Kling-ling-ling-ling 1
“ Boy ! Who’s there?” “A damsel jolly,
Gay of dress and light of mien,
Laughs and says her name is Folly ”
“ Folly, boy —the Poet’s Queen !
Bid her go, thou blockhead ? Never!
For where’er the poets roam,
Folly’s faithful subjects ever,
When she calls we’re always home.”
P. LUFTIG.
The Ballad of the Black-sheep.
A black-sheep, from England, who worked on the
run—
Riding where the stockmen ride—
He sat by the hut when the day’s ride was done —
Lone huts where the black-sheep bide.
* ‘ I’m tired of my life ! ” to his lone self said he,
“My girl and my country are both done with
me! ”
“ I’m tired of my life ! ” to the wide scrubs
said he—
“My girl and my country are long done with
me ! ”
He took from a packet a portrait and curl—
Such things as the exiles keep—
And sadly he gazed at the face of the girl—
Lost girl of a lost black-sheep.
“I’ll go where there’s fighting and die there!”
said he '•
“ My girl and my country are well rid of me.
“ I’ll go where there’s fighting and die there,”
said he,
“ For heart-break and country that’s well rid
of me! ”
He rode with a thousand, he rode with the best—
Riding as the bushmen ride —
Who’d ridden alone on the wastes of the West—
Wide wastes where the drought-fiends bide.
They rode as they’d ride to an up-country ball,
Anri the laugh of the black-sheep was lightest of
all !
As gaily as though to an up-country ball —
And the laugh of the black-sheep was lightest
of all.
The road was a shambles, the hill was a hell —
Red road where the reckless ride—
And he with the foremost lay tom by a shell—
(Die hard where your father died !)
“The death of a rebel!”—he laughed as he
groaned—
“ For the land that adopted—the land that dis-
owned ! ”
The death of a black-sheep!—they laugh as
they groan —
For the lands that adopt and the lands that
disown !
HENRY LAWSON.
The Red Rose Loves a Lover.
The red rose loves a lover dear,
The white rose loves a lover;
Content are both when love is near,
And seek their scented cover.
The red rose is my- comrade true,
The white my dear confessor;
With sympathetic tears they dew
The passionate transgressor.
Two lovers in a garden’s wealth
Lie hid where no light lingers;
Comes one who seeks a wife by stealth,
With murder in his fingers.
The cold night-lilies point the way
With chaste, white hands. Red roses
All clasp his limbs and bid him stay,
The white her breast opposes.
While wee, pale climbers grip his feet,
And drag him down and bind him,
The lovers pass with footsteps fleet
And all unheard behind him.
I love my lover and laugh at fear
Beneath the roses’ cover—
The red rose loves a lover dear,
The white rose loves a lover !
EDWARD DYSON.


THE
PLUM
m
Price—SINGLE RAZOR, 10s. 6(i. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO TEARS.
Post tree to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG- &. A.ITBZEM-, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTEY.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Qlfe Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting: all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
X which issues Special Policies granting— .
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
u
W. J. Adams, Manager.
will nro
Thrum*
» HOTEI *■
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The Grand Centre for
Business, Comfort, or Pleasure.
NOBEL-6 LAS60W EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
n
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
all cartridges branded.
NOBEL’S Sportiog BALLISTIT6.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
oe
Si
8
mm
&
1
%$.
i
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALIiISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over .£lOOO more than any other powder.— Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PARVO 2-ineh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
A GIANTS: JV.S. W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd. ; Victoria,
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
D.Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Sole Agents for
Cellular Underwear.
The only rational form of undergarments for hot weather
Used by the Army Officers, and Medical Corps
on active service.
SHIRTS OF EVERY DESCRJPTi™.
PYJAMAS, SOCKS, WDEKH.RTS »|ANTS,
Patterns and Price Lists Post Free.
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
CL) t±d
w lL
CO 3
/4
©
/>«
'&//////,
i
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 71 TONS GREATER than during 1898
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading 1 Brand in N.S.Wales.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
r lhe choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, /or Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 104 G.
SATURDAY, MARCH 3, 1300.
Prich Gd.
RATS!!
“Premier Lyne has promised that the Govt, will do all in its power to stamp out the Plague in Sydney.”
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY : “ Exterminating rats and fleas may not be quite so showy as exterminating Boers in S. A., William John, and then may not be so many Idles
coming out of it; but it’s got to be done all the same! ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
« Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ®
Quarterly... ... ... ••• 0 6 6
NOTICE.
flu sending direct, to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay hy Post Oflice Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian produce,
you can hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Dra'ts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addresses, «*. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially icceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Blade and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
icill he paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
Ac Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutler-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Tnompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria,, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on tnterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljrt. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynhe-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MARCH 3, 1900.
Wanted, a Definition.
When the present rush of the other fellow’s
blood to the head is over, and these pro-
vinces settle down to something like their
old state of calm and borrowing, Australian
legislators should set to work and supply a
much-required legal definition. The great
want of the last few months has been a
statement by Act of Parliament as to what
constitutes “loyalty.” It is a want that is
little felt at ordinary times, but during
recent days in the Excited States of Aus-
tralasia it has been the most urgent need of
all. A definition of loyalty—its exact length,
breadth and thickness, its weight and
diagonal measurement, its pressure to the
square inch, its beginnings and endings, its
boundaries on the north, south, east and
west—these are what the law fails to give.
Yet since the war frenzy began the
undefined alleged crime of disloyalty
has been the worst crime in Australasia.
Various public servants have been dismissed
and any number more have been threatened
with dismissal for being what the law doesn't
define, and not being the other thing that
the law doesn’t define either. One or two
persons have been murdered by brutal so-
called loyalists for not being loyal up to the
requirements of a standard unstated. One
daily paper published something that read
like a distinct apology for the murder of
people who weren’t “ loyal,” and certain ex-
cited individuals have written to the papers
asking if it isn’t lawful for them to shoot or
stoush people who are not of sound opinions
according to the views which these frenzied
people have at the time. The Government
of N S. W. has dabbled in anonymous accu-
sations against public servants in this matter,
and has held inquiries to ascertain if the
accused were, at the moment, at exactly the
same boiling-point of excitement that the
Government itself registered, with an under-
standing that if they didn’t boil at the
moment just as it boiled at the moment they
were liable to be run out of the service. All
of which is vague, hazy, and unsatisfactory
to the last degree.
* * * *
The law defines burglary, embezzlement,
murder, and all other crimes. It does not
define disloyalty, yet the N.S.W. poli-
ticians who pandered to the worst passions of
a frenzied people treated it as a crime, wher-
ever possible, among the public servants
under their control. Therefore they defined
the crime as they went along, and made the
law as they went along, and ran a penny
Asiatic despotism of the worst order in their
departments. Outside of the public service
the crime of disloyalty was variously defined
by the newspapers, by traders and others
who were getting an advt. out of the Con-
tingent movement, by variously frantic in-
dividuals who wrote to the correspondence
columns of the press, by ensanguined preach-
ers, by one or two persons who committed mur-
der and many dozen persons who committed
brutal assault in the name of patriotism, by
the mob in genera], by the wild persons wh'O
handed beer to the departing Contingents,
bv females who kissed the departing con-
tingents, by the small boy, and the amateur
strategist, and people in general. “ Dis-
loyalty was an awful offence which the
public was urged to put down, and disloyalty
was anything or everything that a mentally-
beery multitude said was disloyalty, and
even its views on the subject rose and fell-
with the rising or falling of its tide of
mental beer.
* * * *
Every Government in Australasia has
been denouncing as the worst kind of sin
any departure from loyalty, therefore if they
won’t define what it is, in order that the pub-
lic may know how not to depart from it their
action amounts to a mean shirking of re-
sponsibility. In a general Way there
appear to be three different kinds of loyalism
at present in the market-. The highest kind is
the sort that always says and always thinks
that Britain is right in every war and every
quarrel and in everything it does, and holds
that Salisbury and Chamberlain and all
other British Ministers (so long as they are
Jingoes) are always right and are infallible.
This highest kind of loyalty holds that any
attempt to reason about the merits of any
British war is blasphemy. It is noteworthy,
however, that this variety of loyalism applies
to current events only. When the Chinese
opium-war and the Crimean war and the
American war of Independence wore on it
was absolute treachery to doubt in any way
the justice or wisdom of Britain \s cause. But
now that they are overanynumberevenof the
strongest Jingoes believe, and say, that they
were foolish and uncalled-for proceedings.
No good Jingo can say now that the present
war but an act of the highest
and noblest character, but 20 years hence he
may say what he pleases about it and still
be a good Jingo, provided he is solid about
the justice of any war which Britain may
then have on hand.
* * * »
An inferior but still good brand of loyal-
ism is that of the person who has sufficient
sense and education to know that Salisbury
and Chamberlain are human and not
Divine, and that Britain, though a country
which, on the average, serves out better
justice than most, is not infallible, but who
is content to say in every case that Britain
is right this time. The,crowd which holds
that Britain must always be right under any
circumstances rather looks down on this
person as a well-meaning but weak-kneed
brother. And a still more inferior
loyalist—one who is hardly regarded as a
brother of any kind, is the one who is willing
to stand by Britain because it is his own
country, and because Brit sh rule is almost
invariably beneficial in the end, even if it is
sometimes extended for mercenary motives
and by bad means. This is the one sober
a.nd sensible loyalist of the crowd. He isn’t
superstitious enough to hold that Salisbury
and Chamberlain are infallible, like Jeho-
vah. He isn’t ignorant enough to believe
that Britain is always right, or liar enough
to say that he believes it, or mean enough to
accuse every nation with which Britain may
have a difference of all the offences in the
calendar of vice. He is an enlightened
patriot who makes the best of things as they
are, and sufficient of a Christian to know
that a country where there is just about the
same proportion of crime as in many other
civilised countries can’t claim to be anv more
spotless in its outward political dealings than
in its inward civil existence.
* * m *
This paper asks for a legal definition
because no Government has a right to de-
nounce and penalise an oflence which it
hasn’t the courage to define. And N.S.W.
Education Minister Perry, as the man who
has been most conspicuous in hunting after
political heretics, is especially lacking in the
common virtue of courage if he makes no
attempt at legally defining the oflence which
he has pursued with such energy.
The Public Lungs and Ministerial
Responsibilities.
Mr. J. H. Maiden, Director of Sydney Botanic
Gardens, appeared, the other day, before N.S.W.
Public Works Committee, to protest against the
proposed annexation of 700 ft. of the Domain, or
western, foreshores of Woolloomooloo Bay for the
purpose of constructing wharves. He justified
his protest on the ground that he was “ the custo-
dian of the Botanic Gardens.” He believed that
the proposed wharf would be only the thin end of
the wedge, and that other appropriations would
follow until the whole of the foreshores round the
Domain and Farm Cove would be taken away
from the public as recreation reserves, and utilised
for shipping accommodation. Apart from any
aesthetic aspect of the question, the people of
N.S.W. have a property in the Domain and
Botanic Gardens worth some millions of money,
and the construction of wharves along the fore-
shores thereof would damage the value of that
property very considerably. Some 20 years ago
Woolloomooloo Bay stank so much from the
sewage poured into it, that the people did not
place any value upon it and allowed the
foreshores to be stolen. And that steal
has created a yearning for more steals.
Mr. Maiden made an emphatic point when he
said that the whole of Garden Island was a hideous
defacement of the Harbor ; and he strongly
inveighed against the existence of its ugly, ware-
house-looking buildings and its great shear-legs—
far exceeding in height what was really necessary
for their purpose. He demanded a compromise
between the demands of commerce and the needs
of sestheticism, and declared that there were people
in Sydney who cast covetous eyes on the Domain
frontage, who would never rest until they had
made the thing continuous, and had carried the
wharfage Accommodation for shipping round
Lady Macquarie’s Chair and Farm COve to
a junction with Circular Quay. But com-
mercialism won the day. On the motion
of Mr. Levien, the Committee unanimously
decided that it was expedient to carry out the
proposed construction of about 600 ft. of wharfage
on the west side of Woolloomooloo Bay, and
recommended that the proposed new wharf be
extended northward a further distance of 100 ft—
. in all 700 ft.
* * * *
This is characteristic of N.S.W.’s tinkering,
patching, pettifogging Committees of Public
Works, and of the miserably parochial Govern-
ments that follow their counsels. They save
at the spigot and spend at the bung - hole.
Right and left expensively - minded Minis-
ters perambulate the country sowing promises
of wild and weird expenditure such as even
the Empire of the Grand Moguls could not
sustain longer than ton minutes once in a century.
But if they have a griod thing they break their
necks in their eagerness to get rid of it. Garden
Island, a geih of fairy-like beauty, set in the
harbour-waters as an emerald let into the heart of
a sapphire, was turned over to the Imperial
Admiralty, and is now a vilely disgusting
agglomeration of galvanized-iron sheds and
hideous shears. Hyde Park has been repeatedly
snatched at by the Railway Commissioners, who
saw it was beautiful and so wanted to pile
coal and locomotives and trucks on it, and
blow steam whistles there day and night.
Commercialism now sees in the foreshores of the
Domain, as it saw in the site-area of Hyde Park,
an area conserved by Circumstance and protected
by Foresight therefore the heaven - ordained
dumping-ground of the cheap imports of oversea
goods-dealers ! So greedy hands are stretched
■forth to make one beauty-spot less in Sydney, and
to destroy the uniqueness, that makes Sydney
Harbor the boast of the seven provinces. Mind 1
these men do not want the Earth—they want only
the people’s parks, the people’s harbor-islets, the
people’s foreshores and seaside resorts. They have
already got much of the foreshore as private pro-
perty ; but they Want the rest for their ships, and;
sooner or later, they sbem likblji td get it! And
this beauty-spot they are now hungering fdr is the
beailty-spdt p'A'r excetVence df all Sydney has to
show Of feafy splenddr.
* *• * *
N.S.W. had in times past frequent occasion to
attack Henry Parkes for sins political; yet the
old political warrior, mistaken as many of his
ideals may have been, was strong in enthusiasm
for everything large and splendid. There may
have been ridiculous and puerile aspects to his
State Dead-house, and other of his dreams, but it
must be recorded in his favor that he never put a
sacrilegious finger upon the property of the public.
Rather was he a lavish benefactor m this connec-
tion, and not always a very wise one. Parks
and buildings, statues and pictures (some of them
atrocious) were perennially on tap when he was
King of New South Wales. He gave'Sydney the
splendid Martin Place, and the moment the old
man’s back was turned his successors in office
built a yellow galvanised-iron humpy upon it and
were glad in their inmost souls because something
that might have been beautiful was utterly
brutalised.
* * * *
Sydney—the street and lane and alley part of
it—is the ugliest city of its youth in this world.
No other city so young contrives to look so old.
But its public gardens are among the finest on
earth, so the instinct of the huckster is to
promptly drag them down to the level of the city
itself. One of the greatest apparent objections to
bringing the proposed city railway along the west
side of George-street was that it would cause the
destruction and rebuilding of a most unlovely
part of the city, and the idea of disturbing and
tearing up what was decayed, battered and
hideous was not to be thought of. The advantage
of bringing it through Hyde Park was that
it would tear up something beautiful, and
the _ yearning to tear -up something beauti-
ful is always in the trader’s soul. There are
Goths and Vandals in our midst to whom nothing
has any value save its commercial one, to whom
the Taj Mahal or the leaning tower of Pisa, aremere
names of places, some of which—like the Manly
foreshores—offer magnificent areas for advertising
pills and socks. Their philosophy can be com-
pressed in a sentence. “ This is a beautiful spot,
an oasis in a desert of streets and a glare of as-
phalt, a leafy place in a great wilderness of accursed
bricks and backyards. Therefore let us pile bags
of coke on it and fill it with wool-bales, and bring
dirty ships alongside it.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some More Jingo Figures.
Another recent Jingo work, published in jus-
tification of the gold war in South Africa, is
“ Britain and the Boers,” by Lewis Appleton. It
is the usual kind of work, filled with a long string
of unproved and mostly unproveable statements
re the alleged corruption of the Boer Government.
About 99 per cent, of these statements can’t be
readily verified at this end; whether they are
truth or not they must needs pass uncontradicted.
But in a casual way (on page 107) this writer
comes across one statement that can be veiified
anywhere
In 189; the income of the Boer Government was
£4,480,000. The Civil Service Salaries Fund alone came
to about £2;400,000, enough to pay every man, woman,
and child in the Transvaal £UO per .head per annum.
The latter is a statement which anybody can check.
The population of the Transvaal in 1897 was
about 800,000—making the alleged salary list £3 a
head instead of £4O. Even taking the white
population only it was between 150.000 and
200,000, so per white inhabitant the Transvaal’s
alleged corrupt salary list was more like £l2 per
inhabitant than £4O. Therefore on this one point
—almost the only one which can be checked by anv
Australian and almost the only one wherebv be
can judge the accuracy of the list of charge,
brought by the Jingo Appleton against the Boer
Government—the Jingo Appleton stands out
conspicuously as either a liar or a gross blunderer
Apparently the Jingo writers copy each other’s
mendacities and blunders in a curious sort of wav
For instance this is from a recent Melbourne Age
reviewing Jingo Fitzpatrick’s book on the same
subject:
In 1886, when the immigration of Outlanders began
the fixed salaries of Government officials amounted to
£51,831. In 1899 their total was no less than £1,216 394
. . . This sum, if equally distributed; would give
per head per annum to the total Transvaal Boer vbvv
lation. *
The Aoe-Fitz PATH!ck figures about the Transvaal
Civil Service salaries are thus £1,200,000 odd
while Appleton boldly doubles them and says
£2,400,000. And as there are 70,000 Boers in the
Transvaal, and £1,210,394 divided among them
isn’t near £2O per head let alone £4O, Fitzpairick
and the Age seem to be, in the only place
where their statements can be absolutely cheeked
the same perverters as the other jingo. And
curiously enough, though the two jingoes contra-
dict each other to the extent of over a million in
the total, they both agree about the alleged £4O
per head, though neither set of figures adds up to
£4O or anything like it. Apparently that £4O is
one of the regulation jingo perversions which one
jingo copies from another. The item in question,
of course, is only one among a multitude, and dis-
proving it doesn’t disprove the rest. But when
on the only point which every Australian can
verify their statements all these jingo writers
prove to be stupid and shameless perverters, the
rest of their statements are open to serious doubt;
The Bosh of Booth.
Commandant Booth has declared that, though
the “General” and himself both believe in the
Georgian theory of land - value - taxation, that
“magnificent message to humanity” Was delivered
too late ! Same old cant! The Booths might be
the upholders of a centuries-old ecclesiastical
system, so _ ready are they to throw the weight of
ecclesiasticism on the side of “Vested interests.”
The simple truth is that half the popular support
given to the Salvation Army has been in the hope
that it would challenge the iniquitous social
wrongs based on false political notions. Instead
of which, the Army’s system becomes, day by day,
a weightier menace to reform all the world over,
for the reason that the great donations, which the
Army can’t do without, come from the bourytoit
rich. Thus, already in government a cross betweeD
autocracy and a family oligarchy, it has become in
constitution and administration anti - social and
destructive of the sense and obligation of citizen-
ship. Hundreds of avowed socialists and Radicals
have been excluded from membership because of
political opinions, and the “General” even re
cently proclaimed that “ Socialism is of the
devil.” The typical rich-man supporter whom
Booth beslobbers in the “Life of Mrs. Booth” is
Cory, of Cardiff, who, during the coal-miners'
strike, declared that, as the coal-owners could
afford a spell but not the miners, “the mines
should all be laid idle to give the men a lesson.”
The time is almost ripe for simultaneous Govern-
ment investigation all over the British dominions
into the economic methods and results of the Salva-
tion Army. If all is square, the Army need not
object to having its absolute fairness and honesty
publicly demonstrated.
• ♦
A Casual Contributor.
Now, this is the contributor we love !
“P. A.” : Bulletin forgets, when defending itself from
people who charge it with sedition, that the British
Government stands in loco parentis to all who live
under its flag. If the B. had a father who robbed people
on the stock exchange or who floated more or less crooked
gold mines it would not be considered good form to abuse
that parent in print and call him a robber while living in
his house and participating in his ill-gotten gains.
But Britain doesn’t stand in the place of a
parent to Australians —it stands in the place of a
legal guardian at best, and there is no obligation
on any ward to cloak the crimes of a dissipated
legal guardian. If The Bulletin did see its old
man robbing people, it would hurry to pull him
off, for fear the bad old man might get on to mur-
Pirates.
The sea floats many pirates, and the land holds
looting hordes;
The gold-ports are their goal-ports, for they inarch
the gold towards ;
Their way is o’er the waters, through the sea-
mist’s foam and fret;
Our fathers, they were pirates, and their sons are
pirates yet.
Our fathers, they were pirates scouring every sea
they reached;
They harried shore and inland when their galley
beaks they beached.
Sea-kings were they and sailors, and soldiers in
their need,
And still their sons are pirates that must own
their blood and breed.
Our fathers, they were pirates, vikings bravely
born and bred;
One galley seized a city, and a coast two kept in
dread;
They poured their blood in battle as wine to the
god of war,
While facing each a legion as they raised their
sword to Thor.
Our fathers; they were pirates when their tiered
galleys’tacked
The great three-storeyed galleons that had many
cities sacked.
They kept the round shot ready when the war-
drum boomed and rolled,
One boat-crew was an army when our sires were
stealing gold.
Our fathers, they were pirates, but the odds were
with the foe.
Well, if we must be warring, why should all our
soldiers go ?
The foe is small before us, count their scattered
ranks and say,
Must our numbers overwhelm them ere our leaders
gain the day ?
And the sea floats? many pirates, and the land holds
looting hordes.
The gold-ports are the goal-ports, and they march
the gold towards.
Their stride is o’er the wide wide world where’er
there’s gold to get.
Onr fathers, they were pirates, and their sons are
pirates yet.
W.A.
PROSPECT GOOD.


dering them if he was left alone. Surely The
Bulletin’s old man, in his better moments, would
thank it for interfering, rather than for whooping
him on to do more damage to his victim. Any-
way, the only thing that justifies a Government in
existing at all is the consent and approval
of the governed. Governments don’t exist from
everlasting to everlasting, like ideas. The British
Govt, of the day exists because it was created by
the people ; and anybody has a right to disagree
with it, and advise it, and try to pull it down if he
doesn’t like it. Thought and speech are still pre-
sumably free, even in Australia ; and so long as an
Australian obeys the laws, even the Government
can’t reasonably object to him using tongue and
pen to tell it what an ass it is. Further —
The historian whom Bulletin quotes recently gives the
whole thing away in one line. He sympathises with the
Boers thus: “ The British took away Natal from the
Boer, who had just taken it from the natives.” The
obliquity 7 of vision which causes an honest man to sym-
pathise with one thief because a larger, stronger thief
deprives him of his booty, passes my comprehension.
Because the Boer grows pathetic over “ Onslanrl ” Tiik
Bulletin weeps with him. Neither give a thought to the
poor nigger whose land was endeared to him for cen-
turies, and whose life paid for the love of it. The Boer
is a bloodstained thief who was superior in the art of
murder to the Zulu as the Briton is to the Boer. There-
fore the Boer must go down before a superior thief just as
the nigger did, and serve him right.
Bulletin can only object as it goes along. If it
had been above ground when the Boers stole from
the Kaffirs, it would have objected then. As it
wasn’t, it objects now, when the British steal
from the Boers. There’s not much use in crying
over past murders, where the cry can do no good ;
but there’s a lot of sense in crying over murders
going right on now, because that cry touches the
spot, and may help to stop the murdering. No paper
has yelled more loudly than The Bulletin at the
cruelties perpetrated on the Westralian kaffirs.
This paper yells at any sort of knavery and
cruelty, and it yells most at that which is going
on under its eyes. It yells on general principles,
and it yells loudest where its yell can do most
good. In any case, the above writer doesn’t know
what he is talking about. The Zulu’s land wasn’t
endeared to him for centuries. He was quite a
new robber. The Boers didn’t take the Orange
Free State from the natives. There was hardly
a live human being in it, so complete
had been the Zulu slaughter. The Boers
offered to pay the Zulu king Ding aan for
some land and for permission to occupy it. And
Dingaan agreed cordially, invited Boer envoys to
come and complete the agreement, and then
butchered them to the last man, and sent his
armies to wipe out the rest of the Dutch trekkers.
That commenced the gory war which ended in the
Boer possession of Natal and the Transvaal. The
Boers never went out with the intention of attack-
ing the Zulus—the odds looked so awful that no
sane people would.
Colonel Lystkr, interviewed recently re the
question of Australian defences, remarked that if
fhe Australians were wise they would follow the
example of the mother country and seek command
of the seas. “ How ever,” the Colonel asks, “ are
the interests which have been created to be pro-
tected unless through the influence of sea-power ? ”
Brisbane Courier, in criticising these remarks,
quotes the adverse opinion expressed by the Times
a few weeks ago. That organ pronounced the
notion of an Australian navy to be “crude and
unworkable,” and further asserted that Australia
would do best by contributing “an annual grant
to the Imperial navy without conditions or restric-
tions of any kind.” No doubt the contribution to
the British navy would suit the British authorities
admirably, and be well-pleasing to Australasian
Tories, but Colonel Lyster has directed the eyes
of Antipodeans in the right direction. It is at sea
that Australians should be prepared to defend
themselves first of all. A hostile navy could inflict
incalculable damage on our commerce if the pro-
tection of the British squadron were withdrawn
from us through any cause for only a few weeks,
and if Home interests or Home dangers de-
manded it, that squadron would be withdrawn.
Land defences are all very well in their way, but
Australia is an island ; much of her wealth is on
the sea highways, and she can only protect it
there. Colonel Lister deserves our heartfelt
thanks, but one can scarcely believe the Imperial
authorities will burden him with gratitude.
Even the scandalously-managed N.S.W. Bush
Contingent has its light and frivolous moments.
Its most frivolous moment up to date was some-
thing about a dog. The force decided to take a
quadruped with them to bark at Kruger, and the
camp was torn with dissensions as to what the
tyke should be named. When in doubt about the
name of anything in Australia the safest way is
undoubtedly to call it Blanky to go on with. But
the force couldn’t decide, and the matter was re-
ferred to the Chief-Justice and Acting-Governor.
The Head of the State was asked to leave his
dignified avocations and decide on a name for
the loyal dog that was going to Africa to bark at
Kruger. An appointment was made so that he
could see the dog, or the dog made an appoint-
ment to see him. When the day came the dog
and various members of the Contingent and a
well-known dog-merchant, and a S.M. Herald
reporter, and other functionaries and eminent
citizens proceshed to the premises of the Head of
the State. The reporter went there to record
verbatim the sacred words used by the great man
while christening the dog. Then the Acting-
Governor did the christening ceremony with two
very badly-composed sentences :
He is a very beautiful dog and I wish him a hearty return
from South Africa. I name him “ Bushie ” and I hope he
will come back safe.
Then the military forces, and the loyal and
patriotic dog, and the five or six eminent citizens,
and the Press that had gone to report the dog, all
came away, and the daily papers came out next
day with lengthy reports of the dog and a mention
of where he was born and the color of his tail and
other particulars. Surely it is time for the Jingo
high-priests to take a pull at themselves !
■ ♦
The Plea of the Bush Volunteer.
I’m sick of this land of Hull Slumber,
This playground of Drought, Flood, and Woe ;
This refuge of sad Human Lumber,
This strand of the Dark All Forego ;
I pine for a change, crave for something,
Aye, even the red battle’s din,
So I fight with a faint chance of vantage,
Strive on with a frail hope to win.
“Do I dread the scenes of grim slaughter ?”
Not I, for my sorrowful ways
Have ever been hemmed by a power
That spares not its victims, but slays,
From our hopes, that we fostered so fondly,
To our loves, which we cherished, so fair;
Yea, our souls—e’en our souls, they are mangled
And mingled—a cairn to Despair !
What wonder then now that we gather,
Join hands to the hands of the strong ;
Let us just for a spell be the winner,
Let us triumph —for right or for wrong;
We sigh for the role of oppressor,
Who ere this have bent ’neath the sway;
Let us strike who have ever been stricken,
’Tis our cry—“ Let us win as we may ! ”
N.S.W. Louis M.
♦
From a N.S.W State-school teacher: —
Dear Bulletin. — N.S.W. Public Instruction depart-
mental subscription lists for the war-fund have been sent
to all schools, with circulars, requesting donations and
weekly subscriptions—the fashionable guinea being sug-
gested as the unit of negotiation. Said circulars purport
to be in the name of the Minister for Public Instruction,
the Chief Inspector, and others. These gentlemen only
infer that the money is to be used by somebody for
some patriotic purpose unstated, but the distinguished
positions they occupy are surely guarantee enough for
any public service beggar ! The report has pre-
viously been circulated that it is intended to pro-
vide the widows of teacher-soldiers (the service is
most exclusive, and will take care that no navvy-
soldier shall finger any of its guineas) with £3
weekly. The young man on £7O per annum and the
young woman on £46 count over their last month’s salary
—all that’s left of it, and—sigh ! This coup of the depart-
ment hits hardest the very loyal gentleman who has made
donations to the local branch of the Patriotic Fund and
to representative soldiers for the contingents, who has
attended concerts and pelted Absent-minded Beggars till
he is about cleared out, and now looks at the new horse-
leech in very blank dismay. The teacher, who has not
indulged in any of these dissipations, smiles grimly, and
planks down a handsome donation for his footing in the
service. It’s a free country ! Just a few may refuse to
give because they do not approve of war at all, unless for
the defence of their native land against foreign invasion—
Australia being their native land. These are the true
patriots, but they may look forward to stormy times in
the public service, unless war should come across the sea
and cause the Boers to be suddenly forgotten.
Some teachers realise in a hazy fashion that this
departmental subscription business is virtually an unpar-
liamentary method of raising taxes. Many others, more
hazy still, 'ote the tax a “darned nuisance,” but shell
out all the same. As I said before, it’s a free country.
*
Here and there the generally dull-witted cocka-
too farmer begins to wonder whether that
“sturdy independence” with praise of which
cunning politicians have tickled him is worth
growing. He has been taught to hate.labor unions
like deaf-adders; yet even he is getting to see
that the union-helped tradesman works shorter
hours, and takes things easier, and has more butter
on his bread and clothes on his back than himself.
He has been told so often that all wealth comes
from the land, and that he, as a primary producer,
is the most important person in the community,
that he believes it. He knows that the seasons
have been bad and prices low ; but he now figures
it out in his own way that if all wealth comes
from the land other people as well as himself
should be having a mighty bad time too ; and he
looks round and reckons they’re enjoying them-
selves while he is living on pumpkins ; and so he
begins to wonder whether, after all, he hasn’t
been “left.” The time, therefore, seems just
ripe for labor unions and the advanced
crowd in politics to get the farmers on
their side, instead of being as hitherto always
on the side of Fat. But the change will
not take place without organising ; and if that is
neglected until a couple of good seasons came, or
wheat-prices go up 50 per cent., the cocky vote
and influence will be as solid for Fat as it has
been hitherto. In South Australia good work in
this direction has been done by Kingston,
Holder, and the Labor men, who have been
making an active canvass of way-back places,
mainly in the particular interest of a more liberal
Council suffrage ; but in N.S.W. and Vic. the
corresponding political parties seem next door to
dead.
Recently, in South Melbourne, three ruffians
smashed their way into a house at midnight, and
battered an old man (a complete stranger) almost
to death, and beat his aged wife till she was
insensible; also, two J’sP. covered themselves
and the whole J.P. system with glory, by letting
off one of these fiends with a fine of £1 and the
other two with a fine of £5 each. At the same
court, on the same day, a man charged with
having been concerned, two years ago, in stealing
£5 worth of potatoes was committed for trial, so
he will put in far more than £5 worth of imprison-
ment before he even gets a hearing, and after that
he will no doubt get at least six months. This
sort of thing is quite common in Australia, and
hardly anybody notices it. It is a matter of course
—so entirely a matter of course that it scarcely
creates a ripple on the surface of things. In Aus-
tralian cities no citizen is reasonably safe, and
no serious attempt is made to give him protec-
tion ; the law winks at the most hideous crimes of
violence, and visits them with an alleged punish-
ment which is really only a covert encouragement
to more and worse offences ; and blind Govern-
ments refuse either to amend the law or to shift the
men who so shamefully misadminister it. Yet Aus-
tralia boiled with just and noble wrath when a
mere fraction of the unpunished violence that this
country can show was alleged to have happened in
a place about 8000 miles away, and long before the
war Australian newspapers were publishing indig-
nant leading articles about far less glaring out-
rages and injustices that were said to have taken
place—at Johannesburg. And they are still
lamenting on the same subject while the injustice
and outrage at South Melbourne excite nobody.
When the Briton has so many rights to protection
in Johannesburg, why has he so few in Victoria ?
N.S.W. Law has lately considered the tied-hotel
trouble, and arrived at a decision which shows
that either the statute is extremely foolish and
needs revision, or that the Bench is incapable. It
has been formally and definitely laid down that if
i publican borrows money from a brewer, as most
of them do at some time or other, he thereby makes
himself, as long as he holds the licence of that par-
ticular hotel, and all his successors so long as they
hold it, the brewer’s serfs and commercial
bond-slaves. The brewer invariably lends money
on one particular set of terms. He stipulates for
interest (often pretty large interest) on his loan,
the due return of his principal, good security
for his principal till it is returned, and that
the hotel shall in future be supplied with
liquors from his establishment alone. And
it has been decided that the last clause
is everlasting. Even after the loan and interest
are all repaid, and the debt is forgotten, the fact
that there once was a debt condemns the publican,
and all other publicans who may succeed him in
that hotel as long as it remains an hotel, to deal
with that brewer only. As the latest English
decision on the subject is opposed to the N.S.W.
Court’s pronouncement, steps will no doubt be
taken to settle this momentous question before the
Privy Council. But, no matter what the final
legal decision, it is quite certain that the sub-
ject will shortly engage legislative attention.
Maoriland has enacted a law declaring all “tied-
liouse ” agreements illegal and void, and that the
owning and sale and transfer of publicans is as un-
lawful as dealing in any other kind of citizen.
Maoriland has emancipated Sambo, the hotel-
keeper, and the beer-making Degree has gone
back with an outraged expression to his vats say-
ing that the rights of property are no longer re-
spected. But they do things in Maoriland. In
Australia they mostly talk about things.
♦
The historical fact that women fainted and dogs
yelped at the apparition of the first wearer of a
tall silk hat is always worth reiterating. A
London haberdasher, one Hethekington, was
the hardy innovator who walked down the Strand
in a “tile ” of the type now associated with social
and commercial distinction. He was arrested for
disturbing the peace of the city, and the Lord
Mayor of the period (a.D. 1797) ordered him to
find bonds in the sum of £5OO for his future good
behavior. This was merely a sop to Democracy’s
honest scorn. The tall hat “having a shiny lustre,
and calculated to frighten timid people,” found
favor with Fatman right away. The Times spoke
kindly of it, and ere long everybody who was
anybody carried the gospel of haberdasher
Hethekington on top of his representative
head, and the dogs grew tired of expressing
contempt for the one and only sort of hat
in which a dull, commonplace person can cut
an important figure. The world to this day
is governed by the aggressive emblem of re-
spectability, different in shape and smoother
in the nap than the old original beaver, but still
the same in sentiment. Also women continue to
faint in its presence. They don’t swoon to the
ground, but they inwardly turn pale and tremble
when the tall-hatted man acknowledges their
passing bow in the usual manner. Nobody can
say where the influence of this hideous accessory
comes in, All artistic advocates of sweetness and
light abominate the shiny outrage. Working men
view it with profound distrust. But the fact that
no right-thinking male person dreams of going to
Heaven in aught but a bell-topper and a suit to
match is too powerful to be disputed. No real
Greatness can be achieved in a simple “ boxer,’’ or
a deerstalker-hat — i.e., Greatness of the kind
which blatant citizens thrust upon themselves,
Wtreless telegraphy is coming along so fast that
the time is evidently not very far off when the
old-fashioned telegraphs, which represent
£4,000,000 of Australasian loan moneys, will cease
to be a “permanent and reproductive asset ”
in fact will cease to be an asset at all. Barring
Victoria, which paid for its telegraphs out of
revenue, all the provinces built their wires and posts
with borrowed money, and when wireless tele-
graphy gets a little further advanced that money
will be as hopelessly lost as if it had been dropped
in the sea. The same thing will happen to rail-
ways sooner or later; some new and better idea
will supersede them, and £140,000,000 of Austra-
lasia’s debt will also be a dead loss with no assets to
represent it. The theory that it is justifiable to
borrow money permanently for “permanent and
reproductive works ” is a delusion —there are no per-
manent works. Therefore every loan ought to have
a sinking fund attached sufficient to extinguish it in
(say) 40 years, so that by the time the works wear
out or become obsolete there will be a chance of
the debt becoming obsolete also. As things are
the works wear out, or die out, and the debt lives
for ever. How many millions of loan money are
represented in these provinces by worn-out wharves
and bridges and railway rolling-stock ; by build-
ings long since pulled down, by silted-up harbors,
by snagged rivers where new snags have accumu-
lated, by obsolete guns, exploded ammunition,
out-of-date fortifications, cleared land where the
scrub has grown again, thinned forests that have
become thick again, removed sand that has blown
back again, by broken crockery, furniture that is
now firewood, telegraphic instruments of a kind
that are ancient history, closed roads, fallen
fences, and all manner of things that were, but
are not ?
Presbyterian parson Robertson, who was
present at Magersfontein, stated that all the fallen
Highlanders received dignified burial with the
ceremony of his Church, and that he found several
of the Boer chaplains who were graduates of
Scottish universities.
The never-failing N.Q. leper seems to
object to being tied up to a tree and sooner or later
slips off, pursued languidly by the local trap.
Two horrors at Georgetown and Cairns have
recently sought the friendly bush. One, re-arrested
awhile back, bit a large piece out of his captor’s
face. Small wonder that Robert sometimes fails
to track his leper.
Winston Churchill, recently a prisoner
among the Boers, on his captors :
What men they were, these Boers ! I thought of them
as I had seen them in the morning riding forward through
the rain—thousands of independent riflemen, thinking for
themselves, possessed of beautiful weapons, led with skill,
living as they rode without commissariat, or transport or
ammunition column, moving like the wind, and supported
by iron constitutions and a stern, hard Old Testament
God who should surely smite the Amalekites hip and
thigh. And then, above the rain storm that beat loudly
on the corrugated iron, I heard the sound of the chaunt.
The Boers were singing their evening psalm, and the
menacing notes, more full of indignant war than love and
mercy—struck a chill into my heart, so that I thought
after all the war was unjust, that the Boers were better
men than we, that Heaven was against us, that Lady-
smith, Mafeking and Kimberley would fall, that the Es-
court garrison would perish, that foreign Powers would
intervene, that we should lose South Africa, and that
would be the beginning of the end. So for a time I des-
paired of the Empire, nor was it till the morning sun—
all the brighter after the rain storms, all the warmer after
the chills—struck in through the windows that things
reassumed their true colors and proportions.
Historian Bryce, in “Impressions of South
Africa,” says that the Afrikander Bond in 1880
was—
not anti-English in the sense of hostility to the British
connection, any more than was the French party in Lower
Canada at the same time. It was based on the solidarity
of. the Boer race all over South Africa, but also on the
doctrine that Afrikanders must think of Africa first, and
see that the country was governed in accordance with local
sentiment rather than on British lines or with a view to
British interests.
Which is a mighty good doctrine for Australia to
stick to.
The long-postponed idea of buying up
large estates for closer settlement has actually
started in Victoria, one medium-sized property
having been purchased by the State for cutting-up
purposes. But the Government has no power of
compulsory purchase—Higgins’s clause giving it
that power was valiantly thrown out by the 48
Rich Landlords. Also there is no graduated
land-tax to incite large proprietors to break up
their huge holdings. Maoriland went the whole
animal; it imposed a graduated tax which made
the holding of immense areas comparatively un-
profitable, and gave the State powers of compul-
sory resumption. But Australia is mostly a land
of weak compromise and half-measures.
“ B.”: Some of the new warriors or in-
tended warriors are defending their country with
altogether too much vigor, lip Manilla -way the
other day I saw a shearer with a gun gallop
furiously after an aged white-bearded swagman
who was plodding down the dust-road, and
present the weapon at his head. “Are you
a Boer?” he thundered. The ancient dropped
his swag in terror and tried to propitiate the
supposed madman. “No, sir,” he said, “I’m a
Horstralian. I’m not a Boer.” “Quite sure?”
demanded the shearer. “ Oh, yes, I’m quite sure,
sir; my father and mother were both Horstra-
lians.” “ Well,” said the shearer briefly, “ I don’t
care what you are.” And he disappeared in a
cloud of dust waving his gun and looking for more
Boers.
“ Alba ” describes a railway-experience :
The Anglo-Saxon woman has yet to learn how to travel
long distances without looking as if she had emerged from
a thirty-years’ war. Let it be said of the average French-
woman that she can do the globe without dropping a
hairpin. Writer can point out a Parisian brunette who
could take tea in Omdurman and cycle to Timbuctoo
without losing her usual boulevard appearance. Was
railing it recently from Brisbane to Sydney. In my com-
partment were two Englishwomen who looked as if they
had been bred up to the Great Beefsteak Theory. Both
were enthroned upon a perfect Himalaya of mgs, and both
resented my appearance with snorts. Within hand-reach
was the usual heap of provender, pea-nuts, and bananas,
with suspicious odors of pickles. I was about to leave
in quest of more congenial quarters when (shades of
Fantine !) there entered a lissom, dusky-eyed French girl
who stood wavering among the large, immovable knees,
apologising in swift French for her unpardonable in-
trusion. Snorts of disapproval came from Lady Beef-
steak and Mrs. Pea Nuts. Fantine smiled innocently,
squeezing herself into utter obscurity behind the moun-
tain of rugs. She had no luggage save a parcel about the
size of a penny scone. I kept my seat—opposite Fan-
tine. It was good to be whirled through the hot night
peering through one’s fingers at two French eyes that
gleamed at times like the stilettos of two assassins.
“ Pea Nuts ” and “ Beefsteak ” preserved a large silence
interrupted only by the gurglings of the bottled stuff
washing down an occasional sausage-roll. Fantine, half-
amused, watched them as they handed each other lumps
of meat with mustard on. At each refreshment-room
“Pea Nuts” made Herculean efforts to get near the
frilled ham and the hot brown gravy. Lady Beefsteak went
“nap ” three times on bacon and eggs. And the wondering
little Frenchwoman smiled away the night until the cold
dawn found her responding cheerfully to my comforting
glances. Once she accepted a cup of coffee, but seemed
rather surprised that anyone should think she needed it.
An aboriginal could not describe the appearance of “ Pea
Nuts ” and' “ Beef Steak ” —frowsy from the effects of hot
meat and soup, as, snorting heavily, they blinked at the
beautiful dawn. Fantine lay with her brown head against
my ’possum-rug, her unflushed profile recalled the haunt-
ing silhouettes of Burne-Jones. Sometimes a vagrant
curl wound across her brow, but the nimble fingers caught
and twisted it back to its ribboned lair before you had
time to wish it stay. At S3 T dney, “Pea Nuts” and “8.5.”
heaved themselves to the platform, tired, ogreish, loaded
with bags, to join the haggard crowd of night-feeding ex-
cursionists. And Fantine, the Frenchwoman —I caught a
glimpse of her as she moved from the station with the
trail of her magic fingers over her perfectly-fitting travel-
ling costume, graceful and alert as though she had just
stepped from her boudoir. She smiled back, gestured
once with her gloved hand before the mob and cabs shut
her in.
Men don’t like to see women eating.
Frank T. Bullen, the English-seaman
journalist who tells a pathetic story of his early
poverty and privations, nas lately been trying to
enjoy himself in Paris. He writes: —
Gay Paris ! How many times have I heard those two
words combined, and conjured up mental pictures of a
capital where gaiety was the mot d’ordre ; where pleasure
was the one thing manifest to the most cynical observer ;
a city whose glitter, fun, and delight were almost delirious
in their mad whirl. Well, there is nothing like personal
experience for confirmation or disillusionment, and so,
having seen the gay capital, the Ville Lumibre, having
strolled, driven, trammed, and ’bussed through all
its ramifications, I feel justified in recording my
impressions. As to the gaiety, to put it plainly, I
have seen absolutely none. Feverish,, frantic attempts
at being gay, desperate endeavours at enjoyment
in plenty, but of gaiety in any commonplace sense
of the word, not a jot. Both for natives and strangers
the main idea of enjoyment, the one central
column of Parisian life, seems to be to sit outside of squalid
shops without fronts, at little iron-legged glazed cloth
covered tables, and drink bad German lager (Bock), at
3d., 4d., and sd. per glass, according to the situation of
the cafe. Sit and sip the insipid, onion-flavored liquid
and watch the weary-eyed stream of would-be revellers,
the women whose white, drawn faces no amount of
paint can enliven, the men upon whose sallow
faces waste of life is write large endeavor you
never so .earnestly to persuade .yourself that this
is gaiety and enjoyment, it is impossible to succeed.
As you sit there, you,wonder when Paris rests, when that
infernal uproar of electric trams, automobiles, fiacres,
omnibuses and commercial traffic is quiet. And the
answer is Never. Paris never rests. The whole population
lives out of doors, for homes there are none, and the
clamor of the never-resting tide of life becomes after a
while absolutely appalling. Insensibly the mind reverts
to those trim hedgeless fields through which you pass
between Paris and the sea-coast, and the bent forms of
the peasant proprietaires, who wrestle with Nature until
she yields up her last available ounce of produce. Cui
hono ? Well, for the benefit of the gang of incapables who
are hurrying France down a Gadara precipice of debt,
creators of the Affaire, besiegers of Fort Chabrol. For
only think of it. This nation of thrifty, patriotic
people are bleeding at every pore to maintain
the besiegers of Fort Chabrol, the pantomimists of
the Chambre des Deputes. From the day of
their birth until restful death claims them, the hand
of misgovernment is ever stretched, vulture-wise, for a
full half of all they gain. Never in all my life, not even
in the dominions of Abdul, did I hear anything so grim as
the fact that when one dies his or her family are assessed
at so much earnings and compelled to indulge in a funeral
which, for an income of, say, £3OO per annum, is fixed at
£4O. This is the business of the State, and that harpy
takes no excuse. You must have the funeral, and you
must pay, if it ruins you, but you must conform
to the paternal ideas of your Government. As another
instance of rapacity, let me quote the doleful experience
of a friend of mine who, visiting France, brought with
him a fourpenny box of wax matches. “Rien d declarer,”
he replied to the douanier. But the matches were dis-
covered, and he was fined two francs per match, a trifle of
£BO. Expensive allumettes ! There are endless other
things that deserve notice, but there is a monotony of in-
justice, of sadness about them which leads me to reiterate
my opinion that Paris is one of the saddest cities in the
world.
Heroes by Proxy.
Sir Moneygrub Paunch is a mettlesome blade,
He’s lusting for battle and panting for gore ;
At the shell and its shrieking he’s never dismayed,
And fierce is his frown when he bellows for War.
He’s fury and fire to his venomous core,
And we wonder and wonder, “Now when will he
go ?
But he lovingly clings to our peaceable shore :
He’s a hero that’s fighting by proxy, you know !
O, fighting’s a dirty and terrible trade,
And bullets may pitch into any man’s pore ;
And a man may be backward—yet not be afraid,
For some must stay home to look after the store;
So he he puffs at his peaceable door
And says, “We must strike ’em a terrible blow !”
He’s a gluttonous ghoul when a fight’s to the
fore —
This hero who battles by proxy, you know.
We read in the Times the oration he made —
All blazes and blood was the burden it bore ;
In fancy we saw him in battle arrayed—
A famine behind and destruction before ;
He slew and he slew and yet clamored for more,
And threw himself, stomach and all, on the foe,
But the fancy is past and the vision is o’er—
He’s a hero that’s fighting by proxy, you know.
envoi.
So Britons be sturdy and stout as of yore,
And lustily lay all your enemies low ;
And toast at your ease when you’ve settled the
score —
“ The hero who battled by proxy, you know ! ”
N.Q.
P.L.


AGENTS—
THE TRANSVAAL WAR!
The PREMO CAMERA
IS IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AMD CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George-st.
SYDNEY. '
260 Cotxtns-ht., Melbourne. 81 Queen-st., Brisbane. 65 Runube-ht., Adki.atde.
STEAM BOILERS
IS
i-. V.-:
Lancashire, Cornish,
Multifcubular
and other types.
To standard sizes, or to
special specifications,
suiting all requirements,
Please state :
HORSE POWER
REQUIRED
and
CLASS OF FUEL
The Clyde Engineering Coy. Ltd.,
Clyde Works,
Granville
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty's “ Henry V.”
Royal “Trilby."
Lyceum — “ Defender of the Faith.'
Criterion Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Little Red Riding Hood."
Theatre Royal “Fun on the Bristol.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Briton and Boer.”
Tlie present version of “Henry V.” at
Her Majesty’s is supposed to be the last that
Sydney will see—for a very long time, at all
events. It is certainly one of the best that Sydney
has seen. George Rignold looks younger after
his rest, and storms the painted fortifications in a
kingly fashion, and howls through the devastated
kingdom of France as he used to do when he was
in his prime 20 years ago. G. Rignold and his
white horse have trampled down many dozen
small wooden kingdoms since the writer first knew
him, but he never booted one of them into flinders
with more energy than he does now, though he
may have done it with more artistic finish. Poor
old Charles the Idiot, as represented by Harry
Overton, just looks the devastator in the eye for
about half a second, and then crawls under a chair,
so to speak, and spends the rest of his miserable
life pawning his crown for vittles. The company in-
cludes Howard Vernon, George Lauri, Arthur Lis-
sant, J. W. Hazlitt, Misses Linda Raymond, Emilie
Hughes, Julia Merton, and other good materials ;
also Manager Williamson has heaped up fine
scenic effects in a most lavish fashion. France is
a great kingdom, as Williamson paints it, which
makes the loss of Charles the Idiot all the greater.
Poor Charles has a most unsatisfactory billet in
this drama. The only time he is allowed to
appear in state is in a narrow front scene, where
he is so crowded up that his feet are in danger of
being singed in the footlights. He has to sit
there with a court of about four people, and
maunder about the glory of his falling state while
Henry is changing the scenery behind him, and
he does practically nothing except stop a hole in
the play. Then he drifts away to resume insanity
at the old place of business, and run after bits of
string on the floor. It was years after this that
the Duke of Burgundy found him alone at night
m his deserted palace, crouching over a burnt-out
fire beside a burnt-out candle, and the poor old
monarch remarked that he was hungry, and looked
up, dog-fashion, at John the Fearless to see if he
had a pie about his armour. But this is a digres-
sion.
«* m *
Trilby’s painted feet patter on the boards
of Sydney Royal to reasonably good business these
times. The writer assumes these feet are painted ;
he isn’t sure, of course, and unless the lady will
allow him to wash the said feet, which might
possibly be regarded as an undue familiarity, he
isn’t likely to be sure. But the heavenly pink
flush on the heel seems almost too beautiful to be
mere nature. Trilby has no corns—at least none
that can be seen from the circle —on these earnest
and affectionate young supports, and on the bright
lexicon of her toe there is no excrescence. She is
a large woman who manages to suggest the idea of
a sunbeam very well for her dimensions; more-
over the present Svengali is larger than the last
one, and the present Small Bill isn’t quite so
small and Miss Crane’s liberal figure looks less by
comparison. The new Svengali is not only larger
than Reuben Fax ; he seems dirtier as well.
There is a deep rich loam on Tyrone Power’s
Svengali tending to a more clayey soil about
the ears, and the deposit on his hands suggests
decomposed granite. For wheat culture the
writer doesn’t think Svengali could be recom-
mended, but as beet-raising soil he looks promis-
ing. As Mr. Power has grown accustomed to the
theatre he seems to have gained in weirdness and
clawsomeness, and he is more like the Svengali
that Sydney used to love than he was on the
opening night.
* • • *
Miss Maude Dalrymple, the unseen
member of the co., has also improved, and her
strong, sweet voice now rings out impressively on
the dead silence of that scene where the bare-
footed girl’s house of cards is just about to come
down with a crash. Hawtrey’s Parson Bagot is a
fine piece of work; Hawtrey has a genius for play-
ing the hard and worldly shepherd, as witness the
splendid sketch of Canon Wealthy in the
“Christian.” And most of the other people are
satisfactory, barring Small Bill. There are any
number of good actors who could play him if he
was changed to Large Billee, or even Middle-
sized William. But the small man on the stage
is supposed to be funny, and the serious small
man is an anomaly. If anyone ever built a his-
torical drama round Count Tilly, the embittered
fighting dwarf who stormed Magdeburg, it is
difficult to imagine who would play the hero,
unless little Gulliver tried him.
* * * *
“Trilby” will have but a short run, for
Miss Nance O’Neil from America, with her own
American company, is due at the Royal on March
10. The new lady opens in “Magda.” This
paper confesses to a good deal of ignorance about
Miss O’Neil, but she has an energetic manager,
who has sent along a very respectable horse-load of
notices concerning her, and if she is half as good as
the worst of these she is a marvel. If she is half
as good as the best of them she is the same, only
much more so. The writer doesn’t know in what
green valley all these beautiful notices grew, but
he reckons the crop must be good this year, and
Miss O’Neil must have got at the tree early.
** * *
A “ new and original patriotic and
romantic drama,” called “ Defender of the Faith,”
is to be staged at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday.
Details of it haven’t reached this office up to time
of writing, but there are many faiths and most of
them are badly in need of some defending, so
doubtless it will pan out all right. To-morrow
(Friday) night will therefore be the last opportu-
mty the public will have to see that very remark-
able prison where the convicts aren’t locked up,
but rush out of their cells whenever they feel in-
clined, and call on Heaven to strike the governor
dead, and then rush back again and bang the door
generally landing it on the nose of the oppressor
who is in close pursuit. The drama holds Captain
Hawes up to public obloquy, but the writer feels
rather sorry for that wicked man. Though only
two cells in the enormous corridor appear
to be tenanted he has a heart-breaking
time, for one of the tenants is always coming
out to tell the tyrant frankly what he
thinks of him. The tyrant is supposed to
wreak horrible cruelties on No. 19, and to act
most reprehensibly towards 27a and 33*, but the
audience sees few of these cruelties, while the
open disrespect of No. 19 is quite visible. The
governor is even held responsible when a small boy
convict comes illegally out of his cell at night and
walks himself to death in the corridor; and the
chaplain threatens him with the vengeance of the
Almighty every five minutes, and finally he is
thrown out of the prison by his own comic turn-
key. It is about the suddenest sack on record.
Une minute he is supreme boss of the gaol, and the
next he is an unemployed on the middle of the
road with no prospects before him except stone-
breaking, which, at his age, would involve certain
rheumatism.
sfc *
The chief glory of Sydney Criterion is still
Ludwig Amann, who comes forward to thunders of
welcome and remarks : “Ladies and gentlemens,
if you will all-ow me to introduce me-self as
ker-raet-hor impersonator, I will rep-sent to you
cel-e-bray-tud . . . per-son-ages,” etc. Hisrepre-
sentation of Napoleon is worth going a long way
to see. His power of altering his expression is
something marvellous. The only accessories are
wigs with foreheads attached, coats, whiskers, and
false teeth. All the rest is muscular. Judging
hy present appearances, Ludwig is likely to be
going strong for a long time yet.
* * *
The weird doom that seems to cling to the
theatre in King-street, Sydney, was strongly in
evidence during Howard Vernon’s last attempt.
It was a pretty fair attempt in spots—the Howard
Vernon and Maud Hewson spots in particular—
but the curse was on the audience, and they
looked on these spots as if they were looking at
ghosts dancing round tombstones and recognised
in said ghosts numerous long-lost relatives. The
curse was on the chorus people, too, who de-
manded their salaries at inconvenient times, so
that a distracted actor-manager had to fly round
at exactly two-and-a-half minutes to eight and pay
each of the chorus to make her go on. After which
the scene-shifters would begin to have doubts, and
the distracted one would have to fly round again
at exactly one and a quarter minutes to eight, and
give each of the scene-shifters eighteenpence or
3s. fid. and a curse not to go home and leave him
in the lurch. Sydney Opera House has been the
home of so many unfinancial managements that
the staff couldn t realise that a really financial
management had come along. It considered that
anybody who took the Opera House was a sus-
picious character. The actor-manager at last got
tired of flying round with a bag of change at
various fractions of a minute to eight, and wisely
became, ill and judiciously closed up by reason of
the illness.
*m * *
A mighty audience pushed itself into
Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday, and accepted
the Xmas humor of “ Little Red Riding Hood ” in
a forgiving spirit. A large number of Bulletin
readers have seen “Red Riding Hood” or heard
of it from this family journal, and they don’t need
to be told any more (therefore the fact is now
stated again) that the pantomime is a gorgeous
attraction, burdened with huge boulders of “comic
relief.” The best of the comic relief is new to
anyone who has not seen the same old thing once
before or oftener. The worst of it is very tiresome
indeed. And when deserving comedians like
Harry Shine and Hugh Ward get to be positively
tiresome, and the pantomime lasts till 20 past 11
p.m., there is no visible reason why they should
have so much to talk about. Also the necessity
for Little Gulliver and the irrelevant tail end of
the Kindergarten scene is non-apparent. On the
other hand, Hassan’s annual donkey serves its
purpose all the time, and Miss Carrie Moore is a
valuable leading boy, so valuable that it seems a
pity to overwork the slender damsel. Pour years
ago Carrie Moore made her first appearance at
the Princess’s as a rather small child in a pinafore,
since when she has been persistently growing out
of her frocks and gaining stage experience on tour.
If she were to take a twelve-months’ rest and give
her natty young figure and sympathetic young
voice a chance to fill out—but, no matter. She’s
not listening.
* * * *
All the pictorial work in “Little Red Riding
Hood” is excellent—scenery, dresses, groupings,
and sundry effects. The phantom forest seems
calculated to shock an ordinary infant into convul-
sions, but at this time of the year the young-
sters who attend pantomimes are not easily scared,
otherwise they would show signs of agitation
when confronted with Miss Dorothy Vane’s shoes
and socks. This paragraph will say nothing in
particular about Goatcher’s tableau, or the Wat-
teau minuet, or the unhappy stranger who whacks
the big drum at the gathering of mixed soldiers.
Melbourne is going to see J. C. Williamson’s ex-
pensive spectacle on the strength of the advertise-
ment and other considerations, and the city will
be glad to find that the advt.’s promises are honor-
ably fulfilled.
** * m
Widow O’Brien, who has almost outlived
any doubts concerning her sex, made another re-
appearance at Melb. Royal on Saturday. The
Widow seems to spend more money on her ward-
robe than in the days when the late O’Brien was a
newer corpse ; also their daughter has grown into
a tall young woman since the last time she didn’t
want to marry Tommy Cranberry, but in all other
respects Mrs. Sheridan is the Bridget of yore,
and to praise her for her many virtues would be
tantamount to painting a tomato red. “ Fun on the
Bristol ” contains enough humor to go round what
time the Widow tills the stage. During the tempor-
ary absences of that favorite institution the show
is fairly bright, or otherwise, just according to
circumstances. It doesn’t bring out the best
anyone in particular save Mrs. O’Sheri-
dan. The variety entertainment on the alleged
steamboat breaks no records, and Sinclair’s song
about the little coons raises a question as to
whether Australia ought not to arise and throw
something at the next warbler who introduces the
word coon into a refrain. We have endured the
coon too long in silence.
## * *
At the Alexandra, the impotent ferocity of
Black Cronje is greeted with great gusts of jubila-
tion every evening. Kruger’s presidential bell-
topper likewise comes in for much ironical ap-
plause, and Dam pier’s assurance that he is “all
wight, ” when the enemy have left him for dead,
seems to realise the gallery’s wildest dream of
Boer discomfiture. The Alexandra is likely to
find coinfort in “Briton and Boer” for another
week. About 20min. of unnecessary narrative
have been cut out or condensed into a tenth of the
time, since the first night, so that Miss Lily
Dampier, assisted by her faithful Hottentot,
can bring the drama to a finish long before the
hotels close. It is not a weak finish either. The
Hottentot and the leading lady behave with a
good deal of tragic intensity, and by the time the
leading lady has grabbed the dagger and stuck it
into the leading Boer the drama begins to look
quite serious. Manager Dampier states, as a
solemn fact, that two large bodies of Melbourne
public have voted in equal numbers for “Hamlet”
and “Merchant of Venice,” wherefore he will
produce both of those honored chestnuts in due
course.
** * *
The marionettes, not seen in Melb. for
the last seven years, are just now at the Bijou,
where Browne, the whistler, is discharging two
simultaneous tunes from his educated mouth,
borne new war pictures are now shown upon the
jingo sheeting “owing to the heroic manner in
which the Victorians fought and fell at Coles-
berg,” and the Newsky Family have changed their
programme, probably on account of the Battle
of Trafalgar. Miss Violet Elliot, whose voice
and singing have improved in about equal ratio
within this last year, is a recent ornament to
the first part of the proceedings. Also, the amount
collected on behalf of the remote Beggar is some-
thing handsome. Arthur Hahn sings the Kipling-
bullivan hymn every night, and the offertory aver-
ages from ten to a dozen pounds sterling, not alto-
gether on account of the audience’s warlike sym-
pathies, but largely because the solemn chant and
the incidental tambourine make them feel as though
they were in church and ought to give cheerfully
for the sake of their Hereafter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The balance-sheet of the Australian Widows’
Fund for the year to 31st October, 1899, shows a slight
improvement in some directions. Some of the principal
figures in recent years are as follows :
Pre- Interest Total Claims Expenses
miums &c. Revenue
1892 £169,689 £55,992 £225,631 £99,494 £41,069
1893 165,285 55,799 221,084 84,118 36,233
1894 157,442 57,729 215,171 94,062 36,907
1895 153,607 53,194 206,801 105,164 40,919
1896 155,080 58,799 213,879 107,740 37,747
1897 150,602 58,446 209,048 121,983 35,060
1898 155,539 58,881 214,420 108,768 41,935
1890 161,603 60,853 222,456 115,640 48,951
The most notable feature about these figures is that the
revenue from premiums has increased by £6064, while
working expenses have increased by no less than £7016,
more than swallowing up the increased premium receipts.
Asa result, the amount added to the assurance fund is
less than it has been in any recent year except 1897. The
additions to the fund made out of revenue in late years
have been :
1892 .. £85,118 1896 .. £68,392
1893 .. 100,733 1897 .. 49,005
1894 .. 84,202 1898 .. 63,716
1895 .. 60,718 1899 .. 57,866
And this is the varying expense rate since 1890
for every £IOO of revenue :
1890 .. £l9 10 7 1895 .. £l9 15 7
1891 .. 18 6 0 1890 .. 17 13 7
1892 .. 18 4 0 1897 .. IS 0 2
1893 .. 16 7 7 1898 .. 19 9 0
1894 .. 17 3 0 1899 .. 21 16 7
In the way of expenses, 1899 is therefore the worst
the Widows’ Fund has had for a long time. Rather
over 30 per cent, of the premiums go in this direction,
which looks a most exorbitant rate. And, on top of
this, the earnings have not improved, though the decline
isn’t large.. For 1899 the average interest realised on tire
funds was £4 10s. 9d. per cent., as compared with £4 12s.
per cent, in 1898, £4 15s. 7d. per cent, in 1897, and £4 Bs.
per cent, in 1890.
Iii several matters, however, the Australian
Widows Fund has done well. It has reduced the assumed
rate of future interest-earnings to 3* per cent., instead of
the old 4 per cent., winch means a very great deal in the
way of extra safety. Some years ago It wrote-off un-
sparingly the losses of the boom-time and an.
patently it not only wrote its securities down
to bedrock, but a little below, for it has since built ud
a contingency fund of £4515 being the amount realised on
the sale of properties above their new book value This
seems solid evidence that the assets are now not at all
over-estimated. There are no dubious-looking items
among the assets. And after making large reserves to re-
duce assumed future interest earnings to 3£ per cent it is
estimated chat the last three years have produced a’sur-
plus, available for bonus purposes, of £56,9(52. These are
all promising features, and if only the expense rate could
be kept down, things would look very well all round As
it is they look moderately well
• * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria closed its
half-year at 31st Dec., 1899, with a loss of £7683. This
helps to further extend the long list of recent losses as
follows :— ’
Dec., 1894 Loss .. £6,038 Dec., 1S97 Loss £8 503
June, 1895 „ 6,617 June, 1898 „ ' io’qv,
Dec., 1895 „ .. 8,847 Dec., 1898 , " S
June, 1896 „ .. 9,696 June, 1899 „ k nsa
Dec., 1896 „ .. 10,494 Dec., 1899 *’ yea?
June, 1897 „ .. 14,425 ” ’
The Land Mortgage Bank is in a curious situation It has
properties—almost all mortgages—of a paper value of
£1,026,969, but these are boom prices, and no re-valuation
has been made. The half-year’s gross earnimrs were
£10,904 (equal to £2 OS. 10d., per cent, per annum on the
alleged value of the assets). Considering that mortgages
which are anything at all like good should yield at least
3A per cent, gross (they should probably yield 41 per
cent.) it may be roughly estimated on this very sanguine
basis that the total assets are really worth just now about
£600,000. Assuming that good mortgages should yield
4 per cent, gross the total assets are w'orth some £540 000
And as there is £714,000 owing to debenture-holders’ the
Land .Mortgage Bank looks, on present values, in a verv
queer position. J
• * * *
The 4| per cent, debenture-holders agreed some
time ago to reduce interest to 3) per cent, until 1902
Then, unless something is done, the rate reverts to the
old 4i per cent., and the things that are now bad become
much worse. Perhaps if the Land Mortgage Bank had
written down the value of its properties to bedrock
about ’95 and shown its creditors the complete
hopelessness of the situation it would have got better
terms, but it made the grievous mistake of not call-
ing out “stinking fish” loudly enough at a time
when it wanted to look worse than it was instead of
better. . The attempt to call up enough new capital
to reduce the debenture liability within manageable
limits, has made only moderate progress, a call of
£250,000 producing only £152,894. There is over £700,000
of still unpaid capital, but it is all in pawn to the deben-
ture-holders, and probably a good deal of it couldn't be
collected anyhow. Of last half-year’s loss of £7683
£4033 was incurred through the sale of properties below
book-value, and the other £3650 arose through the fact
that the ordinary income was £10,904 and ordinary ex-
penditure £14,554. If the debenture-holders would re-
new for at least ten years at 2£ per cent, then the Land
Mortgage Bank could pay its way, and keep its properties
till they increased in value instead of selling them
at a huge loss to pay current expenses. Pos-
sibly in ten years they would so far increase
in value theft the institution would be a per-
fectly solvent affair again. Or if the shareholders
would rake up another £250,000, or so, and reduce the de-
benture liability to not over £450,000, and the creditors
would accept 3£ per cent, on that, the Land Mortgage
Bank could pay its way and wait for better times. Any-
how, it is proposed to have a great re-valuation of securi-
ties, and to find out what the loss really is, and then ask
the creditors to do something—possibly to convert them-
selves into preference shareholders. At present things
stands as follows :—
Liabilities.
Capital .. ..£402,894
Debentures.. .. 714,122
Other debts .. 704
£1,117,720
Assets.
Mortgages on
paper .. ..£963,077
Property (on paper) 63,892
Cash, &c 38,997
Deficiency .. .. . 61,754
£1,117,720
Judged by earnings the assets of the Land
Mortgage Bank, which is getting into worse trouble every
half-year, are worth much nearer their paper value than
those of the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank which
is showing a steadily-increasing profit. But the Land
Mortgage has a small paid-up capital, and £700,000 of
borrowed money to pay interest on ; while the A. D. and
M. has a vastly larger paid capital and oidy £420,000 of
borrowed money to pay interest on. Therefore the latter
can lie low and nurse its properties till values improve
and pile up a little reserve to help cover old losses ; the
former can’t. The curse of too much borrowed money
weighs heavily on the Land Mortgage Bank.
* * * *
Enquirer : There is nothing of a very suspicious
character in the balance-sheet, but there has been an
aroma of suspicion about the institution for 20 years.
Writer wouldn’t put his money into it.
* * * *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co. pays
no div. for the half-year to 31st Dec., 1899. Profits were
£2999, as compared with £14 for half-year to 30th June,
1899, but the drought is bad and prospects are uncertain.
Things have been none too promising of late. The old
and once regular 5 per cent. div. dropped to 4 per cent,
some time ago, and now it goes down to nothing—for the
time, at all events. There is always something for the
little dry-plains railway to do in taking away the bones of
dead animals to be ground up, but the long drv spell has
blighted the regular trade badly. P
* * * •
Broken Hill Water Supply Co. closed its best
half-year to date on 3lst Dec., 1899, with a profit of
£16,845. Some recent records of this fine large mono-
poly :—
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1894 .. £7,844 2J per cent. = £2,331
December, 1894 5,076 7£ „ = 6,993
June, 1895 .. 4,882 5 „ = 4,662
December, 1895 12,901 10 „ = 9,325
June, 1896 .. 6,686 10 „ = 9,325
December, 1896 10,077 5 „ = 4,662
June, 1897 .. 13,365 10 „ = 9,325
December, 1897 15,705 10 „ = 9,325
June, 1898 .. 11,779 10 „ = 9,325
December, 1898 15,760 10 „ = 9,325
June, 1899 .. 16,161 15 „ = 13|o88
December, 1899 16,845 12| „ = 11,656
In addition to paying its 124 per cent, dividend the co.
adds £2500 to contingency fund. This raises the con-
tingency fund to £10,000 and there is also £27,319 at
credit of profit and loss, making total reserves £37,319.


&
ft
/
3S
THE
ittHJEI
mm
TAILS
telEl
ZETZ SPftiflcN
Balumore
MEM Hubs®
w-g-w-
qSmoke the Latest^
mm VANDYCK
CIGARS (NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR I/-
C/CARs
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Insurance News, London, writes: “The
whole position of the Colonial Mutual, as revealed by the
latest reports, is calculated to give the utmost satisfaction
to the members.”*
* * * *
A revival appears to be in store for the Mt.
Wills district of Victoria. The Maude and Homeward
Bound United Mine is developing well; so much so that
the management has decided to adopt crushing and con-
centrating appliances of its own. Their mill will comprise
ten head of stamps, classifiers and “Luhrig” Vanners
(supplied through W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, the
general agents for “ Luhrig ” Appliances). The mineral-
ised stone is rich ; recent concentrates averaging as high
as soz. gold per ton.*
* * • »
The Earl of Kintore, in his address to the share-
holders of the Sulphide Corporation at the last general
meeting, stated that owing to the installation of a slime
treatment plan consisting of six Wilfley Tables, which has
proved to be admirably suited for their requirements,
they expect to gain at least 60 tons of lead concentrates in
addition to their present production. The Wilfley tables
are now being very largely used in gold mills in all the
colonies.' The agents and sole manufacturers for Aus-
tralia are the Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melb.*
• • * *
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Coll ins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
* m » m
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * «
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* » » *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
,cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
(H * * «
Some Australian merchants can very well afford
to give a hundred or two to war funds. For instance,
one down-south ironmongery house, anticipating a rise
in freights, laid in a stock of nearly 10,000 tons. The rise
came all right, and the selling prices of the goods have
been put up £2 a ton, so that this firm alone stands
nearly £20,000 to the good.
* * * *
First Croydon div. of year paid by Golden Gate
No. 4 and 5 Soutli Block, as result of crushing of 380 tons
for 14500 z. Co. paid 4d. div. and carried forward £9OO ;
amount divided £l6OO. Mine in bottom only looking so-
so at latest advices.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markv/ald,
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney;
178 William Street. Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
Butflve-sevenths of those reserves (which aren’t very much
at best) have no real existence, for there is a purely paper
goodwill item, “ Water rights, leases, Parliamentary
Bills, etc., £25,194,” to be written off, and the only real
reserve is the balance of £12,125, after writing this off.
Then come two items, “construction account at cost,
£153,100 ” and “filtration plant at cost, £6531,” making a
total of £159.681. There is no depreciation allowed for
on either of these items, yet even “ construction account
must surely depreciate to some extent. But the most
amazing thing of all is this. The co.’s Jgase runs out
inside another 20 years when it has to give up its works
without compensation. Therefore, starting from now, it
ought not only to write off the whole goodwill item of
£25,194 and make allowance for keeping the works in
necessary repair during the currency of the lease, but it
should write off 5 per cent, of the present value of the"
concern every year out of profits, so as to have it written
down to nothing by the time the concession expires.
Under this heading alone a provision of £9OOO a year is
required. The co. is fairly earning 10 per cent, dividends
at most, and it has only been earning these for the last 14
years. Also there is no possible guarantee that it will
keep on earning them. Allowing for all these things, the
£300,000 which the Broken Hill municipality offered for
the business was a lot more than it was fairly worth, and
the action of the shareholders in refusing it was an
amazing piece of folly.
» » • *
The Equity Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Cos. (Melbourne) finished its half-year at 31st December,
1899, with another serious drop in the returns. Net pro-
fits, after writing £l7 off furniture, were £997, and the
dividend at 74 per cent, per annum absorbed £937. These
figures compare with some previous returns as follows :
Net Profit. Dividend.
June, 1892.. .. £287 10 per cent. = £1.250
December, 1892 .. 2,195 10 u = 1.250
June, 1893.. .. 152 10 „ =■ 1,250
December, 1893 99 Nil
June, 1894.. .. 361 Nil
December, 1894 .. 663 6 per cent. = 625
June, 1895.. .. 656 6 „ - 625
December, 1895 .. 465 6 „ = 625
June, 1896.. .. 826 5 „ = 625
December, 1896 .. 796 5 „ = 625
June, 1897.. .. 759 6 „ = 625
December, 1897 .. 486 6 ~ = 625
June, 1898.. .. 1,006 6 „ = 625
December, 1898 .. 2,770 74 per cent. = 938
June, 1899.. .. 1,176 74 „ = 988
December, 1899 .. 997 74 „ ** 937
£13,594 £11,663
The balance of £GO which remains after paying
the dividend raises the sum at credit of profit and loss
from £3230 to £3290. The Equity Trustees, Executors
and Agency Cos. has £25,000 paid-up capital ; a miserably
small reserve-fund of £1250, and the £3290 accumulated
profit above-mentioned. With so small a paid capital,
only £IOO,OOO of callable capital, and total accumulations
of less than £SO JO, it is far too weak a concern for its line
of business, and the directors seem to have a profound
dread lest it should accidentally get a little stronger, so
religiously do they struggle to pay away nearly all the
profits in dividends. They don’t even transfer tne accu-
mulated profits to reserve as a guarantee that they will be
kept intact; possibly there is some idea of keeping them
as a fund to draw upon when the dividend is prematurely
raised to 10 per cent. The Equity Trustees should cut
down its div. to 5 per cent, until profits materially
improve, and set to work to build up a reserve of at
least £50,000. If it doesn’t resort to some such expedient
it will be a poor, small, unfortunate concern all its days—
unless it meets with wholly undeserved good fortune.
The falling revenue is in itself sufficient proof that the
rush to put up the dividend to 74 per cent, was unwise
and prematuro.
• • • *
Once more consider the Silverton (N.S.W.)
Tramway Cos. —the concern which owns the little railway
from Broken llill to the South Australian border—in all
its glory :
Profits. Dividends.
1891 £128,690 £SO os. Od. per cent. = £82,419
1892 80,515 30 os. od. „ = 69,341
1893 116,329 35 6s. Bd. „ = 70,000
1894 108,363 20 4s. Od. „ = 40,000
1895 113,835 42 10s. Od. „ = 84,067
1896 111,896 50 os. Od. „ = 98,903
1897 88,244 47 10s. Od. „ = 93,957
1898 86,575 40 os. Od. „ = 79,122
1899 95.592 40 os. Od. „ = 79.122
The dividends, huge as they seem, are even larger than
appears on the surface, for in 1891 a large amount of
profit was capitalised. The 1892 dividend was really 36
per cent, on the money which the shareholders paid-up ;
it was over 42 per cent, in 1893 ; 25 per cent, in 1894 ; 51
percent, in 1895 ; 60 percent, in 1896 ; 57 per cent, in 1897;
and 48 per cent, in 1898 and ’99. In addition to its appar-
ent dividends, the co. has, in the nine years above dealt
with, written £16,000 off goodwill ; written £117,746 off
the paper value of its property ; carried £29,800 to con-
tingency account ; added £20,000 to reserve fund ; and
transferred £32,968 of profits to capital account, and in-
creased its profit balance by £26,595. It is a beautiful
thing—this Victorian railway monopoly which chews the
vitals of the N.S.W. silver industry. And while this Mel-
bourne-owned railway co. screws out 48 and 57 and 60 per
cent, dividends, the Melbourne Age recently had the
front to comeout with a leading article in which it assigned,
as one of the proofs of the utter corruption and oppres-
siveness of Transvaal affairs, that the private railway co.
which runs the show there screwed 124 per cent, dividends
out of the people. Allowing for the fact that the Nether-
lands Railway Cos. exacts its dividends on a capital equal
to £IO,OOO per mile of line, and the Silverton Cos. on a
capital of about £5500 per mile, the latter is still twice as
extortionate as the former. Isn’t it time for Broken Hill
to get up another kick against this truly remarkable
company ?
» • • •
The course of Melbourne embezzlement revela-
tions took a comic little turn last week in connection
with the late Metropolitan Bank. A clerk employed by
the undertaker who conducts the funeral of that long-
dead institution was given £l2O to pay into its assets
account, but seemingly he threw up his billet and kept
the £l2O. Anyway, he and the money were both missing
from their proper places on the Monday morning. So
another official was sent to look for the clerk, and the
official seemingly lost himself in his search for the missing
man. Then the secretary grew suspicious, with the
result that certain manipulations of hanking “slips”
were alleged against the two absent-minded parties. The
clerk is now out on hail, charged with larceny as a
liquidator’s assistant, or something in that way, but the
man who went looking for the clerk had not been
found by the police when this paragraph was written.
“A.L.”: Westralia exacts a tax of 5 percent,
on gold-mine dividends.
* • • *
B.H. North, which paid its first div. (£2500)
last half-year, wound up the term with—Cash at hankers,
£4077 ; concentrates on hand or delivered hut not paid
for, £7147 : stores, etc., £254 ; total, £11,478. There are
sundry debtors with claims for £1762 ; so that the co.
stands £9726 to the good. The half-year’s work paid the
£2500 div. ami added £6400 to the amount carried for-
ward. But the directors have forgotten to charge any-
thing for the use of the plant-there is no debit on
account of depreciation. The directors, of course are
“ greatly pleased that all previous anticipations of the
success of the mine, so constantly reiterated by them,
have been so well borne out; and there is every
reason to anticipate a long continuance of Pros-
perity.” By way of putting ice on the heads of share-
holders wfto may be inclinea to become excited, writer
remarks that the profit has been entirely due to the
recent rise in lead-value, and that if it hadn t been for the
jump of the last two years the co. would still he making a
loss. Not two years ago lead was selling at £l3 (for some
years before it was below £l2) ; and the rise of £4 a ton
means a good deal over £IO,OOO on this co. s half-yearly
production—yet the profit was not within reach of
£IO,OOO.
* * * *
B.H. South has issued one of its best half-yearly
reports to date ; best, that is, with regard to profits
made, though there is little or no improvement with
regard to the detailed information given to, or rather
withheld from, shareholders. Assuming that the esti-
mates of the value of the product are correct, the six
months’ profit, including the amount received as sur-
pluses on shipments for the preceding half-year, has been
£26,790. This has been disposed of thus : £15,000 in
divs., £2500 in reserves (this is the co.’s beginning with a
reserve-fund), and £9290 carried forward. The reserve-
fund is invested in Gov't, bonds. The position is not,
however, actually quite so good as these figures alone
indicate, because of the profit no less than £13,772
was due to surpluses realised that is, this was the
co.’s more or less unexpected profit on account of
the big rise in the price of lead which took place
between the time' when the metal was produced
at the latter end of the former half-year and the time it
was disposed of in the early part of this last half-year. As
the market is not still on the rise this item is not likely to
recur, to that extent at least, just yet. . In fact, there
have been times when Barrier co.’s have drawn more
than shipments finally realised. Yet if the South’s
financial position was never stronger its underground
appearance has rarely if ever been better—chiefly in con-
sequence of the development of a body rich in both silver
and lead (a body rich in silver is a rarity at the South) in
the north end of the mine at 700 ft. From the fact that it
differs materially from the bodies now worked this new
lode is thought to be a continuation of the shoot which is
so phenomenally rich in the Central (Sulphide Corpora-
tion), the South's northern neighbor. So far, though, it
is not big in the South.
In connection with the B.H. South and the
troubles of its directors, the disclosure has been made at a
meeting in Adelaide that one who was for some time
chairman and has for years been a director, owned not a
share in the co. till the other day. Though he undertook
to buy the qualifying shares which were lent him at first,
he did not do so ; though he explains that he afterwards
got shares elsewhere. A mine director is not, of course,
necessarily any less valuable for having no pecuniary
interest in the show ; but inasmuch as the South director-
ate has been plainly accused of playing into the hands of
another co., an appointment of this sort was peculiarly
undesirable in this case. Also it is undesirable in any
case, because, when once begun, it soon means systematic
dummyism.
• • • •
Here and there in B.H. Junction a face of ore a
little more than pavable is being developed ; but in most
workings in this mine the appearance is heart-breaking.
* * * »
It is impossible from the official reports to tell
what progress Block 14 is making—whether the ore is
richer or poorer, or whether more or less of the metal is
being recovered —but from all accounts a somewhat
improved grade of ore has been mined lately. Also put it
to the co.’B credit that it has just erected on the mine a
good bath-house for its lead-begrimed employes.
* » * *
South Australia has been shaken up by a rumor
that the Broken Mill Prop, contemplates taking its
smelters and refineries from Pt. Pirie (which through
them has grown to be the second town of the province) to
Newcastle. The report began with General Manager
Del prat’s visit to Newcastle ; and color was given it by the
co.’s purchase of land, wharf-site, &c., there, as well as by
the excellent results which the Sulphide Corporation is
getting at Cookie Creek, same district. So far, how-
ever, there is chiefly “bluff” in the Prop.’s move-
ments ; yet there is so little to choose between the S.A.
seaboard and Newcastle as a smelting-site for the B.H.
co.’s ores that the province which will offer
most concessions will get the big trade in the long
run. S.A. Premier Holder seems to think that as long as
a direct railway line from the present terminus of the
Sydney system to Broken Hill is not in existence the
smelting can easily be kept in that province ; but, as a
matter of fact, the construction of an overland line has
little, if anything, to do with the case. The whole ques-
tion is whether it is cheaper to take the ore from Port
Pirie to Newcastle or to carry coal, &c., from Newcastle to
Port Pirie. And when they come to seriously treat the
zinc, it may be found cheaper to take that product at any
rate to the fuel.
The alarm of S. Australia lest N.S.W. should
build a line to Broken Hill and entice the traffic to the
Sydneyside is quite pathetic. For N.S.W. to even attempt
to get the smelting and other trade by specially low rates
would be “ monstrous,” “ most unneighborly,” and so on!
Yet this is just how S.A. got most of the trade in the first
place. Originally all smelting was done at Broken Hill ;
but by putting on a crushing freight for bullion on the
one hand and charging a very low rate for crude ore on
the other, and also by making a very heavy tariff for coke
and other smelting requisites, the S.A. Govt, closed up
one after the other every local smelting furnace, and got
most of the smelting at her own seaboard. Even now,
when she has accomplished her purpose in that respect,
she still charges Broken Hill two rates —one for S.A.
goods, the other (in some cases two or three times higher)
for goods sent round from the province of which Broken
Hill forms part.
• * # *
To a Wentworth inquirer (name illegible): We
hear that a lot of zinc now appears in the lode. In other
respects it seems a good show but we never advise anyone
to buy into a mine. The property in question has now
practically no funds at its command —and as it has
already issued preferential shares it must eventually be a
well-watered concern, if any of it stays in the hands of its
present holders. However, if any good at all, it is a very
big thing.
* « » *
Why doesn’t the market properly respond to
the excellent reports from Grassy Gully ! Why such
scepticism in the minds of credulous speculators and in-
vestors ! Experiences have been so bitter that it is now
hard to make anyone believe in a N.S.W. gold-mine ;
hardest of all is it to make the seasoned scripper believe
in any mine which produces specimen ore. A glance at
the Sydney Stock Exchange operations will prove that
only two or three mining investment stocks in the gold
section are dealt in frequently, and that the great
majority of deals are on speculative ventures. Specula-
tors, not investors, keep ’Change going, else doors would
close.
* • * *
Hillgrove, N.S.W., reports that “the various
scheelite workings are going along steadily.” Four tons
sent from-one place and two tons from another, and
“ there is every reason to believe ” ten tons will be sent
from the Four Mile—wherever that is. Scheelite runs in
threads and patches ; is even more erratic than antimony';
and there is nothing in its working except for parties of
miners. Sensible companies should have as little as
possible to do with scheelite.
• • * *
North Nymagee, N.S.W. This stringer wants
more ore and less newspaper yabber. The public are
quite tired of its long-winded reports.
* * * *
The Occidental, Cobar, has declared another 3d.
div., payable 26th March.
Mt. Drysdale (N.S.W.): According to the
mining,authority of S.M. Herald, the chute from which
consignments of rich ore came is only 14ft. Bin. long with
an average width of about 2ft.—long and wide enough to
turn out a ton of gold should it continue any depth and
keep up an average of 30oz. to the ton. Outside this pipe
of rich ore there is a large quantity of low-grade stuff.
Over 100 tons of high-grade ore sent to Cockle Creek,
from which another 4s. div. is expected. Whispered that
bore-holes have been put down with satisfactory results,
and that sufficient prospecting in gold ore has been done
to warrant the present price of shares—about 235., all
buyers, no sellers. Sydney has been almost cleaned out
of this scrip by the Cobar people, who made a call after
gold was struck and seem to have been working the mine
in some respects to suit themselves.
• • * •
Of the myriad N.S.W. dredging co’s none are
doing too well. The Turon —the price of the shares
whereof is somewhat of a puzzle—continues to run out
about 40oz. a week, quite good enough to pay, but it will
take very many weeks to produce gold enough to give
any reasonable div. on share capital. Mr. Garland,
pioneer of bucket-dredging in N.S.W., does not
publish his returns; it is understood that but
for constant repairs and the delays consequent
thereon, he would do very much better. The
Federal co., the first to start with a centrifugal pump,
had its first clean-up for 100 oz., said to represent less than
a month’s work, and as it is said the bottom has not been
cleaned up the total yield should be about double. The
share-drop is a bad sign and further emphasises the
veteran mining axiom which enjoins people always to sell
before the clean-up. The Federal’s ground is admirably
adapted to the system employed. The Shoalhaven com-
panies will begetting to work in the courseof a few months.
Two or three of them have chances of success, particularly
those towards the head of the river where the conditions
for bucket-dredging are favorable, but that some will be
ghastly failures there is no shadow of doubt. Those on
the Macquarie are very sick, from a share-market point of
view, probably because it is feared there are too many
boulders and snags in the river to make dredg-
ing effective—in fact, there are in N.S.W. com-
paratively few places where bucket-dredging can be
carried on successfully. Where the rivers are suitable
there is no gold, and in many places where there is gold
the roughness of the river-beds absolutely prevents dredg-
ing, as some co.’s will soon find out. Occasionally anew
prospectus comes out without success ; the public have
had enough dredging for a time, and are now anxiously
awaiting the results of the ventures already floated. Others
will fail from want of money. The too-conunon practice
has been to form a no-liability co., and provide for a
capital of from £BOOO to £IO,OOO. A thousand or
two of this is expended in getting the co.
on its legs; the balance is being called up
at intervals to pay for the dredge. A great number of the
contributing shares are held by persons who own an equal
or greater number of paids. They stick to the latter and
forfeit the former, with the result that already in several
cases the construction of the dredges is delayed for want
of money, and the end will be we shall have offered for
sale “ second-hand ” dredges that have never been used.
N.S.W., in gold-dredging, is going to make as big a fool
of itself as it does in most other kinds of mining.
* * * •
A Sydney broker’s circular on the Federal Cen-
trifugal dredging clean-up: “ The yield will not pay any-
thing like the expenses incurred ; should the next yield
show no better result we think the co. had better con-
sider the advisability of erecting a good strong bucket-
dredge, which could be done at a cost of about £7OOO.
The working cost of such a dredge would be less than
half their present expenses.” The solemn fact is that the
only system capable of dealing with the ground is the one
adopted.
• * • •
Overflow (N.S.W.) half-yearly meeting. 2386
tons gossan ore cyanided, value £1839, involving a loss of
£63. The blast furnace a failure because of the want of
water-jackets. No directors’ fees drawn, but one of the
board threatened to get his by legal process. “ Conse-
quent upon this your directors have had it forced upon
them to treat all directors’ fees from 20th Feb., ’92, as a
liability, and the sum of £4lB 19s. has therefore been
charged in the present half-year’s accounts. The loss
on the half-year’s operations has consequently swelled
to that extent.” Cheerful news. The question
of directors’ fees needs adjustment in N.S.W.
as well as in London. On Bendigo many mines
that have paid hundreds of thousands in divs. are con-
trolled by directors who are satisfied with ss. a meeting.
They include mining millionaires like Lanseli and Atkin-
son ; the latter has attended ten times as many ss. meet-
ings as he has missed. When the mines are dividend-
paying the fees are increased or small bonuses given, but
taking all the Bendigo mines together there was last
year less money paid in directors’ fees than in the case
of one single Kalgoorlie mine mismanaged in London.
* * • •
Brilliant Boulder (Vic.): “Will you oblige me
with your advice on this mine.” Well, isn’t the name
alone enough to send it into liquidation ?
* * * *
Melb. Stock Exchange proposes to introduce the
“ carry-over ” system of fortnightly settlements. Same
idea discussed in Sydney, where the brokers are probably
not game enough. The system has been running for years
in London, where £lO enables a man to do £IOO worth of
business, and £IOO permits him to finance a £IOOO
gamble. In fact if ’twere not for the carry-over system,
the brokers would have to be satisfied with about one-
tenth of the business.
• * * *
Campbell’s Creek Dredging Cos., the pioneer
dredging concern of Victoria outside of Wallace’s, Yackan-
dandah, is practically a failure on account of the rotten-
ness of the bottom. The ground though shallow is good
enough, but the bottom is bad. The average dredging
co. investor does not know what that means, and the
writer hasn’t time to tell him.
• * * *
Hampden copper mine, Cloncurry, Q. Warden
Linedale reports the existence of 65,000 tons of highly-
payable ore and that several hundred tons have been
classified for consignment to Dapto. That already sent
realised £l6 per ton after paying for bagging, road, rail
and water carriage, and smelting. This is a property
visited by Sehlapp some six months ago when he advised
vigorous prospecting and development work before talking
of either railway or smelter. Of course people who
wanted to boom the district and make money on wind
and paper grew savage and said nasty things of Sehlapp,
who put the first and last nail in the coffin of what looked
like another Queensland copper boom.
• * * *
About 16in. January rain set things going again
at Croydon. First clean-up towards end of month was
from the Golden Gate 3 and 4 South—lo33oz. from 320
tons. Only a partial clean-up, as about 3000 or 4000 tons
will probably go through this time. Gold worth £2 13s.
3Jd. per oz. Golden Gate 3 and 4 South is owned by a
local syndicate. Since taking up lease in ’9B to end of ’99,
it crushed 4944 J tons for 12,2730 z., valued at £33,495.
Out of this, the syndicate had divided £28,070 to end of
last year.
* • * *
The monthly 2s. call on Woodlark Island G.M.
has a steadying effect on contributing scrip till investors
know more about this promising venture ; being oversea,
the mine is free from overcurious inspection. But there
can be no doubt that the promoters and holders thorough-
ly believe in their venture.
* ■» * *
The Flyspeck’s chief gold-producer, the Tas-
mania, last half-year won 15,250 oz. from 11,420 tons ;
£12,000 was paid in divs., £4OOO put to reserve, anj
another £4OOO odd carried on. The mine’s total outturn
since the co. was formed, about 21 years ago, is 472,7270 z.
from 400,345 tons. The best feature of all, though, is that
the yield per ton has not fallen away much—a most un-
usual thing. For the first half Of its 21 years the average
was loz. 4dwt. 12gr. The average for the full 21 years has
been loz. 3dwt. 15gr. The co.’s 472,7270 z. compares with
some Vic. well-known mines as follows : Star of the East
(Ballarat) 213,9690 z., Berry Consols 211,2040 z., Long
Tunnel 682.3150 z., L.T. Extended 282,7470 z., Garden Gully
393,0000 z. (approx.), and Johnson’s Reef 261,8740 z. And
as to divs. : Tasmania £706,071, Star of the East £276,000,
Long Tunnel £1,229,400, L.T. Extended £528,960, Garden
Gully £797,568, Johnson’s Reef £310,220.
* • • •
Queen Margaret is being put up in Melb. where
the office and centre of interest are located. Bulong
field, though disappointing on merit, is always con-
venient for speculation. The divs. so often promised by
Q.M. are now farther off, apparently, than a year ago.
* * * 9
Paringa Consolidated, a very disappointing
W.A. venture, is again creeping up, but not on its merits,
for the show is on tribute and the tributors can hardly
make tucker. Paringa is not much held in Adelaide,
where the office is. Cos. has one million 10s. shares.
Being fully paid, calls are impossible ; so, to prevent
shutting down, recourse was had to tribute.
• * • *
Boulder Half Mile South has not jumped as was
expected and predicted on the shares becoming fully paid.
Fact is this late report stares at speculators : “ Shaft
reached 511 ft. from surface, country gone through was
without change." Even should the London float come off
its success will be governed by the discovery of payable
stuff.
• • • •
The yearly report and plans of Hannan’s Oroya
prove it beyond a doubt to be a well-worked concern. It
has been mining and milling 7dwt. ore at a profit. No
other mine in Kalgoorlie that this scribe knows of has
done that, and the excellent way in which the mine is
opened as shown by the plans clearly demonstrates how
this economical result has been brought about.
• * • •
Australian newspapers attribute the Westralian
share slump to the Transvaal war, but as the Rand stocks
suffered much less there surely must have been another
fly in the ointment.
• * • *
Another 2s. 6d. div. declared by the Waihi Cos.,
M.L., equal to a distribution of £40,000. Total dividends
to date, £508,500. The Waihi, which lately found another
rich lode, is running the biggest mill in Australasia, and
is certainly one of the world’s greatest gold mines.
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
MERCERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT HAT,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPJCAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
oar IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
IDIEIP.A.IRTIIVCIEIN'a?.,
COMPANY’S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE.
Sydney, 1 9th February, 1900.
I have the honor to submit the following advance Statement of the business of this Company for
the year ending December 31st, 1899, rendered approximately according to the requirements of the
British Board of Trade, and showing the gains over the year 1898 :
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st, 1899.
Assets Exceed
Contingent Guarantee Fund and Divisible
Surplus Exceed
Premium Income Exceeds
Total Income Exceeds
Death Claims Exceed .. .. .. ;.
Payments to Policyholders Exceed
New Business Paid for Exceeds
Insurance in Force Exceeds
£61,980,000
£10,293,000
£8,657,000
£12,932,000
£3,293,000
£5,54-0,000
£34,752,090
£216,153,000
Increase over previous year, £4,994,923
Increase over previous year,
Increase over previous year,
Increase over previous year,
Increase over previous year,
Increase over previous year,
Increase over previous year,
Increase over previous year,
£1,163,907
£381,547
£815,733
£593,657
£468,972
£3,303,451
£13,872,307
The Conversion Rate in use by The Mutual Life is more stringent
being s4‘B7 to the pound sterling. If the Rate $4.80 were used the
as above-stated, would amount to £62,884,000, and the amount
£219,306,000.
than in any other Company,
Assets, instead of appearing
of Insurance in Force to
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
SOCIETY
Beyond much doubt we now begin to see
the end of the war, from which our troops,
“England’s Pups,” will sooner or later return
after having been “blooded,” to borrow a word
from that masterful old tyke, Mr. Henry Cope-
land, M.L.A. The Bulletin does not hesitate
to predict that after the gigantic forces of the
British Empire have flattened out the Boers
as a road-roller flattens out gravel, Australia will
not be half so proud of its share in the deed as it
is to-day. For, brave as have been many of the
exploits of the big battalions, the glory will be on
the side of the conquered.
Stiff, glory doesn’t count in a war for plunder.
The loot is the thing. The Transvaal, when the
conflict began, was on a gold-producing basis of
£20,000,000 a year, and it was reckoned that with
the opening of the deep levels and other develop-
ments a yield of 40 millions sterling per year was a
certainty of the near future. The Stock Exchange
plotters who organised the war will, no doubt, be
much obliged to us for our share in the enterprise,
MORE INTENSE LOYALTY.
KIND LADY : "Here, you boys, just leave the poor
kid alone. What yer mean teasing ’im like
that — en’ why don’t yer let ’im put his shirt
in?"
BOLGER 'O99 : “ Please , missus ’e sez ’e’s a Boer,
en’ we’re makin’ ’im show the white flag!”
and we shall get part of our reward by a free-
handed allotment of commissions in the Imperial
army among that large and fast-increasing section
of our rising youth, who prefer sport of any kind,
even man-killing, to prosaic work.
The soldiering industry is going to be a big
thing in Australia. This will presently be a
veritable nation of swashbucklers, and on the hat-
rack of every club you will presently see hung the
swords of 40 amateur colonels. No wonder you
find men flocking to the Jingo standard on the
terms offered —4s. 6d. a day with rations, prospec-
tive pension, free passage to a new country ; and
then in the case of at least one section of the
volunteers it is held out that the widow of any
man killed is to get a life-pension of £3 a week.
Now, many a married man goes to the war
for the sake of peace, and because he would
rather face the Boers than the missus. In
view of the £3 a week pension to widows,
a sinister feature of the Contingent move-
ment will be the amount of encouragement
received by men from their wives to go forth and
aid in the expansion of the Empire. So far as
mere money goes, many a widow with £l5O
annual pension will be a lot better off when hubby
is in Heaven than ever she was during his stay on
earth. And as to the contingenters’ pay —few
station-hands get Sis. 6d. weekly as a regular
thing, and their existence is dull-brown indeed
compared with the life of a military hero with a
baton in his knapsack.
The voters of Australia, like those of England,
as yet know very little about the rights and
wrongs of the Transvaal war, and when they be-
come enlightened they will be angry, and ashamed
of themselves. They will find that Chamberlain,
the man by whom England has been deceived and
dragged into this unholy conflict, is too deeply
concerned in huckstering ever to effectively pose as
a disinterested statesman. Apart from the smell-
fullness of his connection witli Jameson-Rhodes it
came out last year that in the Nigeria Company
(East Africa), which lately received from the British
Govt, nearly a million of money for abrogating
nothing but duties which it had shown itself unfit
to. perform, he and his brother, Arthur Chamber-
lain, held a 30th of the shares, and they drew their
£30,000 from the Imperial Treasury while Colonial
Secretary Chamberlain was stiff in office !
* * *
The so-called Patriotism of this war-
drunken moment floods the country over with a
morass of literary slush. Look at the “poems”
inspired here and elsewhere by the prevailing
fanaticism—heavy, thick, stupid, suggestive of the
dull, oozy flow of Yarra in the days of its supreme
stench. The prose is no better ; it is degradingly
dull, feeding popular hatred and intolerance with
the cheapest cant. And the drama—ye gods !
the drama of popular modern patriotism—what a
fearful thing to any man who has outgrown the
clannish instincts of the tailed ape! To be
sure all human sentiments have been productive
of literary rot, but mawkish twaddle and scream-
ing folly may be abused and ridiculed wherever
found excepting only in the patriotic ballad, the
patriotic drama, or the patriotic press. Patriotic
rot is Sacred.
Printed in a Natal paper that an English
surgeon counted nine dead Dutch women in the
trenches at Colenso, and that among the same
doctor’s wounded were many Boer boys of from 13
to 16 years; also that several Boer prisoners
appeared to be considerably over 70 years of age;
one claimed to be 76, and another had on him his
marriage-certificate dated 1838.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Be family addition and
subtraction theory
lately referred to in
Melb. by an arch-
bishop and a judge.
My nurse-girl a
respectable truthful
child —gives me the
following facts. Her
father (churchgoer
and staunch tee-
totaller) mother and
eleven vulgar frac-
tions live in a 4-
roorned house in
Carlton. Four girls,
eldest 16, and four
boys, eldest 18 years
of age, sleep in one
room—former on bed,
latter on floor.
Parents and re-
mainder of the long
division occupy other
bedroom. Third
apartment used as
kitchen, dining-
room, etc. Fourth
uninhabitable for
reasons that I am
willing to communi-
cate verbally when no one is about. My advice
to those about to marry is—well, I will com-
municate it verbally also when there are even less
people about than when I am communicating the
other thing.— Carlton.
■ * * *
There is talk of raising in Melbourne a
monument to the Victorian soldiers who have
fallen in South Africa, “like that raised to the
Guards who died in the Crimea.” It is not a good
thing, from the “Patriotic” point of view, to
bring up the Crimean parallel just now. John
Bright was once walking up Waterloo Place,
where the Guards’ monument is, with his young
son, who asked what was the meaning of the word
“ Crimea” carved on the stone. Bright replied :
“A crime.”
* * * •
One potent factor in the present war-
delirium is that Australia lacks and yearns for
heroes of the sensational sort. The want is now
to be supplied by the slaughter, in a foreign land
and in the unholy cause of Greed, of many of ou •
best and bravest, and already there are public
monuments to the dead. Apropos of which, there
came to San Francisco the other day a ship laden
with the trophies of war —just such another war as
the South African one'. On the decks were sick
and wounded men ; in the hold were 600 coffined
corpses of American soldiers.
* * * *
At Port Adelaide Police Court the other
day a man was ordered to contribute towards the
maintenance of his illegitimate child, named Sir
Red vers Charles Buffer Cecil Jameson Rhodes.
And there is announced in a Q. country paper the
death of Tugela Modder Spionkop Gaussmann,
aged 6 weeks. No wonder !
* * » *
J ustice Hodges’ three death-sentences at
one court is far from being the Australian record
that people try to make out. The first recorded
executions —not mere sentences —in Vic. were two
batches of three each, while Sydney has hanged
nineteen in one morning.
IN. A GALLERY.
H E: “ Fine portrait, that of Mrs.
Smithbrown.”
SHE: “ Nonsensel I'll admit she’s
handsome, but she’s ever so much
older than the artist makes her
seem. What is the reason? ”
H E: “ Well, you see, he was such a
young artist.”
“The Absent-minded Beg-
gar” removes “kid” out of the
slang dictionary. The clergy—
such is the force of transmuting
genius—will even ask: “Who
are the parents of this kid ? ” in
Holy Baptism. And when the
Duchess of Abercorn shows her
baby, the Duchess of Buccleuch
will exclaim—“Oh, what a lovely
kid!”
The Chairman of the N.S.W. Bushmen’s
Contingent, Daily Telegraph President J.
Randal Carey, erstwhile captain in a Maoriland
squad of volunteer cavalry, has been raised to the
rank of “Major” of N.S.W. Reserve of Officers,
as a tentative reward for services rendered ; but
bigger things are looked for. In its issue of 21st
inst., the D.T. contained a leader entitled “ The
‘Honor ’ Market,” which, while severely slating
the unprincipled who buy titles with cash, points
out that the title won by real service belongs to a
different category, and, referring to the bene-
factors of their race, concludes :
Titling (sic) such men is the only way by which a
grateful nation can show its appreciation of their merits,
and the snobbery of the one who superciliously refuses the
token of gratitude thus tendered, is more offensive than
that of the purchaser of an “honor” who merely grati-
fies a harmless vanity, whereas the other man offers a
needless insult to public generosity.
Coming events cast their shadows before !
By the way, The Bulletin doesn’t remember
to have seen two members of any Australian
Government knighted in one act. To whom,
then, will the one knighthood reserved for N.S. W.
Ministry go on next Queen’s birthday ? To Pre-
mier Lyne, or to his outrageously Jingo Minister
of Defence ? Or will it go to the erstwhile pro-
fessed democrat O’Sullivan ?
* * » *
A Wellington (M.L.) magistrate recently
expressed surprise “ that a man who had just un-
dergone three months’ imprisonment for vagrancy,
should have been able to obtain a license as a
wharf-porter.” Quite so. Instead of going to
work for a living the abandoned miscreant should
have remained a vagrant—and thus have
qualified for another three months. Else
what are magistrates tor ?
“C.M.Gr.”: Melbourne papers
have been quoting, with delight,
the opinion of a Boer parson that
the world is flat, as a proof of the
ghastly ignorance of the Boer
and his inability to govern
himself. Found on the table
in a local public library the
same day the monthly jour-
nal of a Victorian society
which lives, breathes, and
has its being solely for the
purpose of convincing the world
that it is as flat as a pancake.
“ Thorold ” : To supplement “ Griffith u
on vaccination. During 14 days’ quarantine I
diligently sounded the health - officials. They
variously professed to hold inoculation good
against small-pox for three, five, and seven years,
but stipulated that anyone unvaccinated within
the 12 months preceding quarantine should fester.
Many of the Transvaal refugees by the Nineveh
had been lanced a few months previously, but had
to go through the grievous process again, and the
old gentleman who fathered the outbreak bore the
marks of an efficient vaccination, undergone six
weeks before developing small-pox.
In a Melb. suburb,
one recent night, a respect-
able married couple ex-
perienced a great shock on
finding a total stranger
in their bed, snoring vio-
lently, when they Returned
from a visit to a relative.
It was about 11 o’clock,
and there was evidence
that the intruder had burst
in through the kitchen
door, and gone straight to
bed, “just as if he be-
longed.” In the first glad
burst of surprise the re-
spectable couple seem to
have raised the neighbor-
hood, and friends flocked
in to investigate, and to
admonish the intruder, who
had gone to roost in his
hat. The unknown was
sleeping very noisily, too,
and the malt-house atmos-
phere that enveloped him
suggested that he had
been drunk nine times
since breakfast. When
several gentlemen tried to
wake him he snorted like
a galled ox, and muttered
vague generalities about
Amelia and small domestic
affairs. Once, in a lucid
interval, he said, “ Ning-
lishmansh shome ish _ ish
cashle,” and arose spirit-
edly, and felled a total
stranger with the wash-
basin, but he went to bed
again at once, and eventu-
ally the neighbors had to
drag him out into the
street by his collar, where-
the law intervened. He
was quietly fined one
crown as a plain drunk
next morning, on account
of respectable connections,
and an absence of venge-
ful intention on the part
the respectable couple
whose bed he had embezzled.
Some members of N.S.W Mounted Rifles,
writing from S. Africa, state that they are often
for days at a stretch unable to find time to take off
their clothes, also that they are continuously in
the saddle. The consequence is that their riding-
breeches are sadly out of repair. One member
declares that as he could not take off said articles,
which had resented the constant usage and left of
their own accord in small pieces and at different
times, and he has been compelled to commandeer
an old pair from a dead Boer. Many others
are adopting his plan to escape charges of in-
decency, so dead Boers are at a premium, and
there is an additional inducement for the M.R. to
kill Boers. Fortunately, a lady much interested
in the reputation of the corps is making an effort
to send clothing to the men at the front, though
they want it a great deal more at the back.
* * * *
WhatmemberofN.S. W. Labor-party—they
are the abstemious party in Parliament—will earn
the honor of compelling a list of defaulters to the
refreshment-bar of the House to be published ?
The list to go back, say, five years, and to show
only the names of men now members of Assembly
and Council. If the Labor-party won’t compel
the list to be produced, no other person or party
will, and according to well-grounded reports the
public will go on standing treat without knowing
it.
AT THE CONTINGENT SEND-OFF.
Herr Winckler, hearing that his loyalty was
impugned, and that some of his customers were
going to boycott his store, resolved to show that his
loyalty was as genuine as anybody else’s.
One of the chaplains of the second Vic-
torian contingent for South Africa ranks as Major
and draws £1 9s. 6d. per day, or £538 per annum.


mn
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
and BRISBANE.
LARGE STOCK of FLASKS^
In all Sizes, Kept in Stock.
STERLING SILVER, from 45/-
ELECTRO-PLATED, Best Quality, from 17/
f ; end for Illustrated
Catalogue of - . .
Jewellery and Watches, &c B
m
Refreshing:!
Invigorating:!
ADD A LITTLE
CONDY’S
Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is Magical.
Beware of Colonial ImitatiO's
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID.”
The foil owing name & add- ess
should be at foot of label:
Condy & Mitchell, 65, Goswell Rd., London, Eng.
nm
The W.C.T.U. at Auckland, M.L., recently
passed a resolution “in favor of raising the age
of consent to 21 years.” But why not, in that
case, to 31 ?
YOU WOULDN’T CATCH
Us advertising “D.C.L.” Scotch Whisky so
largely unless we were prepared to convince the
public of its absolute purity, by supplying only an
article which they will ask for again and again,
and refuse all others.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
BLIGHT. BLIGHT.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment —beyond
doubt the best remedy ; over 50 years’ reputation
and still unrivalled. Sold everywhere, in pots 2s.
each. Never be without it.*.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGES
...0n...
Mr. Frafyk Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
PR EE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The Absent-minded craze is beginning to
grow aggressive. We had Trilby tea-sets, toilet-
ware, &c. Now a George-street (Sydney) shop is
exhibiting cushions made of the Union Jack, and
ticketed ‘ ‘ Absent -minders. ” And the public is cor-
dially invited to buy them and sit on the flag
of Old England.
* * * •
Letter recently received by a Sydney
State school teacher when
enrolling a new pupil:
Please Mr. , Francis
age is 8 years old and 9
month i of Perspiration
Religon. I am Mrs.
Blank.
THE BORROWING GRAZE.
LITTLE BOY: “ Please , Airs. Rorke, mother sent
me to ask you could you lend her a squeeze of
your blue-bag for a blow of her bellows? ”
Australia v. Transvaal—New Hollanders
v. Old Hollanders.
* • * *
Verily Sydney has gone mad when the
Throne is used by -a smart trader amid the
vociferous applause of politicians, press and public,
as a poster-hoarding for the puffing of his wares ;
and the high priest of the supreme temple of
Justice is employed to Publicly Baptise a Pup !
* * * *
Adelaide Hospital bubonic-plague scare
was finally killed last week, when the second case
was finally pronounced to be typhoid. The
doctors interested still protest, but there is no de-
mand by them for an independent expert opinion.
Private enterprise in catching rats and depositing
them at the Health Office has now been dis-
couraged, and the sausage industry once more gets
a fair show.
At Melbourne, one day last week, one
Judge passed sentence of death on three persons,
arraigned for separate crimes. Australia has had
Judges who would have absolutely revelled in
such an opportunity.
* * * *
Messrs. Lister and Collingridge, the newly-
appointed trustees of N.S.W. National Gallery,
are believed by all who know them to be men of
absolute honesty, but (as was Mr. Julian Ashton,
who lately resigned from the trust) they are to
some extent in a false position. They are both
practising artists, and have undertaken not to sell
to the Gallery any pictures of their own. So far
so good. But they are both art-teachers, and past
experience shows that endless complications arise
out of trustees adjudicating on the works of art-
students, taught by themselves or their rivals.
Most Australian artists derive the chief part of
their incomes from tuition. Australia is a hard
country for the painter. An energetic and most
excellent all-round man, who is well-represented
in N.S.W. National Gallery, and has painted some
really brilliant portraits, told writer the other day
that, barring portrait-commissions and pictures
bought by the G allery-trust, he had never sold in
Australia any picture for over £lO. No wonder
he seeks fresh fields.
An unmarried male correspondent who has
m infant, or at least shouldn’t have one, sends
along the following “Adviceto a Baby .
yoimnay as for' 1 to
hU Crywhen you are ri ££
you about. He thinks (er-
roneously of course) that
anything is better than a
crying baby.
Cry when you are hungry ;
for it is the squealing pig
that gets fed, and your mother
ill get you something to eat; she
always finds your father most
fretful when he is hungry ; and he
is only a baby of larger growth.
Cry when you want something
to do ; for there is not
much music in the
world at once so cheap
and satisfying; and
though you are only a
a baby you should do
your best to enliven
human existence.
Most people are trying to
make a noise in the world.
Then you try ; for nature
has been good to you in this
aspect, and blessed you with
capabilities beyond your elders.
Keep your parents in subjec-
tion from the very beginning.
Never give way to them. Insist
on instant and unquestioning
obedience. It is the golden rule
for the management of parents;
and the only way to make life a
pleasure.
Sleep during the day (when your
mother has a few hours to watch over
you) then you will be able to lie
awake during the night and cry:
and to give her more time in
which to think of you. For she
loves to think of you, and you
owe her all the cheap aud in-
nocent pleasure which you can
give her.
A few hours’ practice in crying,
will, if you are a girl baby,
be very useful to you in after
years, when you are a
woman and want something
badly, and want to get if
with little trouble,.
Do not keep in one posi-
tion for long at a time; for
it may grow into a habit with
you to lie in one position,
and in after years you will
find it convenient to lie in
any position.
Do not be in a hurry to
grow older—for age brings
few things better than a love
.of milk and sleep and music.
And you have that love
and can gratify it,
• *
“Melb.”: St. Mary’s
R.C. Church, opened
the other Sunday, is
almost the architect-
ural gem of Australia.
Card. Moran surprised
people by reading his
sermon. What a little
bit of a voice he has,
coming out of a mouth made
up to whistle ! So few could
hear his arid disquisition that
must be pronounced a total
failure, from the oratorio standpoint.
* * * *
A Melbourne jingo re-named his house a
month or two ago “ Buller’s Betreat it was the
leafy kind of place that one naturally calls a
retreat, and he meant no harm. But the paint
was hardly dry on the new name before
Buller started retreating, and then the
friends of that house-owner saw pre-
meditated insult in the name, and
called him all sorts of traitors.
At Jenolan Caves (Xmas,
1885) there were more visitors
than the accommodation house
would hold, so we gave the
inside of the premises to the
ladies and camped everywhere.
In the morning a lady lifted
up a corner of her bedroom
blind to admire the sunrise
and have her finer feelings
harrowed by the red gleams
of the dawn upon the moun-
tains. She found a face
looking in at her—a chalk-
white, distorted face with a
mouth drawn sideways, a
look of struggle and striving
in the eyes, and a foam
upon the lips. In one up-
lifted hand was a razor.
Her shriek blew down three
stalactites in the caves, and
we all raced round the
corner to the rescue. And
there we found a very deaf
old city gentleman who mildly
complained that it was “ hard
enough to shave in a window-pane with-
out women spoiling the reflection by lifting up
the blind.”
* * * *
“E.M.S.” writes to the dailies, urging
the sacrifice of one-quarter of Hyde Park, Sydney,
for the purposes of a railway-station, on the
ground that the revenue derived therefrom by way
of rent from Govt, would plant and decorate the
other three-fourths, provide for the playing of
bands, etc., etc. Bands playing amid the
roar of traffic, the clanging of bells, and the
shrieking of steam - engine whistles ! Which
sordid proposal is quite on a level with the scheme
to grab a big hunk of the Domain foreshore for
the construction of wharves. Verily there is no
sacrilege too brutal for the trader with an axe to
grind.
“Yucca” : Travelling on N.S.W. railway
recently I threw aside a magazine I had been
reading. Man near me asked for it to give to a
gateman on the line ahead. I showed interest and
it was explained that said gateman, when a porter,
had been fearfully injured some years ago. After
being stitched and nailed and rivetted and silver-
plated, the recklessly-generous commissioners gave
their servant, who had been mangled in their
employ, a billet as gatekeeper at 7s. 6d. a week.
He has a wife. (Imagine two honest persons try-
ing to live on three half-crowns a week, even when
their two-roomed humpy is rent-free !) After a
time gateman petitioned commissioners, and they
added another half-crown. Hours 6 a.m to lOp.mi
* * * *
A confession made by the prisoner related that
she had come to Melbourne On 15th January with
her child . . . had 2s. in her possession, and
vainly tried to get accommodation at the Young
Women’s Christian Temperance Union. At both
places she was informed that they did not take in
women with babies. . . She eventually managed to get a
night’s shelter at a place in Bourke-street for Is. 6d. On
leaving there in the early morning, in an absolutely dis-
tressed condition, she walked across Princes Bridge and
wandered up and down the bank of the river. She finally
undressed her baby, and let it drop gently into the river
and left without waiting to see whether it sank or not.—
(The case of Margaret Heffernan at Melb, Crim. Court.)
Absconded lawyer Grey’s property at Gee-
long was sold by auction last week. Eifteen acres
of expensive garden, together with a house suited
to a person of Grey’s advanced tastes, went for
£2OOO the lot, whilst 10a. of paddock, for which
the missing ’bezzler had paid £7O per acre five
years ago, were knocked down for a third of the
money. Grey seems to have not even troubled to
make good personal investments with his clients
boodle.
»• * *
It is now proposed to erect a monument
over the graves of the murdered Murphys, at
Gatton (Q.), and subscriptions are invited. It is
usual for papers, &c., to be placed under such like
WAR NEWS.
Mrs. Jones gets word that her husband has fallen
at the front!
masses of stone, and the Q. Govt, should plant the
Police Commission report there.
Daring the present Australian war-drunk
a sharp eye should be kept on the qualifications
of the men seeking army-commissions. A few
years ago a.young man offered himself as a gunner
for a local artillery corps, but (though acceptance
of men physically fit is only a matter of form) was
rejected as deficient in common intelligence. Six
months later, however, when at a review, the
sergeant who had recommended said rejection
encountered a splendiferous costume, with much
gold lace and gorgeous epaulettes, and was
astounded to recognise within it the would-be
gunner—now a full-blown lieutenant.” And this
man —rejected as hopelessly incompetent for a
common gunnership—is now a major ! How’s it
worked ?
’ # * * *
The horrors of war. Lieut. Roberts (Vic.)
just killed at Rensburg, describes a visit to a Boer
farmhouse. After searching the place he emerged
to find one of his men with a Boer girl on each
amp kissing them vigorously. “ The girls could
not speak English,” naively concludes Roberts,
“but they seemed quite friendly.”
* * • *
Why not call the Bushmen’s Brigade
“ The Clancys ? ”
* * * *
“ S. the W.” from Melbourne :
Two married men of the “ Bushmen ” told me flat that
they were going for pay not for patriotism, and that they
swore they were single. You see there is a revival of
prosperity in Victoria.
STICKING TO HIS KOPJE.
EDITOR: “What do you mean by spelling Boer
with a small [?] all through this Transvaal
article? ”
COMP: “Don’t the article itself distinctly state
that the Boers must be kept down? ”
News of aif affectionate family comes from
Maoriland. A man had died in hospital, and,
after he had been duly coffined, his brother
called. The hospital authorities, thinking the
brother wanted a last fond look at his late rela-
tive, offered to unscrew the coffin and let him gaze
Qnce more qn the lineaments of the departed.
The bereaved qno accepted the offer thankfully,
and the coffin was opened. Then the live brother
struck the dead one with great vigor on the head
and cursed.
Let us sing in simple Fashion
Of the good old Moral ban
Which befalls unmarried woman
Who is “ guilty ” with a man ;
If his pleasant eyil passion
Prove her nature merely human,
Heaven help the careless woman
Born to suffer for a man !
Though the preacher at the minster
Liken Heaven to a child
There’s no mercy for the mother
Who was easily beguiled.
If she bear the brand of “ spinster,”
So her shame she’s apt to smother,
For ’tis h —-1 to be the mother
Of a loye-begotten child.
Should she ask a pious sister
For a shelter in her need
Well, the Church’s scowling daughter
Turns an ear which doesn’t heed ;
Then with no one to assist her,
And no money to support her,
She drops “ shame ” i n,to the water,
And we shudder at the deed.
Still the parson and the Abb6
Preach of Mary Magdalene,
And we laud our absent brother
Potting Dutchmen “ for the Queen,”
Whilst the spinster kills her babbie
,{One crime’s kinder than the other)
just because its weeping mother
Sinned the sin of Magdalene.
BALLADE OF A BOX OF CIGARS.
What do you see when the lid’s upturn’d ?
Fifty angels, lying in line ;
Fifty martyrs, fain to be burn’d ;
Fifty maids, for a match who pine.
Let poets prate pf the breath <?£ kine ;
As for me, I could easily fill a
Book with the praise of the scent divine,
The blue-white breath of an old Manila !
Fortune’s gifts I have lightly spurn’d ;
Fate is stern—l never repine :
From Love and Letters and Art I’ve turned,
For these may fade and their charms decline ;
But she for ever young shall shine,
My goddess : eadem semper ilia ;
Age cannot stale her fragrance fine,
The blue-white breath of an old Manila !
Where shall I go when my rest is earn’d ?
To heaven my hopes do not incline,
For there they allow, I have lately learned,
Neither cigars nor old port-wine.
I shall hang (in the Zodiac) a sign :
To Let, in Heaven, a Furnished Villa ;
Then back to this old arm-chair of mine
And the blue-white breath of an old Manila !
Poet ! The sounding verse is thine,
But of grace or of fancy no scintilla,
Unless thou hast viewed the Maidens Nine
Thro’ the blue-white breath of an old Manila !
NICK O'TEEN.


The Event of the Month!
Olark Foy’s Fair
All Drapers Everywhere.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
n
The
Infallible
Exterminator of Bedroom Insects.
is now obtainable from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 The
Strand.
SIU 38119
have N O Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 27, 1900.
Mr Dear Myee,—
An .immense success was the Patriotic Sports
Meeting last Wednesday. Fifty thousand people,
upwards of £2OOO.
By the way, St. Vincent’s Hospital Charity
Ball had to adjourn the meeting last week as no-
body turned up to assist.
To return to the Sports, everybody you can
imagine was there. Edith Crane was a disillusion
in a weird dress modelled on our Lancers’ regi-
mentals. She wore a short, bright brown skirt, a
Norfolk jacket piped with bright red, a big felt
man’s hat, and her hair in a knob of curls at the
back. A most trying get-up, and I am still
wondering what induced her to do herself such an
injustice. Seen in the daylight without a veil she
looked pallid and worn. But her bones are
beautiful; in the contour of her chin lies the
charm. She sold badges for the Fund rather ner-
vously. Actresses seem somehow to flinch at the
sight of a day-time crowd. I remember Henrietta
Watson, at the Hospital Fair, moaning that she
could act all day and all night for a charity, but
she couldn’t sell a picture-frame.
In the tea-rooms, crowds of Society girls helped
to complicate the problem of how to get a cup of
tea. The business done here was colossal. That
fact—and, of course, that fact only—made the
sale of Premier Lyne’s photographs at the tea-
counter seem a little unnecessary. Someone picked
up a photo, and examined it curiously. “See,
’Arriet, ’ere’s Kruger,” I heard her telling her
companion.
As for the sports themselves, they were mere
details beside the crowds. The Chinese were the
great attraction. After them, the Bushmen,
whose riding and jumping kept at least twenty
thousand people dumb with admiration for
about an hour. And for those who couldn't
see anything, there was always a girl selling
cigars, badges, button-holes, or souvenirs, or
a dog going round with a money-box.
Which reminds me of what happened on a
North Shore ferry-boat the other day. Little boy
with a box; “Giss a penny for the pvetrotic
fund.” Nasty old gent: “What lolly-shop are
you going to spend it at, my boy ?”
And still the “ colonial ” twangeth its admoni-
tion to “Pie, pie, pie.” At the Tivoli—pardon,
the Criterion-—Harry Rickards is joined every
night by all his gods, who shout away, led on by
Harry, with all the long stops out on all the i’s
and the places where there are no i’s, legitimately.
Oh, Kipling, Kipling, “ thou little knowest what
mischief thou hast done! ” Why couldn’t you
have made it “Give, give, give,” or something
equal!)’ pronounceable, and suitable to our parti-
cular climate?
Thousands again at the Bushmen’s review on
Saturday. There were some largo women in the
Royal Box that one didn’t know. Also, there was
Major Lee in a gold-braided cap looking curiously
like Col. Spalding with Ins face flattened.
Most _ of the dresses would have suggested
alarming sacrifices, but what a number of
lovely girls, the pick of the bush as well as the
town ! Fortunately, the wind blew the right way,
as the mounted men made a miniature dust-storm
each time they passed. The men looked really
splendid, and the horses, with notable exceptions,
are a great lot for the work. About half-a-dozen
dogs kept trotting past for the pleasure of hearing
folks say “ there’s Busine,” and one small pup got
in the way of a horse’s foot, and retired howling.
To my mind, the strangest thing was that the
mounted men had no arms—no rifle, sword, or any-
thing, just their bronzed cheeks and the uniforms.
The poor infantry had to stand still in the dust
until the horseman had gone off to hunt for Boers
in the bush bsyant, but they marched splendidly
when they did come to the front, though unfortu-
nately most of the audience by then had rushed
the camp to see if the men had clean sheets, &c.,
in their tents. Oh, and the buck-jumping ! First
of all the mounted men went past in single file,
and one horse played up opposite the stand and
came down with his rider, who thereupon took off
his spurs and got up again. He was a hero, for
some thousands of folks were watching him. By
the way, ’busses took you from the tram to the
f round and back—fare 2d. if you had two coppers,
ut 3d. if you wanted change. That’s a veritable
woman’s item, eh ?
The story goes that a most delightful, amusing,
gay and new way of paying old debts has been in-
vented by a smart Sydney so-so-ciety woman, who
is too hard-up to help being ingenious. She gives
a little informal dinner, and asks Mi’s. Someliody-
Smith among others. When dinner is over, and
the ladies are alone in the drawing-room, she glides
gracefully up to Mrs. Somelxxly-Smith and begins
a nice little homely, unaffected conversation about
household affairs. By-and-bye, she remarks, “Oh,
I have such a very good butcher. I don't suppose
you noticed, but really his meat is Imautiful.”
“Oh, yes, I did notice,” says Mrs. Smith, who
feels like old times in this, well—thawed sort of talk.
“Well, he’s Jones, of Green -street, and I can compare
him to nothing but a perfect treasure. Do try him.”
“I want to change iny butcher,” says Mrs. Smith,
reflectively, as if that wasn’t what every woman
wants to do. “I will—l will try him.” “So
glad—sure you’ll like him.”
Two days later hostess steals round to Jones’s
in Green-street. “Good morning, Mr. Jones.
By the way, has Mrs. Somebody-Smith given you
her custom?” “Yes ’m, came this morning.”
“ Oli, well, see here, / sent her to you. Very big
custom hors.” “Oh, right, mum—er —er —your
liaccount can stand hover for the present, mum.’ 1
“ Thank you, Mr. Jones. Good morning.” And
that’s how she does it.
Among other distinguished people gone Home
this month is “ The Queen of Siieba.” Is anyone
sorry? Will anyone miss her? To Sydney’s
credit, let it be said that whenever there was a
crowd round that picture, as there has not been
for a very long time, you would always hear—
tv hat, a lovely frame! ” The Corporation of
-London has sent to borrow that lovely frame
(item, the picture), which is to be at a
representative English art exhibition in the°Guild
Hall next May.
Henry the 5000 or so was revived on Saturday
night at Her Majesty’s.” The house was like
Kignold s palmy, limelit days all over again—
crowded in all parts. And never, probably, in
Kignold’s long stage career, has “Once more'unto
the breach, dear friends,” been'invested by his
audience with so much meaning. The house saw
lyddite and dum-dum and shrapnel in every war-
like line, and cheered it to the echo. In the new
caste is pretty Miss Lena Brasch, a Sydney girl
whose Oriental beauty has figured on local
canvas more than once. She played the
ingenue in Mrs. Brown-Potter’s “Francillon ”
but I have never seen her in anything since
Low she figures as a boy. Emilie Hughes and
Linda Raymond show an improved acquaintance
with make-up. The fair Linda, who used to over-
redden and over-whiten herself as Dacia, is now
acquiring quite a big reputation for good looks.
Miss Hughes draws herself up excellently as
Queen Katherine, but one’s old longing to break
the stick in her speech is as strong as ever.
Speaking of peculiar intonations. Alice Deor-
wyn—Mrs. Charles Holloway—carries affectation’
to the point of absurdity, and yet her daughter,
little Alice Holloway with the red gold hair, is as
natural a stage-child as Sydney has ever seen.
Her sweet, clear voice never even developes into a
shout. She is said to be an excellent mimic, and
often amuses her mother by taking off the mother’s
mincing talk.
Re thespians. Everyone has been startled lately
to hear that a quite-recently married actress is
already trying to break the bonds between her and
her heavily-gilded English husband.
As good as a play in its way was the sale of
Wentworth pictures and furniture at Lawson and
Caro’s auction rooms last Monday. One of the big-
gest bidders was the fascinating Mrs. Mitchell.
Attired in black, with a big, black hat covered
with sweeping feathers, she and her sister, Miss
Rose Gore, came down in person, dazzled the
roomful of dealers and curio - hunters, and
made their own selections carefully. One
of Mrs. Mitchell’s purchases was a “Holy
Family,” after Raphael, which she bought
for twenty guineas. Most of her pictures
inclined to the sacred and the large—Madonnas,
Maddelenas, Adorations, and so forth. As it is
persistently rumored that she and her two children
are going to make a lengthy visit to London
shortly, one can understand better why she
turns “Longwood,” her new house at Dar-
-Img Point, into a Chamber of Horrors.
The idea obviously is that knowing they
are at home she will be so much the happier
abroad. The wildest imagination cannot depict
that mercurial widow dining happily among the
oil paintings _ that the catalogue describes as
“from the dining-room.”
The sale was a humming success. Everything
was sold. China, particularly, was eagerly
snatched at. One enthusiast gave £24 for two bits of
Chamberlain Worcester cracked to pieces. The
pictures, be it said, are weird reminders of what
people with money like to buy. They were
collected on the Continent certainly, but that only
deepens the anguish that will arise”at the thought
of bringing them all that long, long way.
By the way it is only 28 years since William
Charles Wentworth was given a public funeral in
Sydney. But such is fame ! Every now and then
a woman would roam up to an auctioneer and ask
curiously: “ Where’s Mr. Wentworth going ? Is
he going Home?” “No, madam, he has oone
there,” the aggravated man replied to one of them.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ The yarn hits gone the rounds that Janet
Lady Clarke has been scared by the near approach
of the Collingwood railway into selling her big
Melb. mansion for swell-hotel purposes. Baronet
Clarke, however, vetoed any sale of the property
by his will. By the way, the two obsolete
Rupertswood guns which used always to be so
scrupulously burnished, have rusted badly on the
Clieveden doorstep, and the prevailing impression
is that they are now merely ornamental dustbins
for the early-morning slavey.
“Miss Aileen Rowan is so like the Madden
girls, so pink-cheeked and blue-eyed and soft-
throated, that most of the papers fell into the
error of taking her for one of them at the pro-
rogation. Why the august personage brought her
niece instead of her daughter was explained in a
way by Mrs. Madden’s remark to her friends that
the looked-for Leslie was at Frankston, where she
had returned after the Rowan-O’Hara junketings.
The fair Ruby is with her sister—Mrs. Harry
Osborne—in Sydney. Mrs. Madden wore a
silver-grey frock with silver fringe, and a weary
air. She is pale and languid these days. Miss
Rowan heightened her pinkness by a vivid blush-
rose billowy silk frock, pearls and white furs
being in relief. Mrs. Downes, in a nondescript
dress, carried a business-like handbag. Mrs.
Donald Mickinnon, who is of the big, bouncing
order of beauty, carried off a black voile dress and
picture hat.
“At the Council President’s recent tea-crush
some fashionables told their friends that they were
making pyjamas for the ‘sweet soldiers.’ l lt
there a back and a front?’ they asked large-
bosomed mammas, and ‘ would it be nice to put
pockets in them?’ Every self-respecting female
now carries a pocket scissors and a thimble and a
packet of needles in her satchel, or pocket, for one
never knows where she may strike a sewing-bee.
“A fashionable Melb. bride, last week, fell into
the old mistake of hitching her train too precipit-
ately round the church porch and casting it under
a Vandal hoof. This time it was the parental
foot that came down sharply on the trailing
splendor, pretty well reefing it off the shoulders
where it was tacked on. The bonnie heroine, too
happy to care what was happening in the rear,
tugged the train from its foothold and walked on
serenely—one loveknot of blossom and lace the lass.
“ The Melbourne girl is often said to copy the
New York girl in her dress, and she imitates some
of her customs as well. She entertains her friends
on her own account ; sometimes at home, when
her mother never appears (it isn’t etiquette for the
old lady to appear, and no daughter who has
brought her parent up properly would allow her to
do so) ; sometimes, if she wishes to include men,
at a cafe. She also affects the ‘rockers,’ in which
she rocks on the verandah with her feet at a con-
siderable elevation, while ‘momma’ amuses her-
self inside, possibly with ‘ chores.’ ‘C no res ’ is a
beautiful Americanism which seems to cover every-
thing down to chopping wood.
“ A clever Southern matron has all along
shown herself capable of taking the measure of
Mere Man’s boot, whether worn by a pursy peer,
a penniless lordling, an ordinary ‘nice boy,’ or
her own hubby. At present, the ‘madding
crowd’ crowns her with fresh laurels on the
strength of her alleged share in the successful
upshots of the two most interesting love affairs
of the season. Picture to yourself as guests under
the diplomatist’s roof an heiress, a moneyed
bachelor, an impecunious belle of the host’s clan,
and a likeable though by no means wealthy male
friend of the hostess’ youth. What other woman
coping with such a quartette would have been
rewarded at last by the engagement of the nice
man to the heiress, and of the pretty kinswoman
to the fellow with the cash ? '
“This letter (from a man) which reached me
the other day, explains itself :
1 have no opinion of the Melbourne girls who are
eccentric. Those who are not feo are simply charming.
But I want to know your opinion on these points.
1. Is it decent to walk up Collins-street with your hair
in curling-pins, at one o'clock ? lam not alluding to the
undercurrent, but to the civnie-de-la-creiiie.
2. Is there no better device than a safety-pin for doing
whatever it is put for in the small of the hack ? I saw one
very well-dressed dowager who had a sort of circular
brooch set with amethysts planted there and matching
her heliotrope dress.
3. Cannot corsets he made so as not to show a Plinisoll
mark across the hack ?
4. Is it lawful to carry the umbrella at the ‘ Port Arms,’
thereby abrading my ear and ruining my temper? It
was a titled lady who did this going into the Grand.
“ Most country towns have on their outskirts a
residence, built by some dead and gone local mag-
nate as an ancestral home for his newly-founded
elan. In many cases the frugal ancestor built the
roof-tree late in life and, with many years of bark-
hut in his soul, did not foresee how soon it would
be scorned by his high-stepping descendants, and
called a hovel and a dog-kennel. One such rural
retreat, to lie replaced in the near future by a
mansion for the young folks, was in its day the
apple of its thrifty owner’s eye. That ancient
once enjoyed a far-reaching reputation for friski-
ness, but discarded it and took to churchiness,
and it was in the days of his angular piety that lie
came to build the ‘auld house’ of to-day. Old
residents of that neighborhood still remember
their childish woe when the old man rounded
them up to listen to his delivery of sermons, and
the lifting up of his dreadful voice in hymns, with
a view to testing the acoustic qualities of the then
new rooms.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
According to N.S.W. Lancer Wood, the
horses sent over to South Africa (many of them
ex-police nags) “have all got rotten backs” and
are well-stricken in years. What does Guerilla
Minister See say to this ?
A Vic. contiugenter has written a letter
purporting to describe the shooting at Capetown
of R.E. deserter Greener, captured at Magersfon-
tein. Greener probably fancied he had some mili-
tary secrets for which the benighted foreigner
would pay well. Most soldiers have that idea, be-
cause they are all taught that their army weapons
and system are the best in existence. But when
the soldier, like Greener, starts off to put his skill
up for sale, he finds that the b.f. doesn’t want to
buy, having something quite as good of his own.
“The miserable creature confessed to having
taught the enemy, and to have also fortified the
very kopje where the Gordons and Black Watch
were so terribly cut up.” This was probably only
camp gossip, and, in any case, if Greener could
teach no more than how to make a trench, he was
not worth much. The statements also that he
was compelled to dig his own grave, and that the
band played the “ Rogue’s March,” are obvious
bosh. If a man, in the circumstances, wouldn't
dig his own grave, what could be done to him ex-
cept. what was already going to be done—kill him !
And, as for the band-business, military executions
are always carried out with solemnity and de-
corum.
Officially stated that 1G77 British officers
and men have to date died of wounds received in
the Transvaal war. 306 officers and 52C3 men have
been wounded, and 171 officers and 244 G men are
missing.
British Medical Journal’s war corres-
pondent (Surgeon C. Marsh Beadwell, R.N., with
Lord Methuen’s force), in issue of Jan. 13, deals
with several of the false reports cabled to Aus-
tralia. lie the Loers and the Red Cross he says :
There appear to be men whose aim seems to be to
under-estimate our Josses and to grossly exaggerate the
losses of the enemy ; men who delight to start tales that
stretcher-bearers and ambulance-waggons are fired on bv
the enemy, &c. I fail to understand their motives
Broad-minded soldiers must see that stretcher-bearers
cannot help being shot. No Boers would purposelv fire
on a Red Cross party, is my belief. The Boer hospital
here was struck by shell more than once, and all our
ambulance-waggons were struck by their missiles-a pure
and unavoidable accident on both sides. Most thought-
ful inen will agree that the Boers have proved themselves
to he brave men, and instances of a violation of the laws
of civilised warfare are few and far between.
“In the memory of Scottish men,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, ‘ Magers-
fontem—the shambles of the ‘Black Watch ’&c
will rank side by side with the massacre of Glencoe’.
A letter 1 hare seen from Wauehope to his wife
states that for two hours he argued with Methuen
against the plan of assault, the final issue being
‘General Wauehope, will vou obey orders or
deliver up your sword ? ’ ‘1 shall obey orders
and then the brave old fighter went to the death
Ins written words state lie knew there was no
escape from. Extraordinary letters from High-
landers are appearing in the papers as a result’of
the whole ‘sacrifice ’ pointiug at almost open
mutiny, and Methuen being shot by his men. He
may find some who will commiserate him, for his
mother was most eccentric, and a near relative is
alleged to be under restraint.”
“W.G.S.” to The Bulletin on “the
slave trade in Rhodesiathe territory bossed by
the British Chartered Co. :
A person wanting native labor goes to a Oovt. office at
Bulawayo and pays a fee of Ll and the man is indentured
to Inin for a year. There is a hut-tax of LI per annum.
A lSovt. official goes to any kraal where the tax has not
been paid, and threatens to levy on the cattle, which in
theory all belong to the chief, who is told that he may
pay it in labor. This he does, to save the caVle, bv forc-
ing a certain number of young men in the kr.-.l to‘inden-
ture for a year. When this does not suffice the
chief is given a small sum of money to provide
men, \i hieh he does. A gang obtained is marched
down to Bulawayo under Govt, supervision. If any
black runs away he cannot go back to his kraal, for the
chief would not allow him to remain there, and orders
him to be whipped if lie makes his appearance there
before the expiration of the year. Any man of these
labor-gangs is flogged if he attempts to escape en route
Every black must have a pass, and if found without one
he is seized by the police and receives 25 lashes. There is
no definite rate of wages. In some cases the hands work
for their food or, perhaps, an old shirt or an old pair of
trousers. The owner of a gang of black workers, if he has
no further need of them, sells them for £1 or 30s. to some
one else, the price being dependent upon the period they
have still to work. Blacks are sometimes imported. In
this case they are bought from some chief—generally for
liquor—and when they arrive at Bulawayo or anv other
Govt, centre, passes for them are bought from the Govt.
Unselfish Patriotism and sordid business
are just now so badly mixed in Australia that vou
really can’t disentangle them. Every wide-
awake tradesman is busy glueing his little ad vt.
on the Queen and the throne, and propping
uj) his sandwich-board against the British Con-
stitution. Ihe Throne, in fact, is hardly
visible now for the advts. pasted on it. The
other day a firm presented some goods to a depart-
ing contingent, and on the strength of the gift
several Ministers, three knights, a major-general,
some colonels, and many other prominent citizens!
gathered at the establishment, and made speeches,’
and drank toasts, and cheered until the very
foundations of the buildings shook. Also every
man rose to say that the loyalty of everybody
else there present was something incredible, and
the public-spirited traders incidentally got more
than a column advt. in each of the daily papers.
And the ad vt. didn't stop even there, fornexjtday
people read in the evening paper that—
Two lonics loaded with comforts and luxuries for the
Bushmen's Contingent moved off yesterday from the
establishment of Co., ‘ en route for Ken-
sington camp. The lorries were provided by the well-
known carrying firm of , , free and were
each drawn by four magnificent horses, and’ were con-
voyed by a detachment of ten bushies, under Sergeant
M'cir. The convoy was photographed before the start,
and after traversing the principal streets, was halted before
and Co.’s establishment, where it was again photo-
graphed. The front lorry was hung with over 000 service
canteens, filled with blend tea, the gift of and
Co. These canteens, which glistened in the sun and
made a splendid sight, are a most serviceable combination
of billy, strainer, and pannikin, and the gift is greatly
appreciated by the bushmen.
“ J’lie canteens glistened in tbe sun and made a
splendid sight.” How sad that the lavish deeds
of such nobly generous patriots should be chronicled
by so commonplace and uneloquent a reporter!
llie impotence of the evening scribe on this
memorable and ineffably stimulating occasion
recalls an “ Ode to Cynthia” once written by a
necessitous American newspaper poet:—
“All hail thou glorious Moon,
Bright as a new tin can !
Thou fairest, purest, roundest source
Of bread-and-cheese to man.”


HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed
lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC »*-
Per post, Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
mn
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, Ac.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. OQOK & SON.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. I.— The Baker.
Mr. T. Stkeater writes : “I have received so
much benefit from Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa I feel
that I must thank you for it. I am a baker by
trade, which, as you know, is very hard work, but
I am pleased to say that when I am done of a
night I go home and have a cup of your cocoa, and
feel quite fresh again, and then I go and enjoy
myself. But before I took to Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, I used to mess about indoors as tired as
could be.”
Vi-Cocoa will become a household word amongst
us. Prepared from substances of admitted dietetic
value, Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is at once digestive
and refreshing, nutritious and invigorating. This
is the secret of its phenomenal success. It seems,
so far as we can gather, to agree with everybody,
and everybody is agreed in giving it a good name.
Apparently it is the accepted beverage of a people
who have recognised and appreciated its remark-
able health-giving properties. And certainly in
this age of rush and worry, wear and tear, when
the energies of mind and body are so severely
taxed, it is an ideal food.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
Chemists, Grocers and Stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.*
_ As an unparalleled test of merit, a dainty sample
tin pf .Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa,will be sent free on
application to any address if when writing (a post-
card will do) the reader will name The Bulletin.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be SURE that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
Australasia : C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Ex-champion sculler Beach, now J.P.,
took his seat on the bench at Dapto the other day.
Cecil Rhodes in appearance is a cross
between Pilcher, Q.C., and the late N.S.W. Rail-
way-Commissioner Goodchap.
Prophetic William again :
O Wise, young judge, how
I do honor thee 1
By the recent death of pensioner F. L. S.
Merewether, in England, M. G. H. Cox is the
sole survivor of the N.S.W. Legislative Council of
1863.
The Fitzroy-st. (Sydney) house in which
Capt. Summerbell died suddenly last week is
pointed out as being the one in which Bertrand
murdered Kinder, of the City Bank, in 1866.
Uncle Brassey didn’t pay his bills half as
promptly as he drew his salary. Worse
than that, he seemed to turn nasty when
pressed for early settlement. The nastiest
turn Uncle ever took was in connection
with the “Lelamine” season at the
Princess’s. Alfred Moulton’s opera
was in aid of hospitals and things
for the first week, and His Ex.
booked a private box and a large
tract of dress-circle for each of the
six nights. Moreover, he came along
religiously to see that none of the
tickets were wasted, and he led the ap-
plause in honor of his supporter, Lord
Shaftesbury, who warbled the tenor part.
1 ncle Brassey, to all appearances, was so
thoroughly satisfied with himself and
everybody concerned in the matter, that
the management half-expected a cheque
in addition to the total amount due for
vice-regal tickets. But no such burst of
generosity took place. When it came to
j laying up for the seats he had ordered,
liis Excellency the Governor kept the
balance-sheet waiting until he got a fifth
or sixth urgent request for cash. Then
he replied with a cheque drawn on a
London bank, which ccost the charity-fund a
pretty penny in “ exhange.”
The Argus keeps three-lined cards on its
downstairs counter for the use of any outsider
wanting to see one of the editorial or reporting
staffs. The lines lead off—
Mr
To see Mr
Business
The other night a wag filled in one to read “Mr.
David Syme, to see Mr. Mackinnon. Business,
Amalgamation.” The card was not delivered by
the messen er.
A wealthy member of N.S.W. Leg. Coun-
cil was asked recently for a subscription to a fund
for the relief of a family, the bread-winner of
which had been killed. Said a member of the
deputation : “ If your name heads the list for £5,
we can raise a good round sum.” The M.L.C.
consented, but he said blandly—“Do you expect
me to pay the money ? ” As they wanted his
name, they hesitated, and he helped them out of
the difficulty. “I’ll give you £l—but you can
keep my name down for £5 —if it will do you any
good.” They kept it standing at £5. The fund
reached £6O.
SUFFERING PATRIOTS.
This is not one of the symptoms of the Bubonic Plague but the
results of the “ Pay — pay—pay ” disease which is rapidly spreading
through the singing profession. A half-crown in the eye is worth
two on the stage.
The Knopwood relics—letters, books,
boxes, pictures, etc. —being collected by Bishop
Montgomery of Hobart, will recall a memory of
no very ennobling influence to the student of early
Australia. That Mr. Knopwood was the first
Anglican clergyman in Tasmania—he arrived in
1803 and died in 1836—may make him a specially
significant person in Bishop Montgomery’s eyes,
but that aspect of his life has little public perform-
ance.
Judge Casey gravely informed his Melb.
Count/Court audience, the other day, that Duncan
Gillies* could not have been the father of the
phrase “too thin,” for he (Casey) had heard his
learned brother, the late Ohioi Justice Stawell
use the same expression on theßench. And
Stawell probably picked up too thin from a
’Murkan who had inherited it from his grand-
father.
“I'M FADING AWAY, JEAN.”
J. A. Hill, who came to South Australia
with the first printing-press, set-up on Glenelg
beach the official proclamation of the new pro-
vince. He is now 80 years old, and is still in
harness as District Council Clerk at Laura (S.A.).
The late A. G. Taylor
left one solitary asset of any
note when he died. It was a
racing pony mare. That has
now been sold, and the pro-
ceeds handed to his widow.
The funeral expenses were
voluntarily taken up by Sam
Bowen, tailor of Redfern, who
had always been a staunch
friend of Taylor.
Related of a certain at
the time newly - arrived
Scawtch Australasian Gover-
nor that, while strolling
through Govt. House grounds,
he came suddenly upon the
head gardener, also a Scotch-
man and, needless to say, a
very important pairrson. The
not altogether dormant com-
mercial instincts of His Ex.
prompted him to enquire :
“And what may your wages
be, my man?” The H.G.
(stiffly): “Eight and saxpence
a day.” (He resented the en-
quiry, and, moreover, he was
in the habit of hearing his
remuneration called “salary.”)
But H. E. was too much shocked
at the enormity of the amount
to notice anything ; and, has-
tily returning to the house,
he held a family council, with
the result that presently one
of his children was despatched
to the gardener to enquire if
he had not made a mistake,
and if his wages were not
eight and saxpence per week ?
Sydney’s dear old apostle John Alex.
Dowie has done such good business with his
Chicago Church and faith-healing institute that
he is sending over a representative to work-up
Australasia.
“ T.D.” : Mathias Larkin is sleek, but his
clothes are rusty, and I doubt the Kidd-like story
of his hidden thousands. By the way, the
majority of boomsters emerge from gaol appar-
ently years younger, for all their troubles and
remorse. There is nothing like a fixed gaol
regimen for a man when he gets cumbersome and
liverish.
In the early seventies, Levuka, then the
capital of Fiji, was by no means a dull place.
Mr. D’Arcy Wentworth
Lathrop Murray, an ama-
teur lawyer from N.S. W.,
and also Consul for Ha-
waii, kept things lively
for a time. On one occa-
sion, having quarrelled with
the local medico at a mid-
night revel, a duel to the
Heath was decided on. The
combatants, armed with pistols,
met at 5 a.m., a few hours after
the original obscure cause of
disagreement had arisen. The
seconds loaded the Consul’s weapon
with sawdust, and that of the doctor
with bullock’s blood. “One, two,
three —fire ! ” and Mr. Murray fell back
in the arms of his second, with a great
blob of blood on his chest. As the hero
closed his eyes in what he believed to be
the sleep of death, he exclaimed : “Tell
my wife I died game ! Hurrah for
Hawaii! ” Then he was carried away and
put to bed.
N.S.W. Justice Cohen, now presiding at
the libel action —herbalist Kugelmann v. John
Norton —was himself once in the patent-medicine
line. Ere the study of law engaged his attention
he served in the shop of his relatives, David Cohen
and Cos., of West Maitland, and chiefly in the
department where patent-medicines and other
light goods were vended. The future Judge
started a business of his own later on at Bathurst
when a similar class of goods passed through his
hands.
“No one in England is a better judge of
fashions than the Prince of Wales. His interest
in the improvement of male attire is inexhaustible,
and it forms his favorite topic of conversation.” —
London paper.
Come, good Britons, three times three
For our King that is to be !
Albert Edward—august Wales—
Connoisseur of swallowtails ;
Past all dubitation best,
Judge of cummerbund or vest;
p Eagle-swift to note where hitch is
In the set of courtly breeches ;
Subtle student of the spat,
Weighty Hakim of the Hat,
Most infallible of popes
Settling schisms of scents and soaps—
Come, good Britons, three times three
Here’s “ Our King that is to be ! ”
Three persons who have gained some
notoriety have swum the Hellespont —Leander,
Lord Byron and John Norton.
An energetic politician
who, in the intervals between
standing for Parliament, ob-
tains temporary employ-
ment in one or another of
the N.S.W. public offices,
enjoys the distinction
of having offered his ,
services as secretary
to Barton, King-
ston, and Dickson
successively on
their embassy to
England, and
been rejected
by all of them.
Deakin got
off so hur-
riedly that
there wasn’t
time to apply
in his case.
Sturt, the
Melb. P. M.,
was a bit deaf,
but not so deaf as
most people imag-
ined. Once, after he
had given a decision,
Chief-Clerk Campbell mut-
tered from the desk beneath :
“You old fool. You ought to be
pensioned.” Sturt leaned over and said :
“ Mr. Campbell, you are welcome to your opinion,
but please don’t give it to the public.”
Barrister John Hindmarsh, only son of
the first S.A. Governor, offers for sale his father’s
papers dealing with the foundation of S.A. The
irascible Governor was in a position to acquire
valuable documents, and seems to have indus-
triously done so. The late Milner Stephen,
brother of Alfred Stephen, C. J., married one of
Gov. Hindmarsh’s daughters, and George Stephen,
who lately died in Sydney, was born in S. A.’s first
Govt. House.
According to a Johannesburg man in
Melbourne, we have only had one satisfactory
picture of Kruger in Australia, and that was sup-
plied by Ambrose Manning when he appeared
with Barrett as “Father Christmas” in “The
Silver King.” That was Oom Paul as he lives,
breathes, and has his being. With a pipe and a
Dutch brogue added, Manning could give the
whole Empire a thrill by falling into Buffer's
hands just now.
The fact that the statue of Cromwell—
recently erected in the garden enclosure of the
House of Commons—was uncovered without for-
mality by some workmen was in accordance with
the fitness of things. When we consider, the fuss
which would have been made over the image of
some royal nonentity or civic mediocrity, not to
have made a distinction in this case would have
been an insult to the memory of the greatest
Englishman of all time.
T. R. Dudley, the Sydney sail-maker who
died last week -of alleged bubonic plague, under-
went a terrible experience some 15 years ago.
Barrister Want, the Q.C. of to-day, bought in
England the yacht Mignonette, which Capt.
Dudley undertook to deliver at Sydney. The
yacht foundered, and Capt. Dudley, another man
and a boy took to the dingy where they starved
until the boy was killed and eaten.
M.L. Chief-Justice Stout has passed his
first death-sentence—on a man who had murdered
two of his own children. Though the C.J. has
ever posed as a “ red-hot atheist,” he nevertheless,
in sending the convict to the gallows, used the
formula, “ And may the Lord have mercy on your
soul ” —which, as has been frequently pointed out,
is no part of the death-sentence ; its omission
would m no way invalidate the warrant which the
Judge has afterwards to sign.
The chief directors of the leading gold-
companies of the Hand, to further enrich whom
British blood is being poured out in rivers:
Wemher, Beit, Eckstein, Rhodes, Rudd, Neu-
maun, Rothschild, Albu, Goetz, Rouliot, Farrar,
Bamato, Robinson. Three English names out of
the lot. Beit is reputedly worth 200 millions
sterling—is said to be as rich as Standard-oil
Rockefeller.
Henniker Heaton is reported to have asked
for and been refused a K.C.M.G. at the New
Year s distribution of titles. If the rumor be
true, then Heaton is at last growing modest. But
this is true —that Heaton has bought an estate in
County Wicklow, Ireland, and he lately overtured
for the purchase of a portion of the Lakes of
Killamey. The position of a landed gentleman is
his new ambition.
Marquis of Lome, the inferior versifier
with the long hair, who has been nominated for
the first Governor-Generalship of Australia, sug-
gests that a corps of Highland shepherds armed
with collie dogs might be useful in South Africa
these times. The business of the dogs would be to
run around and smell the Boer entrenchments, and
though they would invariably get shot as soon as
they barked, or earlier, the faithful animals would
enjoy all the satisfaction of dying for the Empire.
The Canadian Premier, it is cabled, has
accused Sydney’s old friend Major-General Hutton,
of “insubordination, indiscretion, and ignor-
ing the authority of the Minister of Defence.”
Which is all true on the face of it. The Major-
General was a fine fellow, who, in N.S.W., was
always insubordinate, always indiscreet, and
always ignored Ministers of Defence as ignorant
and pretentious amateurs.
This paper is willing to bet that the Boers
are already quite tired of “ Smiler” Hales if they
took him to Pretoria. “Smiler” has probably
started a weekly sheet already, and is giving
Kruger “particular Sheol,” and by this time the
dynamite monopoly will have been completely
exposed. Any day may come the intimation that
“Smiler” has been offered an honorarium of
£IOOO not to be captured any more.
Edgar Leopold Layard, C.M.G., who
died a few weeks back, aged 75, had a varied
colonial career. Formerly in Ceylon Civil
Service, he afterwards accompanied Hori Grey
to S. Africa and Maoriland as private sec-
retary. Later, he acted as arbitrator at the
Cape under the slave trade suppression treaties.
Next he figured as a Consul in Fiji, where he was
disfigured for life by a horrible accident. In 1889
he finally retired from the position of Consul at
Noumea. Layard was a scholarly gentleman, and
had done good work in his time—for whioh others
generally annexed the credit.
The story of how A. G. Taylor fought his
case is told by Phil. Mennell of the British
Australasian. He met Taylor on the morning
of the hearing of the case. “A. G.” was dressed
in a pair of pants, singlet and macintosh buttoned
up. Said Mennell to him: “What about your
case this morning? ” “Not going near the place,”
THE TWO EMINENCES .
TEACHER: “Name the two highest eminences in
Australia .”
CHORUS OF BOYS : “ Mownt Kosciusko and ”
(hesitation).
TEACHER: “And what?”
LITTLE MICKEY KINNANE : “ Cardinal Moran,
sir! ”
was the answer. Mennell took the position in at
once. “ Have a drink, old man,” he said. Both
adjourfted to the first pub., where Taylor swallowed
half a bottle of brandy. “ I feel better, Phil,” he
remarked. ‘ ‘ Have some more, ” suggested Mennell.
“ Two more ” set the patient “ right.” Then they
retired to Taylor’s lodgings, and Mennell brought
him out, clothed and in his proper mind. Aleo-
holically fortified he went into the Privy Council
Chambers and by speech and argument, drew from
Lord Selborne compliments such as have rarely
been paid by the Bench to the legal abilities of any
layman.


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
SCHNAPPS.
FRANZ
JOSEF
LAGER
- ' ’
m
;-i
y,
Mi®
a
mk
WATSON’S WHISKY
Aboriglnalities.
At the N.S.W. Bushmen’s Contingent
Camp: “Shoulder—Arms !” yelled a drill in-
structor to his troop. “Right —oh !” chorussed
the men as they obeyed. This has become popular,
and every troop now yells “right oh!” Also :
a son of a well-known Sydney financial magnate
offered himself as an officer and got an instructor
to stoke him with drill. He was then given a
squad. “Right turn, please!” he remarked
THE TRIUMPH OF TRUTH.
“ Now, aunty, I am pretty !”
“Oh I hush, my darling. You never hear ME say that !”
politely, and the instructor yelled at him. “As
you were!” cried the embryo officer, flurried;
then “ thank you ! ” as the men came round. He
was heaved out. They can’t stand thankfulness in
the army.
* • * *
Some of the'Bushmen’s Corps are veritable
“Clancys.” One man put up at a coffee-palace
ere going into camp, and explained to his com-
rades that “the place was fine, only for the
blanky light shining into your eyes alt night.”
“ Why didn’t you put it out ? ” inquired one who
had come from south of the Murray. “How
could a chap blow it out,” demanded the man from
Ironbark, “ when they keep their blooming light
in a bottle ? ”
* * » *
“ G.S.” : Heard King Billy, in King-
street, Sydney, the other day, say he was going to
S. Africa. “What will you do there, Billy?”
asked the Australian he was speaking to. ‘ ‘ Do
tracking,” he answered. Then with a crafty leer
on his dusky face, he added “ You give um thrip-
pence,- I tell you what I do now.” The com was
forthcoming. A huge smile came over Billy s face
as he walked away saying, “I trackum beer this
trip.” And he proceeded to trace the ferocious
long-sleever to its lair.
* * * *
The local Thunderer of a Queensland
goldfield recently notified its subscribers that,
during the continuance of the present war, special
editions would be issued as often as important
wires came through, to all subscribers who would
pay half-a-crown a week extra, and promised that
every effort would be made to get the specials out
to outside camps, by means of passing swagmen, or
otherwise.
• • * *
“Shaker”: Be “secret mail” of India
(8., 13/l/’00). Writer has occasionally come across
what appears to be the same thing among the
N.Q. blacks. Notable instances were when police
sub-inspector Kaye was killed by blacks at the
Woolgar, 17 or 18 years ago, and a year or two
later when sub-inspector Beresford and a black
trooper were killed in the neighborhood of Clon-
curry. On each occasion civilised blacks, on
stations over 100 miles from the scene of the
tragedy, were in possession of the facts inside
12 hours after the occurrence. Beresford was
killed during the night, and the blacks on the
distant station had the information before day-
light, therefore the smoke-signal theory breaks
down. Writer used to know the most experienced
officer of native police in the Queensland service
who was thoroughly convinced of the existence of
this power of thought transference, but believed
it to be confined to a few individuals in each tribe.
* * * *
In Mackay district (Q.), the trains run
at the unreasonable times peculiar to Queensland
trains, and, by reason of tneir unreasonableness,
the Mackay P.M. goes out to Mirani and Eton,
and holds the courts at night. The premises are
dimly lighted by a candle and an oil lamp, and
the kanaka in the witness-box (there is generally
a kanaka in the witness-box) is practically unseen.
A row of white teeth and two eyes are visi-
ble in the glimmer of the candle—they seem to be
suspended on nothing, but their reflection helps to
light up the court a little. When the |lcanaka
shuts his mouth it seems as if a half-moon had set
suddenly.
It was on
a sultry islet
up Papua
way. There
had been
three of
them, the
only whites,
engaged in
trepang fish-
ing, but cli-
mate and
bad gin had
finished one.
So the sur-
vivors buried
him, and ap-
propriately
surrounded
the grave
with a neat
oblong of
square -gin
bottles. That
was in the
morning.
About noon,
they began
to think the
archangel
Gabriel
might miss
the remains,
seeing it was
such an out-
landish
Spot; so they
gathered
shells off the.
mang rove
mud, and
proceeded to
pattern them
out on the
grave into
deceased’s
name, J.
Jones. But,
under the
influence of
grief and
grog, they
somehow
got it “T.
Brown.” To-
wards sunset
they remem-
bered the er-
ror, went
down to re-
medy it, and
were aston-
ished to find
the name all
right, “J. Jones.” Next morning, with a bad
“recovery” to hand, a further inspection found
them looking at a drunken-looking “ W. Smith.”
That set ’em “off” again until all the gin was
gone. Then the mystery was cleared up. They
had used live hermit-crabs for inscription pur-
poses, and the humorous creatures had done a
little re-arrangement “ on their own.”
* * * *
“3L.N.”: Recently lost in the ranges,
First night out tied pony up, and made fire close
by. Went to sleep, but dingoes awakened me.
Got slightly “skeary” at immensity of hungry,
howling pack. Sat some considerable time with
firestick in one hand watching the tired, snorting
young pony, and a firestick in the other hand
keeping the wild canines back. Presently fell off
to sleep and awakened two hours afterwards,
turned over, and dingo jumped up and ran away.
He was an unwelcome badmate, but a warm one.
* * * *
“ Tarrum ” : A little while ago, in Aus-
tralia, an acquaintance of mine—white man—
married young girl, and the first baby was a
Chinese. The fellow couldn’t make it out until
wife explained that her grandfather was a half-
bred Chow. It is just a matter of “ throwing
back,”~and is common enough after all. We will
have more of it yet. When I left, hubby was won-
dering what he would do with the “ monkey.”
He is likely to have a good deal of hard wondering
to do before he comes to any decision.
“ Lex ” :
In the early
days of the
Irish town of
Burrowa, a
Sydney pugil-
ist struck the
town, and,
after beating
all the best
local fighters,
settled down
to drink and
be a soul-bur-
den in the dis-
trict. At last,
one publican
decided that
he would en-
dure the bruis-
er no longer,
and valiantly
resolved that
he and eight
supporters
would give
that offensive
person the
father of a
bating the
next time he
seemed in
special need
of it. The
time came, and
the result was
a publican
with two black
eyes and eight
friends much
shattered. “Oi
was peaceably
drinkin’ in me
own bar with
eight friends
when a dam
scoundrel
came in an’
mobbed us,”
wailed the landlord next day to an acquaintance.
* * * »
“ Yarrum ” : Sydney people run great
risks with their food —especially milk. Let there
be only one cow in the milk-supplying part of
the province with tuberculosis, and they must get
some of if. All the milk is “boxed ”on arrival in
the city, and consumers get a little juice from
everybody’s cow. And, as a matter of fact, there
must always be one or more cows with the com-
plaint ; as, with all the alleged rigid inspection,
some are bound to be overlooked. Just now, it is
freely admitted by dairymen that the feeding of
calves on separated milk was the first cause of the
alarming spread of the disease. A man, the other
day assured this scribe that he “had no tubercu-
losis in his herd until he started using factory
‘separated.’” The tuberculous germs from that
one lone diseased cow which always crawls some-
how through the needle’s eye of official inspection
have tainted the milk of a whole district, and the
calves which are fed on it get the disease by hun-
dreds. So do humans. And they get other
diseases as well, for the one cancered cow escapes
destruction as regularly as the other immortal
bovine.
*** * ■
“New-Ohum”: Asa close observer of
snakes let me say that they undoubtedly do spring
from the ground. When a snake is surprised it
usually rises upon about one-third of its
tail-end to be prepared for action,
and will then strike
wildly at any
object in the
vicinity; but,
as this object is
often out of dis-
tance, the im-
petus given by
the two-thirds of the
heaviest parts of the
body naturally carries
the remaining part
with it —hence the
“ spring.” Also,
when a snake, in
retreating, rises up
suddenly and strikes
back, the hinder por-
tion—still retaining a
forward movement —is neces-
sarily jerked off the ground.
So unbroken is the drought in the Austra-
lian inlands that the mails for the village settle-
ments on even the lower Murray have now to be
taken up by coach, the river being unnavigable
there, though that is ordinarily its most navigable
part. Also the water in the lower Darling about
Wentworth is not now deep enough to keep the
sheep belonging to selectors on opposite sides of
the river from getting boxed ; so dividing fences
have in places been run up between the pools
which mark the course of the stream.
* * * *
“S.S.”; My Gippslander supplies a use-
ful hint for the control of insubordinate wives. He
was chasing work somewhere in the Haunted
Stream district, and after a long tramp on a dry
track struck a small half-shanty half-store by the
roadside. The Gippslander took something, and
was sitting in th& shadow of the house, discussing
sardines and bread and whisky, whilst the pro-
prietor squatted and smoked, and threw out an
occasional remark. They were interrupted by a
strange commotion in the back room, a sound of
muffled talk like the objurgations of a Yankee
gaffer in a deep pit, or a parrot with a feather-bed
on top of him. It was accompanied by a good
deal of bumping. Then there _ was a spell of
silence, and presently an amazing figure came
round the comer and groped round blindly for
something. It was evidently a woman. The
lower part was clothed in boots and stockings and
PAINTING IT RED.
WEARY HUMPER : “Any great events been cornin' off up in the town lately,
Billy? ”
BILLY : “ My word, yes — lots. Me brother Tom just got six months fer cow-duffin’
ole Murphy’s been wipin’ the street with the new trap; dad’s
stopped ’is B ULLETIN; an’ now hanged if our ole hen’s not gone [?]
’ad young ducks—just fer mere spite, mother calls it!”
petticoats, but the skirt of the dress was drawn up
over the head and tied there with a rope. In
fact, the lady’s head and arms were in a bag.
“ It’s all right, ” said the storekeeper, quite plea-
santly ; “it’s my missus. She got in one of her
tempers this morning. An’ when she docs I
always bag her till she apologises. She’s been
bagged for four hours now. There was one time
when she was bagged for two days.”
* » * »
“ W. Layton ” : I'm a bit of a liar myself,
but par. re 500 bullocks rushing cask of water (8.,
16/12/’99) takes beating. Once heard of bulloeky
in Queensland baclcblox falling off waggon, drunk,
and being killed. The bullocks got off the road
afterwards, struck a tree, and waggon was “ loft.”
Three months later & boundary - rider found
a bullock mixed in a wire fence with 11 bullock
skeletons and gear attached to it. .
* • * *
“W. Layton”: “Bathurst” (16/9/’99)
says 90 per cent, of Australian pine trees have “a
lean to the sun.” I repudiate this. Here at
Gllassford Creek (Q.) where pine is plentiful and
profitable, the trees lean whichever way they
darned well please. Sometimes the same tree
leans both ways. On the tablelands on Bunda-
berg side, where the pine scrubs are dense, I am
credibly informed the sun has absolutely no influ-
ence upon them ; and I am satisfied that this part
TIME TO RECOVER.
CUSTOMER : “ That fish you sold me last week has
gone bad.”
HAWKERr (with sarcasm): “Keep it another week,
mum, an’ p’r'aps it’ll recooperate.”
0 f Australia contains far more than 10 per cent, of
the pine of Australia.
* * * *
“ 5.8.” : Heard a man pushing a hook
the other day. He said book explained all
about Chinese pak-A-pu lotteries. Bought one-
and am just as wise as ever. Does any Bulletin
reader understand the racket right through?
Present scribe has collected notes from Europeans
—Chinamen are close as oysters about the game—
in Chinese quarters of Sydney, Melbourne, Bendigo
and elsewhere—-Europeans, too, who have mixed
and played with the Chows for a lifetime. But no
t\yo accounts or descriptions agreed in detail or in
general. Also know a Sub-Inspector of Police
who spent time and money in trying to discover
the strength of the game for evidence purposes,
He corresponded with Hongkong and ’Frisco
people likely to know, and confesses now that he
knows nothing at all about the game, which, per-
haps, explains the free run the lottery banks have.
A BUSH GRAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rough palings fenced it round,
And on the mound
Tufts of coarse grass upsprung.
No lily hung
In sorrow its pale head ;
No rose blood-red
Showed love had shed a tear;
No cypress drear
Lent its funereal pall;
But gum-trees tall
Waved their great anus on high
With moan and sigh,
Above the lonesome bed
Where lay the dead.
Yet though he lies obscure,
His lineage pure,
His noble form and mien,
His robes’ bright sheen,
Placed him above his kind
His praise I find
Was trumpeted by Fame.
Our mightiest came
And gazed on him with pride.
In the world wide
There never was a ram
To beat Sir Sam.
CHAPUT.


Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
The “Fx&R”
Purse m Card Case
(COMBINED)
m
ss. 6d.
Has Large SOLID SILVER MOUNTS, as illustrated. It is made of
genuine Crocodile Leather, and will wear for years.
FAIRFAX * onRFPTQ
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.H.W. : Acceptable E.B. : Published same thi
a little while ago... .E.M. (Parkes): Hopeless, both as
subjects and drawings Sylous: One may do W.
(Bris.): Will use subject.
Pooil
KALYDOR
For tin© S kin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling rod soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
The police have no evidence to prove that pak-a-pu
is a game of chance, and a suspicion exists that the
chow can prove it to be a problem in higher
mathematics. Several Chinamen who gave me a
tale on the subject proved by their variance to be
either down-right liars or grossly ignorant of the
working of “the joint.” Rumor says that the
lottery game is in the hands of a secret society
even more widespread and powerful than our local
Ancient Order of Fearful Goats.
“Yawum : M‘Guckin was boundary-
rider at the head station. One day I had occasion
to call up to learn why Miranda Jane hadn’t been
to bunday-school for a month. Noticed that the
sandy approach to the hut was well-swept and
remarkably clean. After interviewing Mrs Mac.
1 was not well out of the door when she followed
with a broom, and started sweeping all round as
if her life depended on the effort, hew days after
called round again: and at my departure she
went through same performance. Asked station
hand what it all meant. He told ma Mac. was a
“bad-minded old beggar,” who swept round the
humpy before leaving every morning, and looked
for adult male tracks at night. “If,” said the hand,
“ he found the imprints of your number tens about
4.1„ r ,i t L OT ,„: J L„ f „ TV , „ «
the place, there d be the divvle to pay.
“ F.” : There has
always been contro-
versy as to whether
the musk-duck can
fly. I can testify as
to its running ability.
I caught one the
other day, and put it
in a trough to see it
swim. It swam rapid-
ly to the end of the
trough, hopped over
the end before I could
catch it, and scuttled
off. I am fairly fast,
and it was level
ground, but the
further I went the
further I got behind.
It never left the
ground, but used its
wings like an ostrich. I would never have seen
it again but for a netting wire-fence which pulled
it up with a crash.
* * * *
Even the Bananaland Chow is patriotic
just now—when it pays. At Mount Hooligan, a
small mining camp in Central Q., dwells Ah
Slink —one of those awful Mongolian Clistians
who keep a private joss in the back premises. Ah
Slink owns a pub, store and butcher’s shop, and
has during a long residence in the country amassed
many shekels. Lately he also got naturalised.
The day Ah Slink became a man and a brother, he
dispensed drinks at half-price and when Mt. Hooli-
gan was quite drunk he mounted agin case: ‘ ‘Fiends!
wha’ foh me cut ’em off pig-tailee ? Wha’ foh me
mally whi’ gal ? Wha’ foh she hab whi’ childlin ?
Wha’ foh (this with enthusiasm) me likee ‘ God
sabe glashus Quveen ’ ? Wha’ foh me say killee
dam Boh? Me tell,’em you fiends. You think
me all same Chinaman? You all long ! Me no
dam Chinaman, fiends. Me ‘ loyal Blitish object /’ ”
* * * *
“Jim Pan ” : Be rabbits at Rose Bay,
Sydney (B. 10/2/’00); bunny is also pretty numer-
ous in that part of the Cooper estate lying south
of Randwick and Kensington. I rarely fail to get
a couple or so with the gun when I go out at day-
break or towards dusk. Best spot is about
Maroubra Bay.
ENCOURAGING LOCAL INDUSTRY.
"No, yer reverence, we don't want to go to the war — shure, up at the pub. here, a cove could be
scrappin all day if he wanted to! ”
LUCKY NED.
“ Jist my luck ! ” said Tel M’Fadyen up at Reefton,
When he got a wedge o’ metal in his head ;
When they dropped a bucket on him in The Chieftain,
An’ they broke his arm, “My blessed luck 1 ” he said.
An’ ’twas candidly admitted
Fate invariably fitted
Lucky Ned.
If he got a wages job, some nasty trouble
Surely came along an’ spread him on his back ;
P’r’aps a little fall o’ dirt would bend him double,
Or a wayward hammer fetch his head a crack.
He’d more scars about him scattered
Than a army—poor ole battered
Floppy Mack.
If he grafted on his own he struck disasters ;
He was snake-bit on the surface out at Coy’s,
Nearly suffocated fossickin’ with Masters,
An’ half-smothered in his puddler at The Boys.
’Tmade him proud among the chaps, an’
He would boast of his mishaps an’
His annoys.
When he went astray ’twas guessed that he was carried
To the nearest ward for accidents an’ sich.
He was hard up, so o’ course he never married,
An’ quite half his time he waddled on a crutch,
But was happy when paradin’
His successes in evadin’
Satan’s clutch.
So his awful luck became his pride an’ pleasure,
For it took the cake an’ belt from foe an’ friend,
An’ I think if it had changed an’ sent him treasure
Ted would just have been too mis’rable to mend.
But it never changed a fraction,
An’ so gave him satisfaction
To the end.
He went missing, an’ two Cornish miners found him
In an old-time shaft, an’ dead, but gold was struck.
To his neck the fallen reef was piled around him,
An’ the golden lode lay bare. With proper pluck
He had scratched an’ took delight in
This one shaky line o’ writin’:
“Just my luck ! ”
EDWARD DYSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
C. Kensit : We don’t ask you to “believe our
mere say-so.” If you want the history of the British an-
nexation of Kimberley diamond-fields, just read Froude’s
“Oceana.” Froude was highly incensed at Britain’s
conduct in repudiating a treaty—and the way in which
she dealt with the Boers generally. And, you see,
Froude wasn’t “ Irish’’—he was very English indeed;
moreover, he was cordially hated by the Irish... . Bunda-
noon : Incorrectly quoted. Here it is :
Men may laugh and riot till the feast is o’er,
Then comes the reckoning, and they laugh no more.
C.L.P.: (1) The “ real facts” were that the club secre-
tary, finding on the table a copy of the non-Jingo Bulle-
tin, took it upon himself to burn same. The committee
censured him for destroying club property, and ordered
him to replace that particular copy, adding that he need
not read Tiie Bulletin unless he liked. [That Jingo
secretary is now doing a well-deserved three or is it five?
—years hard for embezzlement.] (2) The Bulletin is
printed not merely to make money, but also to give ex-
pression to the opinions of those who run it. It has ever
struggled for Liberty, and leant to the weaker side : it
would loathe itself if in obedience to a panic-cry it joined
the conspiracy to for ever denationalise Australia F. :
We do'not quite understand. Do Mr. Knox, M.L.C.,
and the rag which quotes him really deny the right of The
Bulletin to comment on and elucidate the official N.S.W.
population-statistics Semaphore : Indecent.... Mac. :
“ Three months for a shilling.” Well, he was a park-sneak
who robbed a presumably-noeessitous sleeper, and he had
been convicted previously. The magistrate appears to
have been quite right C. : The church has always been
the greatest enemy to freedom of thought, of speech, and
of inquiry. It is a great deal too late now to try and up-
set such a painfully visible fact... .Constant Reader : The
Established Church of Scotland is Presbyterian. So are
the dissenting Free Church, the United Presbyterian
Church, Reformed Presbyterian Church, and some other
sects. In point of size, they go (1) Established Church ;
(2) Free Church ; (3) United Presbyterian. The Church
of England in Scotland is only about one-sixth the size of
the smallest of these Queenscliff : Not very promising
material Tom R. : Your silly letter merely reads as an
apology for highway robbery, burglary, or any other
offence characteristic of criminals of especial nerve or bru-
tality. In your case, however, it only means wind and
bounce Long Tom :No ; the person naturalised simply
swears allegiance to his adopted ountry, as “ against all
enemies whatsoever.” 2. Would require a volume to
answer 3 : Simply that the “ vassal-state” is precluded
from dealing with foreign powers on its “ own.” H.C.:
Well-written and interesting, but totally out of Bulletin’s
line FkJ.C.: “Mum” has humor, but is otherwise
more promise than performance H.M. : Your bad
spelling throws doubt on the originality of the verses.
Unsuitable to Bulletin in any Case Leander : Well,
the other Leander was drowned, which you ought to be...
O.'K.G. : Your comments are just, but no paper could
print them while the case is sub judice
Winker: Can’t identify unless you give title
R.S. : “ Kathleen Mavourneen” joke very old O.P. :
No reason is assigned Cora : Too long, and nothing in
it T.H.E. : Too lengthy. The “Prayer,” published
recently, said in three verses what you put in nine, and
said it better F.H. : The blasphemous British Poet
Laureate said “ Who fights for England fights for God ”
and “ Who dies for England sleeps with God,” but that
wasn’t his worst sin. Blasphemy may be forgiven, but
Doggerel is unpardonable. Sin isn’t half so awful as
Stodginess D. E. D.: A tamely correct style that seldom
falls but merer rises O.S. : “ Safrica ” is not a newly-
invented word. Also, why not “ Bafrikander ” and “ Daf-
rikander,” for British and Dutch Afrikanders respectively?
The world groans under a load of superfluous syllables.
A.E.P. : Begins feebly, but gathers strength as it
goes. Fear it would need too much pruning, though.
E.D. : Short, sharp, and satisfactory Trotter:
Thanks.. . .Cecil P. : The gentleman is an ex-army officer,
who used to run a military paper in Sydney A. Billet:
In Germany, the having been a soldier is the best pass-
port to employment; in the country where you were
raised it is the worst stigma on a man, almost as bad as
having been in ga01... .Wilfrid G.S. : Thanks W.K. :
(1) In 1872. (2) In England thousands of workmen have
no votes. There is a residence qualification which re-
quires them to live in a house for twelve months.
The status of such as masons, caipenters, joiners,
bricklayers, and others, necessitates their going from
town to town to work at big jobs, and, consequently,
their names are not on the Register of Burgesses. A man
(a householder) out of work who is unable to pay the
poor-rate is deprived of his vote... .E.S.S. :“ Brumbies"
spoilt by first,verse, and none too strong anywhere....
Maggie S.C. : Can’t identify without title.... Miles F.:
Clever, but misleading. Do you judge the whole sex by
yourself? Percival 0. : Prose part rather pretty ; verse
mediocre Tibbie : Flat and feeble... .WAV. : A dread-
ful scribe Clotho: “Bill’s Yarn” old, weary, and
badly t01d.... Bendee: Humorous in spots, but, on the
whoie, not quite up Philip: Duly to hand
Medicus : Thanks.... J.G. (Cam.): Thanks... .E. L. Les. :
As to your first argument re the danger of the thing—
where, tell us, is the coffin-ship, however notorious, that
cannot get a crew ? As to the second, don’t those con-
tingenters get better pay as soldiers than they could get
as station-hands, 4s. 6d. a day, or 31s. 6d. per week—and
rations, glory, free travel to a new country, and the
chance of promotion count for at least a little. And
then Australians are mostly sportsmen J. P. Mac-
kenzie : Don’t know the biggest record. Shearer named
Jack Howe sheared 319 sheep in one day at Northampton
Downs, Queensland... .Roby C. : Science hasn’t spoken
on the subject yet. By the way, do you actually propose
to pass off the old weary egg-bald “ tambaroora ” as a new
gamble ? Yarrum : “ His wife ” reads like dull bigamy
with beer.... W. Brenta : Which of .your seven or eight
questions was the main issue? You don’t say. Do you know
yourself Enquirer : Britain paid £6,000,000 for the
Cape Colony—then a small bit of land all lying south of
the Orange River —and other Dutch colonies. The
“ trek ” took place in 1835... .The Pipe : 111-constructed
tale, and moral like the leaning tower of Pisa J.M‘D. :
Goes over very old ground and says nothing new Yera
Swan: Verse good, but idea very 01d.... Kingfisher :
Alligator yarn may pass E.S. : “Ecstasy” is mostly
the old, old love poem hashed up again
Wil: Some power, otherwise vague and inconsequent....
Jeanne B. : Fortnight wasn’t long. Often months before
we can print Annie C. : In vers e-form, certainly ; but
they’re not verse for all that Judas J. : Shapeless
shriek, in disastrous metre Ambrose G. : Dull and
defective Franklin H. : Main idea good, but badly led
up to Sydney P.: Would be a good yarn, if told in
about l-3rd of the words.. . .E. M‘G. : Nothing in it....
P.S.Q. : Will make par 0n1y... .Maisie S. : Too trifling
Philip K. : To carry off such old material as the killing of
the rescuer in saving a child’s life, would need positive
genius—and you appear to have the positive other thing.
Prose sketch, also hackneyed situation Cedar : You’re
not the Lebanon article, evidently Joe J. : Too much
—and too far —“after ” Kipling Ella P. : Appeared
about a month back C.O. : The employer who
encroaches on his employe’s leisure steals his life, and to
steal life, even if it is only a comparatively small portion
of life, is murder to some extent. The man who steals
behind another man and brains him with an axe deprives
him of presumably ten or twenty years of the life, and the
employer who sneaks away half an hour per diem does
something the same, only more gradually. This
is an ancient argument, but it isn’t quite fossilised.
Eugene P. F. ; Lacks finish Mother (Vic.):
Too muchee penny novelette W.A.Q. : Not quite
good enough J.G.D.: Door shuts this side of
you... .A.R. : Meaningless as it stands Clifford : Just
take a little pains and hunt the recitation-books yourself.
Bookworm : Better tackle the committee... R. de
H.: Too long and prosy A.G.S. : Title’s wrong—should
have been “ Dribble, gentle Drivel! ” E.J.D. : Flat....
Ron. : Unusable.. .R.H. : With two incandescent burners,
can’t see anything in it... .Roughrider: Briefer and
brighter, please ! Tokio : Well, you’re a bit green, you
know J.H.S. (M.L.): Hide it behind a tussock
Cornaro : Anyhow, they are foemen worthy of our steal.
W.J.: If that’s a sailor’s product, you don’t give us
much encouragement to go to sea.... Academicus : Four
syllables de trap .... M. B.: Simply B Scrubdasher : Dash
away A.G. (M.L.) : Thanks ; but we wouldn’t rob “ the
leading journal” which fell to the others A.A.G. :
“Secretary” returned Philip: Please keep it this
time W.J.C.: Fine, large incapacity T.H.E.: No
value... .G.P.H.: Execrable... .Brenta : Yarn too horrible
for words W.: “ Preacher ” barely up to standard. The
“fallen girl” grown monotonous Oamiro : “Joseph
L.” is a rehash of old dramatic properties A. J.G. :
Don’t understand your adulterated-coffee yarn. Please
put the matter intelligibly Meoro: The Bulletin
has no desire to figure in public reading-rooms, where
it can be perused on the cheap. Any jingo or other bigot
who publicly brings about its expulsion from any such place
will be,supplied with a copy post-free for six months on
application O.H.L. (W.) : Please call.
“Pablo”: “Puyyaka” (Bulletin, 20/1/’00)
adjures millionaires to endow research laboratories
for the discovery of the cause and cure of cancer,
in place of endowing picture-galleries. This ad-
juration, of course, he specially intends for the
benefit of the genus Millionaire Australiensis.
Now, whenever did “Puyyaka” hear of an Aus-
tralian millionaire endowing anything? Nelson
Illingworth modelled an Australian rifleman of
the mounted variety, and the wealthy Australian
patriot, who knows so well the sweet uses of
advertisement, and subscribed to the Patriotic
and Bushmen’s Fund, did not purchase a single
copy. With the fine exception of Miss Eadith
Walker—a genuine patron of Australian art—the
rich Australian is a gross, material person, to
whom it is absolutely useless to appeal for any
object having for its purpose the elevation of
science, art or literature. The Australian mil-
lionaire is the gilded hog which the children of
Israel did not set up in the wilderness.
“ Alba ” : It is time that Mish Cohen was
released from the anguish of mind begotten of a
certain twenty shillings that won’t show up in his
books. When last seen, Mish was wearing a hol-
low cough and much grief in his eye through star-
ing after the elusive deficit. Listen. Writer was
in the habit of “ popping ” his dress-suit at Mish’s.
Sometimes his daugnter Leah took ’em in and
made out the ticket. Leah is on the emotional
side of 18. By-and-by a warm friendship sprang
up between us. One day she asked me to accom-
pany her to a swell social. Was compelled to re-
fuse owing to my war-paint being in her papa’s
custody. Fearing she might have overlooked the
circ., I mentioned it. Now Leah wanted very
badly to go to the social ; also, she preferred my
company to Morris Woolf’s. She took me aside—
not without-emotion : “Look here, Jim, I want
you to take me. . . . Jim, I want you. Come to
the shop this afternoon and I’ll ler-ler-lend you
your clothes, But, oh, Jim, bring ’em back or
father will murder me.” I promised, got the clob-
ber, and danced many dances with Leah —she
went as Miriam with a timbrel tucked under her
white arm. Next afternoon I ran round to the
shop—old Mish generally slept in the afternoon—
and sneaked in with my bundle. Mish came out
suddenly from behind a pile of boxes. I steadied
myself against the counter. “Vy, so help me!”
he said, hoarsely, “are ye poppin’ ’em again !
Strike me holy ! it vas only yesterday that I pinned
’em up. How pinch ? ” There seemed no other
way out of it, so I popped ’em for the usual quid.
I explained circs, to Leah same night under a dark
tree. Very emotional girl Leah, never blamed me’
never said a word. Not a bad Yid—Leah.
HIS AVOCATION
BLIND FINIGAN : “OLd know the shmell av that
poipe anywheres. Is it you, Casey? ”
CASEY: “It is.”
B.F. : “ Are yez wurrkin ’ ? ”
CASEY: “Oi am.'”
B. F.: “ Conthractin’? ”
CASEY : "No. Oi’m a middleman in th' produce
thrade.”
The uncivilised Maoris in the Taranaki
district (M.L.) are greatly interested in the war
(says the local Church Chronicle), and hearing
that comforts for soldiers were being conveyed
free by the local carrying companies, brought
down a load of prime kumeras. When asked
what contingent they were for, the spokesman of
the party angrily yelled, “Not for any red-
cot —give ’em poor beggar, the Boor.” A load of
rejected vegetables is still lying on the road.


PARLIAMENTARY PATRIOTIC
CONCERT.
The Speaker announced that the Parlia-
mentary combination would visit Ballarat
on the following evening' (to-night), and
would repeat the programme
m
iHt
s
7feiJ
/Ml
& Ije ooqj\) i , /
-fb K>)OW } vjjoZzr?*
The mombora of the ring had always been noted
for their charity. (Hear, hear.) He would give
them a little advice. He would tell them not t«»
try to get rich all at once, and not to endeavor t«»
win too much of the public's money for fear of
losing their own
M r Josc(>t)i Speecl,
l'fie.vj jjfoccedei 'to.
ilbtfr&te V 5, <z°°A tM"* °p % [xy]e^>
o\ jfe CYe boy
-rt-cre We V*/e
"if 1 -fe- °f
quiA<, <^*t '°” ce }j?* T^r-
VidVdi'acV ivy 1b y
YjaorrovJ necK of ,
\uX if I ,%rab ol ?ty Wl
O7 doma it^^till
T„r£* I
l"°T OCAo i
' Mr VALE asked whether it was not!
possible for the Government to put a stop
to what was the cause of no Bbght annoy-
ance to loyal subjects, and that was the;
strong and repeated expressions ot dis-
loyalty by people in general, and civil ser-
Vrurts in Darticular~-
.. —1 want to know is there no
power to deal with those tew individuals
Mr STAUGHTON.—No, except to hit
them under the car. (Hear, hear, and
laughter.)
Mr O. DOWNES CARTER suggested
that the power rested with those who, like
Mr Vale, heard the disloyal expressions. If
he (Mr. Carter) heard them he thought ha
would be inclined to take the law into his
own hands and stand the conaeauences.
-.-V+i.oee of-1^
mi 1>«» ej)>r<3S«s,
\ Sftffivws ■" '
Xf".s°
/xfrkVi* fe u, s’' /
<& T&,K« dT)c /
co«7saqU<?i7C«.s-
i SELLING SIR JOHN MADDEN’S
' TRAIT.
Ballarat, Sunday. I-^EcrS
\ A jumble sale, composed for the most part of
f unconsidered trifles sent in by residents of the city
\ and town, was held on Friday at the Alfred-hall,
« the proceeds of which are to be devoted to the,
Patriotic Fund Among other articles a photograph of Sir John
Madden, the Lieutenant Governor, which was taken at Ballarat
during the last encampment, was bought by Councillor Heinz,
Mayor of the city, for £5 10s., after a spirited competition with
Councillor Dunn, Mayor of Ballarat East. The purchaser has
decided to present the picture to the City Council.
' "lb ere * rumour
/ current" 'fo %e effecf'H^t' -Tffe |>ictuKe
/ \b& 'bee*? l)oacr^t" \r> V/ bp eo%bAS'*?cr
_ wi+^
oljecr cj' «7ew Specific.
Abodt a thousand' candidates for regis-
tration for vacancies in the Victorian
foot police'to-day. The preliminary .tost
consists of meauuremontx
WE. Presume That the_
MtAJURLRS FIRST TASN IS
To DISCOVER HOW MUCH Of THE.
CANDIDATE} FOOT WiLU (,o
To THE. YARp. ? "
MELBOURNIANA.


No 1. -Too the Office e S
the Editorial table, “ You see, these here Boe»
their kopjes and pot our fe ers w g the war .”
at least has furnished-
our artist with a subject, as follows .
f No. 2. “What you want/’ eaid the Office Strategist, “is to get
up a contingent; of real Australians—aborigihalk”
No 5 “ Before they left for the front, there should,
of course, be frequent reviews get cm
broke into active service. I would attend
these reviews more or less in uniform, an
get permission to be called Major.
1 ,®°V V
.AV®® nv' aAC
\* v °
ojoS
£Q- K *>V
* V
No. 3. “ Give ’em an outfit and raise a ‘fund'—“the latter
is more important than the outfit.”
N ° 7 “bSST 8 7 S tHe - B ° er (in Dutch ’ of cou ™ e )> ‘ Holy Moses !if the
st “ d , e sunburned son of a gun didn’t try to kill me with a crooked
stick ! An he missed me, kopje and allt ’”
•
No. 6. “Now for'business,” continued the Office Strategist. “Just imagine one of
them Boers behind his kopje. He catchss sight of one of these here aborigi-
nals behind another kopje. ‘Ha ! ’ says he, ‘a new brand of v... Britisher,
and black as my hat, 1 says he. ‘ I’ll just draw his fire to find out what hes,
loaded with.* ”
No. 8. “ But just you wait. That there crooked stick is a boomerang, and it comes
back and hits the Dutchman where he lives. ‘lf this here happens too often,
are the dying words of the Dutchman, ■* we shaM want some armistice, and
we can’t have too many of ’em.’ ” And touching the Editor for a shilling
for the “ fund.” the Office Strategist left to put his scheme into practice.
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR A NEW AUSTRALIAN CONTINGENT.


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
83/- per, Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
11. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Lieutenant-Colonel Byron (of Brisbane)
pays the following tribute to Boer humanity:
Although by the rules of war, an ambulance Waggon is
not allowed near the firing-line during a battle, the Boers
chivalrously ceased firing. Pleass do not think that on
the whole the Boers ever behave brutally or inconsider-
ately on such occasions. Remember that individuals may
not see the red-cross flag and continue firing through
inadvertence ; but I know of many instances in which
they behaved better towards our ambulances and wounded
than I believe any European troops would have done. At
this very battle (Magersfont&in) there were a great many
Highlanders lying wounded for many hours in front of
their trenches while the fight was still raging. The Boers,
although being shelled at the time by our artillery, sent
out unarmed men to our wounded to tell them to lie still
and they would not fire on them. They took our men’s
waterbottles and brought them back full, with some
bread, and told them that those who were able could go
back unharmed. This was most generous treatment, etc.
Pain is Nature’s admonition,
Heed and judge of your condition.
Liver Complaint.
Pain is a blessing, being Nature’s admonition
that something is wrong, and impels to its rectifi-
cation. If, for example, a diseased, torpid liver
did not cause pain in the shoulder-blades, or in
the right side, spasmodic pain in the bowels, pain-
ful headache, sour stomach, flatulency or nausea,
we should have no means of knowing our liver was
out of order ; the acute stage of liver disease would
be followed by the chronic, and we would wake in
the morning to chronic invalidism.
There are days with most of us when come the
floomy hours, when the fire will not burn in our
earths, and all without and within is dismal, cold,
and cheerless, and dark, and sorrowful.
There are times when you awake in the morn-
ing more tired than when you retired ; when your
breakfast, does not taste good, when what you eat
causes pain and acidity—or faint sensation in tbe
pit of the stomach ; your face is flushed, com-
plexion sallow, and you are run down.
Thousands are suffering from indigestion and
liver complaint, when one bottle of Warner’s Safe
Cure would relieve them. The instructions for
use accompany each bottle. Don’t neglect your
liver when a safe, sure, speedy tonic is obtainable
from all chemists and dealers for 2s. 9d. and ss.
per bottle.*
nm
GrO TO TTTnT.T-
-IUOLANI) for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
\ » /
N-
TON'D ON
py.oRQE K BXDfillX
P=3
A. SAUNDEES. A. SAUNDEES.
Strong, Cheap, Eeliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s; Solid Gold, 20s, 255; 16c. Gold,
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Keyless LeVer, 355, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
25s : Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s. extra. Solid Silver, ss.
r. k r.
r
£
Sol.d Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, 5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Boc k.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s Cd ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Ruhies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Post Card Oharm, Penny
Stamp, 10s ; Silver Gilt, 5s 6d.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d
15c., 255. Silver, 3s 6<L
Links, 9c. Gold, 215.; 15c.
Gold, 35s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12s 6cL
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d4* 16c. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 16c. Gold.
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Rings.
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £6 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
£l6, £2O.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 15s.
O'O
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “ Gold Sword ” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d ; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
A. SAUNDEES. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, Y upals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
THY
US.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12s Gel.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d
Procured only at
A. SAUNDEBS.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
n
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
mn
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s 6d. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
HIGH-CLASS T .EADIJJ Gr JEWELLER & SILVERSMIT R,
DISPLAY OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS
GXS George-atreet (NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYONTEY.
Astonishing the forbearance of the Chinese
towards the “Ulopean,” provided said “Ulopean”
considers him a white man ! Charlie is proprietor-
of an odoriferous oasis in the western desert. He
invests largelv at local pub, says “ blanky ” freely
in the billiard room and is generous to a fault, and;
therefore enjoys the privilege of being locally
considered a “ white man.” Rode over to bis.
garden lately with object of purchasing some:
grapes, and was staggered to find that all thtf' tree:
shade within a radius of about a quarter of a mile:
was monopolised by buggies, sulkies, horses, etc.,
and the garden invaded by a horde of Sunday-
dressed people from a town over nine miles away.
The crowd evidently considered itself Charlie’s,
guest, and was devastating all before it like a.
swarm of locusts. What could not be devoured on
the spot was passed over the fence and carefully
“planted ” and later taken home. I managed to-
find Charlie, but he was too busily engaged pro-
testing in a mildly-apologetic manner against the
destruction of his vegetables to find time to sell
me anything. Advised him to fire a gun in the
direction of the picnic, and he did muster up
enough courage to conceal himself behind the
1 louse and fire in the air, but no one took any
notice. Endeavoured to remonstrate with them,
but my remarks were lost through the diversion
created by a lady’s upper set of artificial teeth
becoming detached while gnawing a green peach,
so I left. Afterwards learned that this sort of
thing happens occasionally. If Charlie sent for
the police to clear off the marauders he would
cease to be regarded as a “white man,” and
resume his old position as a common yellow John,
and when he swore in the billiard-room no one
would pay any attention.' And for the sake of his
beloved popularity he puts up with the inroads of
the Goths and Huns.
Sir Edward Clarke, Q.C., who seems to
have come to political grief on the big “Boer”
rock, made his first success at the English Bar by
a brilliant defence of his namesake, Inspector
Clarke, some twenty-five years ago. The Inspector
was one of the Scotland Yard ’tecs charged with
accepting bribes from Kerr and Benson, in
connection with the so-called Turf Frauds of those
distinguished criminals. Barrister Clarke pulled
his client through, the other ’tecs in the dock
getting convicted and sentenced to terms of im-
prisonment. After that Edward Clarke got hold
of briefs in sensational murder cases, and was
always appearing before the public as a clever
fellow. The Conservatives ran him for Parlia-
ment and in due course he expanded into a
Solicitor-General, and then it was that The
Bulletin, from “information received,” told how
Clarke, in his early struggling days, had promised
his widowed mother the bliss of seeing him on the
Woolsack before she died. But another brilliant
Conservative lawyer, Sir Charles Russell, pushed
to the fore, and the Salisbury Ministry had no use
for Edward Clarke. The embittered tactician
took to attacking Chamberlain until his con-
stituency (Plymouth) became too hot to hold him.
He has resigned his seat. The war in South Africa
has become such an awful job for Britain that any
British member of Parliament who regarded it as
the small undertaking it looked must now blame
the Boers for his political discomfiture. They
didn’t get promptly crushed, consequently the
views which were admitted, by moderate
jingoes, to be fairly respectable three
months ago, are horribly “ unpatriotic ” to-day.
Like the average British general’s position among
the blessed kopjes and kops, they have become
untenable for business purposes The war has
gone against Edward Clarke, Q.C.
“Billy” Lambie, the Age war-correspon-
■dent, killed at Colesberg, probably owed his death
to his custom of wearing a khaki uniform and
putties similar to the troops. The only point of
distinction in his dress was his cap, and the Boer
marksman who fired through poor Lambie’s head
probably thought he was getting rid of an officer.
This was Lambie’s second campaign. He was
with Dailey’s Sydney contingent in the Soudan in
’B7, and was wounded whilst in company with his
friend, “Joe” Melvin, The Bulletin’s represen-
tative. Subsequently he had some exciting adven
tures with the Germans at Samoa. In private
life Lambie was an enthusiastic conversationalist
and an able musician. He it was who was the
mouthpiece of the Melbourne press when Mark
Twain was entertained there three years ago.
According to Lambie, the Christian soldier is a
paradox. In a discussion with the writer Lambie
denied that any conscientious Christian could be
a soldier. War, he argued, is so full of horror and
brutality with no perceptible redeeming feature
that no real Christian could take part in it.
'Curiously enough, just as these lines are penned
writer’s eye meets this (written by an officer) to
London Times :
After the enemy were given out one of our squadrons
pursued, and got right in among them in the twilight,
and most excellent pig-sticking ensued for about ten
minutes, the bag being about sixty.
Referring to same battle, a trooper told the Sun-
day Chronicle correspondent:—
They threw up their arms and fell on their knees for
mercy, but we were told not to give them any, and they
got none. We went along sticking our lances through
them.
Another soldier told the same correspondent:—
One Boer begged me very hard to spare him, but my
reply was, “ You , here’s your mercy ! ” I shot him
dead, and did not take the trouble to lance him.
Writes trooper Longbottom, of Baden-Powell’s
regiment:—
The enemy began to retreat. When our officer saw
this he gave us the order to fix bayonets and charge, and
we charged down the hill like madmen. The Boers who
had not escaped dropped on their knees and asked us
not to kill them, but they got little mercy. My bayonet
had changed its color, i shot 83 rounds of ammunition
before we charged. I don’t know how many Boers I shot.
We took five prisoners, and killed and wounded many.
Our loss was slight. We had one man killed and five
wounded.
Which surely makes strange reading for Christians.
Writing from Arundel under date Dec. 28
to a Sydney friend, trooper Bossley, of the Ist
Australian Horse, says :
We have commandeered a large number ol norses, stieep
and poultry. The boys kill the fowls by chasing them,
and running them through with lances. It is rumored
that one of the Lancers came across £4OO in one of the
houses the other day on the Modder River. I would not
mind striking a few myself. The houses are beautifully
furnished, lovely pianos and organs. The boys break up
the organs and vehicles for firewood.
From a letter from a member of the M.L. Con-
tingent published in Wellington Evening Post :
There is a Boer farm here which has been taken by the
troops. You should have seen the things the fellows
took. One fellow of ours got a gold watch and chain,
another a silver one, and others also got valuables. I my-
self would not go near the place, as I reckoned it a d—d
shame. Some fellows in the regulars pulled up the floor
to see if there was anything hidden there, and others
broke the piano, organ, and things for the sake of saying
they did it.
And this is from a Vic. private’s letter published
in Maryborough (Vic.) Standard :
The other day a party consisting of a hundred Vic-
torian Mounted Rifles and infantry were sent out com
mandeering to a Dutch farm. When we got near th
A CASUS BELLI.
“What defence can you offer for knocking him
about like that? ”
“He walked past my house with a German sausage
in his hand.”
Case dismissed; leaves the Court without a stain.
house eight men rushed out the back door. There were
no shots fired, as that is only done in case of self-defence.
VVe took three waggons and filled them with everything
we could lay hands on—tables, chairs, benches, dozens of
geese, ducks and fowls (which we had for Christmas din-
ner), four calves, and all the iron and wood we could find.
There was also a small harmonium, which we were going
to leave behind, but as one of the men in our tent could
play a bit, we threw it on the waggon. We now spend all
our spare time singing, and always draw a crowd around
the tent door. Some of the notes have “ gone bung,” but
it suits us very well.
And these latter things were done in British terri-
tory —not in the enemy’s country—and on British
subjects. Which is surely curious reading for
Christians !
“A.G. ”> Be risky boilers. Remember
an ancient wheezy one, at a North Coast (N.S.W.)
flour mill. Every time an extra pound or two of
steam—could only carry thirty —got on, it would
belch and wriggle, and threaten destruction to the
whole neighborhood. It was liberally strapped
with old belting and a cow-hide, had a cho of
wood wedged in here and there, and the waole
front was plastered a foot thick with white lead,
chewed grass, and anything that would stick. A
Chinaman, employed on the premises on purpose,
used to run around every other day, and warn the
neighbors to “deal out,” as there was danger in
the air. Writer, with others, has cleared out
scores of times. We used to sit along a fence
quarter of a mile away, and wait for the Chow to
come and assure us it was “ alligh ” once more.
When that mill was burnt down, the boiler was
bought by a syndicate, and taken to a mine in
southern N.S.W. Noticed there was a falling-off
in attendance at church after it left. Most of the
local church-goers went for the sole purpose of
praying for deliverance from that boiler.
T’other day a man fell 100 ft. down a shaft
at Broken Hill, and escaped with a few bruises;
and still more recently a Sydney suburban trades-
man, when on a ladder repairing his verandah-
roof, fell 7ft. He yvas killed !


.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rasainussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
FOR
Duck Shootlhg*
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CAB TRIDOES.
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Rackham’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines .
SOLE AGENTS—
MEin BROS, i Rite. [td.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
C-s t.
i'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
tro any pa it of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Ids. (id.
Sole Agents :
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st.. Sydney
m
The Result.
k>i
m
Taught by Correspondence.
ea^Se L sI a c R erta.n.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas.—“History
was always my dread in exams., but by your System I
have, .just gained 92 per cent, of the possible in it. With
your System no one need fear the examiners.”
Mr. It. Hutchins, Hunter-street, Sydney.—“ It is of
inestimable value to those about to matriculate, and to
civil service can lidates. It will always repay a hundred-
fold the small fee invested.”
(A
im
V h
cU
m r
IM
.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres oi
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
For what you are about t° re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
O
OLD
RMS
?UNBU,
FING
"I
T -r.
CHA
<Z>
N
&.C
Ofifr
Y
P HOf>
, »
NEUROZON E—>■
1 (The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is reoommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10a. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK, “ON OUR
SELECTION.” Six Shillings, Post Free.
SYDNEY WOOL MARKET.
Reduction in Selling Charge.
ON and after the Ist MARCH, 1900,
CONSOLIDATED CHARGE of Two-and-a-half Per Cent. (2f per cent.'
will be the rate for
SELLING WOOL in the SYDNEY MARKET by the undersigned:
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEYLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO,
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
Y. B. —This charge covers all expenses, including Receiving, Weighing,
Warehousing, Cataloguing, Fire Insurance whilst in Store, etc., except
Cartage where incurred .
important -A.:ixr:i>a"OTT:i>ro:E::iMCJEi:isrT!
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
H. NEWMAN, 175 & 177 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SLEEVE LINKS.
In Sterling Silver, 9-ct. Gold and 15-ct. Gold.
The Drawings
are all
Actual Size.
No. i.
Silver - £0 4 6
g-ct. Gold 0 15 0
15-ct. Gold 12 6
No. 3.
Silver - £0 4 6
g-ct. Gold 0 16 6
15-ct. Gold 17 6
No. 3.
Silver - £0 4 6
g-ct. Gold 0 16 6
15-ct. Gold 15 0
Links may be had
with either Chain or
Bar Conneetions.
No. 4.
Silver - -{O5O
g-ct. Gold - 10 0
15-ct. Gold - 17 6
No. 8.
Silver - £0 6 6
g-ct. Gold - 10 0
ij-ct. Gold - 110 0
No. I*.
Silver - -£0 6 6
g-ct. Gold - 12 6
15-ct. Gold • 116 0
No. 16.
Silver - -£0 6 6
g-ct. Gold -15 0
15-ct. Gold - 2 0 0
ao.
£0
iold
old
No. 9.
Silver - - 0 6
g-ct. Gold - X 0
15-ct. Gold * 1 10
No. 13.
Silver - - £0 6 6
g-ct. Gold • 10 0
15-ct. Gold • 1 15 0
«
saat
*
:Vfe
W
No. 17.
Silver: - - £0 6 6
g-ct. Gold - 15 0
15-ct. Gold - 2 5 0
No. ai.
ver - -£078
;t. Gold -15 0
st. Gold • 2 0 0
No. 6.
Silver - - £0 6 6
g ct. Gold - 10 0
15-ct. Gold - 110 0
£
$
No. 10.
Silver - - 0 6 6
g-ct. Gold - 12 6
15 ct. Gold - 115 0
No. 14.
Silver - - £0 7 6
g-ct. Gold - 12 6
15 ct. Gold - 117 6
No. 18.
Silver - -£066
g-ct. Gold - 15 0
15-ct. Gold - 2 0 0
No. st*.
Opals or Turquoise,
g-ct. Gold - £1 15 0
15-ct. Gold - 215 0
No. 7.
Silver - -£0 6
g-ct. Gold - X 0
*5-ct- Gold - 110
No. xi.
Silver - - 0 6 6
g-ct. Gold - 12 6
Js*ct. Gold * 116 0
No. 15.
Silver - -£0 7 6
g-ct. Gold * 15 0
.15-ct. Gold * 2 0 0
No. xg.
Silver - - £0 6 6
g-ct. Gold -110
15-ct. Gold - 115 , 0
No. 23.
Opals, Rubies or Sapphires,
15-ct. Gold • £4 10 0
Diamonds,
15-ct. Gold - £7 10 0
H. NEWMAN,
175 and 177 ELIZABETH ST., [MELBOURNE.
The Cheapest House in Australia for
HIGH-CLASS JEWELLERY.


HiE Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo. Roe iC?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER &C°
82 A PITT ST.
"A3NOAS
ASK
FOR
o o # *
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
We are loyal to our Queen and Flag !
“ Confound all disloyal rags
ALWAYS IN FRONT l
All Swear by
“KHAKI” BLEND TEA.
GET A BUSHMAN’S CANTEEN.
Cleverly contrived for Compactness, Comfort, and
Completeness.
Pilled with “KHAKI” Blend—Only 3s.
ALL STORES.
James Inglis & Co. Limited,
Sydney, Brisbane and Hobart.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCy » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
c
£9
SKILFULLY FITTED SPECTACLES.
All Sights. All Prices. Send for Sight Tester, “Free.”
1 ield and Opera Glasses, Telescopes, Microscopes, Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers, Hydrometers, Levels, Compasses, BMn Gauges, Wind
3* Gauges, Ear Trumpets. Prescription Orders skilfully fitted. SIGHT TESTED FREE. 8
Geo. C. Pen boss, 119 Pitt-street
(between Herald \
and G.P.O. fj
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Patriotism is a love of one’s own land ;
Imperialism is a lust for the land of others.
In Sydney, after that gigantic free advt.,
they now spell it Loyal-tea. Also, it is known as
“ Patrioteaism. ”
The voice of the people is not always the
voice of God. Ultimately the people’s voice is
God’s voice. In the first place, it is more often
the Devil’s.
General Roberts by proclamation declares
that England has no quarrel with the Orange Free
State. The Rand gold-mines, as Chamberlain
and Rhodes well know, are in the Transvaal.
West Adelaide election for the vacancy
caused by Kingston’s resignation will provide a
contest between journalist Denny, who gets the
strong R.C. vote, and a direct Labor candidate.
The rocks ahead of the Lyne Govt, are its
abuse of patronage and the equivocal position
occupied by Mr. Crick, the brainiest and most
aggressive of its Ministers, in relation to Acting-
Judges before whom he appears as an advocate.
During last session of N.S.W. Legislative
Council, members King, Septimus Stephen, and
Lucas dropped in once each, but didn’t record a
single vote; Hoskins and Mort called in twice,
but never voted ; and Blanksby happened in three
times, and voted once. Fourteen members scored
less than 10 attendances each.
Q.N.B. directors voted £250 to the
Patriotic Fund. One man objected, but was
promptly denounced as a scoundrelly traitor.
Considering, however, the previous methods of
disposing of Q. N.B. funds, this matter of the
Patriotic donation is perfectly harmless, and
argues a return to comparative rectitude and
innocence.
While the British army lieutenant receives
only ss. 3d. a day, the amateur swashbucklers
taken from Collins-street block for South African
service are paid at the rate of £350 per annum—
nearly four times as much. On top of which every
Australian officer is practically sure of a per-
manent appointment m the Federal Forces on
his return —if he eyer does return, and probably
at existing rates.
Never has the utter spinelessness of the
Labor-party been shown so clearly as to-day.
After a faint and timorous opposition to the mad
war-racket, they are now tumbling over one
another in their eagerness to be “ patriotic, ” and to
vote funds for backing up the great gold-firm of
Rhodes, Chamberlain, Beit, Robinson and Cos.
The Bulletin can count 23 members of N.S.W.
Assembly who, before the discussion re the first
contingent, openly expressed themselves as averse
to the proposal; and there were others whose
■'pinions it did not directly hear. And now !
The old disastrous policy of making little
cockspur railways appears to be starting again in
Victoria. That
province wants
one big line
through East
Gippsland to the
N.S.W. border,
and another big
line to Mildura,
to open up the
two empty ends
of the country.
But just because
these two regions
are empty they
have only one
member each, so
these two big
national works
would only buy
the votes of two
members. It is
better jobbery to
build a five-mile
branch here
and a six-mile
one there, and
buy a vote
with each
branch. So
more little
profitless bits
of line are
being advocated in places where political railways
are so thick already that the grass can hardly
grow, because almost every blade has two iron
rails on top of it.
You never can'tell ! In 1763 American
colonists and Englishmen were fighting side by
side against the French in Canada—■“ patriotism”
rampant among the colonists. In 1774 —just eleven
years later —these same colonists rebelled against
the motherland.
“T.D.” : Interesting to know how many
of the working journalists who have written all
the beautiful sentiments about this war and the
duty of the people therein, have put their hands
in their own pockets. The pressman, as I find
him, is most apathetic except in print. Also a
food part of him, as I know him, if he put his
and in his pocket, would find very little there
except some biscuit-crumbs.
Barton’s visit to England no doubt clinches
his appointment to the Federal Premiership. As
a Tory by instinct and training, he will be most
acceptable to the Imperialists, and will be re-
garded as the very man to help lock the irons of
Imperial Federation on war-drunken Australia’s
legs. Barton will have some sort of say in the
appointment of the Governor-General, and the
Governor-General will almost for a certainty “send
for ” Barton.
Attorney-General Wise’s publication of
cables, telegrams and correspondence, some
marked confidential, found in ex-Premier Reid’s
official bureau, is accepted by N.S.W. daily news-
papers as legitimate party warfare; yet when
Dawson, leader of the Queensland Labor Party,
was alleged to have spent part of his four hours of
office looking over similar records left behind by
his predecessors, Queensland and N.S.W. dailies
bitterly denounced the action.
J. H. Gordon, the eloquent but shifty
S.A. Attorney-General, is a problem in local
politics just now. When Kingston was trying to
engineer Household Suffrage through Parliament,
Gordon headed the Tory opposition ; but now, as a
member of the Holder Govt., he is sponsor fora
£ls qualification with adult suffrage as the ultimate
goal! At least, Holder now says adult suffrage is
the ultimate goal, and as Gordon still keeps his
billet it is presumably his goal too.
Instead of meeting war-expenses partly by
an increase in income-tax and partly by customs
and other duties, as several N.S.W. politicians
now talk of doing, it would be better in every re-
spect to start anew and direct levy called a War
Tax. At a glance at any time the public could
then see what it pays for martial glory. If tagged
on to income-tax or other current taxes the figures
will neither be distinct nor impressive as far as the
bulk of the people are concerned.
Looking down a column of names of
volunteers for the second W.A. Contingent (pub-
lished on page 13 of the Western Mail of 3/2/’00)
this curious result was arrived at: Twenty-four
names ; six Englishmen ; nine Victorians; two
South Australians; one New South Welshman ;
one Fijian ; one Scotchman ; one West Indian ;
one Queenslander; two Westralians. Only two
Westralians—and it is called a Westralian Con-
tingent. No wonder many Outlanders think of
the W.A. Contingent, when it comes back, as a
possible influence in the struggle with that narrow-
minded boss-Boer, Jolm Forrest.
A LESSON IN COURTLINESS: TWO
ARTISTS MEET.
Minister for Defence See s off-hand esti-
mate of N.S.W.’s share of the expense of the Boer
war is £500,000. “And what’s that ? ” he demanded
sharply when brows were raised. Well, so long as
there’s money to be borrowed in England, what is
it ?
THE RETORT DISCOURTEOUS.
SHABBIMAN (who has borrowed something): “Well, ta-tal P’r’aps I'll see you
to-morrow? ”
BIGGE TOFF ( getting back) : “ Not if I see you first!”
Sydney Daily Telegraph, encouraging
the young Australian to shoot: —
The last sacrifice (the alleged slaughter “ to a man ” of
a party of Victorian troops) will have a pathetically
awakening effect on the feelings of kinship that bind all
parts of the Empire together. There was never in the
world a people more generous to its heroes than the
British.
~, T i )j a ii. i a
“ More generous ! "Speak, ye poorhouses! Speak
O unmarked workhouse graves of be-medalled
veterans. .
The Crimeail war cost Britain seventy
millions. It lasted 22 months, and she had an
average of 25,000 men in the field. War is more
expensive now than in the fifties, but at this rate,
and supposing the present war lasts six months (it
has now gone four) with an average of 175 000 men
m the field it will certainly cost the British tax-
payer much over £100,000,000. . It may yet
put a couple of millions on to the gigantic national
debt of Austraha. And all this to increase the
dividends from the Rand .
Dr. Bevan, who loves not the Germans,
lately remarked to a Melbourne ’Erald inter-
viewer that the cession of British rights in Samoa
had been regarded in a much too “ easy ” spirit
by the “provincial” politicians of Australia,
Parson Bevan is hot the only Jingo who reckons
that “ loyalty,” like charity, should begin at home,
No sooner had Australia started to do a bit for the
Empire in Africa than a bit of the Empire here-
abouts was quietly given away by the Bntuto
Government to the very power which urged
Kruger to fight This country is going to feel
very sore over the Samoa arrangement when the
Contingent bills fall due.
If Victoria only paid its teachers half so
well as it does its Transvaal contingents that truly
miserable class would get a square meal a little
oftener. Consider this statement recently laid
before Parliament (Melb. Age report):
Mr. Thomas Smith gave the salaries paid in a large
suburban school where 1400 are taught. The pupil
teachers, whose services range from four to twelve years,
are paid from £1 3s. 4d. to £3 6s. Bd. per month ! Other
pupil teachers, with only three years of service, are paid
from £1 6d. Bd. to £2 per month ! Monitors are
paid £1 per month, and three of these, twenty
years of age, are paid only 16s. Bd. per month !
'Mr. Smith had the House with him when he de-
nounced this as a disgraceful example of the worst kind
of sweating carried on by a Minister of the Grown in a
great State department. He said this particular school
and its management was not quoted as any exceptional
instance of cruelty and oppression, but as one typical of
very many. An example was added amongst the classified
teachers. Fifth-class men, many of them married, are
getting salaries of £B9, plus whatever may come from
their results, perhaps in the more fortunate cases bring-
ing their remuneration up to £l2O a year.
Case at
Welli ngton
(M.L.) Su-
preme court.
The orna-
mentedStout
presi d ing.
Two men
charged with
stealing
fowls, elected
(under new
Act) to give
sworn evi-
dence „ on
their own be-
half. Counsel
for accused
said he would
now call
“ Mr. Coop-
er ” (one of
accused).
J udge ob-
jected to an
accused but
un convicted
person being
called “Mr.”
and sneer-
ingly alluded
to “Mr.
Purcell, the
other gentle-
man in the
dock. ” Stout,
the hebaub-
led back-
down demo-
crat, finds it
hard to get
away from
the old Tory
ideas. The
meanest lie
ever invent-
ed was that
to the effect
that, in every
Eng 1 i sh-
ape a k i ng-
country, the
law holds a
man inno-
cent till he is
proved
guilty. If
judges like
Stout could
have their
way, every
accused per-
son would
appear in
dock in
prison garb, so that if found guilty he would be
a H ready to start hard labor immediately.
The quaint and forceful address of the Stan-
ford University president on the South African war,
• t and ■ a'T Dahy Tetegraph of Fridav
reprinreci m ryyaney -UAILY TELEGRAPH ot briday
forms a nasty mouthful for Jingoes of the
English-spaakmg-federation” order to chew over.
The Bulletin congratulates the D.T. on the re-
which every one should read ; it will bite
& th ’ e r]ght quaW f er . Also, everyone desirous of
learning the merits of the case should read
J. A. Hobson’s article in the Contemporary
Review for January, on “ Capitalism arid Imperi-
alism in South Africa,” in which a fierce light is
thrown upon the real motives of Cecil Rhodes by
quotations from his own speeches,
It uo vv dawns on a good many people that
the ce due in 1901 f kould hav £ b ' eeiJ ‘taken in
1900 thifl ’ tima Representation in the Federal
House of R . is to J g G by population, and the last
roliable factiS l about tl f e population date from 1891.
Y early estimates have been formed, but they are
largely guesswork. The 1891 census showed that
Queensland’s estimates were 33,000 too high ; Vic-
toria’s were a good deal too low, and N.S.W.’s
were pretty near the mark. Probably the 1901
census will show that some provinces have, fora
whole year, had a member too much, and others a
member too little, and then the provinces will call
each other strange devils and things.
The Westralian Goldfields’ Separation peti-
tion was half-a-mile long when last heard of, and
ig ex pected to be a m f le long when it is om _
lete £ As the W . A , Government is sending
£ ark Q-C to England to represent what Big &
john hag t]lo gall to Ascribe as the views of W.A.
on Federation and Separation and other things,
the Separation League proposes sending a delegate
to point out that Bigjohn has never dared to
ascertain what are Westralia’s views, and to call
Parker, Q.C., a public delusion. Matheson is the
most Probable delegate and Matheso ? with a mile
of signatures for credentials will be a man of weight
as against Parker with no credentials at all.
“ Tan erafa ruata ” wrifoa •
Adiigaia iiiara wines .
Invercargill (M.L.) has a Tooley-street crowd wnich
thinks it represents the united brains of the province,
Never an important question agitates the world but the
Invercargill busybodies demand a public meeting ; much
frothy eloquence, and lo! the solution of the problem is at
once apparent. When Federation was first mooted there
was an outcry, the usual public meeting, and an urgently-
worded protest to King Dick from the local bootmakers’
union about “inevitable fall in wages,” &c—the usual
selfish end-of-nose policy which Dick knows so well how
to mollify or turn to advantage. It was windy little
Invercargill, too, which, when Salisbury was in the throes
of the Fashoda incident, patriotically cabled him to
“fight l or resign.”
THE DIFFERENCE.
Their gods are the gods of Battle;
Our god is the God of Peace.
They sacrifice with slaughter ;
We pray—may the slaughter cease!
They cry to the Hebrew Moses,
They to their creed are true.
There the resemblance ceases—
We pray to the other Jew.
S.P.Q.R.


BUY ONLY AT PALING’S
FOB, TOUBr
DRAWING ROOM
we can recommend a
FEURICH
PIANO.
The finish of these elegant and artistic
Pianos is really excellent and perfect in
every detail.
The Case-work is modelled on graceful
lines.
The tone is of that singing and sustaining
quality so much appreciated by connoisseurs
and artists.
The material used in the construction of
the Feurich Piano is the best, and the work-
manship most thorough.
The price is exceedingly low considering
the high standard the Feurich Pianos present.
Call or Write for Prices and List of
Easy Terms.
THE
“ VICTOR ”
PIANO.
To be a “ Victor ” is to prove one’s self a
“ winner.” The Victor has won for us in
Australasia a name we are justly proud of.
The immense number sold last year proves
their great popularity. They were sent to
all parts of 2ST.S. W. and Queensland and gave
universal satisfaction.
The Victor Pianos are made in Three
Models :
No. 1 Victor. —ln elegant "Walnut Case, full
Iron Frame and extended Soundboard.
No. 2 Victor. —ln handsome Walnut and
Gold or Black and Gold Case, full
Iron Frames and Check Action.
No. 3 Victor. —With Cabinet Top or Music
Receptacle with artistic Marquetry
Panel. This useful adjunct adds con-
siderably to its already fine appear-
ance.
&
Call or Write for Catalogues, Prices
and List of Easy Terms.
PALING’S
Stock also,
Every Known
Musical Instrument
VIOLINS.
We hold an Immense Stock of Violins at
prices as low as possible.
CORNETS.
One of our specialties is the I ( Student’s
Model,” an instrument possessing merits
not found in any other low priced Cornet.
BANJOS.
GUITARS.
MANDOLINS.
The celebrated American 11 Wash-
burns” stocked.
Guitars and Mandolins of Italian and
American manufacture.
Banjos. —High grade American, and other
makes.
You can get a good article for little money at
PALING’S.
jt j*
Call or Write for Catalogues.
W. H. PRLIN6 *C° ■ L™' 338
SEOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbai}€
Newcastle
YOU CAN SLEEP
AND THEY CANNOT CHEAT YOU !
The Rational Cash Register
IS
AN EVER WIDE AWAKE PARTNER.
It eats nothing, costs no wages, yet works perfectly.
E
No Human Eye
Could so thoroughly watch
and check your money,
No Human Honesty
Could be such a guarantee
to customers.
It’s a PARTNER.
It’s a BANK.
It’s a SAFEGUARD.
It’s a FORTRESS.
Tlie 92 Clieck Printer.
IT ADDS MONEY, CHECKS MONEY,
SAVES MONEY, MAKES SViONEY,
Head Australasian Office—
-393 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
nm
To Ensure
Safe and .
Comfortable
Riding . . .
Cyclists
should
specify
MULTIFLEX
•••• .
When ordering their cycle, and thereby secure freedom
from all tyre troubles.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
a
Beware of Imitations,
Duniqp Tyres
are only genuine when
they bear this^
Trade
n
Mark,
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia [td.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, IST.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all -
Security.
Classes - of
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
mn
mn
m
nm
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
icgr.s.-w.
(HontdePieteQ.i|n|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
fk C>ty Mutual [if®
Assurance Society ltd.
1879.^-
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facit, f- rßiid « e st -) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Bisk Insurances
at Lowest Bates.
E. N. PABKEB, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and .
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Filip. Inabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e«c.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. w. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Pertli, West Australia.
SPLENDID BUILDING BLOCKS,
50 x 150, only JES each, on easy terms, no
interest. Title, Torrens’Act. Adjoining Bishop
Gibney’s Estate and the Perth Commonage.
Plans post free front
ERNEST C. Y. BROUGHTON,
Auctioneer & Sworn Valuator under the R.P. Act,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Qonpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap>ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoi) & LaQca&hire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL -- - PROMPT - - • SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors— John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C. ; J. de V. Lamb.
Kead Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; \V. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. 11.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon 11. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, March 3, 1 p.m
Gabo, Tues., March 6, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., March 10, 1 pan.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, March 3, 12 Noon.
Hurwah, Tuesday, March 6, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., March 10, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, March 3,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Sat., March 10, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddarb,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« Trustees, €*€c<itorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABUSHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED... £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11,12/’99) .. £3,163,938 10 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 Sishopsffate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 P|TT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of 'New South Wales „
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.,
Reserve Inability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000. 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C:
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Utiier, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL. FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by' this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other informal ion, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
N.D.L.
N ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Tiie Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
United losorapcc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Mates very Mow.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and, General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE.
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PBABLS
SAPPHIRES.
/ >
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls - Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. BENJAMIN ai)d SONS
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE 'l
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY V
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’at Fremantle
to ail North Western Ports
S.S. Maranoa, Frid., March 2.
S.S. Wollowra, Sat., March 10.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACItAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
n
For BRISBANE
SS.S. Adelaide. Sat.. March 3.
NOTE.—This steamer running' under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated-
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and O.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best dZ Cheapest Route to Goldfields .
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
LL & CO., Ltd., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
. ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nornranton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passetif/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisin e an rivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AMD O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON- Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to till).
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageri’es Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY,. Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
(juddart, parker § go’s pne
MELBOtJRNE, HO lIA RT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT'S.
Fares and Freights at lowest Cirrert Rates,
and
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPANY, Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and'JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin :
The above steamers were specially built for t.'e Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
d)‘|luiraith, go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
Mhlwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Mar. 22 Mar. 24
April 19 April 21
May 17 May 19
India, China,
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 lo £7O,
Batavia, and Japan,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
th'- passengers for London and give them every assistance
f; anding and passing their luggage through the Customs,
(' a., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamer's having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


WAR MEDALS I
AN EVERLASTING SOUVENIR OP
AUSTRALIA’S GALLANT BOYS.
These medals are same size as a shilling piece. Oan be
worn on Watch Chain, Bracelet, or Brooch. They are
beautifully mounted, with Pin and Bed, White and Blue
Satin Ribbon. One side bears the Queen's head, encircled
with the words, “British Transvaal War, 1809—1000.'
On the reverse is a Mounted Australian Bushman scouting,
who scenting danger suddenly pulls up hia horse, and
shades his eyes the better to enable him to discern the
enemy. “Good Luck to Australian Bushmen's Corps’
forms a border. Price'—Rolled Gold, 7d. ; Silver, 2s. Id. ;
Solid Gold, 205.; post paid. Everybody should buy one,
for part of the proceeds is given to the Bushmen’s
Patriotic Fund.
m* NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION
A RECORD.—We sold
5000 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14kt. GOLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Payment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED,' FULL-
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT, SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
Gent’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect little gem.
They give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money [is
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
s
ss
H. POTIER & CO.,
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUIOE
AMD CORDIALS.
5V
m
MONTSERRAT LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan ; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON ;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS:
Sydney —Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell & Co.
E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
Newcastle —D. Cohen & Co.
And of all Chemists everywhere.
in
a
sJ-'V&V- f- *
' ■
The GOO HALT A VINEYARDS, from
Photograph.
J
Lightest Wines in Australia.
J. A. WILKINSON
OJJteesi
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)
l&llenburys Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys
The “Allenburys
The “ Allenburys
” Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of liie.
” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that —“ No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 485, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
THE MIKTER’S great want
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, capable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the finest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5. No. 3, with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6O.
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No. 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON j SOLE AGEI H,-
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes.
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Mi
iwi
S
The Ho. 2 Miner’s “Klendyke” Crusher, Price £3O.
'
The Jolliest Book of
the Year
■ ■
“On Our Selection.”
By “Steele Rudd.”
Price 65.; Post Free.
DANGER SIGNALS
FOREWARNED IS
FOREARMED^
When the First Symptoms of 111 Health Appears Use “VITADATIO.’
Jt Fortifies the Whole System.
A COMPLICATED TROUBLE THOROUGHLY CURED.
Mr.
Do Not Delay, Try VITADATIO at Once.
Shepparton.
S. A. PALMER (Vitadatio). _ _ .
Dear Sir, —I have very great pleasure in certifying to the MERITS OF VITA-
DATIO. I have suffered for the past five years, off and on, from "JAUNDICE,”
"ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER,” and an "INTERNAL GROWTH ” of some
kind, which the doctors did not seem to understand, and all the medicine I took
before VITADATIO had no more effect upon me than so much water. My
husband and son induced me to try your VITADATIO, and, after the
second week I had been taking it, a quantity of blood, and lumps of stuff
which looked like pieces of liver, came away, 1 now feel splendid ; am
able to get about and do my work.
1 am an old resident of Shepparton, and all my neigh-
bours can tell you how bad I was.
I EARNESTLY RECOMMEND VITADATIO to
anyone suffering as I did.—Yours gratefully,
y Mrs. C. CURREY.
Witness to signature —W. F. Ford, J.P.
I do hereby certify to the correctness of
the above testimonial.
D. H. K. M’GUINESS.
Wangaratta.
PRICE : 5/6 AND 3/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
THOUSANDS
RECOMMEND
Webbers
7
A
r** xr,^.


Cycles in the Post Office.
Nearly two years ago, after careful investigation,
the Victorian Government adopted the Massey-
Harris Government Standard Bicycle for its postal
service. About the same time the New South Wales
Government selected Bicycles of half a ;!ozen diff-
erent English, French, American, and Cow.uil makes
ior its postal service. The result is worthy of note.
The Massey-Harris Government Standard Bicycles
have cost the Victorian Government n/- per machine
for 15 months repair, mostly the result of careless
accidents. The other kinds have cost the N.S.W,
Government £ll/10/- per machine for repairs.
For several months past the Queensland Govern-
ment have been investigating bicycles for its postal
service, and have selected the Massey-Harris, and
the Massey-Harris only. Why ? Evidently because
they thought it better to buy a Bicycle with a good
reputation than a repair bill.
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd., Toronto, Canada, and
almost everywhere.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
lQfl6*i)za CoOgb-
mn
The CRIMSON BICYCLE.
Every Cr/njsorj Wfjeel is either a RED BIRD,
Or else it is endeavouring to sleigh ride on Red Bird remit*itinn u n
bl>t h° e2peri - en ? ed W'wlwr. would 'ridf on/unleas paid to do P “o t ° sethec ' The 7
Manufactured, Sold
, and Guaranteed by
Factories:—
Che 6oold Bicycle Co., £td.
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
Australasian Branches l
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australia.
261 Collins-st., 1 Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
1900 Model Red Birds oan now be obtained oil TERMS. We will take your old mount in exchange
at a liberal valuation.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
Three successive Saturdays at Caulfield have
shed a decided semblance of light upon the hig events in
V.R.O. Autumn programme. Some of the Caulfield run-
ning was quite cheerfully consistent. When the things
seen in public are considered, together with recent track
gallops and previous records, it is hard to put one’s faith
in any rank outsider for the Newmarket Handicap or
Australian Cup. Actual winners may want as much pick-
ing as usual, but the punters’ fields of reasonable selec-
tion are certainly smaller than they were a month ago.
Ikey, the quid-sucker, is at time of writing engaged in
profane prayer for bad weather and a muddy course.
Ikey believes in heavy rains whereby most of the calcula-
tions based on hard ground are pretty certain to get
slipped up.
N.9.W., with Stand Off, Comquist, Sequence,
and The Watch Dog, threatens to capture New-
market Handicap. The Tasmanians hope Silvermoor is
a probability on paper, likewise Veneda, Veloce, Blun-
derer, Foret and Locksmith among the Vic. candidates.
Foret, according to local whisperers, is a “ dead bird,”
but he is open to the negative objection that horses from
Foulsham’s stable are almost invariably rated above their
merits. Veneda beat Stand Off at a difference of 21bs. in
Oakleigh Plate, but the Sydney nag was unduly bustled
on that occasion. Blunderer, a wild, eager 5-year-old in
Mark Whitty’s stable, is perhaps the most promising of
the Vic. lot, and anyhow present writer will expect
Blunderer to get one of the four places in company with
Oornquist, Sequence, and Stand Off. Comquist ought
to win the Newmarket. One thing seems certain—the
N.S.W. crowd will provide a warm first-favorite on the
day.
» * * *
Comquist, winner of Hawksburn Handicap at
Caulfield on Saturday, is owned by “A. Stanley”—a big
Sydney pu iter who hasn’t had too much luck ; hence it is
“up to him’’(though not necessarily) to get away with
something big—for instance, the Newmarket to-day. The
day before Oornquist romped away with the llawkshurn
b „ekers got a line that he would be a trier in that race by
the fact of a heavy stable-commission being executed in
his fa /or for the Newmarket. Some turf scribes, in the
fulness of their wisdom, hinted that “ the penalty ”
would stop the colt, hut there was no penalty.
Sydney tote-shops were not influenced by this as they had
him at threes from the time their lists were put up. The
Hawksburn was the nag’s first victory. “ Comquist” is a
combination of the latter parts of the names of the sire
(Abercorn) and dam (Sonmiloquist).
* * * *
The Australian Cup will be largely a question
of soreness, or no soreness, with the 3-year-old cracks—
Merriwee, the Cup winner, and Seahorse, from Maoriland.
Jh.y are said to be a little “off,” hut maybe the
rumor is as unreliable as a war cablegram. As to
whether either, or both of them, can heat Parthian
in his present fettle the weight-for-age running on
' Saturday will give a good idea, but meanwhile this
erring scribe reckons that Merriwee at his best should be
better than Parthian at his best over a -miles course,
for tlie one handsome animal is a proved stayer, whereas
the other —a son of Grand Flaneur —is thus far suspected
of having more pace than stamina. More often than not
a good, sturdy 3-year-old can get away from his elders at
the finish of an Australian Cup. Sometimes, as in the
case of Bobadil last year, a speedy youngster doesn’t need
to be a genuine stayer to beat common cattle. But this
time the Australian Cup field will include some highly
respectable second-raters, with the weights very much in
their favor. Disfigured, War God, Royal Purple, La
Carabine and George Frederick should be dangerous,
even against the aforesaid trio of cracks. The writer
a hnits to the weakness of a strong fancy for Disfigured,
and, after the old mare, Merriwee and War God.
• * • *
Stirrup: At time of writing Far Niente colt Se-
quence is favorite for the Newmarket and looks like carry-
ng inojt money. Those behind the N.S.W. nag aver that if
ns repeats a gallop done at Randwick ere going south the
hig Australian sprint is a moral for him. Sequence’s dam,
Conssquence, was a daisy in her time and the youngster
w„ll prove himself something much out of the ordinary
if lie finds his way to the front at the post after
tae gruelling tusssle down that long straight with
5.9 up. Sequence’s recent Challenge Stakes running isn’t
convincing, but he mightn’t have been taking any. Djin-
Djn, gave the colt 211 b. when she beat him in the Epsom.
With 7.12 up he won the Shorts by a head from Glenroy,
7.7 ; Kalingo (Bst.) being third. When Sequence appro-
p ia;ed the Duff Memorial Stakes at Itandwick he and
,'ioinontary (his second) had even weights, Dewey (third)
conceding 10lb. Sequence is undoubtedly a good per-
ormer, lint he’s got to get over the distance with a good
performer’s burden.
• • • *
Country-owned aged ex-galloway gelding Bega,
by Jiargo—First Yattendon mare, quite mystified backers
at Canterbury (Sydney) on Saturday. Ikeys had no
sooner opened on the Junipers’ Flat Race than punters
fell over each other to get any price going—2’s being
wallowed with avidity. The flow of cash continued, hut
i istead of shortening the nag’s price it had a contrary
effect until at last it dawned upon the “ fly ” section that
it had fallen in and it straightway proceeded to
save itself on Havelock and Commissioner. The
race was a one-horse affair from the fall of the flag. Bega
sailed to the front immediately and simply ran home
anyhow it liked. As indicating how much everybody
seemed to be outwitted —even Ikey himself—it might he
mentioned that when half the journey had been tnrown
behind and Bega was comfortably cantering lengths
ahead 3’s was freely laid against the nag I
• * • •
The average uninformed backer is a follower of
form—which is mainly the reason of the heavy affluence
of the hook-nosed Israelite with the bag round his neck.
On form the handsome pony Gameboy hadn't a hope of
winning Canterbury Flying Handicap on Saturday after
his easy defeat, when heavily backed, by Oast Iron a fort-
night previously. Hence he went out at “sevens,” and
plenty at the price, to lick his field, including Cast Iron,
without distressing himself, by many lengths. Outside
the stable only a few cunning backers collected on him.
(The “cunning backer” is mostly a far-seeing person who
doesn’t know one nag from another, and doesn’t trouble
to find out, but keeps both eyes on the betting). Form
was badly treated all round on Saturday.
* * * *
At Canterbury Park, on Saturday, betting on
the “ can’t lose ” system of backing favorites, a backer
would dispose of £63 on the day and would have to start
off next week by putting £6l on the first event. This
“ system ” may be a “ can’t lose ” one, but, of late, it has
proved itself a fairly good substitute for the pretty-
generally-mastered “ losing system.”
* * • *
Sydney owns a turf-scribe who could never back
a winner, though he regularly invested a half-crown on
every event. At a recent pony-meet he decided to break
his run, so backed each of the four starters for one race.
When the outsider of the party got home he gleefully
decided that his luck had changed until the stewards met
and, deciding that none of the nags—not even the winner
—had “ tried,” declared the event “no race.” Then the
paper man solemnly swore he’d never back another horse,
and went down to find his “hooky” and get his money
back. He met a lot of other backers looking for the same
man.
Whether the A. J.C. was right or wrong in dis-
qualifying young Fielder, its failure to make any sign
over the deliberate roping of horses on the Sydney
suburban courses, Saturday after Saturday, would make
it seem that an exception to the general rule was made
in the case of Mora. The A. J.C. looks with pious horror
on pony meetings, but certain it is that many shows on
the horse courses would not pass muster at Kensington,
or even on the soup-plate tracks.
* * • *
In Sydney’s last six days’ racing—37 events—
only three first favorites were successful. Ten of
the events were run at Randwick, 18 favorites being
beaten, and the nineteenth, which won, only shared the
honor of first choice with another nag —both being quoted
at “ fours.” No wonder “Booky” grows fat and wears
diamonds.
* ♦ * *
A whimsical old fellow, in dilapidated attire,
who looks as if he washes his face with his hat on, has
lately excited the curiosity of horse-gamblers who do the
meets. Sometimes flush, other times apparently hard-up,
but he bobs up at every horse-social—lives on the game,
in fact. Alleged to be a man with an English history
who knows much of club-life. No friends, and the nature
of his coups he keeps to himself. But an indiscreet
banker tells writer that the mysterious one can scratch
his name for a few thousands.
* * » *
Cabled this week that Fearless Footsteps had
annexed English Waterloo Cup. The bitch’s sire, Fabu-
lous Fortune, won same event for same owner three years
ago. It is a 64-dog stake, for all ages at £25 each ;
winner, £5OO ; runner-up, £2OO.
• » * »
Otto Cribb is spoiling for a cut at some of the
best in the 10.4-and-undersection, but they won’t come—
theM.L. fighter’s fame has gone forth. Melb. Tot Hig-
gins would supply a tough morsel, and Peter Murphy, fit
and well, might just about prove too stiff an obstacle for
0.0. Old bald-patch Jim Barron talks of what he is pre-
pared to do, but money bars the way, and the meeting of
the pair is a remote contingency—albeit it is possible that
Barron's proposal that the winner take all may be ac-
cepted. Meanwhile Otto is engaged trying to hitch on to
a 12st. Armidale (N.S. W.) pug as the only one possessing
the necessary.
• * * *
Ed. Btn.umx.— “Old Timer” (B. 17/2/’oo) says :
“The alleged champion, Herb. M’Kell,” cleared out from
Ned Burden. Let me point out that when—after M’Kell
beat Barron—Dr. Osmond, of Sydney, posted £25 on
M’Kell's behalf to make a match with Burden, not only
was the money not covered, but not a word of reply came
from Burden. Also, when M’Kell was last in Sydney he
only stayed the three weeks the vessel that brought him
from Africa remained in port, having previously booked
his passage by her to the U.S. As M’Kell is “the man
who is away,” 1 think that, in fairness, these facts should
be allowed to speak for themselves.—Uiter Cur.
* * * *
“ Pug.” : Been to Metrop. A.C. (Sydney) a few
times, and left much amused at the way in which the
show is run. Management means well, but doesn’t know
how. Bruisers concerned often kick against decisions
arid start arguments which referee enters into instead of
ignoring. Saturday night, they bounced him, and he
stood it calmly.. One judge hurled a lot of lurid stuff,
bristling with picturesque adjectives, at his fellow judge,
because latter begged to differ on one occasion; finally
he wound-up by telling the spectators, as well as the
proprietors of the hall, to go and “git” some
“ mug ” to take his place—they couldn’t have the loan of
him any longer. Might be mentioned that the owner of
the select vocabulary who thus stood on his dignity is
a pug. himself—and a plucked ’un at that. The referee
has a voice of the keenly-penetrating order, that becomes
a squeal when things get exciting. He carries a note-
book and pencil, and, after every round, jots down the
points scored by each man ; but he often gets mixed, for
the wrong one is occasionally given the decision, or a
“ dror ” is declared where a winner could be easily named.
Writer doesn’t doubt said official’s honesty of purpose,
but he’s not up to the game, and wants a lot more experi-
ence.
* * * *
The Polish-Hebrew pug. Joe Choynski, out here
seven years ago, and Kid M’Coy, heralded world-beater,
had a sensational “go” at New York in January. The
Kid was a 4-to-l-on favorite, but was banged all over the
ring in the first round and laid out half-a-dozen times.
Choynski had the fight won in the second, but the gong
clanged while M’Coy was on the floor, and they went to
corners before the Minins, had expired. Timekeeper ex-
plained that he struck the gong because M’Coy had been
down 12sec.—2sec. over allotted term ; referee denied it,
and the barney gave the Kid time to pull himself toge-
gether. Each went in to eat the other in the third.
Choynski was on the boards first, then M’Coy. By-and-
bye both got home simultaneously, and the pair went
sprawling in opposite directions. At the signal, Choyn-
ski, hands down, turned to go to his corner, when M’Coy
rushed in and laid him low with a punch on the point.
Uproar and excitement were terrific at this stage ; M’Coy
stated the blow was on its way as the bell rang, and
he couldn’t stop it. Choynski claimed the fight
and refused to come up again because he was dazed
and “saw no prospect of a fair deal,” whereupon the
referee declared in M’Coy’s favor. N.Y. papers said
Choynski was jobbed. The pair were to have met again
last Tuesday. The second seems to be Choynski’s unlucky
round. At old York-street (Sydney) Boxing Club years
ago he, in the second round, got the heaviest punch ever
seen here on to grizzly Joe Goddard’s jaw, cutting the
cheek open two or three inches and lifting the big “ Bar-
rier Boy ” clean off his feet. It looked a million to one
against the man-eater rising within the lOsec.—if ever;
but at “ 9 ” Goddard struggled up and floundered through
the round. The Australian picked up wonderfully in his
corner and gave Choynski a parlous period of it during
the next 3min., whipping him badly in the fourth term.
At Boston (U.S.A.) when Fitzsimmons and Choynski met
latter had his man dead to this planet in the second round
but lost his head and so made a mess of the finishing
business, otherwise the lanky Maorilander’s triumphal
march would have been stopped there and then. Choyn-
ski is undoubtedly the hardest hitter in the game. In
his fight with Sharkey at ’Frisco one punch sent the sailor
clean over the ropes and out into the auditorium.
* » * »
Just as it began to look as if tbe turf was taking
the cake for glorious uncertainty, Sydney cricket has
come again with a great run, and distanced all competi-
tors. Central Cumberland, playing against Paddington,
made in its first innings 106, and was beaten by Pad-
dington with 152. C.C. then started its second innings,
and made 119 without, losing a wicket. Again, Waverley
beat Leichhardt on first innings, 218 against 142. Waver-
ley in its second innings was all out for 40 runs.
* * * *
“Bails” : N.S. W. cricket know-alls are reported
to prophesy that next season Worrall, Jones, and Howell
will drop, or be dropped, out of big cricket, and that
Harry Stuckey, Saunders, Hack, Reedman, Windsor,
Duff. Howard, Hopkins, and M’Beth will go for the
vacancies. No mention again of Alf. Carter, of E. Melb.,
than whom there is no harder hitter and more consistently
heavy scorer in Australia to-day. He bowls a rattling
well-pitched.ball, and fields briskly ; knows how to use,
not frivol, with his great muscular powers and keen eye.
Carter has waited long, and deserves to catch the selec-
torial ocular.
• * * *
Clem Hill made 210 runs, not out, in a club-match
last week, and Darling has been scoring heavily. In the
former case, it was a treat to see Hill punching the great
Jones’ bowling, the latter only taking two wickets for 81.
Five clubs are now running level for S. A. premiership.
* * * *
~ A.M.M’C.” : The decision arrived at by Mary
lebone committee not to send a team to Australia next
season (owing, allegedly, to the war), must be purely a
sentimental one—-unless the committee considers that
English cricket is in too parlous a state to risk even the
loss of one man. How Poore, Wynyard, Mitchell, and
. e ,(,? s *' ers are going to weaken an English side through
inability to play is indeed hard to understand. In the
five international games against the ’99 Australian XI.
England was represented by 24 men, none of the fore-
going players being included in that number. The only
cricketer in S. Africa who played in the tests is Fry, and,
considering that ,he was in solely as a batsman, and
averaged merely 23, he should consider himself for-
tunate that he instead of, say, Abel, was not an onlooker.
But then Abel is a pro., and a pro. in England
is (like Tommy Atkins in S. Africa) supposed to do exactly
what he is told and keep his mouth shut. They are both
only heroes when battling for the Empire. To a man of
independent character there are no points in being an
English pro. Take Johnny Brown, for instance, lie is
one of the three best bats in England—always busy—a
fine field, and a thorough game *un. He was not chosen
in the tests until the third one, played in Yorkshire. Un-
doubtedly that was a great factor in his inclusion.
Johnnie is not popular with the “great” amateurs, for he
has his opinion and freely expresses it re any incident in
the game. It is a good old Yorkshire trait. It was an
open secretin England that Brown’s non-slavish character
was the prime reason in keeping him out of the test
games. Just fancy a pro. criticising an amateur I It is
high treason and want of loyalty towards Queen and
Empire, besides various other crimes.
* * * *
The intimation that the Marylebone Club has
abandoned the idea of sending- a team to Australia “ for
the present ” may not be a big surprise to the Melbourne
Club, as Wardill had great trouble in completing matters
when in England. The Lord’s crowd are a conservative
body, and it is something new for them to come down to
the managing of touring teams. Probably the Melh.
Club will now invite M‘Laren to take on the job, and a
better man could not be found, unless he be Lord Hawke.
Anyhow, the talkative Ranji is looked upon as impossible.
\V hatever happens, the tour is sure to come off, as the
V; lub a nd the other associations have already smelt
the dollars. J
* * * .
At last there is good news from Kew Asylum re
Harry Trott. Ever since his confinement the authorities
have in vain tried to get him to take an interest in any-
thing, especially' cricket. He would not even look at a
match, and would neither bat nor bowl. A team turned
up to play the warders the other day. The latter were
shortdianded, and in desperation tried different tactics
W 1 , ™9'* < " ,ne of warders went up to Harry and
said, ‘ Take off your coat, you must play to-day.” Trott
stared at him in bewilderment for a time, and ultimately
,9!b we J*’ f must. I must.” He made 98 out of
about 140, and hit most brilliantly. He hit 20 fourers and
a sixer. A man had to run for him. So he must be pos-
sessed of some judgment. lie, however, absolutely re-
fused to bowl. J
* * * *
•Tack : Re best all-round Australian cricketer.
What does it imply ? Does it mean best Australian in his
own country or best Australian in England—or both com-
bined ? At present time, Noble and Trumble are the only
contestants for the honor. But it must, be remembered
that the difference between the two countries is very
1 11 Australia, the decision depends mostly on
skill and stamina the latter a great point depending
upon good digestion. In Australia, Noble—his battin"
turns the scale. In England, on all wickets, day in and
out, Trunible’s great bowling gives him the palm. He is
less patchy than Noble, and would be sure to get a greater
number of wickets in an extended tour. Noble is the
t m er i as t° fielding, it is a toss-up, slight!v in favor
of Trumble, as he has no superior at slip ; whilst Noble,
good as -ac is, has a better in Laver.
* . * ' . * *
Many members of Melb. cricket ground have
declared themselves “ off ” all sports so long as the Boer
hunt continues, but they have only mentioned it quietly
in their own households, after diligent precautions against
patriotic eavesdroppers. They are simply tired of ever-
lasting “ Soldiers of the Queen ” and ah the rest of the
loyal torture.
* » • *
An item at the Sydney sports last Saturday in
aid of the Sydney Bushmen’s and Patriotic Funds, was
the defeat, in the Wantage Race, of the various teams of
Bushmen by the representatives of the despised “ Eng-
land s Last Hope.” The “ Last Hopers ” rode excellently
and beat the bushwhackers at all points, which is not sur-
prising, considering that the team was composed of real
bushmen who were fired out of the contingent for want
of bush experience, or something. Another big perform-
ance at above sports was tjie downing of the Mildura
man-o’-war tars by the Sydney Naval Artillery Volunteer
team in one of the gun events.
• * * *
With no mother province reps, to bar the way
Vic. crack swimmer Maynard rules the roost across the
Murray. N.S.W. half-mile champion Bond went over a
few weeks ago and prevented him from securing the
quarter-mile honors. At Ballarat, recently, Maynard got
away with the 220yds. supremacy of Victoria in 3.8 2-ssec.,
hotly pushed by Pearson. Same day Pearsofl, with ssec.,
won Ballarat Handicap (252yd5.) ; Maynard, scratch, and
Bond, 20sec., dead-heated for second place. Next day
Maynard was at Geelong, where he appropriated the Open
Grand Handicap (300yds.), from scratch, in 4.5 4-ssec.
Last decade Victoria had the best swimmers in Austra-
lasia. Now, her champion would only be a third-rater in
Sydney.
* * * *
Melbourne Swimming Club’s gala at St. Kilda
(Vic.) Saturday wasn’t a success. Attendance big, but
programme gave little satisfaction. Handicapping proved
very crude. Atop of his Ballarat and Geelong successes
Maynard secured the half-mile supremacy. Wilson gave
him a great go ; they were neck and neck over the whole
journey until a few yards from the end, where Maynard,
with a big effort, got to the front and won by 2yds. No'
times taken, but nothing in the watch-smashing line
occurred.
* * * *
The interest in big regattas has not yet quite
petered out. The late Sydney Anniversary fixtup-’s
balance-sheet showed receipts to have been bigger tnasn
usual ; also subscriptions, which totted up £286. Balance
to go forward, after squaring all exes., £3OO. A big two
dajs regatta, to mark the beginningxif tile new century,
is mooted, and will be discussed March 7. It is proposed
to give away at least £lOOO in prizes.
* * * *
Interprovincial agreement re eight-oar races
provide that they shall take place between April 15 and
May 15. Next has been fixed for May 5. Understood
that Q. people, on learning that Sydney Association pur-
pose seeking a postponement, intend suggesting Oct. as
suitable to them. Club feeling runs so high in Victoria
that choosing the cabbage-garden crew will be no
pleasant task.
* * * *
Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) sculler Wray (until re-
cently in America), after talking to Hunter Bh-er
(N.S.M.) man Towns (who has been in London some time)
from the Yankee side of the Atlantic, crossed over with
much blare and flourish. At the meeting between the
pair and their backers the championship of England and
the Sportsman* Cup was discussed. Wray wanted to row
on the Tyne in accordance with Cup conditions
which provide that it shall be Thames and Tyne
alternately. It was Thames last time when Towns
whipped Englishman Barry. Towns, however, in-
sisted that Wray, having previously agreed to’ row
on the Thames, should not go back on his word
Neither man would budge. Subsequently Wray formally
challenged Towns to row on the Tyne for the Cup, the
title, and £2OO a-side, and vowed that he’d claim the
trophy and its attendant honors if the gauntlet were not
taken up. Doesn’t look as if either of the pair is desper-
ately anxious for a go, otherwise the question of which
river wouldn’t be allowed to interfere. The Cup and title
have been rowed for eight times and only once on the
Tyne.
* * * •
Finals of Sydney club bowling tourneys last
Saturday were exciting and interesting. Pennant match
wherein City and Waverley figured, was latter's throirdi’
out 20 of the 25 heads played, but City came with a rattle
and won on the post by 3 ; 92—89. Waverley had 24 in
hand when fifteenth-head scores were chalked, but they
couldn’t stay. Ashfield and Waverley fought out the
finish of “ B ” competition, which, strangely enough was
also won by 3 points. At close of stipulated term (25
heads) 'twas found that scores had tied. A deciding heat,
which, until the last bowl ceased rolling, looked like
resulting in another tie, gave Ashfield the game ; 67—64.
* * # *
“ Ancient ” : Saw two bulldogs in “ holts ” on a
Sydney wharf the other day, and half-a-dozen lumpers
hanging on to each dog trying to drag them apart.
Heavy British swell came down gangway of steamer and
drawled out—“ Heah, stand aside and I’ll separate them,”
and, getting elbow-room, he pulled out a silver snuff-box
and sprinkled a liberal amount of the dust on the nose of
each dog. They came apart to sneeze, and were easily
taken away, still calling out “a-chew!” violently.
“ Meahly the exercise of a twifle of science over bwute
strength, drawled the H.B.S. as he strolled away from
the astonished lumpers.
* * * *
Many Australians will remember Frank Black-
ley, erstwhile a Sydney sharebroker, and in that capacity
chiefly remarkable for the breeziness of his business cir-
culars. When he left N.S.W. and returned to England he
became manager of the Inns of Court hotel, London,
where Darling’s cricket-team put up, and as a host gained
great popularity. His death, caused by influenza-bron-
chitis, will come as a shock to many. The ravages of the
epidemic this winter (writes The Bulletin’s correspon-
dent) are allocated to the general mental depression
resultant on paying instalments towards Kruger’s “price
that will stagger humanity.”
* * * *
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, &c.— at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Paling’s), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 247 George-streel, Sydney.*
Nottingham Guardian (England) des-
cribes a visit to Armour’s great pork factory at
Chicago :
Went to Armour’s—“ largest pork packer in the world,
sir.” Through miles of stockyards first, hundreds of
thousands of pigs and sheep and cattle awaiting slaughter.
Up in the air gangways with brutes driven along.
Drovers fat and porky themselves. Air thick, odour op-
pressive. ’Cute boy given us at Armour’s as guide.
Carried twelve bottles of smelling salts in pocket to dis'-
tribute among ladies. Interesting events promised. Went
sliding and skating over blood ; thousands of carcases
dripping blood ; men oozing blood. Tremendous noise.
Climbed ladder. Down below, hundreds of pigs in pen.
Great slowly-circling wheel. Two men catch pig, chain
hind legs, fasten chain to wheel. Pig objects. Ten pigs
moving round on wheel Uproar frightful. Chain
slips on trolly and pig carried along, head down,
squealing lustily. Man standing in pit. Pit floor sink
of blood ; can hardly see man for blood. As pig passes
he cuts throat quickly, dexterously ; blood gushes all over
man. [He cuts throats of 7500 pigs everyday ; done so
for 21 years; wages, £1 a day.] Two men sweeping blood
down grating. Pigs writhing in agony and roaring.
Noise awful. Pigs come off wheel quick—one every ten
seconds ; tumbled into boiling vat; scraped with ma-
chinery ; dozens of men finish scraping by hand ; pig slit
and disembowelled ; body hurried to cooling room. Time
from catching pig by hind-leg till time it is in cooling
room, just four minutes.
Slithered over bloody floor. Nearly broke neck in gore
of old porker. Peeped in cooling house ; cold, something
below zero. Saw few hundred men slicing pigs—knives
wonderfully sharp—making hams, sausages, and pork
chops. Whole sight not edifying ; indeed, rather beastly.
Next went to cattle-killing house. Cattle driven along
gangway and banged over head with iron hammer. Fell
stunned. Then swung up by legs and man cuts throats.
Small army of men with buckets catching blood ; it
gushed over them in torrents—a bit sickening. Animals
stunned in 34 seconds. Time from banging over head till
meat reaches cooling house, eight minutes. Two thou-
sand five hundred cattle killed a day.
Next to sheep-slaughter-house. Sheep led to slaughter
by trained old ram—old reprobate that steps aside once
they’re in the pit. More throat-cutting—lo,ooo sheep
killed a day—more blood ; place reeks with blood ; walls
and floors splashed with it ; air thick, warm, offensive.
“Yes,” said guide, “Armour’s the biggest slaughter-
house in the world. There’s no waste ; we utilise every-
thing—everything except squeak of the pigs. We can’t
can that.”
Went and drank brandy.
Manager Tyree, of the Acetylene Gas Co.,
says £20,000,000 is the total money now in-
vested in acetylene gas, and 120 firms in ‘ patient
deep-thinking ’ Germany do nothing but acetylene
business. It is barely five years since I intro-
duced acetylene to Australasia, and the first town
where I exhibited it promptly kicked me out as
an anarchist and devil’s agent for nitro-gly-
cerine. During these five years ignorance
and vested interests have pitched into me
every sort of way possible. Deaths, acci-
dents, and general catastrophes more wicked than
the plague have been associated with my name
and acetylene. Yet nobody has been hurt so far.
Insurance societies have come in tears and asked
me to get out; they said that they wouldn’t insure
my building, and that I exposed the buildings
round .about to fearful dangers. People have
generated the gas under improper conditions,
with the result that styrolene, benzine, tar,
naphtha, &c., have been deposited in the
gas pipes and burners thus causing endless
trouble. Then these people have turned
round and cursed acetylene, which is as rational
as cursing a good leg of mutton because it
has been spoilt by an ignorant or careless cook.
The proper generation of the gas is the thing that
can be easily assured, and I will lay £lOOO to
£lO that no installation put in by me will fail.
And the £lO that I win I will give to Sydney
Hospital. Experiments extending over very
many months prove that acetylene gas is the best
light for mines.”


&
i
mn
c
/» fe
LOOKING
OVER
apparently insur-
mountable obstacles
is one way to over-
come them and see
clearly.
We have, by years
of patient endeavour
against all kinds of
difficulties, suc-
ceeded in placing
Tobacco
on the highest pinnacle of popular favour.
Anyone can see clearly that Derby is g • j
not approached by any other brand for V_l Clf LIIIIC Ltd 11 L^
DO YOU SMOKE DERBY?
18
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY Gil MIRANT,
SYDNEY.
Telephone 3490.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Directly opposite Civil Service Stores. Mr. Monte Goldstein, Manager.
These premises have been opened with an
Extensive and Splendidly Assorted Stock
—OP—
WATCHES, JEWELLERY, BIJOUTERIRE, SILVER
AND PLATED WARE 0F ™ MANUFACTURE® 8 ° F
NOVELTIES OF THE MOST ELEGANT AND UP-TO-DATE DESIGNS AND
HIGHLY FINISHED WORKMANSHIP.
The Best of Style Combined with the Best of Value.
m
nm
n
mn
TUB
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK (SRIMLEy
Sole Distribfttios Ageot
for AOStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street , Sydney .
m
Cures While
You Sleep
Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup, Catarrh, Coins.
s'iid :?sas» k , s' l f£zr“‘ “““• Har “-
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
THE MUTUAL STORE, Ltd.,
Universal Providers.
Grocers, Wine and Spirit 3lerchants,
Provision Dealers, Drapers,
Outfitters, and General Furnishers *
BEST QUALITY ONLY.
The Mutual Store, Ltd., Flinders-st., Melbourne
COUNTRY FOLK
WILL BE INTERESTED . . .
TO LEARN
That we are arranging for local representation and stocks of P.& B. Ruberoid, etc.,
in Country Districts where all P. & B. materials may be obtained at Sydney
Prices plus carriage. We are pleased to announce the following list of District
Agents to which additions will be made from time to time :
District Agents.
District. Messrs. E. WEBB & 00.
„ E. RICH & 00., Did.
E. RICH & 00., Ltd.
Bathurst
Bourse
Brewarrena
Oobar ..
Dubbo ..
Goulburn
Mudoee
Orange
Parkbs
Temora
Warren
Yass ..
„ GUDGEON & OLIFTON.
Mr. J. G. BROWN.
„ OWEN FURNER.
Messrs. T. H. MARKS & 00.
Mr. F. A. COLLINS.
„ JOHN WESTCOTT.
„ JAMES THOM.
„ ADOLPH ALEXANDER.
Messrs. THOMPSON & BATES.
E. RICH & CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
' ’it '**■*-' - '
Hi j!*j!i!!o!iij!i illbuli J
..m-mrmri
ItWlMrrffi
h
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO W. ELLIS
At Poverty Point.
_. , , ... . , ~ ... ~
Disaster has followed fast and followed faster on the
heels of a bright little Australian of a few years back,
Her voice failed, and she fell out. Subsequently a trip
to Europe was made to endeavor to patch up the ruined
organ, but, meanwhile, the poor girl had become a prey
. . . , ... , , • , .
to intense melancholia, which has now developed into
complete mental decay.
“S.” : The A.N.A. dramatic competitions in Melbourne
were not wholly vain. Although each competing party
had at least one shocking clodhopper in its bill the
general work was interesting, and one really clever little
lady came to light. Watch for a Miss M. Masters as the
next bright particular Australian ingenue—presuming
Miss M. M. lias professional aspirations, and can get the
necessary look-in. In a small compass and not too pro-
pitious surroundings, she impressed the above with a
Clean pen-line preciseness and nicety of execution, and an
intelligence rarely met with. The A.N.A. ought to fur-
bish up the prizes next year, and give a wider interest,
by stipulating for one-act dramas of local manufacture
the plays might be awful, but awfulness is generally
expected, anyhow, and the good thing dreamt of might
crop up.
“Haresfoob”: In reply to Miss Watts-Philhps. I must
insist it is preposterous to assume that Dickens and Watts-
Phillips were not acquainted with such an overwhelming
Parisian dramatic hit as the “ Chevalier de Maison
Rouge.” But here is a fact. Webster produced a trans-
lation of the “ Chevalier ” in London many years before
he produced the “ Dead Heart.” Possibly this was the
reason he kept the “ Dead Heart ”on hand. The original
French plav of the “Chevalier Maison Rouge” may be
read in Melb. Public Library. The “ Dead Heart ” can, I
think, be bought at the theatrical booksellers. I got a
cdpv not very long ago, and am well enough primed in
claiming that “ Maison Rouge” is the fount of the “Dead
Heart,” “ Tale of Two Cities,” and “ The Only Way.”
. ’ . A ’ ~ A : .. .
Albam must be meditating another Australian tour.
The other day the jaded pnma donna sang at Albert Hall
in aid of a British Empire League fund for the widow’s
and orphans of colonial soldiers (mostly unmarried)
killed in South Africa. Among Albani s platform col-
leagues were such young and unremarkable Australian
singers as Miss Rosa Bird, the Sydney girl trained by
Marches], and Miss Nora Dane, a former Melb, Conserva-
tonum pupil, to whom Marshall Hall addressed one of
his Hymns Ancient and Modern. The cable mentions
that •“ Madame Melba and Miss Ada Crossle.v were unable
to attend in consequence of other engagements.”
~ „ „ ... 1 t „ . , .
. ?• : Writer went to see Trilby revived and was
hornblv disappointed. The play is right, but Trilby
still sings the old-fashioned Ben Bolt, which, instead of
being a patriotic song, writer strongly suspects to be a
pro-Boer ditty. Let Trilby sing the Absent-Minded
Beggar, Taffy , Sons ofthe Sea, the Laird Soldiers of
the Queen, and Little Billee Rule Britannia, and am
sure their efforts will be an increased bond of silken senti-
ment between the what is it and the &c., and the revived
drama be an additional exhibition of the unity of the
Empire. By the way, does Henry V. sing the Absent-
Minded Beggar, and if he doesn’t why isn't the theatre
wrecked ?
“ Old Vic.” : The divorce-case of Miss Syria Lamonte
has been a topic here with theatricals and variety people.
AVilhout specific reference to this somewhat one-horse
show, compared with the grand affairs of the Pattis and
so forth, let me suggest how marriage customs lag altoge-
gether behind elastic intellectual development of
Woman. Marriage, like Scotland, stands where it did a
thonsand years ago, for divorce does not touch at all upon
essential incompatibility. A woman like Miss Lamonte
suddenlv finds a field open to her- in England, while her
husband is nailed to Australia. Well, nobody supposes
that the average marriage will stand the test of indefinite
parting. A’et compulsory removal isn’t admitted as a
j- 1
..., ~ „ ~ ’ , ~ . , ~. „„
“eib. : My selection for a cast of the New Bar-
maid : Johnnie, Miss Tottie ; Popsy, Miss A\ opsy; Dordy,
Miss Birdie ; Chappie, Miss Plantagenet; Cholly, Miss
Montmorency ; Lollie, Miss Cholmondeley.
During the first week of Rickards’s war-pictures in
Melb., a quite impressive portrait of Kruger was given,
but since then another has been substituted, touched up,
and made ugly enough to please soi-disant patriots.
According to an advt. in Melb. Lorgnette, Brough
intends to run another Australian season before taking
on the Orient.
A correspondent of Dundee Advertiser : “ Madame
Melba’s visit to Dundee has been so much commented on
and looked forward to that readers will, I am sure, be
glad to know more of her, and rejoice doubly in the fact
thatßroughtyFerrycan claim her asitsowu. Madame
Melba nee Nellie Mitchell was born m Broughty Ferry.
After the death of his wife, her father decided to seek
his fortune in Australia, taking with him his two small
daughters, the eldest of whom is the now celebrated
singer.”
t t,„,„ „u
cinematographs as put-up things. To cm. an important
event you need to know it is going to happen, and when,
and where, so as to be there with your instrument and to
be at the right angle. The parties concerned mustn’t
rush too far away and spoil tne focus, nor must they
trample over you and the irtstiilttlent. You can cin. a
prize-fight for it happens at a fixed hour Inside a fixed
space, and the necessary stand for your apparatus is put
up beforehand, and some obliging officials keep a corner
for you. War is a disobliging thing, though, and happens
suddenly anyhow, anywhere, sprawling all over the shop,
disappearing behind kopjes, galloping right over you,
and putting its big hoof through your machine,
“ E.G.” : Permit me to correct “S.S.’s” statements in
your issue of the 27th. Referring to wire-walkers, in
which the Macarte Sisters are mentioned, “ S.S.” says
thafc the Flyin „ Jordans - wire walker (Virginia Aragon)
was {, be san)e person that knocked all London silly in the
notorious unrobing trapeze act at the Alhambra. Not so.
Oharmion, to whom he refers, was originally a plump
little milliner of San Francisco, and, becoming smitten
upon “ tights and trapeze,” was apprenticed to the
Jordans—result, a very mediocre artiste. She did not
visit Australia in’9B. She was picked up in ’Frisco by
Melville Stoltz, who suggested the unrobing act, and it
caught on. Dundas Slater secured her for the Alhambra
at £BO per week, with Paris and Berlin to follow.
“Oharmion ” is not Virginia Aragon, and never will be.
However, Oharmion is no good for Australia, and Aus-
tralia is decidedly no good for Oharmion.
“ Melb.” : The R.O. world is agitated over a daring
effeot introduced by Qhaneet, in the new Mass for Car-
dina, Moran’s opening of St. Mary’s, West Melbourne,
Two t runl peters are concealed in the roof, over the altar,
and answer the organ, orchestra, and choir at a certain
point. Of course their blare is supposed to be the voice
0 f t | le Most High. Makes nle think of the time when Lyster
produced Rossini’s sacred opera, “ Mose in Egitto,” in
Melb. When Moses carried the tablets of the law, a
trumpet-note was heard from the top of Mount Sinai, re-
presenting Jehovah, of course. An awe-struck Bungaree
mail in the gallery asked—“ Is that Lyster ? ”
. , . ... „ ~ .. . ,
The clevenst ‘turn in this ‘ influenzaed city just
™ v >" wr ’^ 3 T > lB Buuletin s London correspondent,. ‘is
f toe Alhambra, the home of a prolonged patriotic
burst for mon ,. ths P ast - Jumping in and out of barrels
-empty cement casks-does not sound like much enter-
taming scope, but the Deonza brothers simply corpse com-
petition. The chef de baril is this : Blindfolded, with
angles tied, one stands before a barrel, into it he jumps
and out of it on the opposite side; then jumps up and
; n to a barrel standing on a tWo-and-a-half-foot-high table ;
out 0 j that 0 n to a chair on an 18-tnch-higher table, and
dow n into a barrel on the first table, out of which he
tomerxaultts on to the floor and jumps into a last barrel,
gomersau it, B out, and hows. All jumps are clean and
accura Le and the world has never seen its superior in its
j ine „
, ... , . . . ~ _ _ ,
Charles Warner is again Drink -mg strong and suc-
cessfully, writes The Buluetix s London correspondent.
>• jjj s bout at the Adelphi only increased the public’s
thirst, and O. W. had to transfer his ‘ shakes ’ and d.t.’s to
the Princess, where the gallery night by night with flop-
ping tears waters the flowers on the garden-hats in the
sta iis and cultivates droughts that only deep wells of ‘four
half ’ can dissipate. Marcus Clarke’s ‘For the Term of
jjj g <• jsj a p lira i ”• j s to be adapted under the commonplace
title 0 f ‘Circumstantial Evidence,’ and minus the
strongest character, the ‘paralytic parson,’ in deference
to the Nonconformist Conscience. Charlie will doubtless
• , rr ,od Mr Fro re' ”
"' ’ K
“ Hermes” : Was in a Sydney theatre<jne night recently
wh f" ala,l .v dipped regally into one of the private boxes,
a " d taking off her cloak nearly blinded the admiring
crowd with the blaze of her jewels She proceeded to
remove h , er vell - b,lt the cobwebby thing had got tangled
U P somehow, and would not come away. Her hubby
came to her assistance and speedily made things worse.
He a lar » e »‘ an f ' vltb a t lo "S bea ‘' d and a cl,o3e‘y-
cropped moustache, the effect of which was to make his
upper lip look like the lid of a pot and the lower one like
the pot itself. Also, he was impatient, and he lost Ins
temper, and got the cobwebby thing all twisted up, and
then, when the last strand of patience gave wav, he gave
a vicious tug and hauled the veil off, and the lady s back -
hair also. The beautiful knob swung right across the
box, and the lady uttered a suppressed shriek,
jj ubb y became paralysed, and stood helplessly swinging
the buob backwards and forwards, while the lady clawed
ab i b . At last she caught it, tore the hair out of the veil,
and re (s xed d over the place where her kopje had been.
Then she sat down and looked all the world in the eye
with the expression of one who was ready to deny every-
thing.
MUlocker, the German composer of “The Beggar
Student ” and “ Poor Jonathan,” died the other week,
By the way, it might be Worth manager Williamson's
while to examine the business possibilities of “ Poor Jona-
than,” which was produced at Melb. Opera House some
years ago during an unlucky season. The name part
requires a tenor comedian of the Kenningham type, but
otherwise the opera could be easily cast.
« F . H .”: Overheard at “Trilby” during interval:
„ Come Jack let>B 0 and see th * latest w f r news ~.
„ ’ , ,’ b ,
_.®® or ? e Back has put a bnght musical setting to
Kiplings Fighting Bobs, which Bailes, M.L.A.,
warbled at Melb. Parliamentary Concert the other night.
By the way, Bailes as a singing patriot sets one thinking
of the way-back time when he got into hot water for his
awful d i s i o yalty in snorting at the Prince of Wales,
J ®
“Melb.” : Sheridan has to drop back into AVidow
O’Brien, _ like Jennie Lee into Jo, Jefferson into R.vp,
Sothern into Dundreary, Rignold into Henry V.
Poor old Madame Schneider, the original Grande
Duchesse and Belle Helene of Offenbach’s operas-bouffe is
said to be qualifying herself fora Little Sister of the Poor.
Religion is often the last dissipation of a decayed prima-
donna. Schneider!
Worth any one’s while to drop into Melb. Alexandra
and hear the gallery boys express their feelings about
“ Briton and Boer.” Their scorn for Kruger is not im-
pervious to reason. When the hairy potentate makes a
wise remark or seems rather terrible in his wrath the
boys take him seriously. Kruger receives a respectful
round of applause once or twice, although he is clearly a
man who has got to be downed by the Australian Con-
tingent. But Cronje commands no reverence. He smacks
his chest and wants to know what’s the good of yueen
Victoria sending a lot of boyx to tight men of the Boer
stamp. The spontaneous burst of young laughter that
comes from above when little Cronje compares himself
favorably with an Australian Oontingenter is really
refreshing. The gallery patriots are not angry and
Cronje’s ignorance of Australia’s fighting capacity tickles
their fancy. After the laugh one hears a murmur of
young voices—the boys are saying to one another —“ My
word! them Boers do fancy themselves!” The gallery
quite takes Dampier’s awful collection of libels for real
Boers.
Women are supplanting men as theatrical prompters.
They have more tact and readiness, and their voices are
not so audible.
Andrews, the San Francisco “ Diamond Palace ” man,
wears in his tie a magnificent ruby valued at £2500 which
he says he got from Australia’s old friend, Lola Montez, to
whom it was presented by the King of Bavaria. In the
just issued life of that cranky monarch, it is mentioned
that he used to dress up as Lohengrin, and go out by
night on his lake, or pond, in a gilded boat, with Mme.
Schwansky, his favorite Prima Donna, and Wagner. One
night he expressed his rapture with Madame’s singing.
Thereupon she caressingly passed her hand through his
hair. He immediately flung her overboard, and waded
ashore himself. Wagner had to fish her out with the
boat-hook.
“T.D.” : Re Maoriland trains. Once when Tom
Pollard’s co. was travelling on a narrow-gauge line'in the
North Island the girls sat dangling their legs from the
carriage platforms, sewing and kicking things from the
side of the track. One dropped her thimble, and the
observant driver brought his engine to a standstill in
what the daily papers call “an incredibly short space of
time.” The girls gleefully got off and spent half-an-hour
searching for the missing thimble. Then the snorting
locomotive gave three terrific blasts of warning, and
dashed through t.he solemn forest at. six miles or so an
hour.
M Bleichroder, a Hebrew financier (not
*. . v
Breechloader) was with Bismarck m negotiating
j u j es Bavre about the French milliards to be
•, t-i j i j • j*
Favre groaned over the total, and said,
Why, it would take a man all the time from
Jesus Christ to count ! ‘Oh, says Otto von 8.,
“ I’ V e brought along a man who counts from the
Creation.” Bleichroder was ennobled for pointing
. dur j n (r the negotiation, that Bismarck forgot
7, • B » °
tile interest.
Every year more Use is being made of the
ar t es i ;vn waters ofthe far-back for wool-washing.
’l°
Ihe latest scour to go up is at bote,
Curiously, the great scarcity of water has given a
fillip to local scouring all through tliedry parts. The
chief reason is that camels, which can cover even
j-| ie driest stages, can shift scoured but not greasy
j and for a season’s clip to lie for months in
" , .. . . \
the shed or on the tiack means a big loss in in-
tcrest, as well perhaps as missing the best markets.


“ H.P.” : Here it seems that hands with-
out any rings at all denote the Married Woman.
In America the married woman often goes with-
out her wedding-ring.
Dear Bulletin. — I rise to make a few
firth but kind remarks on compulsory education
and culture, and to register a fear that something
dreadful is about to happen. The peep-over-the-
fence that Parkes gave the Australian multitude
in 18—, like all half-measures, was bound to be
about as full of discount as a bag of hot soup.
The discount crops up in the tremendous scramble
that everybody makes after the first peep to get
right over the fence, and most of them are doing
it in such a shocking way —wrecking so much skin
and clothes n-m good oooortunitv, hanging their
tongue out so alarmingly, making such bad com-
pany of themselves, and causing so much heart-
burn and general' foolish uncharitableness, that
the position is becoming positively grave. Also,
the building of impregnable fences is going to such
a length amongst them that every other person
will shortly have no one left to talk to, and will
look like a poor horse in pound. And long hair,
nakedness, birth - decrease, suicide, and a com-
plete upheaval of the social fabric will be the
next stage. Then the nation will take to the bush
and grow tails, or go on in a disjointecl way
writhing in the terrific agonies of arrogance,
reticence, procrastination, aggravated conceit and
over-politeness, until everything becomes too
utterly vulgar to mention, and there is nothing
left to say, and no one dare look at a tree because
it bears too close a resemblance to a naked man on
his head, and there is no beer to drink, and the
nation finally curls up and dies. I therefore move
that the Government establish culture classes
to tell these dreadful people how to behave them-
selves, and to ward off the lamentable end herein-
before predicted, before it is too late. Oh, for the
good old bad old days when we sewed our clothes
with fencing-wire and attacked the blanc-mange
with a knife and fork. There was no peaceable
local inebriate then, with the calm eye, telling us
the latest secrets of continental diplomacy, no
cigarette-smoking, boiled-shirted bullockies nor
English-saddled bushmen, and “Gipsy teas” and
“At Homes” were not devastating the land.—O.P.
People who know big weak John Forrest
well are trying hard to remember if he ever made
one political promise that he didn’t break And
barring his promise to hinder the Goldfields-
-Lsperance Bay railway they don’t remember one.
i- : Phirnside has overreached
himself at the Werribee. Everybody agreed that
he had made a, mighty stroke in securing the
dump of the Melb. sewage there, at the farm over
by the sea, to the south of his mansion. But thp
mischief is they can’t get rid of the clinging odour
of Araby the Blest. I was at Werribee town the
other day near Chirnside’s house, and can testify
to the subtle aroma. Only half Melb. is sewered
yet, and it is all to go there.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IN A VERY LOW STATE,
Through a G-reat Deal of Suffering*.
ITBITiIALGIA, BAB, TOOTH .A-HsHD FACE-ACHE.
An Unstrung: Nervous System Thoroughly Renovated.
The Case of
MR. WILLIAM HARRISON.
(From the '*Newtown Independent”)
Maria Street lies in a thickly populated
part of Newtown, and it was here that our
reporter sought for No 138, the residence of
Mr Harrison. The house is readily found,
being the nicest and most attractive in the
street. Mr Harrison, who had just returned
from work, greeted the reporter with a
cheery welcome.
“1 wish to - ask you, Mr. Harrison,”
inquired our reporter, “ the truth of the
statement that you have been through a
great deal of suffering, and finally found a
sure and perfect relief ? ”
“ Yes ; that is quite true, and I am never
likely to forget the time I had. I will tell
you how it started I had had a long spell
of very heavy work, for I may tell you I am
in the building trade, and at best my occu-
pation is very laborious. I got weak,
nervous, and in a very low state of health,
I believe my system was thoroughly run
down, and for nine weeks I had a terrible
time.
“ U'liat were your symptoms, Mr Harri-
son ? ”
“My great trouble was neuralgia. The
pains would come up my spine and settle in
my head and face, mostly on one side of the
face, giving me the earache and excruciating
pains in the jaws At times the neuralgia
would leave one side of the face and settle
in the other. The pains came on every
night time with distressing regularity, and
lasted till about three o’clock in the morn-
ing. It was a perfect misery to go to bed,
and I was forced to get up and walk the
floor for hours. Sometimes, to get a little
relief, I held brandy in my mouth to deaden
the pain I became a martyr to both tooth
and faceache. The pains spread all round
my gums, and to this was joined headache
and frequent giddiness. After some time
my legs became affected, and trembled so
I dreaded they would not carry me and that
I should fall down. This convinced me
that my nervous system was thoroughly
unstrung. I would give sudden starts
in my sleep, and wake up with a jerk
for no reason that I could tell. After eating
there was a fee ing of wind gather d across
my chest, and it hurt me to stoop or bend.
My back pained me all down the spine, and
I had to have it rubbed to get a little ease ;
and I got that way at last I felt pains from
head to foot; particularly, I noticed that
my distressing symptoms were aggravated
by the hot weather.”
“ Did you leave off work, Mr. Harrison ? ”
inquired the reporter.
No ; bad as I was, I stuck to my job,
and kept battling through. In fact, I was
that way that work, as long as I could
struggle with it, was the only relief I had
“ Did you seek medical advice ? ”
“ Yes ; I went to a doetor, and he gave
me some powders, but they did me no good
whatever "
“ Yet you got cured, I believe?”
“ Yes ; Clements tonic cured me ; there
is no mistake about that, I noticed a
decided improvement after the third or
fourth dose, and after I had continued taking
Clements Tonic I got steadily better ”
“ What induced you to take Clements
Tonic ? ”
“ We -were living in Hugo Street at that
time, and I remember my wife picked up a
little book of cures effected, and she read
what <'lements Tonic had done for
other sufferers, And as some of these persons
mentioned were local people that we knew
of, my wife gained confidence that what was
said was true. And it was my wife per-
suaded metogetClementsTonic and take it ”
“ Was your recovery complete? "
“ I got all right again, and as sound as the
bank ; all my troubles went away. The
trembling in the limbs, the nervousness,
headache, and, what relieved me the most of
all, theterribleneuralgie pains andtoothache,
disappeared, and I was able to getmy night’s
rest again Remember, I lost my proper rest
for nine weeks, always having to get up
early the next morning, sleep orno sleep,and
I am certain that had my troubles not been
stopped in time by Clements Tonic I should
have got into a deplorable, helpless con-
dition”
“ Will you allow me to make your re-
covery public?”
“ liy all means. You are quite welcome
to publish what I have said about- my sick-
ness, and what Clements Tonic has done for
me, It was by reading another man's case
that I was fortunately induced to try
Clements Tonic, and I shall be glad if what
I say may benefit someone else ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, William Harrison of Maria Street, Newtown in
the Coiony of New Sout h Wales, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of four folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and curs
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish the same in any way; and I make
this solemn declaration voluntarily, and without
receiving any paj’ment, conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an Act made and passed in the ninth year of the reign
of her present Majesty intituled “An Act for the
more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmation*
taken and made in the various Departim nts of th*
Government of New South Wales, and to suhstiliit
Declarations in lieu there of, and for the supples iOL
of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and Affidavit*."
//
Declared at St Peters, this 28th day of June, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
WILLIAM COX. J P
ms
THE OWL
OUT RATS
Consulting and
yc
DRUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Frio©, JB1 5 Cut Frio©, 18a. Ad.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REIN VIGOR ATOR
Vs the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medicalsciencecun pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital foroe,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c-, and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
norves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson's Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily orarans sound, and the brain active and prolific.
Bv its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every acre who have niven it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
pub ic.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-dav suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpii ation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney end Bladder Complaints.—ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright’s Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results. —The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
Price—One bottle, 7s 6d ; three bottles, 20s.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea.
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electrio
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern- Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and i
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors- —By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and. Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charmsof the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold.' What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ 1 would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured.”
Yes 1 what is of more value than health? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt*. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life 1
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. Hu.gb.ea’3 Fitsepilep,
This Celebrated REMEDY" FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the asre.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pyramid Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic
INWARD or OIITWA RD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
and obstinate character of
Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 3
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OTJR PATRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
I
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Country Trial Order resipeotftilly Solloited.


HrißaSSnjtiSSco’S Alfalifye Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
ommm— ========= -!■■■■' '-USHBL " "..., . LL I —L- - II. 1 . ■ .'H 1 ” 1 " 1 1 1 ?J J! ~ ' '
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A. Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering
i — (
StiM
Mr. C. J. A. NTELSEN.
A Living Witness ot the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgooriie, September 12, 1808.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which comjnetely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
Constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerved, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney,
fo Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney,
fo Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Bo±,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST Of^Fl
'iMltP^^TV^Tfrn^ffT^TutM 1 l i'll i jTTTI jiyil IHfllU 11-
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most lisfeful ahd in-
teresting information,
sis well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
ALFAIIKE VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure *®r.aH
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
ALE ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BtiOOD AND SKiN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 68. and 125., posted. Inis
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
w Course, 435. 6d.
ALP ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons o f Herr Rass-
Herbs anywhere.
H—T
m
:
ri
-
*
• •
j §ss
Herr Rassmussen, (Ip-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
. dealers for the genuine
A If aline Remedies.
A REWARD
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmuSSen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus —
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
mw mr• tojuj i ■■
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
streefc Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street; Sydney, ill the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hbrr RasS-
mussf.n’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutesb
and most unshapely .figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier —A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy' for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo >derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidnev Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
r
assmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SUDDS!),
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS
nm
n
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next LindeH's, Jeweller)


Mick Simmons gave a present of 500 briar
pipes to the Bushmen’s Contingent. These pipes
a,re handsomely mounted, and so constructed that
a man can pick Boers off while comfortably
3moking.*
Broken Hill is the centre of one of the
largest pastoral tracts in Australia ; all the country
around, for hundreds of miles every way, is used for
grazing. Yet so appalling is the still unbroken
Centralian drought, now in its fifth year in some
places, that the mining town is dependent on sheep
trucked up from the coast-runs, and lauded there
at prices ranging up to 17/G a head wholesale.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.
has brought out a wonderful machine in “The
Burroughs Registering Accountant,” which is in-
valuable to banks, insurance societies, and mer-
cantile firms. The machine is attracting great
interest among the leading bankers and merchants
of Sydney. The firm is doing wonderful good
business with the “ New Century ” Typewriters,
and has a list as long as a petition of users of this
_ machine in Australasia.*
Hector Macdonald, C. 8., who succeeded
Wauchope as General of the Highland Brigade,
rose from the anks after nine years service as a
private. He had corners knocked off him in
the last Afghan campaign, was taken prisoner bv
the Boers in the last Transvaal war, did much
butchery in tfie Egyptian campaigns, and was in
charge of a brigade at Omdurman, where he saved
the Soudanese from being cut up. He has bitter
memories of Majuba, and was always anxious to
have a “ day in harvest ” with the Boers to nope olf
his little score. He got it the other day when his
troops drove old lion Cronje into the river-bed
where the lyddite and shrapnel could get in their
work. . Some one in the Boer force managed to
shoot Macdonald in a moderate sort of way, but he
no doubt feels all the same that the old score is
wiped off the slate.
Already there are signs that John Forrest’s
wobblesome policy over Federation, and his ul-
timate wobble right out of the Commonwealth
have made a bad impression in England. Westralia
is loaded up with unfinished boom works, and
wants to borrow a lot more money to complete
them. And Westralia looks too much as if it was
foingto be another Newfoundland—that lone cod-
shing province, which stood out of the Canadian
Federation and which has dragged along in a pet-
rified, semi-insolvent way ever since. With its
huge debt, its now very gradual increase of popu-
lation, the fear that its chief glory, the golden
square mile at Ivalgoorlie, is fading a little, and
the growing demand for Separation, there are signs
of a coming time when the loans of unfederated
W. A. will float just as gaily as a register grate or
an axe-head.
There is a dash to emulate Editor Buckle,
of the Times, in his engagement of an American
as war correspondent. This Yank, stationed with
the Boers, has been getting in capital letters, while
the English correspondents are chopped up by the
censure out of all recognition. Kruger doesn’t stop
letters from Pretoria. Reitz, however, is the man
who rules the details there. The Tim es American,
under date Dec. 2, pourtrays him as a great sort of
a man, wonderfully cool under an overwhelming
pressure of business. Every bit of news from the
front goes under his thumb. He is easy and genial,
just as if he had nothing to do. There is a graphic
sketch of Cornet Viljoen, who has since so dis-
tinguished himself in the war. He has five mag-
nificent sons, all fighters. They were hearty, while
Cronje has put his three boys under the sod. This
American correspondent is peculiarly observant,
and makes up his letter of little nicks, suggestive
of a new kind of Forbes, while the profession in
general gets so perfunctory and conventional.
The Western Mall tries to persuade the
Outlanders of the Westralian goldfields to abandon
their Separation movement, and sit down peace-
fully under their almost complete disfranchisement
at the hands of the Bigjohn Boer oligarchy. It
points out to them more in sorrow than in anger
that they can't separate—that the new province
would have only one industry (gold-mining), and
no State can live on ouly one industry. The
Perth organ here makes a great effort to console
itself by assuming off-hand that none of the agri-
cultural districts would secede with the goldfields.
But when it became a case of seceding and securing
the goldfields market, or standing by Perth and
consuming their own vegetables when the Federal
tariff line rises between them and the new pro-
vince, probably half the vegetable-country would
rush to join the Separation movement.
Premier Forrest, of W.A., is apparently
wobbling round to the Federal standpoint again.
Forrest had a difficult course to steer when the
Federation question was on, and being a naturally
dismasted person, with no rudder, he steered
horribly. The old Assembly was partly Federal.
The next one, to be elected on a slightly broadened
suffrage, will almost certainly be Federal enough
to throw John out bodily if he doesn’t wriggle
round by then. The Goldfields Separation party
is getting ready to obliterate the whole John
Government, by any available means, if he
doesn’t wriggle round even before then. The
Leg. Council, partly by reason of John’s parochial
teachings in the past, is so anti-Federal that it
isn’t in the least likely to pass any Federation
Bill, and yet if he can’t persuade it to pass one
the country will sooner or later rend John asunder
and make him into two half-Johns. There are
many curses coming home to roost in W.A., and
some of them roost very high.
The Modem Art Jewellery Co., which has
just opened a handsome shop in Pitt-street, nearly
opposite the Civil Service Stores, is exhibiting a
grand collection of watches, jewellery, silver-plate
and leather ware. One novelty which has brought
the establishment into popular favor is the series
of photos of British generals in the Transvaal.
These photos are remarkably fine as likenesses,
and they are splendidly mounted. Another
curiosity of much interest is the Lee-Metford cart-
ridge pencils. These are made from the cases of
the cartridges used by the British troops in prac-
tice at Aldershot. They are selling very quickly.*
Missing Friends.
HEENAN. —JOSEPH, WILLTAM, or
FRANK, last heard of in Melbourne.
Write to your brother JOHN, 225 K Street,
Sacramento, Cal.
TO GUS and ANNIE. —Do write to Mother
and sister Nell (Swansea), who are anxious
to hear from you.
KATE SPICELEY or McFARLANE. Last
heard of Tampa, North Niagara, Westralia.
Letter from sister Beatrice at Bulletin Office,
Sydney.
Medical.
Sleeplessness. insomnia.
Instant Relief. Quick Cure. No After Effects.
No more Poisonous or Debilitating Drugs needed. All
sufferers write to Dr. LAWSON, Box 1232 G.P.0., for
particulars (free) of new remedy, or enclose 3/6 for cure.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee ami Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. 15. Moutris.
Every Evening 1 , at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
UNDOUBTED UrtjnV »/ UNDOUBTED
SUCCESS ! ntrlKl V. SUCCESS 1
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as lIENRY V.
And a Specially-selected Company of Popular Artist*.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., U. Stewart, Senior.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) TO-NIGHT
TRILBY. A Triumphant Success. TRILBY.
Miss EDITH CRANE a* TRILBY.
Mr. TYRONE POWER as SVENOAU.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at. Elvy’g and Co.
THEATRE, SYDNEY^
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS 1
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in Charles Reade’s Ever-popular Drama,
“It’s Never Too Late to Mend.”
Saturday, March 3—DEFENDER OF THE FAITH.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (Od. extra) open 0.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.'s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY. °
Sole Lessee and Manager. M a. llaiiky Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
I THE GREATEST COMPANY EVER SEEN!
LUDWIG AMANN & THE MACARTE SISTERS.
CIIAS. SEEL. MAUD NEEDHAM.
Francie Adler, Noni Rickards, Tod Calloway, Bell Ballet,
Phil Goer, and all our Great Tivoli Attractions,
SAME TIVOLI PRICES. .-. Plan at Paling’s.
DIJOU THEATRE,” MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of the Phenomenal Whistler,
Mr. TOM BROWN.
8 Newsky Family 8
BST LAST TWO NIGHTS of TOM COSTELLO,
Prof. Daw’s Marionettes. The War Pictures.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY. SPRY and AUSTIN. POPE and
SAYLES, Wallace King, Elsie Golding, Will Whitburn,
and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen's. Matinee every Wednesday.
HEATHER OYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
Melbourne Again Enraptured at the Old Favorite,
Widow O’Brici).
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as WIDDY O’BRIEN.
GRACIE WHITE FORD as DORA M’ALLTSTER.
Full Opera Band -The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and Od. Box Plan at Allan’s.
LEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under l he Direction of
Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL (Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
Business Manager, Mr. George Butler.
EVERY EVENING ! Received with Tumultuous
Approval. BRITON AND BOER.
A Powerful Patiiotic Drama, in Five Acts.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
Supported by his famous touring Dramatic Company.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. (id., Is., and SIXPENCE.
P~RI NCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C Williamson.
Business Manager .. Mr. Gro. Talus.
Treasurer Mr. R. Stewart.
Curtain Rises 7. 4.5 Sharp.
GREAT : ANNUAL : SPECTACULAR : PANTOMIME,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Written by Bernard Espinasse. Music by Leon Caron
and F. W. Wen ter.
Realistic Battle Scenes and Tableaux. Grand Ballet, etc.
Box Plan at Allan's ami Menzies.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place,
Collins Street E.,
t®* Superior Board'ng Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Wiihin three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M‘CLELLAN T r>
(nee BULGER).
FOPIEIGrN STA-MPS
QETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is: 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; (i Newfoundland (new issue).
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s Cd ; 8 Bosnia, (id ;
5u Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
fid ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s Od ; 150, ss.
Kermt ny f.u.u. r.N. Bins, catalogues of albums and
stnnins post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES £,
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
JO
FAUSTRAI
tt
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, Gs. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
OUR NEW PATRIOTIC BROOCH.
Solid Bold
TIE and HEART
BROOCH, ss.
SWALI.OW BHOOCn,
9c., 5 0 ; 15c., 8/-.
BIRD SAFETY BIN,
9c., Gold, 38.
riGEOX
9c., 5/0 ; 15c., 8/-.
Amethyst Heart and
Binl
SAFETY BIN, 6s.
GV BROOCH,
9c., 5/-; 15c., 7/0.
Solid Bold
Bird I’endant,
set wit h 17 lovely
Opals, 15s.
ALL GOODS
POST FREE.
The
Absent Minded
Beggar.
•#!
PHI
.1 1
£ \k 8
SOUD COLD
PATRIOTIC
ISROOCH,
With Artillery,
Infantry,
or Gordon
Highlander
Charm, 17s Cd
each.
SOLID GOLD
LUCKY BEAN,
Gera Set, with
Name or Motto,
6s.
LOVELY OODD bangle,
Set with 10 First Water Diamonds and 16 Rabies or
Sapphires, LIT 10s.
GE3
ks&l
PLAIN and RICHLY ENGRAV ED BRACELETS,
Solid Gold, 18s 6d, 2°s, 2os, 80s, to 4: s.
HUNDREDS OF OTHER PATTERNS.
&
fg&Q
GOLD DANGLE, get with A Beautiful Opals and 10
White I'uai ls, fiOs each.
Gold, set with One Finest Quality Amethyst, Topaz, or
Garnet, and lo White Pearls, 40s.
15c. Combination Brooch,
Pendant and Hair Orna-
ment, set with 33 Lovely
Pearls, 57/C and 72/6.
: <3
OUR
WEDDING RINGS
AND
KEEPERS
m
ARE ADMITTED TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
ALL RINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH HALL MARK.
9-carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths .. .. 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6 each.
15-'carat GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths .. .. 12/6, 17/6, 22/6, 27/6 each.
18-carat GOLD RINGS and KEEP'-' Four Widths .. .. 15/-, 20/-. 25/-, 32/6 each.
S~ND SIZE OF FINGFR BY A PIECE OF WIRE OR A HOLE IN CARDBOARD.
Please send for
our Illustrated
Slips of
Latest Noveltie;
WUi
m/i<
NOTH.—Our OXLV Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
QUEENS GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
OPJE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
i*g r": ®
SIiSiWIB
■> '' t
lilt!
«
I
These fine store premises are being erected for the CO-OPERATIVE, \\uu~ . • p PRODUCE CO., LTD , at Pyrmont, after a desisrn by the well-known
Sydney architect, Mr-. HERBERT E. ROSS, Equitable Buildings, George-street. They are to have a capacity of 30,000 bales.
The Co-Operative Wool & Produce Company,
1 LIMITED,
12 & 14 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SrcuRiETAR-V WAT,TER RROOME.
IVT an aotvo Dtr/rotor : PETER. T.KST.TE,
Worn, MANAmtn : WTT.T.TAM RORERTSON.


Business Announcements.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and XOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
cdroprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klond.vke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
TTSB
SpooQgr’S
■jpsai* 3?
FOR
| BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
: OIRECIIONS FOR USE
niiiiniiiiiiiniHuwiimuMiiiifl!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
ftledical.
I Cure Fits.
You are -
not asked <
td spend ;
any money to test whether my j
remedy does or does not cure ;
Fits* Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, j
&c. All you are asked to do is to ,
send fora FREE bottleof medi= ■
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. fiooT,zB, Endsleigli Gdns.j LOK DO N.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
TAKE THIS ONE!
This SUSPENSORY will fit you,
It won’t slip or hurt. It will last
longer than any other SUSPENSORY
in the world.
This SUSPENSORY
is made right. Every
buckle, every piece of
elastic, every bit of
material is perfect.
Don’t look at the
price
alone.
Look
also at
what
the
price
buys.
o
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical Profession throughout the world. Send, for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2—0.P.C., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands .. .. 67-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ ... ..77-
No. i „ „ „ Silk „ .. 97-
No. 5 „ Fancy „,, Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price'.
pF" Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, ill., U.S.A.
Australasian /
Office : - - \
117 Clarenost., Sydney.
Warner’s
nm
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHTS DISEASE
n
H.H.WARNER & C? LIP
MELBOURNE, AUST,
Dbar Sir.—Phase inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc,, by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers, I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
c ivelope to Mr, W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
. itt-street, Sydney.
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE ANE> LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for £3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, .£6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Set Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 663, 565 and 567 GEORUE ST.
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing’ Gruide Post rree.
Tig m y m —Wm
ana* b
mm m
SPARKLING
tm A wm wm wm
m s mm mm mm mu mm
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BPECIALTIEB:
BATHO’S baking powder.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAR. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
W^aSM
WSmS
II'II WJP**
«EffectweCi
JUCHTIItfI.AWEO EYEJ&IUJSJ
Weak Eyes Dimness E t .F
tCZEEIS
53IGEORCE ST
IXEKWi
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever*
ASK FOR —»
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Byes of
Cattle. Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
C to
V?
M
mti
in
ni/H
'O.t'iii
»
When
writing
pleage
mention
The
Bulletin
ELECTRICITY, i
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING |
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL. APPLIANCES, invented by I
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- «
Cl AN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER*
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can 4
be restored to. you. These beautifully and perfectly-"
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, i
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General"
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. i
[They impart vigor and potency to every function,"
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and |
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted"
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and i
may be worn without the slightest possibility of"
detection. They have cured thousands, |
THEY WILL CURE YOU. (
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
ECZEMA'OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist,
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Hot a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4"8; post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital mrith success*
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOE THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred.J.E Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing- in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & 00. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84 Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
VVesuppl.v Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 26. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, »/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent's splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats. 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.'s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
mn
Publications.
“ ET VERYONE should Read what Dr Neale
has to sav about COLDS.”— Dunedin
Tim Es. See “CONSUMPTION.” Pub. Turner
and Henderson, Sydney} post 1/7. Also Skin
Diseases, by same, 1/1,
Books. Books. Books.
-POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 53. The Home
X Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for ±T. The New Ere
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, 10v015.,-
17 10s. for 1 2 15s. The History of Australian Bushranpr-
in<f, Is. 3d. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereajfh street, Sydney.
SEND EOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ULUS
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid,
being imposed upon by ignorant
1 Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
~ . (stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
X R -A- XED
"TA7ITH numerous anatomical
’ ' colored plates and engrav-
m
n
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra. Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILD ANDRADE,
5.201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
mn
FRENCH
• NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Editions.
Post Free, 13, 2/-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
D
lAMOND SONG BOOK.
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
as. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing-
Medical.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly, dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In I'*., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1 6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.


Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com.
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. - '
B€WAR€ OF COUCHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OE HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearn".—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
he mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense success
it w r as.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. 1 was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. —■ — is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough w'as so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I user! your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.-—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R.‘ BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.” '
1 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skip ton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, hut yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybaty.—J?.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • 1
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of rnv brief trial.—JOHN C
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Invi-rell, N.S.W.”
Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have pulled
me through a loner and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was s»
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronehiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people eve»
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enolose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geblong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“DOWRIDGE’S’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “ THE
QUEEN."
Ask for
Wbisky ai>d
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SO PA WATER, &c-
Ask for
BraQdy afyd
‘Scbv/€pp€
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Smelting CSo. of Australia
(LTMTTED),
(Lake Illawarra), near SYOKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
m
mt*
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILL AW ARM”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
urchaeers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Wmnbkro, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DA I’TO,
BULLION
N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
F oods are rejected,
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, Dy
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Judge Casey, Melb., after sentencing a
nice young embezzler to a mild holiday: If this
crime were as prevalent as it was a short time
back, it would be my duty to inflict a very severe
sentence indeed.” So that the law, as interpreted
by Judge Casey, does not punish a man for his
own sins, but mainly for other people’s.
A new law incorporated in the Imperial
civil code of Germany enacts that all transac-
tions involving the exploitation of another, or
covering a disposition to take advantage of
another’s necessity, carelessness, or inexperience
in such a way as to extort from him an extremely
exorbitant remuneration for services rendered, are
null and void.” There is no doubt that such a
law is needed in every civilised country m the
world, and if Germany can show a satisfactory
way of working this enactment it will lead the
way in a very big reform.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin..
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Crow and the Pitcher.
A MORAL.
A certain crow, who had. been haranguing a
ward caucus all the evening, had contracted a
large, importunate thirst.
As he was looking about to find some means of
relieving himself of this same thirst, he dis-
covered a pitcher which contained water.
But the pitcher was very large, and the quan-
tity of water it contained was small, and reposed
at the very bottom of the pitcher.
For anatomical reasons the crow could not dip
his bill into the water and drink from the pitcher
as it was.
Nor was there any use in trying to pour out
the water, for the crow could not lift the pitcher.
Besides, he had no cup.
But he was a wise crow, and also persistent,
and he immediately resolved himself into a com-
mittee of the whole on ways and means, and
hatched out a solution of the problem.
He picked a pebble from many lying around
and dropped it into the pitcher.
He kept on dropping pebble after pebble in
the pitcher, until the water approached near
enough to the top for him to drink, and he
slacked his thirst with ease.
What a splendid moral there is in the
action of that wise crow. Dear readers, see
the moral in our light. We are proprietors
of the famous Bile Beans for Biliousness.
So many people try one dose, once, of Bile
Beans, and expect to be cured of an ailment
that has taken years to fasten itself in the
system. Bile Beans, if given a fair show, will
cure nearly every ailment that is the result of a
sluggish liver’s action and a weak stomach.
The cost is only 13Jd. per box; surely you can
afford to make one, two, or three trips if neces-
sary, to prove the moral of the crow and the
pitcher—namely, that perseverance in the right
direction means victory. Bile Beans persevered
in give health —that great blessing that should
and could be possessed by us all if we per-
severed, and not expect that the first few Beans
would enable us to drink of the pitcher of
health. Health was not lost in a day, therefore
it cannot be regained in a casual manner.
A Bad Man.
There was a crooked man,
And he suffered much from bile;
He had a very bad attack,
When near a crooked style;
So he went and bought some Bile Beans
And now he’s well and strong,
And talks of nothing but his cure
To friends the whole day long.
TEN YEARS OF MISERY
ENDED BY
BEANS.
MR. THOMAS H. AMES SUFFERED WITH TERRIBLE PAINS IN THE SHOULDERS, SEVERE
HEADACHES, FITS OF RETCHING—OCCASIONALLY BRINGING UP BLOOD—LOSS OF SLEEP,
AND WEAKNESS OF THE STOMACH.
HIS CONDITION WAS SO BAD THAT HIS FRIENDS FEARED OF HIS RECOVERY.
A Thorough Cure effected by Bile Beans!
The People’s Popular-Priced Preparation.
BILE
(From the Adelaide Advertiser.)
Mr. Thomas Henry Ames, of George-street, Parkside, when interviewed by a reporter of the Adelaide
marvellous recovery by Bile Beans, said: “By occupation lam a gardener About ten years ago I contracted a severe attack of yellow
jaundice, and went into the Adelaide Hospital for treatment. .My friends did not expect me to recover, I was £x> I bad The hospital doc
tors treated me well, and at the end of six months I left the institution cured of the jaundice, but m a weak s •
nurses told my wife that I would ‘ never be the same man again,’ because my stomach was m such a weak condition. y broken •
good, and I had a bad taste in my mouth, suffered with severe headaches, and had pains between the shoulders. y , ■ ’
g J some nights I used to toss about in bed, longing for sleep, but was unable to obtain it My
urinary organs were .very weak, and I occasionally had fits of retching; and once or twice bring-
ing up blood. I took large quantities of different medicines, which I obtained from the doctors
and the chemists, but the relief the physic afforded me was only temporary, and in a day or two
all my troublesome symptoms would return. I gave up all hopes of ever being well again.”
“ But you are well now, are you not ? ” “ Yes. About 12 months ago I noticed a testimonial in
the Advertiser concerning a wonderful cure through the use of Bile Beans for Biliousness. I
thought I would give the Beans a trial, although I was not over-sanguine of a cure being effected
in my case, I had been so bad for so many years. I bought a box at Mr. Parker s, a chemist m
King William-street (near the Glenelg Railway Station), and took two of the beans for the first
dose every three days for a fortnight. After I had taken a box and a-half I felt greatly relieved,
the weakness of the bowels, which was an after-effect of the jaundice, disappearing entirely. My
other organs began to perform their proper functions, the pains between the shoulders, the retch-
ing and the sleeplessness also disappeared within,a couple of months. My appetite returned, and
I was quite restored to health. Since taking the Beans I have gained 81b. in weight. I might
add that lam 37 years of age, and was born in the Yankalilla district (S A.) where I am well
known. lam desirous of influencing all sufferers to try Bile Beans, and it is this motive which is
prompting me to give my testimony as to their efficacy. lam perfectly willing to see any one to
tell them personally of my cure.”
Bile Beans for Biliousness
Act on the bowels in a gentle, natural way, and the patient is not weakened in any manner bv the
process The enormous success of this preparation the world over is the best possible proof of its
•great worth. Millions use Bile Beans annually, and thousands say they are an undoubted specific
for biliousness, indigestion, sick and nervous headache, constipation, influenza, colds, piles, female
weakness, pale-faced girls, bad breath, pimples, dizziness, fill liver and kidney troubles, dyspepsia,
pain in back and side, fullness after eating. Bile Beans are obtainable from storekeepers and
chemists generally, price, Is. lid. per box, or the Australian Depot of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney, will send one box for 13Jd. m stamps or Post-ofhce order.
THOMAS HENRY AMES.
The Vultures.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There circle aloft o’er the warring host
Fierce-grinning spectres on vulture wing;
And each is a wanton marauder’s ghost!
And each is the soul of some robber king 1
. . . . • •
They sleep forgotten in many a clime,
In Southern purple and Northern grey;
And some have slept since the dawning of time,
And others only since yesterday.
They sleep—and they dream it all over again,
Their life, grim life that the black blood blurs ;
For they are the branded, the sons of Cain,
And damned, thrice damned, with a deathless
curse.
On the blood-red sun and the waning star !
On the long, long chain since war began—
From Ashur and Brennus and Hamilcar
To the one-day Kings of the Corsican.
Uncounted! Black-skinned and yellow and white;
The buccaneer from the Spanish Main,
And the Arab slaver, the Norman Knight,
The Tartar chieftain of Tamerlane.
Red-bearded Vikings and pirates that sailed
From every harbor with flags unfurled ;
Unhallowed rovers and brigands that hailed
From all the comers of all the world.
They lie apart, till the thundering thud
Of legions wakes them, of hoof and boot,
The fumes of the pillage, the scent of blood,
And the cry for loot—the cry for loot!
When rapine is rampant and pity dies,
They rise and gather to watch the fray;
And each must see through the red-rimmed eyes,
Must feast with the maw of some bird of prey.
They were the famishing carrion-birds
That followed Cortes, the Tigerheart.
They were the wolves that in ravening herds
Beset the army of Buonaparte.
They are the slinking hyamas and
The howling jackals that prowl a-rear
Wherever fury is scouring the land,
Wherever Murder is hunting Fear.
And thus they suffer in many a shape
For aye and for aye their punishment;
Foul heralds of plunder and war and rape—
Till God relent—ah, till God relent!
They circle to-day o’er each warring host,
Fierce, grinning spectres on vulture wing;
And each is a greedy marauder’s ghost;
And each is the soul of some robber King !
VON KOTER.
Ten Seconds.
A STUDY OF A KNOOK-OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miok Galvin was still full of fight. The three hot
jabs that landed on his neck only made him more
willing. He set his teeth and wished he was fight-
ing the fat bookmaker who was calling I lay fi
poun’ ter one Galvin ” so loudly that he could be
heard over the shouting of the crowd.
Mick shifted his right foot back an inch and
churned away at the air with his left glove. He
and Jock MTntosh stared into each other’s eyes
like two roosters.
Suddenly the arms of his antagonist opened.
Mick Galvin was away—away from the centre of
the ring and close into one corner. Jock M Intosh
swaggered after him paddling his hands as if he
were swimming through the air. They faced each
other and stared and churned their arms again,
and MTntosh came an inch closer at every swing
of his body.
His lips were puffed, his cheek was cut open,
his body was streaked with vertical lines of blood
and sweat—and water that had been squirted from
his second’s mouth. His breath was blown through
his clenched teeth audibly, and in time with the
movement of his arm. A sentimental person with
no knowledge of the game would have pitied J ock
MTntosh and thought he had been badly bruised.
His opponent, and nearly everybody in the hall,
knew that the marked man is the man to fear.
Jock MTntosh was getting in too close. Galvin
felt his elbow touch one of the ropes in the corner,
and suddenly dashed, stooping to the left. The
other’s chest shone red through his opening arms.
Then Mick Galvin heard a blow planted on his
oheek. He did not feel it. It was too heavy.
He just heard a smack, and judged that some-
thing had happened to him by the way the crowd
yelled. They told him afterwards that he made
a splendid effort to counter, but he knew nothing
of this at the time. It just seemed to him that he
stood waiting in the corner in an imbecile sort of
way—waiting for something, he knew not what.
The crowd must have been cheering about ten
minutes, he thought, when his jaw was made to
echo again, and another substance, even more
solid, struck the back of his head. That was the
post of the ring. He recognised the dull sound of
its padded surface. Then he floated down —down
to the floor. It must have taken minutes to get
there, sinking so slowly as he did, but his head
banged on the boards when he reached them at
last, and the crowd cheered until the individual
voices blended into one sustained harmony. Mick
Galvin smelt the floor of the ring, and thought it
was strange. Then, above the purring of the
hundreds, he heard the timekeeper—“ One ! ”
There were two feet dodging near him, the feet
of Jock MTntosh—he knew them by the funny
boots he always wore, instead of shoes like the
rest of the pugs. Another pair of boots joined
them —heavy boots, the referee’s —and out of the
corner of his eye he watched them dance two or
three figures of a sort of quadrille. Then he
heard the referee call, “Get back, back to your
comer,” and the four feet grew smaller along the
perspective of the floor-joints and finally disap-
peared. The buzz of the crowd was still growing,
and was still musical — 1 ‘ Two ! ”
Mick Galvin could hear his seconds flapping
their towels over the ropes and the call of the fat
bookmaker “Anyprice Galvin.” He didn’t feel
insulted now. He knew they were referring to
him, but from the sublime heights of absolute
content he was not offended. He would have
smiled at them only i: was too much trouble.
“Three!”
The singing of the crowd was still strong, but it
was fading with an almost imperceptible cadence.
The cries of the bookmaker and the people in the
ten shilling seats were growing fainter too. The
flapping of the towels now sounded like a dripping
of distant water. It seemed as if it would never
end. Mick Galvin began to get worried at its
infernal regularity. The interrupting voice of
Ghook Neilsen calling “Good boy, Jock” to his
opponent in the far corner was welcome. So was
the timekeeper’s call, “ Four ! ”
That timekeeper had a splendid way of calling.
So clear, so strong, so sudden. Mick thought he
would wait for him to count five and see how he
did it. He seemed to be late, though. What a
time he was ! He must have forgotten that it was
seconds that he was supposed to count. Perhaps
he was counting minutes; perhaps he had been
knocked out himself. Anyhow, it was plain there
would be no more counting. “ Five ! ”
Mick wondered why they didn’t fix the ring
down tightly. Here it was slowly tilting up at
one end and now sinking again. He felt himself
pitching and swaying just as he had done when he
went to Sydney to fight Larry Peters, only it
didn’t make him sick. The ring was like a boat
sailing over the crest of big waves and dipping
into the trough of others in the most fascinating
manner imaginable. The crowd and the referee
and the fat bookmaker were far away out of sight,
evidently on some distant shore. He could still
hear them buzzing, but the noise was very faint.
And the timekeeper, he had evidently gone too.
“Six!”
There he was, after all. Mick wondered
why the fellow wanted to take all day to count ten
seconds. Why couldn’t he finish his work in
proper time and be done with it? Odds on, he
was standing somewhere near now, but Mick
thought he wouldn’t stand in the ring long the
way it was turning round. There was no pitching
now. It was just spinning round and round.
“Seven!” . ,
There he was calling out the time hall-an-nour
late as usual. That timekeeper ought to get a
new watch. He was annoying with his careless-
ness, but not so bad as the new noise bumping
regularly like an engine going at top speed. Why
couldn’t all these noises knock off and leave him
in peace. That bumping was the worst and
loudest of all and seemed to come from somewhere
inside him. Of course, it was his own heart beat-
ing. Mick felt elated in the pride of his discovery.
Now there was nothing to worry him. “ Light.
The voice of the timekeeper was weakening,
too. That was only to be expected. Probably he
felt sleepy, too, after the time he had stood there
counting all night. His voice was scarcely audible
now. “Nine!” , . ,
Everything was quiet now. The crowd simply
sighed in a low, musical lullaby. The ring floated
softly in the air, and seemed to be waltzing by
itself. One by one the last of the thoughts melted
away and all was peace. “Ten !”
‘ ‘ Br-r-rang ! ” crashed the gong, and the hall
bounded from its seats and roared. A dozen
excited men materialised from nothingness within
the ropes. There was a crush of partisans round
the far comer where Jock Mlntosh lay back in
his chair grinning through his blood as the seconds
untied his gloves, and the voice of the referee,
“M‘ln tosh the winner, - ”' came half-guessed
through the tumult.
In the opposite corner three bare-armed men in
singlets and a dozen others fully clothed leaned
over the spot where the naked Galvin slept. One
reached to raise him up, but the expert spoke,
“Leave him be. Jes’turn him on his back an’
leave him lay till he comes to.”
Above the striking of the matches and the mur-
mur of the critics and the cry of the fat book-
maker “I pay MTntosh” was the rumble of a
thousand feet shuffling out into the night.
M‘G.
The Siege.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had not dared to venture out of the house for
over a fortnight; the doors were all bolted and
barricaded and the windows locked. She had had
to bear the brunt of the battle, and her nerves
were now at that pitch that the slightest sound
outside the door filled her with terror.
The heat of the day had been unbearable ; the
house was stifling and not a breath of air to be had
anywhere. To her distracted mind her children
running about seemed to be half-a-dozen times
their real number.
Towards the close of the day she dragged herself
upstairs, and after giving a furtive glance through
the blind, gently opened the window and let the
air in.
Worn out with her long and weary watching,
and the constant anxiety, she lay down on the sofa.
Presently, as though in a dream, she saw the
head and then the shoulders of a man appear
above the window-sill, and before she could move
the ruffian had stepped into the room from the
ladder outside. . .
“What do you want?” she said, in agonised
tones. . , ,
“ Rr-r-r-rent! ” said the Bailiff, as he flourished
a distress-warrant in her face.
H. BENN.


ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
mmopouTif EnmiTioi
11th to 21st APRIL, 1900.
£4OOO eh £4OOO
HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY,
DOGS, WINES,
FARM AND DAIRY PRODUCE.
£l5O Prize
Crand National Electoral Districts
Competition
£l5O Prize
£25 Corn-Husking Contests £25
£5O Wood-Chopping Contest £5O
Entries close WEDNESDAY, 14th. MARCH.
Prize Schedules and particulars from :
F« WEBSTER, secretary,
TATTERSALL’S CHAMBERS..
D.S.MAIR
GO
£S
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulat'd and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair tor Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 56,9 6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Diamond
King. £4los. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address— 6B4 George Street, Sydney
m
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from S/fe eaoK.
PLAITS and TAILS,
SOlu. lona, S/G. all real half.
CUTTINGS & COMBINQi
•Ogled ii|., 2/0 per oz.
'Vo are the cheapestin Aa*-
trails for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz^ll,
110 William Stuket,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Train will stop at Door
Send stamps for full Price List.
Frnppt attcntioo'given to Country Orders.
nm
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
%
A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
cauarded by the
jurors of the
Fan's Exhibition,
SOAP MAKERS,
By
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
If
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I were Guv’nor-General
Of this Australian isle,
I’d be a Guv’nor-General
In proper style.
If I were Guv’nor-General,
As I’m not like to be,
Here’s the sort of Guv’nor-Genoral
You’d have in me :
I would not rise before the pubs,
Were open—not at all.
I’d hear my valet call for me—
And let him call.
The Persian satraps did what they
Dampleased, and few asked why—
They cut their heads off if they did—
And so would I.
The Roman Prefects did the same,
And dice they gaily threw
On backs of naked girls—that game
Would suit me, too.
I would not have an Aide-de-camp,
All uniformed so prim,
To wake me when I wish to sleep—
I’d murder him.
I think indeed my aides-de-camp
Would pretty women be ;
I’d commandeer them—bless their eyes—
To wait on me.
I ask the ordinary man :
Would it be much amiss
To be awoke by—when he chose—
A ripe red kiss ?
I think that I could cope, indeed,
With all the day’s demands—
If dry champagne were brought to me
By snow-white hands.
If I were Guv’nor-General,
As I’m not like to be,
I’d have in ev’ry room a pal
To drink with me.
And, being Guv’nor-General,
I’d soon see that we got
Whatever liquor pleased us best,
Upon the spot.
When I arose—just when I chose—
New etiquette I’d teach:
Two Majors should draw on my boots—
A boot to each.
I think that I would have before
My door a Fatman large,
Who’d let rhe wipe my boots on him.
And make no charge.
And, when I wished to go about.
And take from cares a rest,
I’d hire a van, or barge, or hearse—
As pleased me best.
And when I gave a ball I think
I’d whisper quietly,
Unto my secretary—“ Bring
The Belle to me.”
If I were Guv’nor-General,
As I’m not like to be
That’s the sort of Guv’nor-General
You’d have in me.
CREEVE ROE.
In North-Western Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man was lying on the sand at the foot of a
gum-tree ; the shade had shifted with the progress
of the sun, but he heeded it not. Not far from
him was a shallow pool, with green rushes growing
near its bank. The water had been low when he
came in and stooped to drink at it ; now, as the
sun went down, it rose and deepened, a peculiar
feature of many inland springs. The soft coo of
the bronzewing pigeons could be heard around ;
one after another they answered as they came in
and perched on the boughs overhead, glancing
timidly at the silent figure, lying sentinel over
their watering-place. He was so still, so motion-
less, that they gained courage, alighted on the
sand, and, one after another, strutted to the edge
of the water, sipped two or three times quickly,
and flew away.
Some noisy galahs and black cockatoos came in.
These, too, gazed askance at the strange, quiet
figui'e, which even their discordant chatter failed
to arouse ; and, finally, after much scolding, drank
and flew off. Still the man slept on—slept till
the soft, dewless night closed in and the stars
mounted guard over the tree-tops.
It was midnight, and “the Cross” gleamed
upright on the zenith when the exhausted sleeper
woke. Not with the tired, drowsy feeling of a
man who gladly recognises the fact that it is still
far from daylight and he may sleep on ; but with
the sudden start of one . who awakes in strange
surroundings and fails to realise his whereabouts.
Gradually the great stillness of the night soothes
him, and he begins to recall his wandering wits.
First, he rises wearily to his feet and glances
around. He is alone —that is certain—and he
stands for a minute thinking. Then he looks at
the stars, and, with a bushman’s instinct, tells the
time by their altitude. His thoughts, now
clearer, run thus : “Ireckoned it was three hours
that I had been following the dry river-bed when
I came to this spring ; I remember lying down
under 1 this tree, intending to take a short rest ;
then —I remember nothing more.”
There is a dark object lying on the sand a short
distance away ;he goes and picks it up—an empty
water-bag as stiff as cardboard. Taking a battered
pannikin from his belt, he stoops over the deepest
of the little sandy pools and fills it; then he
heaves a deep sigh, and turns' his face in the direc-
tion from which he. came.
“Three hours,” he thinks, “tired out, in heavy
sand, and hunting about for water. He can’t be
more than six miles away, if he’s still alive.”
He starts wearily down the sandy bed. The
shadows fall deep in places where the starlight
does not penetrate, and he stumbles over logs and
boulders, with many a hearty curse. Wearied as
he is, he perseveres, and even refrains from doing
more than just moistening his lips with the water
in the bag he carries.
At last, after about two hours staggering and
blundering over the confused debris and islands of
the river bed, he sits down on a drift-log to rest
and think.
“I must be getting near the place, unless he
managed to crawl on after I left him—must keep
a good look-out; ” and, rising stiffly, he once more
plods on, now peering eagerly everywhere and
sometimes cooee-ing.
In an open patch of sand, where things are
more plainly visible, he comes upon three dark
objects huddled together. A man and two swags.
The man is unconscious and moaning faintly. The
other pours a little of the precious water between
his lips, and moistens his head and breast. It is
some time before he can induce the other to swal-
low. When, at last, he does, life comes more
quickly back to the almost-dead man, and he be-
gins to talk somewhat incoherently.
‘ ‘ How long have yer bin away ? ” he asks at
length.
“ I suppose it’s about 4 o’clock now, and it was
about 12 yesterday when I left you.”
“And how far’s the water?” demanded the
other in a somewhat stronger voice.
“ Between five and six miles I reckon.”
“ And yer’ve bin all this time away ! Yer d —d
murderer ! ”
“ I couldn’t help it. I was done when I got to
the water; and I don’t remember anything until
I came to myself about three or four hours ago.”
“Done, indeed! You’ve done for me, curse
you ! caulking there while I was a-dying.”
He tried to rise, but fell back with many oaths.
“Better lie still,” said the other, who did not
attempt to assist him. “Now, I’ll leave the
water-bag here with you, and go back to the
spring with one of the swags while it’s cool; then
I’ll have a rest and a feed, and come back with
more water for you.”
“Yes, by God ! leave me here to die alone. No,
if you ain’t a cur altogether, you’ll stay here with
me and help me in.”
“You’ll not get in until to-morrow night. I
shall do more good going bacli to the water. How-
ever, just as you like.”
He put the water-bag within reach of the other,
and threw himself exhausted on the sand to fall
into the dreamless sleep of utter fatigue. Tie
other man, a grizzled old sinner, raised himself on
his elbow and took short sips from the bottle-
mouth of the bag. He was too far gone, however,
and his constitution too undermined to recover
much strength ; and soon he, too, dozed off. The
dark, silent hour before dawn, when even the
nocturnal animals and birds are at rest, set in—
calm and still as morning in a dead world.
The man who had been to the spring awoke
just when broad daylight came. He looked
around, leaning on his elbow. The other man,
too, was awake; and was gazing at him with a
face in which death was struggling with passion.
“Wot did you leave me here for all them hours?
If yer’d come back, I’d be all right now,” he
snarled, in a low, broken voice.
“I did not leave you purposely. I told you I
went off asleep, without meaning to.”
“ You’re a liar ! Find yer way back there with-
out water,”—and, with a last effort, the dying man
poured the remainder of the fluid on the thirsty
sand and fell back utterly exhausted.
The other started to his feet too late to stop him.
He gazed at the distorted face fiercely for a
minute; and it looked as though he would have
kicked the dead body. He picked up one of the
swags, drained the last few drops from the water-
bag into his parched lips, for he had touched none
since he joined his mate, and then turned to de-
part.
“Let the dogs bury you,” he muttered. “I
won’t come back to do it.”
DELCOMYN.
An Optical Illusion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My new pupil-teacher at the Big Scrub
School, Miss Amelia Noney, was learning
to manage a class very well, except during in-
teresting oral lessons. When she got thoroughly
wound-up on any of her favorite subjects, such as
Scripture, she was apt to lose her disciplinary
grip of the pupils on the edges of her class ; and
so they played pranks. One afternoon Miss
Noney was dodging the details of some hideous
Old Testament scandal, and the fringes of her
class were “ working anyhow.” I went down to
her block, drew her aside, and said quietly, “You
should hold the whole class in the tail of your eye,
Miss Noney. Insist strongly on pupils’ direct
attention. They must feel the power of your eye,
even when you are not looking straight at them.
Strict supervision means prevention; and pre-
vention is better than cure.” Then I stepped in
front of the class :
Look to me ! I will punish the first boy or
girl who looks away. Now attend. The practice
of having many wives which was common in
Put down the new boy Quinlan’s name for looking
away !”
Quinlan put up his hand as if to speak.
Put down your hand, sir. It is bad enough to
disobey without lying about the matter.”
“Please, sa, I wasn’t lookin away ; please”
“Silence, sir! You make the matter much
worse by lying! If you were an old pupil I
should cane you severely, but I have given you an
extra chance because you are a new boy from a
happy-go-lucky private school.”
Up went Quinlan’s, hand again.
“Will you put down your hand —and keep it
down?”
Quinlan put it down. Then suddenly pointing
•with his left fore-finger to his right eye, he
blurted out:
“Please, sa, I am lookin’ to me front; but
you’re lookin’ at the wrong eye ! I squint some-
think orful with the right un, sa ! ”
Brisbane’s fashionable marine resort
Ws wl.ee workshop bear* the
g - JENKINS
CLASSICAL SHOEING FORGE,
QV » r, ci ~ .
H ° rSe S ’ Shod Deoently and Agreeable to Nature ’
“ Melb. ” : Another slice of Big John
O’Shanassy’s Tara Estate, Camberwell, has just
been auctioned, leaving very little. O’Shanassy,
like Scott at Abbotsford, flattered himself that he
was founding a “Phamilee,” and, indeed, his Tara,
on the hill, with an unsurpassed view of Mel-
bourne, was superior to the Irish one. . The
Molesworth estate in the vicinage has been
similarly chopped up, and not far off is Wil-
dridge’s Paddock, a whilom desert, of which a
comparatively poor bank-clerk made £30,000 in
the boom.


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Sleep, No Appetite, Loss of Fleshy
Physicians Could Give no Relief. Was Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
w
W 1
\\
VA
\\N
&
m
ln:
** Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
and was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
ill that I would have to go into a neighbor’s house until I was.fit to walk again.
I cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
for months.
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
another, and still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
like a Trojan.”
This is the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
portrait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of; the multitude of such cures that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“Ayer’s” is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind.
AYER’S *■***>
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
n
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
MMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS',FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and "old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
wtjiuieu both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers. . ‘ ,
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestlino, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Dove, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self;. Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; Simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter'
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gor.man’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sontrs.
Is .3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. — SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books —most of which can only be- obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Ordy of
Sc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosuveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
' Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they apt like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world . Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9Jd, Is l?,d, and 3s 9d each.
SEN
mn
S-'SsjK
m
Pe/truhe
Sen*Sek&
RINGDOH AVENIIE\
LONDON.
—. —e
INVALUABLE TO
SIHGEBS & SPEAKERS
m
nm
LEA AND PERRINS’
•'' ‘ * .
‘ ■
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
n
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
„ .
of every Bottle of the
: '"m-,-::W
ORIGINAL
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Grosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
mn
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOK, SON, & CHAPMAN : and DAVID COHEN& CO., SYDNEY
I
YEARS
ladies.
FOK
THE
•w.
40
C. ElZliXDDRIJDG-E & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
YORK STKElil’, S YDNI) Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
to.
VW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, p ur .
should look -to the Label on the-Boxes a«d Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OF
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
for r ; -• • ■ •
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes : “ Dear Sirs.—l experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a 4 severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of your
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bennington’s
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


i SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CARET STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brockman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
Market-Sts.
m
Board or Apartments at Option.
Mammatt’s
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY*
MARK.
< SPOONS & PORES
nm
<she JJbbot
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Pbopes., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St M
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The jljost Powerful gritting gelt in the gJorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICE,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria Si*
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation Si).
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
aag
0
r>
D
-,-r r l '
! > ( V.
“' X+tzS&sZ-?--*4
! g;>..sf<^S
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
wen pfITEDT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS:
Agents: iWIHi
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
BUTTER
same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made fi-om the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced ©f the value of the process : but it is s J ' " '
o Know tnat these are getting- less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
’at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
Sydney
n
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND PRICES.
60 Clarence Street.
Have in Stock for Immediate Delivery
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
ENGINES, BOILERS, COMPRESSORS, DRILLS,
CRUSHING ROLLS,
CONCENTRATORS, HUNTINGTON MILLS,
—AND—
All kinds of General Machinery and
Engineer Fittings and Supplies.
mim
Pumps
mn
Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Suitable, for every pumping purpose.
Estimates given for Complete Pump-
ing Plants, including Boilers;,
Piping, &e.
Blake Duplex Pump. Sole Agents for Australasia .
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON,
TRADE MARK.
8
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
