

McEWAN’S ALE.
HISKY.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
Mining
G. WA.TK.INS &C, CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining- Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
‘ 4V
Over 2700 ooid and at worlr
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST W!NE^>
AUSTRALIA.
i(3T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Go. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'
85 Pitt Street,
ĥ
ħ
h
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have
Salt, Chemicals, the
Testimonials and full
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
SAHEIAI’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
X#S,
otei.
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI-nufs GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S
Ivilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, bs. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
* -V
CO
ORNAMCNTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New So-uth Wales . . .
Barbers’ Supply Mouse
SYDNEY.
PIONEER
h
LEATHER
BELTING 1
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN'.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C.LUDOWICf& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street:,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
/RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray hors as.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ĥ
How Do! May I send you
my
JSoctva Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
ħ
HIGHLAND
CREAM
h
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST..
THE G-IKHE-A-T TA.SI]VE.A-I>ri.A_ir • • -
CASCADE ALE
V :. ~ ;V; V. ; ' \ ' \ ’ ■•■'■*• . .
IS HEBE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.: PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ĥ
T. C. Williams Co.’s
Manufacture.^
TOBACCO.
BEST IMPORTED DARK TOBACCO IN THE
ST TRY IT ! TRY IT ! TRY IT ! ~*I
■■■■ ■
MARKET.
..I-,
n
fis
■ p
I
1
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabmets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Chequa.
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and "SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. GENNERT,
89c FAUBOURG ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
ISdiswan ■ Lamp.
EDfS\\#\N
lia
ECONOMY in -
- - CURRENT
LONG LiFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the eua im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 21. 1080. j
[Saturday, October 27, 1900.
at the Genera! Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission hv Post -as a Naws^aner.


Ready Ist November.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
and Other Stories.
By ALBERT DORRINGTON
(“ Alba Dorion”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
Note. —This book contains all the best stories
which Dorrington has contributed to The Bulletin,
and several unpublished tales of equal or greater
interest.
Orders addressed to The Bulletin office will be
forwarded immediately on publication.
Price, 48. 6d. post free.
‘. ■ . Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
* and all
AFFECTIONS of the
1 THROAT and
ter
(REGISTERED)
era \C
tm:i
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONS UM PTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FEEE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. ”
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and
THE RED PAGE.
YES, said the hawker, here we are again.
What have you been doing all these
months ? Me ? I’ve been going up and
down the land like Job’s Satan, discover-
ing Australia. I reckon I’ve discovered as much
Australia as any son of Adam ever foaled. Queer,
isn’t it ? in this era of Federation and aspiration,
that nobody knows who first discovered Australia
—whether it was the Flying Dutchman, the Wan-
dering Jew, or some prehistoric pirate with a rash
liking for volcanic eruptions; at any rate, the
place now belongs to Great Britain—until you
kick; and you haven’t spunk enough to kick.
Britannia always had a pleasant way of showing
her love for her own land by taking another per-
son’s country. The Englishman found out Aus-
tralia, and has since lost himself in it. Before he
came the aborigines were all right in their way ;
they only suffered from the merry malady of
being born; they rejoiced without drink, and
were happy without harlots ; they had ignorance
without a curse, instead of knowledge cursing
itself. A belief in a future state cheered their
black lives, till Britain came with her
hundred creeds and made them think
that Heaven was all ladders up to it.
When the kangaroo was seen by the first sheep,
that sheep’s wool stood on end with wonder, and
the kangaroo jumped to the conclusion that its
own end was near when such a preposterous piece
of fluff was allowed to bleat about.
Then were heard in the land the rattle of chains,
the sound of the lash,' the death-cries of abori-
gines, and the mad laughter of the lucky digger—
memories which make us think that, perhaps,
after all, civilisation is only a wild beast 'pretend-
ing to be tame in a semi-detached villa. You see,.
Man at his best is not much more than a cross be-
tween a poet and a pirate—a base biped, un-
reasonable as a unicorn, paradoxical as a light in
a dark lantern, credulous enough,to make a goose
turn blue, and cruel as a fly-minded lion when he
finds an orphan lamb in an out-of-the-way corner.
When I think of these things it makes me heave
a sigh like a midnight blast through the broken
window of a haunted house.
Gold was discovered in Australia, and men
began to dig like demons, as if they expected to
find heaven in a hole; they soon found out that
luxury kills quicker than poverty. Cities were
built, and cities are put together for people to
keep themselves at a distance from each other, and
for poison to artistically advertise itself as purity
on walls and hoardings.
Your Australia is very big, and a cynic might
say that it is principally inhabited by people who
try hard how little they can make out of it. They
have a mania for pianos and bicycles, instead of
cultivating the soil and turning their country into
a grand salad-garden with cruet-stands of cities,
with The Old Lady of Threadneedle-street wait-
ing to buy cabbages round the corner.
At first, the European capitalists lent Australia
plenty of money; and she was as happy as a butter-
fly trying to steer an ironclad, till the banks went
wrong and a few of her leading citizens went right
into gaol. She started making railway lines with
a prodigality ardent enough to make the base of
an isosceles triangle jump off in order to join the
fun. Look at Victoria; her railway trains were
supposed to carry sheep and cows, and pay beau-
tiful interest; but now, if we were to draw a pic-
ture of the State, we should depict a railway train
being dragged along by sheep and cows.
* * * *
You Australians take life glidingly; even in
adversity there is an airiness about you bright
enough to make the backdoor of a Benevolent
Asylum feel a spasm of hilarity. You have not
the happy knack of making each other sad, like
people in the smoky English towns ; you do not
viciously snap at each other over the breakfast-
table on cold mornings, nor break so much crockery
for spite. The irascible old gentleman is a rarity ;
man is less of a combustible curse to his fellow-
creatures in the Antipodes than elsewhere. Aus-
tralia has no cat’s-meat mkn, and in her cities we
do not see a superabundance of The Shabby Tall
Hat, so common among lean animals of the clerk
tribe in London, that vast black eye on the face of
the earth.
And then you have the Bush. In these days,
when human society is an over-educated irony—
blase as a meteorite that has been through heaven
and earth only to find itself on the cold floor of a
museum in the demoralising company of dummy
nuggets of gold—in these torpedo times, when
Philosophy seems an olio of clues to nowhere in
particular, and Art an edio of crazes from every-
where in general, it is delightful to meet, under a
gum-tree in the Bush, the Man who knows No-
thing, who has never been anywhere and wan.ts to
go nowhere. He is beatified by the blessed blank-
ness of his own ignorance in this auctioneering
world. Though Australia be going to the dogs,
though its Parliaments be repartee parties of
apologetic insults, and its chi valry literally race-
horses, he is unruffled.
f - The upper classes of Society are very similar
all round the world. The same ice-cream lives of
jewelled etiquette; the same upstart families,
putting on the airs of ray Lord Pedigree sneering
at a paper parcel. So, Sydney life is very much
like existence in other cities. The children break
playthings, the girls break engagements, and the
men resolutions ; the baby cries in church and the
parson smiles in the nursery. The cook steams
potatoes, and the lady’s maid steams her mis-
tress’s letters in order to read her secrets. The
father educates his son to find out what a fool his
parentis. The immortal mother of the middle
class makes her son pbiy the piano energetically
enough to raise a panic in a regiment of demi-
semi-quavers ; she obliges her daughter to sing
drawing-room ballads, till the girl becomes like a
second-hand nightingale determined to cause a
drisis in the chromatic scale.
The same quick and queer whirligig of life. The
rich know in their hearts that the rich are fools ;
the poor feel that the poor are needy. The philo-
sopher worries himself about entities, and the
society girl sneers at non-entities. The New
Woman has her bicycle, and the lady, almost as
good as new, who is the tinted temptress of the
streets, also has her machine. The handsome man
persists in curling his handsome moustache, and
the damsel, who wants an introduction to him,
drops her purse in the street, when he is passing,
so that he may pick it up and hand it to her. At
church, in the collection-box, the threepenny-bits
appear as plentifully as pretty little perjuries in
the Law Courts.
* * * *
Sydney has peculiar social types which are in-
teresting. Everybody knows what a gold miner
is; but this city is haunted by the presence of the
dirt-box miner—that uncouth man of rags, that
arabesque of agony, that lonely figure who looks
as if he knew he were condemned, and was trying
to make himself too ugly for the devil to take him
away. _ He ransacks the dirt-boxes at midnight.
For him there is no welcome anywhere. The
moralist points the finger of scorn at his life : but
very likely the wretched man is weary of all life,
even that of the moralist. Poor night-crow!
who knows the drag of the days he goes through,
the dreary pacing of rainy streets, the mist of
despair that shrouds the pulsating human pas-
sions in his nature. Sneer not at his unambrosial
avocation, ye severest! I sometimes think that
Nature invented criticism first, man afterwards,
and the cynic last of all by mistake.
The frightful joy of the financially unblest! we
all suffer it at times. This nocturnal tatterde-
malion has his frightful joys ; sometimes he finds
humble treasures in the dirt-boxes —it may be a
hammer, a pair of scissors, or something else he
can sell for beer. He is even epicurean in his way.
His midnight banquet consists of four courses.
He starts with the fish shops, then proceeds to
the ham and beef shops ; next he gives the pastry-
cooks a turn, and finishes his repast outside the
fruiterers. After that he hunts about for old
newspapers, and, wending his way into the
Domain, wraps himself in paper, as if he were
a prodigious cigarette, and sleeps beneath a tree.
Another characteristic of Sydney is the larrikin
push. This collection of young social scorpions is
very generous in its method of fighting; when
they have an enemy they do not give him one. of
their number to fight with; they lavishly send
him five or six, sometimes a whole gang. Other
peculiarities of the city are the extraordinary
number of cabs, registry offices, grass-widows,
and palmistry parlours ; the credulity of people
in face of quack medicines and the promises of a
paid Member of Parliament ; then, there is the
cheap lodging-house, where the poor man can
obtain a bed and breakfast for threepence, and
the warehouse where he can sleep on the floor for
a penny.
At nine o’clock every night in Sydney the Post-
office clock chimes, the flagship’s gun booms, and
the door of the Night Refuge slams. What is a
city but domes and spires over roofs that shut out
the starlight, and doors that shut out the poor !
But the thought of that particular door-slam makes
my semi-detached soul reflect.
* * * *
Do you want a study of life at once blithe and
black, real and fantastical ? Then come with me
to Sombre-street, among the jolly beggars and
destitute doggers of society that haunt the Night
Refuge; every night, about eight, they crowd
before that hotel of tatterdemalions. The lamp-
light gilds their needy necks, the stars gleam
above like eves of mistaken mothers, the wind
sounds through the telegraph-wires like the curses
of lost wives—while thase homeless wanderers
wait for the boon of sleep and the mystery of
dreams. You ask yourself : Is there no grace, no
exoneration for these drifters and droopers among
men ? Alas ! they are ugly enough to make the
three Graces fuse into one horrified female. What
a nightmare of nondescripts to the superficial eye;
yet, to the poet, they are weeds beneath the waters,
and they glimmer with a strange phosphorescence
of life. ' '
All kinds of frustrated humanity come to this
Refuge ; regular frequenters in the shape of lop-
sided loafers, rococo ruffians and inveterate
soakers, together with chance visitors, such as a
downcast parson, a profligate lawyer, an un-
seraphic poet, or a foiled actor. A familiar figure
there is the Lopsider, a curious loafer who walks
ignobly askew because he can’t help it. Born into
a lopsided body, how can he keep his soul straight ?
After copious cogitations which worried me pro-
foundly, I have at last discovered the reason of
this crookedness. Sydney abounds in lop-sided
streets, and this is especially the case with some
parts of the Sydney “Rocks,” where people walk
about like obtuse angles pretending to overbalance
themselves. This unfortunate loafer was reared
there, and became a slanting sinner like the rest
of his family ; as a matter of fact, his unsanctified
old father used to walk down the hills' with such
a lean on him that it was a task for his shadow to
adjust itself to the angle. Thus the Lopsider was
born to be oblique, and this is the secret of a lot
of the trouble in Sydney ; the oblique brain is the
organ of the biassed mind. Even now, in the
crowd before the Refuge door, he leans on the
tired mortals next to him. He leans up against
posts about the town, like a postured prophet
meditating how to turn Sydney into a City of By-
standers. He passes much of his time in looking
for the tails of cigars, and striking the heads of
matches. He feeds on such a variety of dubious
corned-beef in doubtful hotels that he will turn
into a unicorn some day. if he isn’t careful.
But, see ! the Refuge door opens at last, and
there ensues a grim struggle for admittance ; a
dire deadlock of men, reminding one of a small
chaos trying to crush through a crack. The
manager, in a voice like a war-whoop up a chim-
ney, orders the pushing pandemonium to stand
back. The unsophisticated first-night refugee
feels as if life were a mad, merciless lemon-
squeezer, and wishes he were at home again and
listening to the purring of his grandmother’s cat.
The chronic toper feels himself squeezed into
vowing once more that he will forever forsake the
bewitchments of beer.
When the place is full, then comes the door-
slam, and the flagship’s gun booms to the respon-
sive chimes of the city clocks. Deaf door, dreary
street and—alas for the outsiders!—the philo-
sophers of the upside-down !
% * ap
Ah, my friend, this is a world of the upside-
down. The church bells turn merrily topsy-turvy
as they chime over the passion-elmos of the city ;
over the perfumed moonshine of the rich and the
starving-storm of the poor; over life, hopeful as
the rainbow, or wicked enough to frighten a fossil
out of its petrifaction ; over streets where men and
cats both swear, and women and diamonds both-
scratch ; over people in a state of alcoholic rap-
ture, and people in a shocking state of sobriety;
over rooms of joy or sorrow where the flies go to
sleep upside-down on the ceiling, and are utterly
indifferent to the faiths and failures, the homes
and removals, the prayers and the curses of this
ounning social world of How-do-you-do.
Look around at the wonders of nature: what a
droll and desperate world it is! The rain-drop
fights the rock, and the sunbeam kisses the icicle ;
the thunder shocks the new-laid egg, and the wind
blows the umbrella inside-out; a world of white
lies and black looks, where Nature cannot put two
tom-cats on a wall or two philosophers in a par-
lour without making argument enough to frighten
the halo off a stained-glass archangel.
Shall I tell you my opinion of life in general ?
Man is born into a world of doors, and Nature has
given him the wrong keys. Directly he is born,
he begins to cry ; then he grows-up and makes
other people weep. If a newborn infant makes
no sound, the nurse gives him a polite flick with a
wet towel to open his lungs. Then he reaches out
his hand and thinks he can touch the moon. Life
is all change. The grass turns into sheep, the
sheep into man, and man turns into bed every
night, where he lies down to sleep and pretends
to be dead in order to keep himself alive.
You might as well expect a needle to wink its
eye as hope to understand the riddle of life. Life
is an enigma asking itself conundrums, and man
is always attempting to find cut the secret of all
things, like a little kaleidoscope of sin trying to
look through itself.
This attempt is philosophy, which is mostly a
play upon words. Philosophers all really mean
the same thing, and their seeming variance is due
to the fact that they have lost themselves in a
nightmare of nomenclature, and seek for truth
almost as vainly as a lot of flies . looking for
lucidity in a chaos of cobwebs. Metaphysical
books, that attempt to explain existence, are
generally more mysterious than life’s mystery
itseK. In fact, a scrutiny of philosophy with its
intuitions or its mechanical theory of the uni-
verse, makes a man in doubt whether he is-
an intuitive demigod or an automatic pirate,,
and the ultimate fact that he learns is that the
universe is a Force fighting itself. He discovers
that our creation is' all a vibrating force
coming from the sun; there is no rest in
the universe, it is all molecular movement.
At first sight this seems illusive ; it almost makes,
us think that men and women are like a. lot of un-
real rabbits floating about in a hole without a cir-
cumference. But then it is blessed to reflect that
everything is made of sunshine, and that there
really is a smile at the soul of all things. Man is
a sunbeam playing at agony, and woman is moon-
shine in millinery, bora either to cheer him up or
befool him worse than ever.
Another? Yes, I will. My waggon’s moored
in a sunny place this side of Drummoyne. Come
up to-morrow night. Bind the post-office, steer
west by north. Then-
Through Artists’ Eyes.
MUCH of an artist’s art consists in his way
of seeing things. He has a habit of
observation, sedulously cultivated. Pro-
bably he sees more than we do ; certainly
with more penetration and accuracy, and parti-
cularly with reference to pictorial representation.
To liis eye things compose themselves into sub-
jects.
If we desire to appreciate his pictures, we must,
to a certain extent at least, adjust our own eyes
to bis point of view and method of seeing. Such
a mental attitude distinguishes active from merely
passive appreciation. Certain animals seem to be
pleasurably affected by the ebartn of music, but
he would be a very unambitious musician who'was
satisfied to compose for such an audience ; and it
is one of the sorrows of painters that the public
enters with so little intelligence into what men of
the brush are trying to do. It appreciates
neither their aim nor the manner in which they
seek to realise it.
At the outset there is the question of subject.
What do we understand by it? Probably nine-
tenths of us will reply, “What the picture is
about,” or words to that, effect; meaning thereby
that we are looking for. some incident, episode or
story in the picture. This we rashly assume to be
the,sole vehicle of. human interest, and are, there-
fore, unimpressed by pictures in which we fail to
discover it. And there are so many such : still-
life pictures, for example, representing, perhaps,
a brass kettle, onions and a pumpkin ; or land-
scapes, with no hint of the grandeur of nature,
showing merely some homely scene ; or figure-
pictures, even, in which the person is “doing
„ nothing in particular.”. These prove stumbling-
blocks to many, who are troubled by their own
want of appreciation for works which seem to
give so much pleasure to others.
The mistake we make consists in this, that our
consciousness is so apt to exert itself along grooves
of words and in reference to facts; it is a habit
derived from our system of education, and as
soon as we look at a picture we hunt for facts and
try to translate them into words. But the arts
appeal primarily to’sensations. They should make
us feel. If you wish to make a child appreciate
the difference between sweet and sour, you do not
have recourse to words ; you give it first a lump
of sugar and then a few drops of vinegar. Its
sense of taste does the rest. Why not rely upon
and educate the sense of sight in the case of pic-
tures? With the sense of sound we do so, much
more readily. Listening to a sonata by Beetho-
ven, a nocturne by Chopin, or even to one of
Sousa’s “two-steps,” the ordinary music-lover
does not ask, “What is it all about?” He may
detect in each a theme or motive, a subject, in
fact, upon which the whole is composed ; but it
never occurs to him to try to translate it into
words. He yields to the abstract charm and lets
his imagination be played upon.
Painting, likewise, has an abstract language
peculiar to itself, distinguishing it as a separate
art from that of poetry or of music. It consists
of line, form, composition, colour, light and shade,
and some refinements upon these. Each affects
our sensation pleasurably, and in combination
they arouse emotion. And if, this is true, and we
remember that these qualities are at the sole com-
mand of the painter, we shall agree that he is
doing best when he relies most upon them and
that we shall appreciate his pictures best by yield-
ing ourselves unreservedly to their charm.
By this time, perhaps, we are ready to under-
stand two points:
1. That there may be charm in a picture which
contains no incident; that in his “subject” or
what he set himself to express, the artist lias been
satisfied to try to arouse some abstract emotion,
of joy, romance, tenderness, tranquillity or what
not.
2. That if an incident is involved, the charm of
the picture depends much less upon the incident
than upon the way in which it is represented.
An admirable example of this second point is
“ The Descent from the Cross,” by Rubens. It is
not the subject of it which impresses the thousands
of visitors to Antwerp Cathedral, for they have
been familiar with that all their lives and yet
never felt it as Rubens makes them feel it. The
secret of his power is that he has relied on the
painter’s language. Let us briefly analyse it.
The picture presents an amazing pattern of
dark and light; the Saviour’s body that is being
lowered in the sheet is pallid white ; the living
faces of his friends reflect a warmer light, the rest
is dark, much of it profoundly dark. The contrast
is so thrilling, the volumes of light and dark so
impressively grand, that instantly we find our-
selves in the presence of a stupendous tragedy.
Or rather we feel that the tragedy has been suc-
ceeded by a wondrous lull, in which anguish is
replaced by infinite tenderness and pity. For,
note the exquisite lines of the Saviour’s body,
the limbs dropping like the ® petals of a
flower falling from its stem. In the figures,
also, of the three Marys and the faith-
ful man and in the touch of their hands,
what reverential love ! In their faces, as
we study closer, what variety of individual grief !
All that a great preacher, by use of many words,
might gradually make us realise, is here flashed
upon us instantaneously. We acknowledge the
miracle and acclaim the work a masterpiece.
There is another great principle illustrated in
this picture; that of synthesis, We notice how
simple are the means employed to produce this
great impression ; the economy of material, the
fewness of details ; there is nothing to distract
one’s attention from the fundamental conception ;
what there is conduces to a unified impression, a
clear and triumphant climax. This is the way in
which a'great artist sees his subject. It implies
first a keen analysis of the matter and then a
selection of the salient features, and their
arrangement in the simplest and most concise
form. It is thus that the imagination is aroused ;
whereas, if a multiplicity of details is introduced,
our attention rambles over these, and loses the
larger aspect of the subject in a tangle of com-
paratively unimportant facts.
This synthetic quality characterises all the
landscapes of the Fontainebleau-Barbizon painters
and is one of the reasons of their eminence. To
Corot, for example, studying the evening land-
scapes, the trees appear as soft, velvety blurs
against the paling sky. He paints them so, not
flabby, however, but with bulk and looseness, and
with atmosphere stealing through them, and
makes our imagination fancy that the foliage is
softly trembling. Rosseau, on the other hand,
will induce us to share with him a sense of the
strength and majesty of nature, by omitting petty
details and concentrating his art upon depicting
the firmness of the earth, the grip of the tree-
roots, their massive stems and sturdy branches
and the wealth of foliage.
* * * *
This is the way in which all the best painters
now see and represent nature. It is the rnultum
t,n i-nrro method. There is also the parvum in
miiltn, which reaches its dir \ in the ordinary
photograph, wherein every < \ il is reproduced ;
for the camera cannot sift the essential from the
unessential, as the artist’s eye does, and compose
the former to convey the definite conception in
the artist’s mind. In a word, there is a natural
and a pictorial way of seeing. We must not
be distressed, therefore, by what seems to be
a lack of “finish” or of elaborate detail in
a picture ; looking rather for the bigger aspect
of the subject, to 'which 1 our own imagination
will supply all necessary detail. This is very
clearly illustrated by different kinds of portraits.
There are some which give us nothing more than
the sitter’s outward features, the points we should
observe if we were opposite to him for a little
while iu a street car. With such a portrait it
would be very tedious to live. Day after day of
acquaintance would suggest no further intimacy.
This is the analytical portrait, drawn by,a painter
whose point of view was purely objective, repre-
seating merely what was in sight. But the greater
portrait painter seeks to divine the character of
his sitter, gathering hints from each successive
sitting, forming a conclusion in his own mind,
and then, by careful adjustment of effects, con-
triving to reproduce a synthetic impression of the
. complex personality. It is a great art, and
Velasquez, who possessed this faculty in the high-
est degree, is thereby reckoned amongst the
greatest artists. It converts a mere likeness into
a source of constantly increasing interest and
enjoyment, just as prolonged acquaintance with a
friend ripens into fresh intimacy and closer sym-
pathy.
For, after all is said and done, a picture should
not only represent life or nature, but be vitalising ;
not a thing merely to be looked at, but an influ-
ence which enters actively into our existence;
stimulating and suggestive. We need not expect
that every picture will elevate and purify our
' feelings as the greatest pictures do; but at least
each one should be companionable. If it fails in
this, we may pass it by, even as we do not deem
it worth while to cultivate the acquaintance of
many persons whom we know. There is nothing
in the mere putting of paint on canvas that merits
our regard. Ihe test of a picture consists even
more in the character of the thought conveyed
than in the way of conveying it. : It is well to try
and appreciate the latter, but if its skill merely
covers a poverty of imagination, we should do well
to treat it like any other windbag and reject it.
C. A. CAFFIN, in N.Y. Criterion.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
21
per cent.
{lncludes all Charges excepting
cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S YDKTBI Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
ħ
C B B
5808
mm'
S& D< *
5 800 XCr:
*<?
7)
Guaranteed not to or bora
'CBB>
BRIAR
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pijn
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately 01.
application. Thousands Soiling Daily.
SIMMS Mill)
HAYMARKET, SYSNE
Branches everywhere.
Publications.
LADIES >•
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. 'Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopsedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
n W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
Castlereagh-streec, Sjdnev.
LLUSTRATED
BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
h
lI.I.USTRATEID
ĥ
TS/'ITH numerous anatomical
’ * colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by tills book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step In. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets. Beprodnctions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can And daily use for. 2s. Gd. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap.
piuess with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 458 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
tlrts paper when writing.
RARE & CURIOUS
BOOKS
ENGLISH, FRENCH,
GERMAN.
Largest Oatal. with Model, nice.
25 miniat. 3 Sh.
APPY <sc CO.,
66 Rue Pigalle,
LOW PRICES.
PARIS, FRANCE.
FORBIGHNT STAMPS
PO >TAC.E
ħ
h
mmm
wwammfl
("3 HEAP SETS.—2 Orange Free
State, surcharged V.R.1., Is ;
11 Canada, including Map, 6d ; 50
Spain, 2s; 15 Russia, 6d ; 8 Sweden
Official, 6d; 16 Roumania, 6d ; 0
Luxembourg, 3d ; 9 Canada Duty,
6d. Packets 50, Different, Is ; 100,
2s 6d. Gibbons’ Stamp Catalogue,
2 Parts, 4s 6d. Stamps Purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
THE WORD .
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
SergesiTweeds
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards o.i the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp are not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tB.,
Wellington, Somerset, £ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
o
These celebrated Serges oan be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
O
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOGDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mori-Co
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
21
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT WOOLGROWERS
111 New South Wales and Queensland,
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower : —■
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Blarsapial Skins held. Weekly.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
o
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL. AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
“LAWRUS" DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
ik X
OC&tfUU
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
C d#
4
mmm
h'i nor.
f i
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
-• ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by i
J Sydney’s Leading 3urgeon and Anatomical Demon-
|strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- |
“ CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN. 1
SDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER *
-LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can i
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-'
constructed Belts give -prompt relief in Insomnia, j
j Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General ‘
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., eto. i
I They impart vigor and potency to every function, "
‘ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and i
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted *
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and i
may be worn without the slightest possibility of"
detection. They have cured thousands. i
THEY WILL CURE YOU
£ b. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra, powerful, with suspensory
attainments 8 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at'prices ranging from 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Eleotrical Surgical Chest-nads, i
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &e.
All communications should be addressed to— I
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |


TATTERS ALL’S
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
MELBOURNE 0. Nov. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE 0. Not. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the
above.
Name_
Address
£
MELBOURNE 0. (Special).
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me — .shares in above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
V-6iVt B(St Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
X
\ \
BAWD SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring: Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
■CV 1 ””'
an 0
«*&*• v
HUi
N:
“If I could only get
a little rest.” How
many tired women
say this ! They
are exhausted,
depressed, dis-
couraged. Even after
sleeping they find them-
selves just as tired as before.
Not a part of the body escapes
from the hard aches and pains. You
should have all impurities removed
from your blood and your nerves
greatly strengthened.
iypn
mmrn
brings rest and refreshing sleep. Your
nervousness disappears and your great
unrest passes away.
Of course you know this is so, for
you have heard all about Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. "’Ask your doctor if it isn’t the
best Sarsaparilla in the world. Even
your druggist will tell you “It’s the
oldest and the best.”
froff 0U ?, re constipated, take Ayer’s Pills
They greatly aid the Sarsaparilla.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
‘ DOW JtttDGE’S
AS rSUAL.
E’Jzabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SPECIAL KTOTICE.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
ALL POLICIES issued before the close of the current year will participate in the profits to be then distributed.
distributed among’ the participating policy-holders during the single year 1899
iflfcplv nn ImIIPIPQ Qt.foinin/r n „ C i- \ . UnnilQ Von V
*■*+'*■* a lasueu uciure tiiu
The Amount of CASH BONUSES
t ( bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). Every Year a Bonus Year,
ntendmg proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their proposals at once, either direct or through
tne Society s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
DIRECTORS Sir J. P. Abbott, K.C.M.G., M.L.0., Chairman ; Tuos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman; Joseph
Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. ; B. Short, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary— RlCHAßD TEECE FI A FFA FSS
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’ ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ass®
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
K3T Send for a
Catalogue.
ĥ
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Eight Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists:
From Dr. REDWOOD, Fh.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Rritain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence '
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, anti is free
I from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
! free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Ph.D., &c.,
lecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“ I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and I can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the ease of children and others
whoso skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
MOIR’S
Pure Jams
Assorted kinds in 1 lb. Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office ’ 9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London, E.C.
KT.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Mian f. Com
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring: Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pbretons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in St.o.-k and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S t POLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan- They cannot do so, and you pay IB per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ħ
nellrtred nt any Wharf er
V.S.W. Hailways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King Humbert’s slayer—Bresci— gaoled
for life, is condemned to pass the first ten years in
solitary confinement in a dimly-lighted 6 feet
square cell, in which he may neither read, write,
nor work. He is fed on bread and water once in
24 hours, and any breach of absolute silence will
be punished by a spell in a “strait-bed,” which
has stocks for fastening the feet, while the arms
are confined in a strait-jacket. And 10 years of
this ! Worse than death, surely ! But is it
physiologically possible for any man to live 10
years, or even 10 months under such conditions ?
Farewell.
You leave me, lady, in the Spring,
When, all the wide land through,
The perfumed winds go wandering
On days of gold and blue.
The wattle’s floating incense thrills
Like music of a lyre ;
Its altars on a thousand hills
Are plumed with golden fire.
Great white-winged clouds on far-off heights
Are gathered ; and, below,
Are little clouds like acolytes
In surplices of snow.
Ah, lady, when in England stands
The Spring so young and fair,
With slender bluebells in her hands,
And roses in her hair,
Then you will see the primrose dear,
In many a deep green lane,
And in the sky above you’ll hear
The English lark again.
but, in the time of frost and snow,
Your thoughts will turn, maybe,
Unto a land that lies below
The grey dividing sea.
0 then, when winter winds have chilled
The Earth, no longer green,
May our remembered sunshine gild
The darkness of the scene !
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Star Symbols.
The sun hath set —and down the darkling west
I turn my weary, waiting eyes, and lo !
She comes at length, the star of eve and rest,
To flood the sombre deeps with gentle glow.
And ev’ry care that clings to sordid day
Is banned afar beneath her placid beam ;
And all the poor turmoil of human fray
Is fading fast and far in drowsy dream.
The night is spent, and now the star of morn
Hath hung her flag in yonder dawning skies ;
In rosy bed the babe of Light is born,
And thousand radiant heralds slowly rise.
And ev’ry falt’ring hope and pallid fear
That lay like lead and kept me from my goal,
They fly before her message : “ Day is near;
Be strong to dare and do, thou soaring soul ! ”
And symbols are the twain, I do believe,
Of all that cheers the drooping heart forlorn :
The woman’s beauty calm—our star of eve,
And childhood’s tender grace—our star of morn.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
In Beauty's Thrall.
Who knows her charm shall surely bear her chain
(And I who sing have also bent the knee)
Shall count his Freedom’s loss as purest gain,
With jocund breast shall fettered bondman be ;
Shall bend a willing soul to sweetest wile
Beneath the dear dominion of her smile.
Who comes a-near shall ne’er be blest afar,
Shall think no other face divinely fair ;
Shall hold her forehead as a fixed star,
And twine his heart in tendrils of her hair;
Shall have no ear when pealing bells beguile
Beneath the dear dominion of her smile.
And though at times the worldly clamors come,
He shall not list who lies in Beauty’s thrall;
And heedless shall he hear the rolling drum
And careless shall he catch the bugle call ;
Content to deem he holds the Happy Isle
Beneath the dear dominion of her smile.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Lines.
Like a gleaming storm of lilies
That blow above a stream,
In the rain that falls at even
Come these faces in a dream,
In a gleaming blowing dream,
To me, like bending lilies on a windy sunlit
stream.
In the moaning of a river
As it wears away the stone,
In the rustling of the rushes
Comes the soft and gentle tone,
Comes the murmurous singing tone
Of the hearts a-gone before me, o’er the river’s
stepping-stone.
When the falling leaves of Autumn
Spread the field and crown the wall,
Brush my forehead in their falling,
Then their touching seems to call,
By their lightness seems to call,
Other touching of soft fingers gone beyond the
mystic wall.
So, God giving me for ever,
While I have breath to live,
Gentle meadowland and river,
With the music that they give,
With the quickening that they give,
I shall die content that in them, love, for you
I still must live.
v.
HUGH McCRAE.


THE
PLUM
h
Price—SINGLE RAZOR, 108. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. VP'S
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO TEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
JSz AITKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
'fhe Australian IDidoms* Fund [ife Insurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
mjTIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHEUS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
ĥ
FEDERHE FMJte HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families*
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICE 3.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
11. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
ladies’ Tailoring
-SPRING-
NEW SELF SHADES
teutons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each In-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Tbe
9
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys ”
The “ Allenburys ”
The “ Allenburys”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood Is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 485, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON .THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
r
B
BB
OWN
MAKE
ARE RECOGNISED AS THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
Gr'caifcsi demand
Cameo Cigarette
Yankee Doodle at the Front!
An incident in the Boer war as related by a returned Officer.
regiment of our Australian infantry was travelling (as depicted in
the smaller photograph) to Belmont. At Graspan we were
}
.
s * 't • '.;i
w ■
, ' *
:
entertained by the
garrison of Gordon
Highlanders sta-
tioned there, and
when taking our
departure by rail
were accorded the
customary musical
send - off by the
garrison band,
which, on this occa-
sion, consisted of
two drummers and
a piper. As our
train moved off X
heard the cry on
all sides from our
boys -‘Yankee Doodle!!’ ‘Yankee Doodle!!’ and there in the distance
was an almost exact representation of the Yankee Doodle tobacco brand
so familiar to all Australians. The band after seeing us aboard were
returning back along the road to camp, and as we passed they sturdily
marched and played, whilst we, with the familiar tableau before us
reminding us so of home, cheered wildly. I instantly took out my kodak,
and, although the train was moving fast, secured a fairly good picture,
with the idea that perhaps my friends (the Dixsons) in Australia would like
to have it. On many a weary march afterwards, when smoking the army
regulation tobacco, did we long for just one pipe of the old far-off favorite.”
■■■■ "•
Ilf
/ ' ■ ; : . ;
' ; " /:
: • ■ ■ ■./-
.
« r # 1 7 **
'
:
ft :
mH» a |
:
wmmgM


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, /or Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1080.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1900.
Prick 6d.
5 3 K b er r Y'*
j sw * /tf r i
r °L^
M^ <r Jh, "
f'^ />&l ' 1? if*' M ’
F z V d erl
>. • ■ - ? /C
yVOtfricLT ?«,■£ 6V- , ,
‘ / '<7 ,?
<
. - f"-
- - „ Q eskc( P) a / -ffj/yy &
T-ffiis***} , Cereiy 00 AusMl’ a 7
%!>>■
/fit**-* f-Tfcrc
?j;L &*<.
f/oarSe X a J? a ___3
s> p kJ^Kpk
■TIL 5.., p r l,y>
P,trf,
s*r kcp^
\ <sy>‘k C p'i
'AmU k°^r v !i
y/r/^yy^%
n>,V vpi
vW*»ty'
pfk'/f -
■ y’fifs
.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... £ £
Half-yearly ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• Übb
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to he addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright hy the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
"Perse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding turn columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions, under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2l£ Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. B. Solomon
arid Co., 23 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia, and Ufaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
premaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—\\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth—The
Federated Chinaman.
Thb Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have
power to make laws for the peace, order, and good
government of the Commonwealth with respect to ... .
19. Naturalisation and Aliens.
20. The people of any race other than the aboriginal
race in any State for whom it is deemed necessary to
make special laws.
27. Immigration and Emigration.
Australia lies, unfortunately, at the back-
door of Asia and the side-door of Polynesia,
and even Africa is not very far off, when the
Kaffir becomes a factor in the itinerant cheap-
labor problem. Also, it has a climate in
which the black man thrives. England lies
remote from the black man’s track, and its
winter withers up the tropical nigger,
and England can dispense with laws
for the exclusion of Ham and his elder
brother. Consequently, the Australian
planter and miscellaneous Fat Man, who
want cheap slave labor, strike a high
moral attitude, and beg that Australia
will follow the noble and liberal example set
by England, and not despise the brown
stranger within its gates, nor inhospitably
bang its portal against a suppliant brother
with very little on. The said Fat Man is
here woefully inconsistent. England is even
more liberal in its treatment of the rabbit
than of the nigger ; in that cold and narrow
isle neither of them multiplies dangerously,
so it lets the black man in, neither welcom-
ing nor restraining him, while it specially
protects the rabbit by Act of Parliament.
The Australian Fat Man scorns Britain’s
hospitable example as regards the rabbit
because it doesn’t pay him to welcome that
animal, and he only urges the importance of
following British precedent as regards the
nigger because he thinks that to do so will
pay him. Where it isn’t profitable to
follow British precedent no man scorns
British ideas more utterly than the Stout
Person of this great country.
» • * *
The miscellaneous colored alien is a real
danger in these lands. When the census of
1881 was taken there were in Australia
about 80,000 Chinese, miscellaneous Asi-
atics, Africans, Polynesians and sundries.
In 1891 they numbered about 90,000. There
was an increase despite the fact that more
or less severe restrictive laws were enacted
in most of the provinces ; the diminution in
these provinces was more than counter-
balanced by the increase in others. And
owing to the foolish weakening of the re-
striction laws in Victoria, and the appear-
ance of the Japanese, Hindoo, Afghan,
Javanese, Malay, Filipino, and other for-
merly almost-unknovvn quantities in the Far
North, there is every reason to believe that
next year’s census will show a much greater
increase. In Victoria alone the Chinese
population is known to have grown by about
1900 in the past seven years, and the mis-
cellaneous nigger has probably expanded to
an equal extent. New South Wales has
long been getting rid of the Chinaman by
virtue of the most rigid anti-Chow law in the
Commonwealth, but the recent influx of the
black British subject (who isn’t poll-taxed)
into the sugar-growing districts is already
undoing the good work that has been done.
The Chow is increasing in Tasmania ; and in
Queensland and Westralia of late years the
alien of various hues has flourished exceed-
ingly.
* * » *
It is commonly alleged that the black man
and the yellow man are, after all, not a very
large item as yet, and, as they are not in-
creasing very fast under present conditions,
there is time enough to consider the matter.
There is not time enough. The present con-
ditions, even if they were partly satisfactory,
can’t last. The .Commonwealth has to make
a uniform law dealing with this matter. It
has either to decide to let the black and
yellow and brown men into the whole
Commonwealth, or to shut them out of the
whole Commonwealth. If it decides to let
them in—well, Australia can guess, by the
size of the influx while only two States, and
these not the most attractive, were freely
open to them, what the overwhelming rush
will be like when all six are open. It is im-
possible to draw a line about the Tropic of
Capricorn and say that the new mongrel
shall come thus far and no further—to mark
out a Black State and keep the rest White.
It is impossible to police a line about 2000
miles long in order to prevent the brown
alien drifting across. It is impossible
to prove that the new heathen who has
sneaked across such a line is a new heathen,
and not one of the old ones who was in
the Southern provinces before Federation
began, and who consequently had to be
tolerated as an already established fact. It
is impossible to recover the expense of cap-
turing the escapee, and taking him back
over the imaginary line, by fining a heathen
who has probably no money, and to gaol him
is only adding to the cost. It must be a
case of exclusion all round or admission all
round, and the latter is not to be thought of.
Asia is just learning to emigrate, and just
beginning to know of the existence of Aus-
tralia, and those parts of Australia con-
venient to Asia are just becoming populated
and ready to attract immigrants. Asia
counts 200 people to one white Austra-
lian, and the number is daily increas-
ing, and the pressure growing greater.
A mere ripple moving southward over the
surface of Shem would leave Australia with
three or five or 10 black men to one white—
would turn it into a Black Man’s State, and
make an end of White Australia for ever
and a day. And it is essential to keep out
the British nigger and the British China-
man just as much as the non-British ones.
They are just as black and just as yellow as
the other sort. The British nigger is
300,000,000 strong, and he is even more
dangerous than the loose or unan-
nexed nigger, because Britain is
spreading some kind of European education
among him, and teaching him to forsake
some of the old-time conservatism that pre-
vented him wandering into new lands. The
British, or partly-British, Chinaman num-
bers some millions already, and he will
probably number 100,000,000 some day or
other. The British Asiatic and Polynesian
and African are the biggest half of the prob-
lem ; if they are not shut out it is hardly
worth while interfering with the other half.
* • ¥ V
It is Absolute Exclusion that is wanted.
No mere tonnage regulations or poll-tax or
other half-hearted restrictions will fully meet
the case. The door must be shut on Shem,
and Ham must be warned off with a gun. A
mere handful of white men close up against
800,000,000 blacks and yellows can’t afford
—if it proposes to remain white and not
become a nation of half-castes—to take half :
measures. And there is no reason why it
should. Shutting out the Asiatic does him
no injury save the passive injury of leaving
him as he is, and as Australia isn’t respon-
sible for him being as he is, to leave him so
is no wrong. The Australian Fat Man, it is
true, complains of the inhospitality of exclud-
ing our coffee-colored brother, but he is
a mere fraud and hypocrite and doesn’t
count. In reality he doesn’t care a straw
about the inhospitality. When the coffee-
colored one comes in the Fat Man doesn’t
welcome him at Potts Point or Toorak, but
inhospitably does his best to shunt him out
of these places, and bids him go and dwell
on the Lean Man’s preserves about Wex-
ford-street or Little Bourke-street. And he
only welcomes him to come and intrude into
the Lean Man’s trades ; he shows no
anxiety to force him into such occupations
as the Law, or to invite the cheap Hindoo
physician to come and compete in the Fat
Man professions. The colored alien is
patronised and encouraged solely that he
may cut down the Lean Man’s wages and
make labor cheap. The Kanaka plantation-
hand is welcomed in Queensland, but the
inhospitable planter demands that the
“ walk-about ” Kanaka shall be suppressed
by special laws because he doesn’t work
cheaply enough on the plantations, and asks
that this Kanaka’s rights as a citizen be vio-
lently outraged. The Indian cane-cutter was
welcomed on the N.S.W. plantations till he
began to leave off cane-cutting and start
for himself. Then he also became a sub-
ject of complaint on the part of employers.
m * * •
There is nothing that the coloured man does
which the white man can’t do as well. He
fills no want \yhatever. Nobody felt the
need of him before he came, or will feel it
when he is gone. He is an unhealthy and
artificial habit, like opium or chloral. Tak-
ing him in is merely fooling with a reck-
less experiment out of which no rational
being expects any permanent good to arise.
It certainly has been said by the nigger
party in Queensland that the black man is
an essential element in the sugar industry.
“The white man won’t trash cane,” cried
the Brisbane Courier recently in a moment
of anguish, and it went on to allege that, if
the beloved nigger goes, then the Queensland
sugar industry is dead. The white man
probably won’t trash cane at Kanaka wages
and with Kanaka treatment, but experience
shows that, for anything even dimly resem-
bling a white man’s wage, he is ready and
willing to trash anything under the sun. He
doesn't even draw the line at driving a
night-cart or being a hangman. He trashes
cane on the N.S. W. sugar lands, and has done
it for many years. He produces, by white
labor only, more than half the world’s sugar
supply. He stands the climate of North
Queensland vastly better than the frail
Islander, and does harder labor. There are
two reasons, and two only, why the black
man may appear to be essential. One
is that work in the cane-field is foolishly
supposed to be exclusively nigger work,
because the Queenslander is accustomed to
see the nigger doing it, just as, on the con-
tinent of Europe, farm-labor was once re-
garded as slave-labor because the community
was accustomed to see it done by serfs. The
one superstition is as groundless as the
other ; cane-growing will be as much white
man's work as wheat-growing when the nigger
leaves it. The other reason is that the white
worker in the cane-field will want something
approaching a white man’s wage, and there-
fore sugar will be made dearer. Possibly it
will. If it can’t be grown at present prices
and yet pay the laborers a white man’s wage,
then it ought to be made dearer, and its
present cheapness is a disgrace to Australia.
There is no reason that sugar should be
made unnaturally cheap by importing low-
priced semi-slave labor to grow it, any more
than that wheat or beef or wool should be
similarly cheapened by the importation of
cheap niggers for farm-work and cattle-
raising and shearing, or that law should be
unnaturally cheapened by importing Hindoo
lawyers who will take Jack Want’s briefs
for one-fourth of the money.
* * * *
For which, and many other reasons that
can’t be here set forth through lack of space,
The Bulletin moves these resolutions :
(1) That under Federal law it shall be absolutely illegal
for any black, brown, or yellow man to settle in this
country, whether he is a British subject or not. All such
individuals at present in the country to be registered
and have licenses issued to them. Any such individual
found thereafter without a license to be required to prove
that he was a resident prior to Federation, or be fined
heavily and shipped back to his native land. Transfer or
forgery of licenses to be heavily punishable. Kanakas
here under contract to be compulsorily shipped back to
their islands when the’r time expires. Miscellaneous
coloured settlers to be < f erei free passages home by the
Federal Government, provided their departure is per-
manent.
2. A heavy import duty to be put on sugar, in order
that it may be able to compete with white labour against
the nigger-grown sugar of other lands, and have a safe
margin over. If the duty has to be £lO a ton, then let it
be £lO a ton with enthusiasm. If the Australian supply
of white-man-grown sugar is insufficient then let the
Federal Government offer such inducements as shall
ensure the establishment of the beet-sugar industry on a
sufficiently large scale.
3. If these necessary measures lead to an increase in
the price of sugar the circumstance is not regrettable.
The nation which will abandon its status as a white race
and become a mottled hybrid to make its sugar Jd. or £d.
or Id. per lb. cheaper doesn’t deserve to have any sugar,
and may the Lord have mercy on its souL
“The Bulletin” Votes for Turner.
In view of the near approach of Federation, State
politics loom much smaller in the public eye than
they did. They also loom much smaller than
they should do, for there will still be sufficient
power left with the State Parliaments to enable
them, despite all the Federal Government can do,
to largely make or mar the fortunes of the people’
Therefore, The Bulletin invites the Victorian
people, at the General Election which is to be
hustled through so suddenly and unobtrusively on
Ist November, to pin its faith to George Turner
—the steady-going pilot who steered it through
the worst crisis in its fortunes. The Tory party
led by Duncan Gillies, has no show of seizing" on
power itself, and the choice lies between °the
Liberal section commanded by Turner and the
other Liberal section commanded by M‘Lean and
Shiels. The M'Lean-Shiels section has the sup-
port and approval of the Tory crowd of frauds and
boomsters who brought the countrvso badly to grief
in days past; the Turner crowd hasn’t. Between
the Liberals who have the cordial and disastrous
approval of the worst and most disreputable gang
in Victorian politics, and those who haven’t, there
should be no hesitation in choosing the latter
The M'Lean-Shiels Government holds office only
by the aid and assistance of the party which op-
poses Council reform, old age pensions, the
minimum wage, Protection, land-tax, absentee-
tax, the cutting up of large estates for closer
settlement, one-adult-one-vote, and economical
finance. It lives on the aid and countenance of
the borrow and boom and burst faction. And no
Government which exists by such support can
remain Liberal long. The Gillies gang hasn’t
got the price of its support yet; it wisely re-
frained from asking for it while its proteges, the
M‘Lean-Shiels crowd, had no longer lease of
office than for the fag-end of a dying Parliament.
But it counts on being paid its price when the
Two-headed Ministry has. come back with a three
years lease of power. If it didn’t it wouldn’t coun-
tenance that combination.
* * • *
A Government is known, like everyone else, by
the company it keeps, and the company which
the M'Lean Government keeps is bad. The
little spurt of Liberalism which marked its advent
to office is already dying away. Its Old Age
Pension proposals are so miserably inadequate
that it is reckoned they will only provide for 3500 '
people, and the assistance is to be limited to the
pitiably small sum of 7s. per week ! Its scheme
for the reform of the House of 48 Rich Landlords
certainly touches the real evil, which is, not the
narrowness of the franchise, which isn’t so very
narrow after all, but the qualification for member-
ship, which limits the people’s selection of
M’s.L.C. to a mere handful of bigoted Tory land-
lords. But the damning fact that the Anti-
Council Reform Gillies push is behind M‘Lean
damps all confidence in his sincerity. The
M‘Lean-Shiels Government is already drifting
backwards to the old, thriftless, disastrous methods
of borrowing largely for non-productive works
which should be paid for out of revenue. In its
very first year of office it reversed Turner’s
wise policy of using all surpluses in reduc-
tion of the old deficit. It is opposed to the
idea of a convention elected by the people to
draft a new State constitution. When the Upper
House rejected the proposal to take a referendum
on the woman’s suffrage question it hadn’t even
the grit to be seriously angry over the insult; still
less had it the grit to defy the House of Land-
lords and take the Referendum, as Kingston did,
on the Assembly’s own authority. The snail-
track of Duncan Gillies is already visible over
its policy. It has been a respectable—just respect-
able, and no more—Liberal Government, but it is
a very poor Liberal Government which doesn’t
do one or two notably good actions in the early
days of its existence, while it is still the new broom
which has to sweep away something in order to
give reason for being a broom at all. But its use-
fulness appears to be already nearly over.
* * * •
The first essential in all the Australias is an
honest and capable Treasurer; the shiftless-
ness, folly and profligacy of Australian finance
is the worst feature in our Government at all times.
Victoria has tried both Shiels and Turner in a
time of stress, and it found Shiels a bitter failure
and Turner a success. Turner’s Old Age
Pension scheme is far from being extravagantly
liberal, but it is much wider and more generous
than the M‘Lean-ShieLs fraud and mockery.
Turner at least advocates a wider scheme of
Council reform than his rival, though whether
he would make a better fight for it thc-e is no
evidence to show. Still he could not possibly
make a much worse one. He favors a
wider scheme of land resumption, and he
strongly advocates the holding of a popularly-
elected convention to draft a new State Consti-
tution and its submission afterwards to the
people’s vote for acceptance or rejection. What
measures he is prepared to take to force the
bigots of the House of Landlords to agree
to such a Convention, or to accept its new
Constitution when the people have endorsed
it, are none too clear, but at least the
best elements of the Labor party are behind
Turner to urge him to do whatever is possible
in the way of suppressing the great incubus of
Victorian politics, while M‘Lean leans on the
support of the Tory faction which loathes the idea
of reforming the Chamber of Rich Landlords in
any shape or form. When a very new Govern-
ment, still, presumably, in the first flush of its re-
form enthusiasm, offers the people so weak a pro-
gramme as that of Shiels and M‘Lean, there is
little hope for it. When the green tree is so un-
promising the dry one that will ensue later on
looks none too hopeful. Victoria has tried George
Turner, and knows him as a man who has put up
a longer record of consistent well-doing than any
other Premier it ever possessed. The plain man
in the shabby brown suit and the cheap spectacles
has attacked more difficult questions, and done
it more thoroughly and courageously, than
any other Victorian political chief of re-
cent years. His fault lies in being too
peaceful. If he had, in addition to his patience
and his administrative and creative capacity, the
love of fighting for the mere sake of fighting and
for the mere excitement of conflict, which King-
ston possesses, he would be an ideal leader.
And Kingston, with a trace of Turner’s patience
added to his other qualities, would also be an
ideal leader; he is the nearest approach even now
to an ideal leader that Australia possesses. But the
M‘Lean-Shiels combination hasn’t the fighting
quality which Turner lacks. Nor has it, appa-
rently, the fi.iancial capacity which he possesses.
It seems to be just another Turner, and a
smaller and a weaker one. So The Bulletin
votes for the man with the brown suit and the
cheap spectacles, and wishes him all good for-
tune.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Melbourne Push.
A really beautiful item from Melbourne:
Larrikinism is rampant in several suburbs of Melbourne,
and pushes are daily terrorising certain localities. It is
alleged that a .-man named Buckland, who was said to
have broken his leg by a fall from a high wall, was really
the victim of a push outrage. He was set upon by mem-
bers of a gang, knocked senseless with a batten, and whilst
in that condition his leg was so badly broken in four places
that the bone protruded. Buckland was interviewed at
the hospital to-night. He says he was unconscious, and
remembers nothing. He was told afterwards that he had
fallen from a wall, but did not remember. He added that
if he were told he had not fallen he would not deny it.
. He says that the assault was witnessed bv people who,
however, are so absolutely under the reign of terror that
they dare not give information. Residents in push-
ridden districts are crying out for additional police pro-
tection and stern repressive measures.
As The Bulletin has said over and over again,
the average Australian city is a place where a
British subject isn’t half so safe as he was in the
Transvaal under Oom Paul’s regime. When one
remembers all the loud and hairy leaders which
appeared in the Australian papers over the killing
of one British subject in the Transvaal (a mur-
derer who was shot while violently resist-
ing arrest), and compares it with their
apathy re, the daily outrages in our own
cities, the position looks wildly ridiculous.
Supposing it had been a Boer (not an Australian)
who battered a wounded and helpless British sub-
ject (say a wounded soldier) till his leg was
smashed in four places, how the cry for vengeance
on the whole race of Boer fiends and barbarians


would have gone up to heaven like the smoke of a
great burnt offering ! Yet such things are toler-
ably common in barbarous Australia, and the
public cares so little about the purely local out-
rage, that the push goes on year after year practi-
cally without interference. Australia has a low
crime record, merely because the records only
deal with arrested and convicted criminals, and
the bulk of Australia’s chronic criminals are not
arrested nor convicted. And things are not likely
to improve until the police force is doubled;
until there is a new kind of magistracy, not
at all like the. present one which is apparently
related, to or in the pay of the pushes ; until
there is a very heavy minimum, penalty for
brutal assault, so that the brutal or terrorised or
venal magistrate can no longer let off the worst
kind of offender with 40s. fine ; and till the mere
fact of being a member of a push is made a crime
with a heavy minimum penalty attached, as a
conspiracy against the public peace. And these
things are not likely to happen until this country
gets a new kind of Legislature. Some time ago a
Melbourne push broke into the house of a com-
plete stranger, late at night, and kicked the in-
mates—an old man and woman—till they were in-
sensible and nearly dead. As far as The Bulletin
remembers, these pushites were fined in a small
sum. And. as even that episode didn’t shock the
Legislature into action, there is little hope.
The Perth Ice Co. Trouble.
The Perth (W.A.) Ice Co. trouble is growing to
huge dimensions. That co. is, or was until very
lately, composed of the magnates of the land-
persons of wealth, political eminence and such
intense respectability that a blind beggar might
liold out his hat to them with reasonable certainty
that they wouldn’t take any of the coppers out of
it. The first trouble arose when it transpired that
the Perth Ice Co. had been in the habit of
defrauding the Railway Department by sending
per rail, fish, &c. (which pays a rather high
freight) as ice (which pays a very low freight).
This was a shock, but it was unanimously agreed
that the highly-respectable directors, shareholders
and managers couldn’t possibly have any know-
ledge of the matter; and that the degraded office-
boy or some other reprehensible and ill-paid in-
dividual, in his zeal to secretly make big dividends
for his bosses without getting any credit for him-
self out of the transaction, must have done it
“on his own.” The co. stated in a proud
reserved fashion that it would pay up, without
interest, apparently, the amount of the steal
which had been discovered, and £lOO fine. It
fixed its own fine at £lOO, in fact, which amount
apparently wasn’t enough to cover interest on the
money that the Railway Department had been
lying out of, and the offer was accepted. And
then just when it seemed as if everything was
comfortably settled new griefs and woes broke
out. It transpired that the Ice Co., in addition
to describing high-freight goods as low-freight
goods, had a cheerful habit of sending 9 tons of
goods as 4 tons, and things like that, and ap-
parently it had sufficient influence in high
quarters to prevent its stuff being weighed. The
Railway Department accepted its weight as
correct. A Committee of Inquiry, after pain-
fully examining dozens of witnesses, can
only find out that the Railway Depart-
ment apparently weighed everybody’s goods
except the Perth Ice Co.’s. Nobody could assign
any reason for not weighing its consignments—
except that he hadn’t specific orders to do it.
Everybody else’s goods were apparently weighed
without specific orders, and as a matter of course.
Furthermore, the committee of inquiry begins to
suspect that the co. got large quantities of dutiable
goods in without paying duty, and there is also a
suspicion that it got a considerable proportion of
its water supply from the city water works without
paying for that either. It is impossible to suppose
that any of the high-class people who ran the co.
knew anything of these low proceedings, but
public opinion is very hot against the degraded
office-boy. Of course, by these devices the Perth
Ice Co. showed far larger profits than could ever
have been legitimately made, and its shares were
doubtless more valuable because of these profits.
And it is most unfortunate that, when the shares
were very high by reason of these bogus
profits, various more or less eminent share-
holders sold out to a man in Melbourne,
who, it is said, now forms in his own
person the biggest part of the co. It is even
alleged that a nigh politician sold his own shares
at a high price, and that immediately afterwards
the Government to which that politician belonged
took proceedings against the co. which he had
just got out of—wherefore the shares naturally fell
with much thud. This certainly sounds incredible.
Still that politician’s capacity for putting his foot
in it is so awful that if it is true his friends have
the consolation of knowing that he is about the
only politician in Australia who is capable of
doing such a thing without any bad intent, and by
sheer honest clumsiness. Yet if it is true a man
who is subject to misfortunes like that shouldn’t
be in office. In any decently-governed country
the Perth Ice Co. business would be sufficient to
kill the Government stone dead and past all resur-
rection.
*
Another Absentee Landlord.
The syndicate grabsters who want to buy up
Adelaide’s tramways and who generously offer to
let the State repurchase them later on for nearly
twice their value, are judiciously making them-
selves solid with the press by distributing a large,
fat advertisement setting forth the reasons why
Adelaide should be glad to have another addition
to the long list of absentee landlords. Some ex-
tracts from the lovely document :
Because the conversion to electric traction is to be
carried out by British (not foreign) companies of world-
wide reputation and experience, who will require to make
no experiments, but will give in the shortest possible
period of construction a frequent service, with cars and
other equipment having all the latest improvements, and
second to none in the world.
Because experience has shown that all improvements
come from private persons or companies, and the West-
inghouse and Callender Companies being pioneers in
electrical enterprise, will give to Adelaide all improve-
ments, and maintain the electrical equipment up to date.
Because it is better that British capital and that of the
present tramway shareholders should be spent in proving
that electric traction will be a success in Adelaide than
that the money of the taxpayers should be risked.
Because it means that about £400,000, to be paid to the
present tramway shareholders, will be free for investment
in building and other local developments, and that in any
case a sum of more than £600,000 British money for con-
struction will be spent in Adelaide chiefly on labor, to
the benefit of the tradesmen and workmen.
It hasn’t even the merit of being a plausible tale.
When Adelaide has to find the money to pay 10
per cent, dividends to foreign shareholders—which
is the same burden on tne community as if it
borrowed the money at the atrocious rate of 10
per cent, and owned the lines itself—the fact that
it is English, not German or French, specu-
lators who thus profit at the grievous cost
of the Adelaide people makes no difference.
There is hardly one extortionate outside enter-
prise, company, syndicate, grab or steal which
ever struck Australia that wasn’t English, and
to hear that this particular one is English is
merely hanging a red danger signal on the line.
Think of the English enterprises this country
knows —the South Australian Co., the Associated
mine, other Kalgoorlie mines with their awful
Stock Exchange records, the W.A. land-grant
railways, the Bottomley Northern Territory cora-
ganies, the Maoriland Midland railway, the New
ruinea Land Steal; and dozens and dozens more !
As to “all improvements coming from private
persons or companies,” this country unfortunately
knows that the worst railways and tramways and
the dirtiest and most rotten rolling stock are
always to be found underprivate management. And
the pretence that electric trams are something new,
untried and risky, and that the co., in proposing
to hold the electric-tramway monopoly of a good-
sized city, is recklessly putting its money into a
dangerous enterprise, is a thinner pretence than
the confidence-man’s rich uncle in Fiji. The co.
isn’t taking any shadow of risk. It is simply try-
ing to seize upon a dead-sure thing and prevent
the people getting it. As for the advantages
of having £400,000 set free for building
purposes, the co. knows well enough that
there are millions available "ow for building
purposes—that Adelaide could find the money
to-morrow to build two more Adelaides—if the
population was thereto occupy the new buildings.
The co. practically sets forth, as one of the bless-
ings of its enterprise, that it will shunt £400,000
of S.A. money out of a profitable enterprise, at a
time when profitable outlets for money are almost
as scarce as hen’s teeth, and set it free to be used
in putting up rows of shops and houses that will
stand empty. Australia is in a fair way to become
another Ireland, ruined by absentee landlords ;
and the proposed English-owned Adelaide tram-
way will be only another absentee landlord added
to the list.
“ Insidious.”
The Victorian Tory party has issued its manifesto
for the coming general election (due on Ist Novem-
ber). It avows its first object to be :
The safeguarding of the Legislative Council against the
insidious attempts being made to cripple or abolish it.
The manifesto is reputedly the work of Walter
Madden, and this—the adjective especially—is
very. Maddenesque. There is nothing at all
“ insidious.” about the attempts which are being
made to cripple the corrupt and degraded House
of Rich Landlords. When a small gang holds its
Parliamentary position only by means of a law
which declares that 98 out of every 100 of its own
constituents are political pariahs, who can’t be
allowed to sit in the House which they create and
which claims to represent them —when it can only
hang on to its legislative billet by disqualifying
almost all its own constituents —nobody requires
to be secret or insidious in his attacks on such an
institution. No sensible man would be insidious;
he would want to get all the public credit that
attaches to being against a House so degraded and
so universally despised. The man who is opposed
to drunkenness, or immorality, or fraud, or murder,
or cockroaches.doesn’t pursue these evils secretly,
or try to put his foot on them with an obscure and
hidden scrunch ; he generally likes to get credit
for being a reformer and to advertise himself as
such. The Vic. Legislative Council is the last
thing that any enemy would pursue insidiously ;
he would as soon try to hide the Victoria Cross
that he had gained. A man might try to conceal
from public view the damning fact that he was in
favor of preserving such a dreadful institution,
and might prop it up insidiously while saying
publicly that he was doing his utmost to pull it
down —but the other thing is impossible. As well
accuse a person of trying insidiously to undermine
snakes.
«.
Tied Houses.
The Sydney beer interest rolled up strongly in
N.S.W. Assembly to oppose the abolition of
tied hotels, and the language of the frothing pew-
ter party was about as foolish as might have been
expected considering the nature of the subject.
The pathetic cry of John See, Dan O’Connor,
Dacey, Young, Waddell and others was that the
measure was “an act of repudiation,” and was a
violent taking away of the brewer money-lender’s
security. So far, they were, to some extent, cor-
rect. The brewer has deliberately violated the
spirit and intention of N.S.W. law, which says
that no man shall hold more than one license ; he
holds dozens and dozens of licenses, and puts
them in the name of his dummies. As a
scheming and underhand law-breaker, or law-
dodger, his agreement certainly should be vio-
lated. But m very many cases there is no
taking away of security. The grasping brewer
fixes up an agreement by which, even when he
gets his loan repaid, and there is no need of
further security for there is nothing to secure,
the publican who once owed him money, and
every other publican who succeeds him as long as
the hotel exists (even if these other publicans
never owed him a copper) shall be bound to buy
from him, and from him only. If the abolition of
this proviso is called a taking away of the brewers’
security, then it is admitted that the agreement
to deal with that particular brewer was meant as
security for the original advance. In that case,
it is an outrageous fraud that the brewer-man
should claim to keep the security after the loan
is repaid. And if it is a separate transaction
and not . a security for the original loan, then
the. law isn’t taking away the brewer’s security.
It is impossible to call the agreement to deal
off a particular brewer a security for the money
advanced by that brewer, and to call repudiation
of the agreement a confiscation of the security,
without branding the brewer as a disgrace-
ful usurer who has fixed up an agreement
authorising him to keep the security after the
advance is repaid—to keep it for ever/in fact. If
any other money-lenders fixed up a form of mort-
gage which specified that certain property was
pledged to secure the repayment of certain ad-
vances and interest thereon, and inserted a clause
that, even after the money was repaid, the usurers
should hang on to the property just the same,
would Parliament have any hesitation about
annulling these agreements ? ' It is hardly likely
that it would. And that is exactly what the
brewer has done.
+
Woman Suffrage.
“ Titus Salt ” writes in reply:—
“ Skotos,” who wastes so much good space on page 31
of last Bulletin (20/10/’00) is a self-contradictory indivi-
dual, mumbling dully over the bones of old, dry plati-
tudes. Nevertheless I want to say something in reply.
Right at the beginning “ Skotos ” says “ Woman has
entered into competition with man and cut down his
living wage so that he can no longer indulire in the luxury
of a wife. “ Skotos ” apparently mistakes this corner of
the world for all the world. lii the early days here, as in
all new countries, there were few women, and conse-
quently few women workers. Now there are more
women, and consequently more women workers. But
taking the world all over, there is no evidence that women
workers have greatly increased. In the United Kingdom,
according to Muliiall (“ Dictionary of Statistics,” page
424), in 1851, out of every 1000 workers 302 were women.
In 1861, 309 out of every 1000 were women. In 3871, 318
out of every 1000 workers were women. And in 1881, out
of every 1000 workers only 306 were women. And yet
formed a larger proportion of the population in
1881 than at any previous date. Unfortunately there are
no similar statistics for other countries or for iater dates.
But these are suggestive.
Woman has entered some new occupations and, to a
great extent, left some old ones. That is about all.
The two charges that the stereotyped “ Skotos ” kind
of man brings against woman are these :
(1) That she is a chronic husband-hunter, always looking
for a man to support her (so that she won’t need to work
m a shop or office for a living).
(2) That she works (apparently out of pure cussedness
and because she prefers it to marriage). These two
accusations won’t hang together.
Woman hasn’t cut down man’s wages by her competi-
tion so that he can’t marry. Man’s wages haven’t been
cut down in the aggregate at all—which is a good reason
for assuming that it isn’t woman who cut them. They
have certainly gone down of late in Australasia (which
“ Skotos ” mistakes for the whole world), because they
were run up for a very few years to an artificial and im-
possible height by gold booms, land-sale booms and
borrowed-money booms. But taking the world all over
they are moving slowly (very slowly) upwards. Even
here wages have gone up in this sense that they are
higher now that the gold and land and borrowing booms
are largely over, than they were before these booms
began ; 4s. a day, without board or lodging, is no longer
regarded as a good carpenter, bricklayer, blacksmith or
mason’s wage, though it was in 1833.
Woman doesn’t work for a living because, in the main,
she likes working, and therefore voluntarily, by her com-
petition, reduce man's chances of employment so that he
can’t marry. She w'orks for a living because, in many
cases, she can’t find a husband. Does “Skotos”
know of any large number of men who can’t find
wives? Or of any large number of women who won’t
marry—if they get anything like a decent chance,
and who prefer to labor in somebody’s emporium ? Isn’t
the woman who is hunting for a husband the standing
joke of all the small dull wits of the day?
When a woman can’t get a husband to support her, and
her father or brothers won’t support her, she must work,
or starve, or be a prostitute. And it isn’t possible for all
women to be prostitutes. “ Skotos ” complains of women
working ; will he say what they ought to do instead of
working?
And “Skotos” says women shouldn’t have a vote
because they are honorary members of the community.
Also he curses them because they work for their living.
A person who works for her own living isn’t honorary.
“Skotos” says men don’t marry because they can’t
afford it. Well, man’s wages are higher on the world’s
average now than they were in past years when he did
marry much more than he does at present. So the infer-
ence is that he can’t marry so much now because he
spends more on drink and amusements and clothes and
luxuries. I don’t say that he buys too much of these
now. I only say that he buys more than he can afford as
the world is, and as man-government has made it.
He holds that woman shouldn’t have a vote because her
inability to know how to carry her own purse safely
proves that she is unfit to deal with financial questions.
And man, who so cheerfully put his money into all
the cronk banks of the boom days, knows these things
such a lot better.
The man who writes in that strain should be a good and
successful financier himself—a man who has managed to
hang on to his substance and not dribbled it away in luck-
less speculations—and as a rule he isn’t.
As for saying that a woman vote is a step towards
absolute sexual license, and that the dirty male writers
were those who had feminine minds, that is mere
assertion, and the assertion of a very illogical “ Skotos ”
at best. There are men who think that statements of
that kind are an evidence of strength and virility.
Further, the same “Skotos” holds that because most
members of Parliament are married, and therefore may
perhaps be held to represent the interests of their own
wives and daughters (who probably don’t require to work
and are unaffected by all the grievances of the working
woman), therefore the unmarried working woman should
be satisfied. A few leisured and mostly well-off females are
represented, to some extent, through their politician hus-
bands ; why should the feminine toiler ask for more?
What business has the unmarried working woman to
have grievances if the M.P.’s wife has none? And in the
same way, why should “Skotos” want a vote? The
affluent Mat Harris has one, and so has Fairfax, of the
S. M. 1 1 krali). . Can’t they be trusted to look after his
interests ? It is as much to the interest of Mr. Mat Harris
to look after the interests of all men as it is his interest,
through his wife, to look after those of all women.
♦
It is not often that a change comes so suddenly
over the spirit of the dream. According to last
Saturday’s cable intelligence from Maoriland, the
Parliament at Wellington has unanimously agreed
to the appointment of a Royal Commission to re-
port on the desirability or otherwise of Maoriland
entering the Commonwealth. The commission
was proposed by Premier Seddon himself, and
that one-time anti-Federalist apparently threw his
previous opinions overboard, and now admits that
he finds his Provincial attitude was based on an
insufficient knowledge of the subject. Seddon
isn’t directly Federal as yet, but from being anti-
Federal he has become neutral. And many
members of the House, in agreeing that the Com-
mission should be appointed, also expressed the
opinion that _it should have been done long ago.
So there is still hope that Maoriland will be the
third great State of the Commonwealth, and will
add its valuable assistance to the democratic
element in the Federal Legislature. It would be
a thousand pities if the most enlightened and
most consistently progressive of the Australian
was the one which stood out. The Maoriland vote
is the one that can be least spared in an Austra-
lasian Parliament.
4.
“Locust ” writes on municipal reform in Sydney :
After ten years’ battling we have got a decent munici-
pal franchise up to the English county standard—quite
good enough to elect a first-rate municipal reform partv
upon. It seems like a dream, but it is a solid reality.
Now watch for the same old crowd to come along and
endeavor to exploit the opportunities which the
“ battlers ” have made possible. About two years ago a
party was formed with a flourish calling itself the Citizens’
Reform party—or some name with “reform” in it. I
regret to say it was bogus. It put up candidates to
oppose all the retiring aldermen who had been
doing really useful work in the City Council (I
can give day, date and names if necessary). Its
idea of reform was to prevent an increase of
municipal rating. It succeeded, and the plague found a
favourable soil. Street-cleaning languished and repairing
died to the slow music of the Town Hall organ. A reign
of terror was set up amongst the employes of the Town
Hall in the name of municipal “ reform, - ” and sweating,
spying and sneaking were introduced. At the time the
city rate was unprecedentedly low, something about is.
4d. in the £. At next election the “Reform” party
turned up smiling, and again opposed men who had done
and were doing useful work, and supported all the in-
capable and incompetent municipal incubi who have mis-
managed the Council’s affairs ever since the flood. It
aided and abetted “Mat” Harris, the most typical
alderman the world has ever seen, who knows nothing,
learns nothing, forgets nothing, and does nothing. It
opposed John Norton in the days when he was doing
really useful work—which days are unfortunatelv gone.
It feebly adopted Graham and T. Hughes because it
couldn’t help itself ; but sent in others to anhul their in-
telligence and municipal statesmanship. It opposed
Manning, who at least helped to make municipal electric
lighting possible, though he couldn’t wear down City
Council stupidity and Conservatism, with vested interests
pushing from behind. Now watch for the bogus Reform
party again. The time is ripe for it to be jerked through
the trap-door from the cellar where it hides during the
year, only to emerge to nominate bogus “ Reform ” candi-
dates. What is wanted is a real Reform party, and I
recommend as leaders of it the two men mentioned above
—Graham and Hughes. I have been in the row ’
ever since it started and know the men who
have been progressive, those who have been retrogressive
and those whose limited intelligence has never risen
above the kerb-and-gutter and widows’-cart stage. And I
will support a municipal party led by Graham on a pro-
fressive programme which will include a scheme to put
ydney on a municipal level with any thirty-second-rate
British or continental town, and convert this delightful
city from a whited sepulchre to a great pleasure resort
for the world—a great city and a great watering-place
combined—London and Brighton, Vienna and Venice,
Berlin and Blankenberg in one. The election of such a
party should be the best way of locally celebrating the
inauguration of the Commonwealth.
Lond. Times’ S’African correspondent (weekly
edition, Sept. 14) deals with some uncabled acci-
dents of the Boer war. This is part of his ac-
count of the “Australian Bushmen’s” little affair
near Magato’s Nek, on 22nd July :
It was Father Hartmann, the R.C. pastor to the forces,
who first discovered the misfortune which had overtaken
Col. Airey’s patrol. In riding towards the sound of firing
he first came upon dead horses in great numbers ; he then
saw the Australians huddled together in a hut, from the
roof of which a white flag, composed of five handkerchiefs
knotted together, was flying. Finding his party.com-
pletely surrounded, Col. Airey, after consulting with his
second-in-command, had decided to surrender. A message
was accordingly sent to some men, who, under Major
Vial, had become separated from the patrol, but that
officer flatly refused to lay down his arms. In the mean-
time the Boers made no attempt to take prisoners ;
whether they recoiled from the awkward task of disarm-
ing the Australians while a portion of the force was still
showing fight, or whether the handkerchiefs doing duty
as a white flag were too soiled for their color to be recog-
nised, will never be known, for, before the enemy could
make up his mind to consummate his success, the Pro-
tectorate Regiment, under Capt. Fitz Clarence, had gal-
loped to the spot. Capt. Fitz Clarence, taking in the
situation at a glance, after ordering a detachment to move
to the southward, so menacing the rear of the Boers,
opened fire upon their flanks, causing them to retire at
once.
The sun went down that night upon the forgotten five
handkerchiefs, and the first glance of dawn embraced this
symbol of surrender. Father Hartmann, for whose valor
throughout the campaign with the Rhodesian Field Force
no praise can be too high, was the first to observe that
the shameful flag was still fluttering aloft. With the in-
tention of tearing it down, he climbed to the roof, only
to be beaten in the race for a memento by the native ser-
vant of an officer.
Our loss in this unfortunate affair was one officer and
five men killed and 19 wounded, while quite 200 horses
were killed or captured. The Boers left two dead upon
field.
The story of a bayonet charge in connection with the
surrender, which went the round of camp and which even
appeared in the newspapers, was the product of some
imaginative brain ; bayonets appear to serve as pinions
on which imagination soars, for in this campaign they
have led to many extraordinary fictions; a not less re-
markable instance than the above being the night sortie
from Mafeking, in which no single Boer was killed, though
the most blood-curdling details of hand-to-hand slaughter
were vouched for by the garrison.
One more for General Barnum-Powell. Send
back those chargers !
♦
Already ! From an English mining paper’s
Rand (Transvaal) correspondent:—
The Johannesburg mines which have reached the pro-
ducing stage will be able to start crushing as soon as a
moderate number of workers come hack. Development
work will, however, not proceed for some months ....
In one mine there is 1300 ft. of water. The labor which
might now be employed upon the producing mines is for
the time being diverted from them, and used upon the
construction of the new Springs, Rand, and Vereeniging
Railway. Eleven thousand Kaffirs are at the present
moment employed on the new railway, and it is thought
only fair to give the producing mines the first available
supplies of labor. Colonel Gironard, Director of Rail-
ways, has suggested that the various mining bodies
should combine to spend £500,000 upon rolling stock for
the purpose of running the new railway. The mines
which have adopted this suggestion intend to place
orders at once for 300 trucks and 15 engines to be
delivered by June. . . . The Imperial Government is at
present paying native workmen at the rate of 30s. per
month. The mines are paying them the same, as com-
pared with 60s. per month before the vvar.
And yet the war was “in the interests of the un-
fortunate colored population ” too !
♦
William Sippel writes from Smithfield, Orange
River Colony, to The Bulletin under date
3/9/’OO: —
Dear Bulletin. —Can 3’ - ou do anything to prevent the
present mad rush of Australians to S’Africa ? For several
months to come it will be quite impossible to proceed to
Johannesburg with any degree of safety ; and it is equally
impossible to obtain work at the coastal towns with the
object of tiding over the inevitable wait. All these towns
are crowded with Johannesburg - refugees who have vainly
been trying to get work ever since they made their
exodus. Many are living in destitution, some in tents on
the beach, others indifferently supported by various
relief committees, who find their task a difficult one now
the first glamour of war has worn off a little. Even
supposing the war were to be ended to-morrow, several
months must elapse ere any real business will be
transacted. Sir Alfred Milner., in his reply to the Uit-
lander Committee, stated that the refugees would not be
allowed to return until the military authorities con-
sidered it safe, and he further added : “ There can be no
real business, to say nothing of safety and comfort, until
military operations are sufficiently advanced to allow the
return of a large portion of the army.” If that is the
case many months may still elapse before the general
public is allowed to proceed to the Golden City, for it is
utterly absurd to suppose that the bulk of the army will
be withdrawn immediately after the conclusion of hostili-
ties. And even admitting that everything is going to
progress as well as the most sanguine Australians antici-
pate, they will still find themselves at a disadvantage, as
the majority of the refugees will return to their old
“ billets ” which are being kept open for them. As to
any “ plums ” which may be open, these will, in all pro-
bability, be alloted to those who have been on active ser-
vice. If Australians persist in coming over with the ob-
ject of being on the spot, or as near to it as possible, it is
to be hoped that they will come provided with sufficient
funds to tide them over at least six months, and will re-
member that living is abnormally high at the coastal
towns at present. Let me reiterate my former remark :
Work is not to be had at the coastal towns, and a large
wail seems inevitable just now.
After all the war-wliooping, the British Tory
party-in-power has only gained two seats at the
elections. Last House of Commons held 400
Tories, 189 Liberals, 81 Irish Nationalists and
Parnellites. This one has 401 Tories, 186 Liberals,
83 Nationalists and Parnellites. Tories (the war
party) polled altogether 2,360,852 votes, gaining
93,904; Liberals (said to be largely the anti-war
party) polled 2,055,951, gaining 36,196. Since 1895,
in London, one Liberal voter in every 21 has turned
Tory (says the cable); in the remainder of Eng-
land one Liberal in 80 has turned Tory. In
Wales, on the other hand, one Tory voter in 13
has turned Liberal. It is still Wales where the
pride of nationality, the pride of language,
the instinct of liberty, lingers longest. Taking the
figures in S.M. Herald cables, the Tories, with
only 53 per cent, of the votes, gain 68 per cent, of
the seats which those votes represent; the Liberals,
with 47 per cent, of the votes, get only 32 per cent,
of the seats. While the average Tory member re-
presents only 5887 voters, the average Liberal
member represents 11,053 voters! If the new
House of Commons gave every vote weight, and
thus truly represented the people, there would be
311 Tory members to 276 Liberals; and the
combined Liberals and Irish would outnumber the
Tories by 48 ! ! In a word, the House of Commons
no more represents the manhood of Great Britain
than the House of 48 Rich Landlords represents
the Victorian people.
The most noticeable feature about the
Vic. elections, so far, is the inordinate number of
candidates for seats and the surprising unanimity
of said candidates’ opinions. They all call them-
selves Liberals, and support the most democratic
proposals of Turner and M‘Shiels, but the one
test for the electors will be: Ho they support a
popularly-elected Convention to draft a new State
Constitution ? Do they trust the people ? And
those who don’t should be crossed-out every time


BAKER
& ROUSE
PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George Street, SYDNEY;
59 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
023 f «-/GS
aoiH<i
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Nora Our Addresses :
A
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Th e Oldest and Largest International Life Cmnpany.
Has 40,000 more Policyholders than the next Largest Company; and more Insurance in force.
Chief Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
HELIDON SPA WATER.
A NATURAL
Si
n
*22
THE
w w LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, T Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quote# for Large Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE, CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Managhr. Agents for Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEES.
Her Majesty’s “I.nTosca."
Criterion •* Robbery Under Arms."
Tivoli .. Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “The Rose of Persia.”
Theatre Royal “ The World’s Verdict."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Exhibition Building. .. Fitzgerald’s Circus.
Certain ghostly memories of poor Scot
Inglis and of Mrs. Potter in the mill-wheel hat
haunted the revival of “La Tosca” at Her
Majesty’s last Saturday. Sydney has not yet
quite forgotten its transient, vanished idol as
Mario Cavaradossi, and after seeing Henry
Plimmer in the long-tailed satin coat and the
lofty boots of that Roman artist, it will forget
him all the less. Plimmer certainly struggled
with a monumental cold on the opening night,
and could only bark the part; if the audience had
all cleared its throat at once it might perhaps
have helped him, but his own throat was more
than one man could clear by himself. But, in
addition to his cold, Plimmer is hardly the man
to look like Mario Cavaradossi. He is big and
prosperous of aspect, and he does the character in
a somewhat wooden frame of mind, and casts no
new lights on him, and not many old lights, and
makes him too like many other previous Plimmers.
As Henrio Plimmeradossi he is all right, but
as Mario Cavaradossi he isn’t. Miss Nance
O’Neil, on the other hand, is a pleasing sur-
prise a good part of the time. She gets her
violent emotions down and sits on them, and
in La Tosca’s gentler moments she plays with a
quiet intensity that is hardly expected of her. In
tne scene where her Mario is tortured in the
next room she certainly lets herself go, and her
strident voice blows the mortgage off the building,
and her shouts of “My Gawd ! ” are not art, but
only calculated to endanger the premises; yet
most of the time she is really a success. The scene
where she urges the corpse not to get up till the
soldiers are gone, and, later, when the soldiers are
gone and she urges the corpse to get up, shows
Miss O’Neil at her best —and she really has a best,
though she hasn’t always got it about her. King-
ston’s Scarpia is, however, the finest thing in the
drama, with Carne’s Angelotti a good second.
Scarpia can be summed up as a perfect gentleman
of the worst description, and Kingston fills the
bill as such. Even Kyrle Bellew didn’t play the
Baron much better —perhaps not any better.
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill strikes the eye favorably as
the Queen of Naples, and George Becks fills a very
small part in a way that makes the audience wish
it was larger. Some other small parts are satis-
factorily tenanted by Frank Hawthorne, Barton
Hill, and Misses Josephine Thynne and Roxy
Barton.
* * * •
“Tosca"is a memorable play, and what-
ever groanings of the spirit may be contained in
the above par the rendering of it given at Her
Majesty’s is a memorable snow. It is the only
play which the writer remembers at the moment
in which a lady speaks at all severely to a dead
body for not getting up. If it were of English
origin Cavaradossi would be a villain and Tosca
a erushed penitent with a baby and a wild demand
that the artist should make her an honest Roman;
but being of French origin Tosca talks quite
unaffectedly of “our liaison,” and her father
doesn’t throw her out because she has none, and
she doesn’t want to be made honest, and doesn’t
really know that she is dishonest, and there is no
baby and no repentance. And nobody expects
any. What would shock a British audience within
an inch of its life if the author’s name was Smith,
doesn’t shock it at all when his name is Sardou.
French literature is a reposeful place where the
snufflebuster rests from his snuffle, and his con-
science has a day off. On Saturday night an
event, which this writer has long expected to
occur to somebody, really happened ; when Miss
O’Neil was kneeling in an anguished moment her
low-cut dress slid off her left shoulder at last.
Still, it only slid off in French, and she unob-
trusively hitched it on again in the same language.
In English the episode might have attracted much
attention.
** * *
When Bland Holt staged the “War of
Wealth ” last Saturday it was announced as a
fragmentary event intended merely to fill in the
last week of the season. If Bland adheres to his
purpose, therefore, Sydney Royal will be tenant-
less long before this paper again comes out to
fulfil its weekly mission of saving the country.
The “ War ” is written by Sutton Vane and some-
body named Dazey or Hazy, or language to that
effect.. It is a wild improbability located in Syd-
ney. The interest centres round a bank, and
right at the beginning the bad director is engaged
to the night-watchman’s daughter, and the good
boss director is madly in love with her, and
wants to be engaged to her also. This run on the
affections of the night-watchman’s daughter is
unusual to begin with. And the humility of the
bank manager, who won’t propose to a girl from
Goulburn because he is keenly sensible of the
lowliness of his lot, is also incongruous; the boss
manager of a big bank isn’t generally op-
pressed by the feeling that he is a despised
person in a poor and damaged and trodden-on
station in life. The run on the Antipodean Bank
is an exciting incident, and the kind of bank run
that is commonly read about ; but the writer has
personally witnessed the closing of five banks, and
the run wasn’t at all like that. In the days
before a bank closed in ’93 there was rather a
great silence round the premises—a sorrowful
absence of the depositor who usually put money
in—and the cash leaked away swiftly and sur-
reptitiously by the back door through a process
of exchange instead of being howled for by a
congeries of wild beasts at the front counter.
Perhaps in some countries a run on a bank is con-
ducted in the fashion shown on the Royal
stage, the customers bellowing personally by
mouth in the office; but here in ’93 the
institutions dropped very silently, like ringbarked
spectres falling in a dream. And the Australian
director who arranges to violently rob his own
Australian dramatic bank by night, in collusion
with the watchman, seems unreal. The Aus-
tralian directors we used to know weren’t violent
like that. They only winked at each other once a
year or so—and the money went silently, like the
feet of one in arrears who shifts his goods after
sunset. Still as this is the end of the present
Bland Holt season in Sydney, and everybody is
sorry to part with Bland and his excellent com-
pany, and his highly-commendable explosions, it
is hardly a time to be too critical, so nothing fur-
ther will be said.
** * *
The rather new version of “ East Lynne,"
now drawing tears at Sydney Criterion, brings
into prominence the gouty member of the aris-
tocracy who pawns his daughter’s jewels and
leaves her destitute, with the result that she is
obliged to marry into a curious family, where the
servants habitually argue in the drawing-room,
and members of the household come downstairs
again after bedtime, and converse in that same
apartment in their nightgear. Other eccentrici-
ties are to be noted, besides the fact that whenever
anyone wants a servant he merely stands in the
middle of the room and says “Joyce,” whereupon
the slavey comes in without a moment’s delay.
This implies that either the kitchen is next door
to the drawing-room, or the menials are kept per-
petually glued to the outside of that latter
apartment to be close at hand when needed.
Lady Isabel still talks too much of her
sins—what her second sin is no one knows,
unless it be that, when she returns to
nurse little Willy back to health, she begins by
taking that small possessor of the “korff”into
the garden when it is snowing, it being a tradition
in stageland that the erring wife must always
return when the snow is falling. The reason
why erring wives seldom return in Australia
may be that there is no snow for them
to return in. Alfred Rolfe does not come
up to one’s ideal of the cold, good man who was
so inexpressibly shocked at Lady Isabel’s breach
of etiquette in dying in his respectable though
eccentric mansion, but as the villain with the
shiny boots and the black hat, Benson North
comes up to requirements. Lawyer John Dill is
also as impossible as he ought to be.
** * *
The Bulletin sent one of its casual poets
to look at Sydney Tivoli show this week, and he
evidently got mashed on the new arrival, Lottie
Collins. This is the tamest part of the wild,
whirling document he handed in—about two
columns of fleshly enthusiasm being omitted :
Lottie Collins, late of London, billed as “ absolutely
the most Expensive Engagement ever made for Austral-
asia,” is a feminine edition of Tom Costello, with two
hundred per cent, more dash and go than characterised
that clever and versatile comedian. She whirls on to the
stage in a riding-habit and hat of brilliant scarlet, as the
Girl on the Ran-dan-dan—the flash, fast society girl, in-
toxicated with her own vitality and many strong tonics.
She almost whispers her song, and the pace grows swifter
and the scarlet riding-habit flicks with increasing devilry
till the sudden explosion of utter abandon —a dance of
jagged angles, in which the red skirt flashes about with
pointed jerks reminiscent of forked lightning, and she
ricochets off the stage amid thunders of applause. Back
again, in short skirts of purple plush glimmering with
spangles, the brazen, hard-faced wife of the coal-man.
The coal-man never washes his face and is popularly
supposed to be a coon ; but he’s a true Londoner, and,
though his pals seem to doubt him, his wife knows his
face to be the blackest part about him. Then, as the
packed, sweltering house composes itself, a plump, pleas-
ing widow glides on. She trails her weeds across the
brilliant garden scene, and weeps softly for the two de-
parted dears, and then, with a world of desire in her
glance, whispers of a third. The anticipation overcomes
her A sudden stoop, the black skirt is whirled up, and,
as the widow spins round the stage, there is a lurid glare
from the glowing underskirts of ruby-colored liberty silk.
It, in contradistinction to the first, is a dance of graceful
curves. A vision of flame-colored silken skirts, and above,
in the centre of the circling lingerie, a widow’s face with
bright brown hair beneath her weeds. It is the World,
the Flesh and a very strong Devil. But it is swift, and
clever, and brilliant. She goes through it all with a whirl
and a dash that annihilates time and when she finally
disappears as Gabriella Brown she seems to have been
there but a moment. Lottie is going to boom, and beside
her brilliant performance the doubtful habit of Billee
Barlow in asking strange questions of the audience looks
mean and tawdry.
** * •
“Constance Clyde” has some passing
thoughts about “ Macbeth ”:
“ Macbeth,” as played by Dampier and 00. every Friday
night, is a drama wherein numerous kilted gentlemen
have pearly knees and rosy arms that do not seem quite
in keeping with a country that is mostly blasted heath,
and a climate that consists principally of thunderstorm.
There are six acts in “ Macbeth,” and in five of them the
rumbling of the thunder is heard around the castle moat
and the waste lands where the witches hold their out-of-
door cooking class. “ Macbeth ”is the sad story of a man
who was naturally so conscientious that he had remorse
for his crime even before he committed it, and later when
he lays his Scotch head on Lady M’s. shoulder and sobs
because he finds he will be compelled to commit more
crimes, there is not a soul in the theatre but feels that he
has had hard luck. The downfall of Macbeth was
occasioned by want of logic. He hears the three
witches prophesy that he will be king, so murders
Duncan to bring this about. One could under-
stand Macbeth doing this if the witches hadn’t
prophesied, but, seeing that they had taken up the con-
tract, he might have left it to them to do it their own
way, and saved himself a good deal of mental anxiety.
His failure to act logically is peculiar in a man clever
enough to know some hundreds of years before the rest
of the human race that only one-half the world is dark
at once (“ Now o’er the one-half world nature seems
dead ”). Lily Dampier acts a good deal better than usual
as the tragic dame, who flourished in the days when the
women dressed mostly in long pinafores. It quite pos-
sible that the ordinary Dampiers may d )b up to the
height of their Alfred in time, but it wouid take such a
deal of time that Alfred is seriously advised not to think
of it, but to let parental affection slide.
* * * *
Some of the Melb. newspaper criticisms
of “II Trovatore” made no reference to the
lowered pitch of the orchestra. Even the Age
expert, whose notice was thoughtful and explana-
tory, spoke of it as a “minor point,” and said,
“ Concerning matters of musical pitch the average
man knows little and cares less, and the lowering
by a semitone of that hitherto in use here will not
excite much controversy save in the most select
circles.” But the effect of the new pitch will be
felt by the average man, though he may not know
what to attribute it to. There is a loss of bright-
ness in the music not less noticeable than the gain
of mellowness as compared with former produc-
tions of the same operas. The semi tone conces-
sion, if it is only a semi-tone, enables voices of
moderate tone to be successfully substituted for
the big, strong voices of the old Italian opera
times, and this reduction in sound will
be a disappointment to many people. It
robs grand opera of some of its original
majesty, no doubt about that. The new
pitch means new instruments. George Musgrove
brought out with him two complete sets of wood,
wind, and brass goods for the orchestra; also, a
set of military band instruments for use on the
stage, all made to the “philharmonic 1896” pitch
—a very modern innovation. He is going to pro-
duce his comic operas in the lowered tone —an
experiment never yet attempted in England, any-
how. So the public of Melbourne will be the first
public in the world to get competitive perform-
ances of comic opera in two pitches. “The Rose
of Persia” at Her Majesty’s and “The Scarlet
Feather ” at the Princess’s will be a lesson in tone
comparison, and a fair test of popular taste as
regards the treatment of light music.
* * * *
The opera season at Melbourne Princess’s
has given splendid business returns for the first
week, anyhow. Manager Musgrove made no
mistake in assuming that serious opera can always
get Melbourne by the ear if it is known to be
expensively staged, with a liberal orchestra and a
new, well-boomed co. Old operas, produced in
an imposing way for a few nights, are as attractive
as unfamiliar works, or even more so. They
invite comparison, and the average musical-
minded person is a critic who finds a measure of
satisfaction in being disappointed, if the shock is
not too severe. Some of the principals making
their first appearance in “Faust” last week
were disappointing enough to raise the
question whether their voices had gone
wrong en route from Europe, but the novelty
of a nice, young, fragile Marguerite, in place
of the traditional plump Italian matron,
was a partly compensating circumstance.
In all other respects, bar the orchestra, the present
“ Faust ” seems more or less feeble by comparison
with memories of the performance that Signora
Cuttica and Co. gave at the same theatre a few
years back. There were exciting voices those
times. The plump Signora sang divinely, and
when she and ner chubby little husband duetted—
and the husband didn’t happen to be very hoarse—
they could thrill their moderate-sized audiences.
Also, it was easy to grow enthusiastic over the
singing of the Devil and Valentine in the “ Faust”
aforesaid. Thus far, Melbourne has not been
absolutely carried away by any of the Musgrove
Co. voices, though the brightest of them are up to
operatic standard.
* *. * *
“Faust” introduced four new people.
The petite soprano, Miss Lilian Coomber, is an
interesting Marguerite, as far as she goes. Her
warble is fresh and pure, and she wears her air
of confiding innocence easily and naturally. Miss
Coomber may be labelled Al, small size. First
impressions of the Russian tenor in the name
part are unkind, with a capital U. Louis
Arens is strong nowhere. He doesn’t look
or act like an .irresistible pupil of the
gentleman in red. He sometimes sings
flat, and when he gets anywhere near a top note
he breaks into a puny falsetto. His attempt at
the great tenor solo in the garden scene is such a
Eoor example of “ singing for safety ” that Mel-
oume wonders what the daily papers would have
said about Louis Arens as Faust if he had been a
local amateur. Charles Tilbury, the very satisfac-
tory basso who sang in “II Trovatore,” is a not
too successful Mephistopheles. His acting shows a
good sense of humor, but a comic Mephistopheles
is not so effective as a tragic, picturesque Devil.
Tilbury puts on the face of a demon contor-
tionist in a pantomime, and the stage story suffers
considerably thereby. The heaven which George
Musgrove has prepared for Marguerite is a beauti-
ful bunch of clouds, with some delightful girls
posed upon the atmosphere, also the slanting hell
provided for Faust blows off steam in the best
possible manner, but the non-devilishness of
Tilbury’s personality robs these other worlds of
their spiritual force. The steaming slit in the
floor, and the nicely-assorted angels who call for
Marguerite would strike more powerfully upon
one’s soul if Mephisto appeared to believe in his
own wickedness. The Devil is an out-
and-out scoundrel in the Faust story. He under-
takes to give a new lease of life and any amount
of fun to an old man. The rejuvenated person
has no sooner started to enjoy himself than he
feels sorry for it, and after about 12 months of
dejection he sinks through the floor, which is not
according to contract. Lawrence Mooney, the
other baritone of the co., is a short, square, intelli-
gent Valentine, with a full, fruity voice—but the
part has been better filled in Melbourne. Miss
Crighton, as Martha, looks and sounds promising,
and Miss Mary Lynne’s Siebel has no attractions
to speak of.
* • • •
The two operas will be alternated until
Friday. On Monday the three principals from
the other co.—Salvi, Agnes Jansen and Cecilia
Lorraine—appeared in “Faust,” and during the
week Madanie Slapoffski will be a new prima-
donna on two occasions. Next Saturday (27th)
“ Carmen.”
** * *
Williamson’s singing company returns to
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) on Saturday for the purpose
of presenting “The Rose of Persia”'to a well-dis-
posed city. The “Rose” is a frankly frivolous
opera, and it brings a good character to its new
situation, and the situation has been greatly im-
proved by J.C. W. since the last time anybody paid
for admission. So “ The Rose of Persia” at Her
Majesty’s is one of those important events which
start a career of prosperity with a, bang. The bang
is due upon the 27th, as aforesaid.
** * *
At the Bijou, the cheerful Haytors are re-
appearing for a few nights in their old and much-
respected pantomime concerning a cannibal king on
a strange island. Billee Barlow, who has changed
two of ner songs, is the same taut and trim Billee
as before; also, Jalvan juggles, and the cake-
walkers compete for an apocryphal cake, and
Harry Shine illuminates the programme some-
what, and the demand for seats exceeds the supply
on Saturday night.
** * *
Arrangements at Melb. Royal have been
upset by the illness of J. F. Sheridan. ' The
Bulletin is sorry to hear that chirpy comedian
was out of “The New East Lynne” last week,
his part being taken by Frank Crossley, who kept
it going for all it was worth. Nobody supposed
the absentee to be sick of anything more serious
than the awful drama he had undertaken to shove
along, but on Saturday it appeared that he wasn’t
equal to a revival of “ Widow O’Brien.” At time
of writing “ The New East Lynne ” was not yet
off the premises, though it looked anxious to be
removed as soon as possible. One more new and
original melodrama (“The World’s Verdict,”
due on Wednesday) is to be fixed up in
a hurry by Manager Anderson, and after that
Bland Holt is to resume possession of the Royal,
if The Bulletin remembers rightly. Bland
Holt’s arrivals and departures are announced so
many months in advance that one gets hazy as
to the date of the next time he will fall due.
* *
Fitzgerald’s Cirous will unfold its' tents at
Melb. Exhibition Oval next Saturday night (27th).
The circus will include all the people who com-
mended themselves to the notice of The Bulletin
in Sydney; furthermore, it will re-introduce that
charming artist, Madame Antonio, the Roumanian
lady who falls backwards from a giddy height and
turns two poetical somersaults in her eagerness to
reach the net. The reliable Elephant-cum-Lion,
together with the Tiger on horseback, is also on
the bill. The Fitzgerald show, it seems, is
limited to a three weeks’ season, and it will get
one week’s start of Wirth’s Circus, which is to be
pitched in Flinders-street on Derby night.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Victorian Government has wisely decided
to issue its Credit Foncier (State Land Bank) bonds bear-
ing 3£ per cent, interest instead of 3 per cent, as hereto-
fore, and to fix them for four years certain. On these
terms they should be taken up free]}'. The public cared
very little for the short-dated 3 per cent. Credit Foncier
securities—the interest was too meagre. They were
mostly taken up by the Savings Bank. For the year end-
ing June, 1899, the expenses of the Vic. State Land Bank
were only 13s. 7d. percent., so even then it could have
borrowed at 3^'per cent, and lent at the present rate of
41 per cent., with a margin of 6s. sd. per cent. For the
year ended June, 1900, it will probably be found that the
expenses are only 10s. per cent, or less, for working charges
have been steadily decreasing, and at that rate there will
be a very handsome margin of safety.
■ * * *
The Westralian estimates have turned up, and
are about as unpromising as those of some other States.
The actual prospects of the seven provinces now show up
as follows, putting the accounts as nearly as possible' on
a fair basis. That is to say, Victoria has been debited
with the amount of this year’s expenditure which it is
proposed to pay out of last year’s surplus. In the case of
Maoriland, the sum which it is proposed to raise as
revenue by the seizure of sinking funds has not been in-
cluded. And in the case of N.S.W. the £218,000 which
Premier Lyne expects to receive this year from rents of
the resumed area of Sydney, and which ought to be set
aside to cover this year’s interest on the money to be paid
for these properties, has been cht out, seeing that Lvne
has apparently made no allowance in his expenditure
accounts for charging this year with any of that interest.
The figures differ from those given in a,recent issue,
merely because the writer had not then been able to see
Lyne’s estimates, and didn’t know of this remarkable
device :
Estimated Estimated Estimated
Revenue, Expenditure,. Surplus,
1900-1901. 1900-1901. 1900-1901.
Tasmania .. £1,040,107 £926,364 £113,743
Queensland .. 4,594,370 4,571,968 22,402
Westralia .. 2,912,371 2,904,475 7,896
S. Australia .. 2,869,377 2,867,857 1,520
Estimated
Deficit,
1900-1901.
Maoriland .. 5,410,200 5,441,523 31,323
Victoria .. 7,482,350 7,563,263 80,913
N.S. Wales .. 10,142,899 10,357,420 214,521
The expenditure of Queensland shows an increase of
£140,692, as compared with the September quarter of
1899, and a revenue decrease of £43,033 makes things
£183,725 worse than at this time last year. And the


ħ
a pe £ oTftEDTo6EI *f!
w<r
9
I>gINKIT
FORHEALItf,
ANDYOU DERIVE
PIE^SUI^
THE
GREAT
AUSTRALIAN
NATURAL
MINERAL
WATER.
DRINK IT
fORPICASUU
AMD You Acquire (
Health
zetz-spa Proprietary limited
SYDNEY.
Pcbaeee#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE.
h
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
& 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. & Co,, Ltd,, Liverpool. Agents; M, Rutty & Co,, Sydney. 1
Mr. Edward J. Rigby, Managing Director of
the Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, has
sailed for London per R.M.S. China, on business con-
nected with his company. Mr. Rigby expects to be away
about six months, and will return via America. Prior to
his departure he was entertained, by the officers of the
company, at the Castlemaine Hotel, South Melbourne,
and presented with a handsome travelling bag as a mark
of the respect and esteem in which he was held.*
♦ * • *
The Local Government Journal, London,
July 28th, 1900, writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assur
ance Society : “ Those who have read our previous articles
on this excellent life insurance institution will not ne d
.to know much more than the fact that we confirm each
previously expressed item of praise of its management.*
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buena Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George -
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebratu 1
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary/s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* * » *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
*•* * '
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option ”
Melbourne.* • ’
* * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at .his Footscrav
works, and he is nowin a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twentv
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-makin<'
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, and all sorts of iron-work *
* * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
W. L. Baillieu, of Melb., to prove to the local
Herald what a high place Broken Hill holds as a field for
investment, shows that the B.H. co’s have paid£B,93s 043
in divs., though the present market value of their
shares is only £5,694,750. But the Broken Hill that paid
three-quarters of those divs. no more exists than Julius
■Caesar does. Oxidised ores were wholly responsible for
the huge profits made down to five or six years ago •
what has been paid since out of the sulphides, which now
alone remain, does not show for the last two years more
than 9 per cent, per annum on present rates. And for a
mining spec, that can’t be called extravagant profit
Certainly most of the time B.H. shares have not been
worth as much in the market as they are to-day t so that
most holders have probably got more than 9 per cent.
* * * *
Melbourne Table Talk alludes to “the remote
possibility ” of the Melbourne trams being taken over hi
the municipalities in 1916. Well, the co. agreed to hand
them over in that year. Is somebody already la vim-
schemes for breaking faith with the public ? 1 "
CO
COg
CO I
Ms
o.
o
Q_
CD
CD]
ca
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles
MANGANESE 817.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 rut-st., Sydney; 6S furriest., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ. •
Water-street, Dunedin ; Queen-street , Auckland
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium <9B/100 per cent
l "* Po "“ r ' wSSiS;
Westrahan expenditure is about £157,000 more than for
the September quarter of 1900. The year is beginning
none too well, and apparently the obtrusive war bill,
among other things, is beginning to make itself felt.
* • « •
For the financial year just closed the six states
of the Commonwealth spent £6,122,227 of borrowed
money. The particulars are as follows :
Spent on Spent for. Total loan
productive unproductive or money
works revenue purposes spent
N.S.W. .. £1,332,299 £579,282 £2,211,681
Queensland .. 686,636 496,032 1,182,668
Victoria .. 736,709 294,954 1,031,663
Westralia .. 625,726 291,682 917,408
Tasmania .. 64,967 111,290 176,257
S.A. «. 493,899 108,751 602,650
£3,940,236 £2,181,991 £6,122,227
Taking it all round this great rich country misapplied
£2,181,991 of loan funds last year because it wasn’t honest
enough or courageous enough to pay its ordinary ex-
penses out of ordinary revenue. It is about the worst
financial record on earth.
So far as the gross amount is concerned, N.S.W.
was, as usual, the largest borrower, and the largest
stealer of loan-funds to fill the gap in the revenue and to
avoid paying taxes. In proportion to population, how-
ever, Westralia was far the worst.
LOAN MONEY SPENT PER INHABITANT.
On P'or non-produc-
productive tive or revenue Total,
works. purposes.
Westralia .. £3 13 2 .. £1 14 1 .. £5 7 3
Queensland.. 1 8 5 107 .. 290
N.S. Wales.. 019 8 .. 013 0 .. 112 8
Tasmania .. 0 7 3 .. 012 4 .. 019 7
S.A. ..1 6 8 .. 0 510 .. 112 6
Victoria .. 012 8 .. 051 .. 017 9
Westralia actually borrowed an amount which, in propor-
tion to population, was more than twice the entire
revenue of Great Britain 1 Tasmania holds the awful
record of being the only state of the Commonwealth
which misapplies more than half its loans ; it borrows
very little now except for revenue purposes. Victoria,
also as usual, borrows least and misapplies least of its
borrowings ; in England its methods would be considered
tolerably dishonest, but in Australia it is the one great
example of financial integrity, and a burning and a shin-
ing light in a land of financial fraud. But even Victoria
is vastly worse than it was in the honest days of George
Turner, and its integrity is perceptibly going downhill
under the M'Shiels regime.
* • * •
The liquidators of the Colonial Bank of Maori-
land expect to wind up the proceedings this year and re-
turn to the shareholders one shilling per share. When
this institution sold out to the Bank of New Zealand it
professed to be a sound concern with £400,000 paid-up
capital and £84,980 of reserves, all intact. It received
£75,000 from the B.N.Z. for its goodwill, making the
shareholders’ funds apparently £559,980. This was the
sum which should be available for distribution; the sum
that actually is available is,apparently about £lO,OOO.
Yet the Colonial paid 6 per cent, dividends to the very
last. When is that State audit and valuation coming
along, to afford shareholders some guarantee that the
real assets are anything like the paper values ?
• * • *
The Colonial Bank of Australasia (Melbourne)
presents its 15th balance-sheet dating from the great
original reconstruction. It has gone through three
stages since then. In the first it paid its reconstructed
depositors 4£ per cent. In the second it paid them only
2£ per cent. Then in 1898 the Colonial Bank increased
the rate to 3 per cent., and after writing off a great part
of its ordinary capital and all its reserves it began to
prosper again. Starting at the beginning of this latter
period the record has been as follows :
Carried to
Reserve
Profits Fund
September, 1898 £853 Written off £853
(This, with a large amount of ordinary capital written
off, completed the provision for the losses of the
old bank.)
Dividends on
Preference Shares
March, 1899 £5,601 3p. c. = £4,561
September, 1899 7,078
Forfeited
Capital
» •• 3,060 £5,000 3 „ = 4,561
Profits
March, 1900 11,472 6,000 4 ~ =; 6,081
September, 1900 12,019 5,000 4 „ = 6,081
£40,083 £15,000 £22,137
Melbourne Argus, by some curious inversion of arith-
metic, called this a decrease of profits as compared with
the previous half-year. The Colonial Bank has now total
reserves of £17,946 (reserve fund £15,000 and undivided
profit balance £2946).
* * * *
The earnings for the half-year just ended are
equal to £5 11s. 7d. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ funds, or £5 14s. 2d. per cent, on capital alone,
so there should be a fair prospect for the ordinary share-
h jlders before very long. The paid-up capital is only
£120,920 (preference shares, £304,044, and ordinary shares,
£L16,876), so a small dividend to the ordinary crowd
would not be costly. At the same time the policy of
withholding ordinary dividends and keeping the pre-
ference div. low should be rigidly adhered to, until the
profits have so far increased as to enable the Colonial to
pay dividends all round and make constant and sub-
stantial additions to the reserve fund at the same time.
The latter is the first essential. The next bank panic wili
come along in due course, and it is only by care and
economy that the sorely-shaken financial institutions of
Australia can hope to fully recover in time to meet it.
Meanwhile, the Colonial is making good progress. During
the last half-year its reconstructed deposits have been re-
duced from £857,087 to £361,434, and thereis every prospect
th it the small balance will soon be paid off, and the Colo-
nial will finally leave its reconstruction episode behind it.
Ordinary deposits have increased from £1,634,221 to
£2,113,529. Cash and liquid securities are £701,614, equal
to nearly 26 per cent, on all debts due to the public. The
worst feature about this item is that the Colonial keeps
hardly any reserve (less than £13,000) of State or munici-
pal securities. The whole reserve fund should be
separately invested in this manner. A bank can’t afford
to keep large liquid reserves unless part of them, at least,
ar; interest-bearing, and the holding of a solid mass of
State securities makes it possible to keep much larger
liquid resources than is otherwise possible.
* * » *
In the paragraph concerning the Co-operative
Coupon Co., which appeared in the first column of pa«-e
25 of last week’s Bulletin, it should have been stated that
Mr. Godhard, the company’s governing director, has
o "“td to place at the disposal of The Bulletin all facts
and figures concerning his co.’so erations, including con-
clusive proof that good values are given in exchange for
coupons. The Co-operative Coupon Co. now does prac-
tically the whole of the coupon business in N.S.W., also
in Victoria and S.A. ; and, as stated in last week’s para-
graph, there was no intention on Tub Bulletis’s part of
saying, or suggesting, that the business of the co. was not
a perfectly honest and straight-forward one.
• • • •
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
has issued its actuarial report for the five years ended
31st December, 1899. It reckons a surplus of £304,744
over and above all liabilities, and disposes of it thus :
Already paid in bonuses £25,865
Now set aside for bonuses 175,910
Added to fund to cover Depreciation of
Securities . 67,969
Used for purpose of reducing the valuation
rate to 3£ per cent 35,000
£304,744
This addition raises the fund to cover possible deprecia-
tion of securities to £102,776 as at 31st December, 1899.
Assuming that this is sufficient to cover all losses then
the net amount of the Colonial Mutual Society’s assurance
fund at that date may be set down at £2,282,490,
and the interest earned last year on the average
amount of the net funds was £4 3s. per
cent. The extra reserves now made, and the reduction
of the valuation rate to 31 per cent, all round are un-
doubtedly wise proceedings, and will greatly strengthen
the Colonial Mutual. But on the evidence of the
figures it would still appear possible that this society
hasn’t provided nearly so much as it should do to cover
depreciation. Comparing the Colonial Mutual with a
few other leading Australian life offices, and deducting
the reserve for depreciation from the gross amount of the
assurance fund in each case, the interest earned on the
average funds according to the last returns was as fol-
lows :
Interest earned on
average net Funds.
National Mutual .. .. £4 18 7 per cent.
A.M.P 415 0 „
Widows Fund 411 2 „
Mutual Life Association .. 410 0 „
Colonial Mutual .. .. 4 3 0 „
The inference seems to be : (1) That, despite the wise
policy adopted for strengthening the reserves, there is
still much depreciation unprovided for, and the assets are
still not worth the price set against them, and the re-
serves are still insufficient; or (2) the policy of extending
the business to England and many other places tends to
seriously reduce the interest rate, to the policy-holders’
loss, by making it necessary to keep very large sums
lying idle, and in other ways : or (3) the'other offices
above-mentioned have written-down their assets far below
present values—which is almost too unlikely to be worth
mentioning.
* • • *
The Permanent Trustee Co. of N.S.W. finished
its 13th year on 30th September, 1900. Results compare
as follows:
Cr. Balance, 1893 .. £24
Carried
Profits. to Dividends.
September, 1894 .. £764
„ 1895 .. 1,007 4 per cent.=£l,ooo
„ 1896 .. 1,035 4 „ = 1,000
„ 1897 .. 1,671 6 „ = 1,250
„ 1898 .. 2,250 6 „ = 1,250
„ 1899 .. 2,807 £2,500 5 „ = 1,250
„ 1900 .. 1,700 5 „ = 1,250
£11,258 £2,500 £7,000
This leaves the Permanent Trustee Co. with total re-
serves of £4258 (reserve fund £2500, and undivided profit
£1758). Like all such institutions it was a losing concern
in its early days until it had created a business, but in
the seven years since the preliminary loss was wiped off
it has made very respectable progress. Still the results
of the year just closed are distinctly disappointing. The
earnings have certainly exceeded the dividends by £450 ;
still it is the worst year the Permanent has had since
1897.
* * * *
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne): —
Reserves, 1891 £7,855
Profits. Dividends, Depreciation, &c.
Sept., 1892 .. 8,265
„ 1893 .. 5,149
„ 1894 .. 3,378 Losses written off .. £55
„ 1895 .. 3,046 „ „ „ .. 2,862
„ 1896 .. 1,917 „ „ „ .. 77
„ 1897 .. 2,254 .. 882
„ 1898 .. 2,472
~ 1899 .. 2,768 2 per cent. =£1,682 -
Losses written off 545
2 227
„ 1900 .. 2,918 2J per cent. = 2,024 ’
Losses written off 283
2,307
Reserves, 1900 .. .. 31,612
£40,022 £40,022
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building Society has
assets worth £128,855, nominal or book value, and the
management reckons that the contingency reserve
(£29,633) will cover all losses and depreciation on these.
It therefore assumes the real value of the assets to be
£99,222. On this basis they yielded last year a gross
return of £4 15s. 4d. per Cent., and at that rate the
valuation seems still rather too high. The Langridge has
a paid-up capital of £81,462, and its total deposits are
only £13,545. It was this policy of trading mainly on its
own funds and keeping its assets unencumbered which
enabled it to make profits all through the worst times,
when profits were a rare circumstance among building
societies, and the steady and substantial increase in pro-
fits since 1896 seems to indicate that it is getting almost
over its troubles.
» * * *
Perplexed : The trouble about that mine is that
it is too far away and difficult to visit. We hear various
accounts of it, but as we have no first-hand information
from any skilled and reliable person we cannot advise
you.
• * • •
“ E.A.K.” : The cause of the fall in Occidentals
is very likely the fact that the mine’s water-supply may
fail in summer and cause total cessation of work.
• • * •
The usual periodic yarns are in circulation
about the “complete solution” of the Barrier sulphide
problem. Among others, the (German) Australian Metal
00. has “ brought its zinc treatment at Broken Hill to
absolute perfection.” And just at the moment these
boom stories are sent round the same Metal Co. has been
forced to shut down, ostensibly, at any rate, because it
cannot get its product carried away for nothing as bal-
last ; and the co.s go on putting up plants of the old sort,
plants which still recover less than half the metal, not-
withstanding constant improvements.
* * * *
Blayney Mining and Smelting Co. (N.S.W.) :
Present monthly output is from 65 to 70 tons of copper
from one blast furnace ; several reverberatories are used in
turning 20 per cent, matte into pig-copper. Another
blast furnace in course of construction, which should
mean doubling the output. Crosscut going out from
main shaft to intersect lode at a deeper level. If of same
grade and width as in upper levels, and of dense sulphide,
the bigness and permanency of the mine will be estab-
lished. Louis Janin, in last vol. of “ The Mineral Indus-
try,” the standard statistical mining work of America,
has a long article on copper-mining in N.S.W. Says
Blavney mine is well sitiiated, that the ore fortunately
contains an excess of iron, enabling it to smelt more
silicious ore from other mines in a large surrounding area.
“ Throughout this central district there are many occur-
rences of copper, which at the present time are too un-
important to enumerate, but which on the establishment
of a central smelting plant would doubtless be developed
and, in many instances, would show profitable ore-bodies_
The ores from all these mines could be treated at Blay-
ney.”
A self-made Sydney authority, Joseph Palmer
and Sons, in its monthly share-list, has one more little
dig at Blayney. “It is worthy of remark that Milbum
Creek, a co. formed about the same time as Blayney, to
work a similar property, is already in liquidation.” A
gentle insinuation that the Blayney Co. will soon be
there, too. Now, the two co.’s were not formed in the
same year by a long way, they are not in the same dis-
trict, also by a long way, a,nd in the whole of N.S.W.
there are not two copper-mines so absolutely dissimilar
in every respect as these two. No doubt Joseph Palmer
and Sons have never seen either, and it is questionable
whether they would know any better if they had. Blay-
ney mine has smelted many thousand tons of ore, and
Eroduced and sold upwards of 500 tons copper ; the other
as ho smelting plant; has smelted no ore and produced
no copper.
Blayney, by the way, has been blamed with
killing the sheep in Carcoar district, 10 miles off, The
fumes don’t seem to affect the sheep grazing in Blayney
itself and the immediate vicinity of the furnaces, and the
manager avers that the ore J 3 free from arsenic, and that
the pure sulphur fumes do more good than harm.
» * * *
Grassy Gully, N.S.W. The usual N.S.W. sort
of start has been made. “ During the last run of 230
hours the battery crushed 92 tons from the mullock-dump
for 39£oz. smelted gold.” It generally is the mullock-
dump when the crushing is poor. But there are 15cwt.
concentrates containing at the rate of 13oz. to the ton,
and the tailings assay 6dwts. This would indicate that
the battery lost nearly as much as it took out, which is
hard to believe. “Only nine head of stampers were
running.”. It must either be a baby battery to crush so
few tons in so long a time, or the tons must have been
very. big. “ Even the results now being obtained yield
considerable profit.” Does it not strike the fat-headed
management that if it was all profit it wouldn’t be much
to talk about ? After a few days came another explana-
tion. “ The results being obtained are highly remunera-
tive, and it is proposed to set aside the first profits to
provide a winding-plant, assay office, and a cyanide plant
too, if necessary.” It would be very necessary, indeed,
if the tailings contain nearly as much gold as got out of
the ore.
• • • •
Milbum Creek. — The wicked luck of this
politieally-notorious mine still pursues it. Option to
purchase abandoned, liquidating meeting called in
Melbourne. Another great disappointment. It was
handled by a strong Melb. crowd who spent thousands in
development and plant under an excellent manager, who
has satisfied himself that the mine is not good enough to
go on with. Had it been handled by a Sydney crowd it
would very likely have taken years to establish what the
others have done in a few months. “ The first loss is the
best.” Writer is told that the mine consists of a few
short shoots which cut out in depth. Anyhow the Melb.
people have had enough.
* • • •
“ A Working Miner ” writes to The Bulletin
from Gundagai, complaining that Messrs. Robinson and
Rice, owners of the phenomenally-rich mine at Long
Flat, have so far refused to give competent miners the
current district rate of wages—7s. 6d. per shift—the rate
paid by the local Bull-owned Howell’s Consolidated,
which employs many hands, whereas the Robinson and
Rice staff is small. Our correspondent proceeds to remark
that it’s a bad sign when Australian-owned mines cut
wages. The Bulletin knows nothing of the facts of the
case, but if it owned a specimen-mine it would take good
care to pay the very highest wages.
* • « *
Dottswood Freehold.—“ The concentrates com-
ing through the new machinery were not up to manager’s
expectation for the quantity of stone crushed, but he had
not been putting any really good stone through.” How
strange it is that they never do! Anyhow the new
machinery started without a hitch and the Wilfley does
splendid work. “ I cannot see a single speck of copper
pyrites in the tailings after, treatment.” Well, that is
proof that the ore isn’t nearly as good as was imagined.
Outlook not too promising. Tiie Bulletin loveth not the
newspapered mine. *
* * * *
Croydon Sept, returns.—Quartz crushed, 2309
tons for 8219|0z. Sand and slimes cyanided 1508 tons,
2382j0Z. Sept, calls, £462 10s. ; divs., £14,186 16s.
Drought extending over eight months caused almost
total cessation of crushing. Hence smallness of apparent
yield, which gives inadequate idea of the field’s aggregate
wealth.
Golden Gate 3 and 4 S. Proprietary and Tribute
Syndicate, in their settlement of accounts at end of
tribute agreement, showed that the mine during two years
yielded £115,033 worth of gold. Proprietary divided
£52,379 and tributors £62,644. Area of lease eight acres ;
only about three acres worked out. Faces in mine look-
ing well as ever.
Latest Croydon sensation is G. Gate United,
adjoining famous G. Gate 3 and 4S. United now raising
stone in south level and from shaft showing gold all over
face. Magnificent return expected. Shares, unsaleable
few months ago at 25., were eagerly looked for (Oct. 6th)
at 20s. without sellers, despite of a strong bearing move
on the part of a local magnate.
• * * •
Chillagoe Copper Mines.—According to the
Melb. correspondent of the British Australasian, which
booms all mining things and, of course, occasionally
strikes a right one : “ Figures show that the extent and
value of the ore-bodies have.been vastly under-estimated.
The Ruddygore group is generally regarded as the richest
section of the property yet developed. The Ore body has
a proved length of 2640 ft., with a depth of 450 ft., the ore
going from 4 to 20 per cent, copper and from 4 to 20oz.
silver and up to loz. gold. Nearly five million tons of
good smelting ore are practically in sight. At a depth of
150 ft. the other groups have proved the lode half-a-mile
in length and for a width of 100 ft. ; value of the ore not
yet available.” Well, this just does “tike the kike.” If
mines yielded the riches that newspapers attribute to
them copper would be £2O a ton, and silver less than Is.
an oz. .
* * * •
Great Boulder South. “ The recent develop-
ment is regarded locally as the best that has occurred in
the south end of the field, and warrants the improved
prospects withdepth in Boulder Main Reef-and Hannan’s
Star mines. There was fear for some time that the lodes
had broken off south of the Gt. Boulder, but develop-
ments in the Main Reef at 600 ft. disprove this.” Nothing
of the kind. There are a dozen mines besides Boulder
South on which-much more than £lOO,OOO have been spent
in resultless prospecting, and if the sinking, driving, and
diamond-drill boring of thousands of feet in barren,’ or
next to barren, country is not some evidence that the
lodes do break off going south, what on earth would he ?
It is the same to the north of the Ivanhoe, Great Boulder,
and South Kalgurli. It is the same with the westerh
side of the line, proved by the worthlessness of the Boul-
der N. Extended, Ivanhoe Junction, and Hannan’s Golden
Treasure. It is proved on the eastern side of the Golden
Mile belt, by the barrenness of Brownhill North, an uri-
worked block of the Northern Associateds, Great Han-
nan’s Menindie Hill, another unworked Asso-
ciated Northern block, Brownhill Great Southern, Brown-
hill Central, Oroya East, Trafalgar, and others. ,
Editor Bulletin. —On 11th Sept, last four
other miners and I were engaged in Sydney by “ The
Woodlark Proprietary G.M. Co., No Liability,” to pro-
ceed to said property in British New Guinea. Before
signing agreements we inquired and were distinctly,told
that £3 per week was the current rate of miners’ wages
on Woodlark, wherefore we agreed for six months at
13s. 4d. per day, and left Sydney per s.s. Wodonga same
date. On said steamer arriving at Townsville a Mr.
Ward, director, and three miners for a Charters Towers
Co. came on board who were going to an adjoining pro-
perty at Woodlark Island; said miners’ agreements
showed that they were under engagement for six months
at £5 per week, paid fortnightly. On hearing this we
concluded that something was radically wrong, but stayed
on board until we reached Cooktown, where we received
abundant confirmation of our suspicions. We had in-
deed travelled over 1000 miles from home only to meet
trouble. Mr. Provis, the Woodlark Prop, manager, being
in town, was interviewed by us with reference to the
matter, and we stated our determination not to proceed
further unless we were guaranteed current rate of wages,
£5 per week. We were threatened with legal penalties
for breach of agreement, but we remained firm. It ap-
pears that the first trouble which occurred at Woodlark
was on 6th Sept. The Prop.’s new manager, Mr. Provis,
arrived from Sydney on 6th inst., and next morning at
10 o’clock the employes were told that their wages from
that date would be at the rate of £4 per week instead of
£5, a reduction of £l. Whereupon the men knocked off
at once. £5 a week is only a fair rate of wages at
Koolamadon as the pay-sheet proves that since the com-
mencement of the year the average earnings of those
employed regularly have been t'3 16s. per week. £4 per
week would give an average of £2 18s.—a very insufficient
wage for such a climate. Woodlark Island is, I believe, in
7 South ; were I fortunate enough to own Woodlark and
Hell, I should run the former and live in the latter.
I trust this will be a warning to Southern miners. Let
the Woodlark 00. draw their labor from the Far North,
where people in search of employment have a better
chance of ascertaining the exact conditions of the game.—
Miner.
* * * *
Dear Bur.r.KTiN. — Can anyone tell me anything
about “ Woodlark Island Proprietary.” It is of all rich(?)
mines the most perplexing. We crush Boz. stuff and
shares drop ; we crush 18dwt. ditto and shares creep up
slightly. We, however, sack the manager who sent down
to us that inferior tack and appoint another at a large
salary. The next we hear of the new man is that he has
just reported on a tin-property in Queensland. How are
things going at Woodlark ? ” — Scripper.
* » • *
Chaffers: One more change in management.
Dewhurst has had enough. Fred Cape, another good and
honest man, succeeds. Cape is the man who first let day-
light into the Last Call swindle. He has prospected
Westralian fields, travelled through S’Africa, took
a part in Matahele skirmishes, and quite recently married
in London Miss Dibbs, daughter of Tom Dibbs, of the
Commercial Bank of Sydney.


Complete
Outfits.
ĥ
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE . .
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT . .
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JON€S & COMPANY,
George * Barrack Sts., SydiKy.
A
m
ttorejre HUNDREDS
. . op . .
|andg iand-Qimeras
HARRINGTON’S
HEAPS
OF EVERY KIND OF PHOTOGRAPHIC!
REQUISITES AND NOVELTIES
Popular Cameras -from ss. to £5.
High-Grade Cameras from £5 to £5O.
To Wit. HARRINGTON’S FOCAL PLANE FOLDING HAND CAMERA.
A, i eleffant Uiy-h-Gradt; Instrument, suitable for the fastest worlr
to 1/1000 of a second. Fitted with AnastigmatLenswithlris7/8 an§
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
King-st., SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies in every Colony.
SOCIETY
N.S.W. and every State of Australia is
agreeable to make the inauguration of the
Commonwealth both inspiring and spectacular.
Let flags fly and cannons roar. Man is an im-
pressionable animal and wants to be hit in eye
and ear. But when, in the celebrations, it comes
to eating and drinking, and when the eating and
drinking are reserved for a particular class,
every Australian State must put feet’ down
to make the eaters and drinkers pay for
their special favors. No Parliament should
allow expenses incurred on this account to
go on the estimates of the year as “expenses in-
curred in the inaugural celebration.” That is
how the account is now taking shape in N.S.W.
Treasury. Australian democracy should assert
itself hero, on the Federal threshold. Down with
class-feeding at the general expense !
* * * *
The long and inexcusable delay in appoint-
ing the N.S.W. Federal Reception Commit-
tee is being much talked about, but ere this
is puWished it is probable that the list of per-
sons selected will have been announced. The
Harbor Trust Oommissioaerships and the billets
in connection with the Sydney wharf resumptions
are still begging. As these posts are of
extreme importance a delay here is excusable,
provided it results in the selection of good men.
As predicted, R. P. Hickson, Under Secretary
for Public Works, is presiding over the pre-
liminaries, and will probably receive the perma-
nent appointment in whichever branch he chooses.
There is an uncomfortable rumour that Premier
Lyne has so little confidence in the popular
approval of the intended appointees that he is
waiting until Parliament is in recess before
announcing them. Federation, Royal Dukes and
the like will intervene before next session, and by
that time the matter will "have been forgotten.
There are also many other appointments dangling
before the public. No one has yet got the billet
of Director of Charitable Institutions, which has
been vacant since 1897. £750 is invariably passed
by Parliament every year for this position, but it
has not been drawn since October three years ago.
* * * *
The lull in the plague-storm is deceptive.
Lately the town of Brisbane passed nearly a month
without an outbreak, and everybody thought the
town was clear. Just as the newspapers were
jubilating on the “highly satisfactory result of
our preventive measure” three fresh cases cropped
up in one week—two of them proving fatal. No
one’s safe till the rats are out of danger.
• * * *
The Adelaideans are awaking in the nick
of time to protest against the attempted tram-
ways steal. A recent public meeting condemned
the scheme, supported nationalisation, and cen-
sured the intriguing City Council—although the
Mayor was in the chair. The big crowd of rate-
payers present were also greatly disappointed be-
cause Aid. Tucker, M.P., who has energetically
supported the Snow grab, did not respond to an
invitation to attend and explain certain things.
* m m *
Would you believe it, it is utterly im-
possible to get a letter or article condemning—or
even severely criticising—the shameful local
Tramway Grab into any Adelaide paper ! The
Westinghouse-Snow Co.’s big advertising expendi-
QUITE FEASIBLE.
MISS HIGHLOW (trying on ball-dress): “I wonder what makes me so full in the waist to-day? ”
MRS. HIGHLOW: “ Daughter, dear, it must have been the turnips we had for dinner .”
ture seems to have bought at least silence. There
is now such a stink in Adelaide that when the
wind blows from that quarter you have to hold
your nose in Valparaiso.
♦ » * *
It is most unfortunate for the R.C. com-
munity in Maoriland that Archbishop Redwood’s
recent intemperate utterances should have turned
up at the present juncture. The public mind has
been fearfully inflamed over the Stoke Orphanage
Inquiry, and as a consequence a dead set was
made in Parliament against all Govt, subsidies
to R.C. Orphanages, &c. During an all-night
sitting some things were said which will
take years to efface from the memories of the local
mixed crowd of fancy religions. Seddon tried
hard, but vainly, to square matters, and appealed
to members to remember that the Stoke Orphan-
age ease was still subjudice; and the climax was
reached when “ Jack the Rigger ” (labor member
for Wellington), after an impassioned speech
asking Govt, to take over and control all orphan-
ages and sectarian schools, threw on the floor of
the House a set of prisoner’s chains, and dramati-
cally declared that these were a fac simile of what
had been used during the inquisitorial cruelties at
Stoke Orphanage. At 5.30 a.m. Seddon got his
estimates through after assuring the House, that
he would bring down a Bill dealing drastically
with this burning question.
• * * *
The aftermath of Archbishop Redwood’s
printed sermon. From Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Morning Herald, 10th Oct.:—
WALLSEND HOSPITAL DEMONSTRATION.
r T , HE Attention of the Protestants of this district is
L directed to the fact that the Proceeds of the above
Demonstration are to be devoted to the Wallsend Hos-
pital, Newcastle Benevolent Society, and the
DEAF AND DUMB INSTITUTION AT WARATAH.
The latter is a pure'y Roman Catholic Institution,
controlled and managed by the Dominican Nuns. Are
you willing to support an institution such as this after
what Archbishop Redwood has said about your religion
and your wives and daughters? Have nothing to do
with it, and refrain from attending the demonstration.
Support your own Protestant and public institutions,
but do hot contribute to any institution belonging to
the Church of Rome.
The correspondent who sends us the foregoing
hideous product of the sectarian hatred fanned
into flame by the gratuitous and intemperate
remarks of a wooden-headed prelate, says that
within the walls of the deaf and dumb asylum in
question are afflicted children of every denomina-
tion, and that the institution is open to the public.
* * * *
In a Goulbnrn pugilistic case in which a
man named Crandell was killed, the doctor testi-
fied that Crandell’s skull was abnormally thin, and
Chief-Justice Darley, declaring the fight to be a
fair one, let accused go as a first offender. A case
on almost all-fours occurred in Judge Dailey’s
country nearly a century ago. There a Dublin
jury found that accused killed his man in a fight,
but, on the doctor’s testimony, adjudged prisoner
not guilty, as a man with so thin a skull should
never have gone to an Irish fair.
» » • *
The professions in N.S.W. are zealously
claiming to be protected under the State mantle.
The chemists have got there. Medicoes have got
there, and dentists are just creeping under. " Now
come the marrying clergy in trades-union assem-
bled. They petition that only men with actual
congregations shall be licensed to marry. The
Registrar-General has taken these last in hand,
and is getting ready a Bill to close up the marry-
ing industry against the interloping celebrant.
* ¥ * *
All. in one day recently in Christian Mel-
bourne. The churches held a big meet and talked ;
the Christian Endeavourers held a big picnic and
sang. The “Army” beat its big drum to call
poor sinners to the right track. Parliament
passed some thousands for our “butcher’s hill ” in
Africa. A tottering old woman got helped into '
court, the sergeant gave her a good name—resi- •
dent of over 40 years; only,, emmb-eage and
poverty; friendless and homeless*- The repre-
sentatives of the above-mentioned oharities looked
the old wreck over and shook their 1 heads. A Not a
day’s work in her —therefore “full-upj’. Re-
manded to gaol. Then a man in his prime took
her place. The police knew him —his name stank V
but there was work in him and therefore room l for-
him in their Christian charity ! .* 1
* . .. .
If Victoria doesn’t hurry Nip her Old,
Pension scheme she will ’presently have 'half her
aged people in gaol 'Latterly'they ’fya'to 1 been
incarcerated at." the rate df bn'e' Or two a Week, hut
.the week before last Mr- Paiitori, P.M., passed in
no less' than'thrde iff one day—one for three
months, the btfifer two 1 for six. The charge in each
case was 6M age' ahd poverty. Victoria —the
home of tlie'wily bbortister and the gaol of the
aged poor! '
’ * ¥ *
“ Bnrragorflipg ” to The Bulletin :
If there is anything in Australia that cries out urgently
for investigation it is the inner working; of the Salvation
Army, the heart and soul of which (u . ,!y unknown to
outsiders) is (lash ! There is in Brisbane, at the Army
“Temple,” a “men’s shelter,” and friendless and God-
forsaken, indeed, is the man who is obliged to seek that
shelter. Yet the door is slammed if he cannot dub up
(id. Absolutely no compromise—no money, no shelter ;
though you may be told by the hard-jawed janitor to go
over to the Fire Brigade station and state your case, and
you will probably get a ticket. But why thus tax
genuinely charitable men ? Every bit of food that is dis-
pensed to sixpence-holders by the S.A. is begged. Camp
stretchers and coarse blue shoddy blankets, which were
supplied gratis by Government," constitute the beds.
Cleanliness is not demanded of men seeking shelter—only
sixpence !. Your saint is mostly dirty, physically as well
as morally. Sleeping and dining-rooms adjoin, and are
practically unventilated cellars, the stench from which,
when occupied by (say) 50 dirty men, is simply murderous.
THE HEALER, TIME.
SHE (sentimentally): “ So you have come-back to
me, wounded?”
HE: “On the contrary; I have come lack
healed”
The authorities having immediate control of the concern
are merely exceedingly smart money-getters, who fre-
quently congratulate themselves on the fact that fcjje Qd.
supper and bed and Id. breakfast “pay well.” ‘ W.ljy
not? since, in a word, food given by the chsiptable fpr
the use of the destitute of Brisbane is sold to them by the
Harmy 1
* .* *
A tiresome person named - Tarii, or Darn,
or Yarn, has written to S.M. Herald, girding, at
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner's fqr cjajnpg to
arrange to run He
says he, “ with thousands;Of others,”•' \yiljl lift up
his voice in protest because “we qyghtpot to make
our railway toil onJlie,Sabf>(ith so that
others should play on that qay.'’- People like
Barn, or Warn, always lyri.te. ,'ff>qjijih notes like
this to papers like S.AL Herald, there-
upon-print them with avidity. Bojih,’ forget that
:.y our employes ate’ hufey o,n ttiq Sawbatjh ‘ ‘ toil T
irig s -’ to produce Such journals, for ,the Monday
morning reading of Tarn 'qr Darn and his kind.
Think of the SabbhtH-breaking paper being the
chief organ 6f the Saltan a,ns, and the medium
'•through which fhhy specially address the public !
Thb Bulletin desires to point out just here that
it isn’t a Sabbath-breaking paper, and that the Sab-
batarian 1 whqbqys S.M. Herald and doesn’t buy
• this ungodly organ is a traitor to his creed and a
Shbbathde.bicrator of the deepest dye. .
■* * • •
■ Bulletin.—You were right in sus-
pectirig that Sydney D.T. diamond-ring-lefit-iia-a-
pocketyarn. Here are some more “ coincidences;
about it. It has been told of every swell pick-
pocket who ever existed. George Price bad it
fathered at him; it is one of the stoC'fc stories
about George Barrington; “Pendrogon,” of
London Referee, has dished it up several times ;
and this scribe seems to remember it as an episode
in the career of Thackeray s Chevalier Balibari,
Fact is it is so obvir in a contretemps that most,
people re-invent it for themselves at one time or
another. The D.T. man probably cribbed it out
of an exchange—if he didn’t happen to be one of
its fathers. — Brew.
*■\ * * *
“ Pukaki ” to The Bulletin from Maori-
land :
Every now and then this country gets uneasy over her
rapidly-decreasing birth-rate. (In a year or two, when
the Registrar-General’s tables begin to show the effect of
paying the most virile part of the community 4s. a day
and found, to leave M.L., the province will probably feel
still more uneasy.) A fewweeks ago the editor of Christ-
church l ress, despairing of finding a remedy elsewhere,
sent an unfortunate reporter round to all the parsons,
troin the bishop downwards, to get their views on the
subject. And they all, with one accord, said, “ We-must
prohibit the sale of preventatives.” Which was about as
sensible as trying to put down beer-drinking by prohibit-
ing the use of glasses. As if people who don’t want to
have children could or should be forced to have them A
much more effectual way of increasing the birth-rate
would be to diminish the incentive to abortion (which is
rapidly becoming Maoriland’s national sin) by setting up


MARDYBRPTHeRS
WATCHMAKERS,
GOLD & SILVERSMITHS, etc.
INVITE INSPECTION OF THEIR
MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF GOLD AND
SILVERSMITHS’ ART.
Show Rooms : 13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
h
r
J2i
TABLE PLATE.
every requisite in sterling silver and
electro-plate kept in stock.
Sterling Silver Cherub Card
Case (top opening), 555.
Handsome Pearl and Tur-
quoise Pendants, from
SOs. to £lO.
The Cost
of Boots
Should he considered only in
conjunction with their quality.
There are lower-priced kinds
of Boots than ours,
There are many that are poor-wearing at the same price as burs.
There are none better.
ĥ
We urge you to try THE CALLAGHAN BOOT.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George Street, Sydney.
State maternity hospitals and foundling homes. At pre-
sent there is a law in the province by which any ten in-
habitants of a borough can force the borough council to
erect and maintain a proper morgue. Having thus pro-
vided for Casual Death, let them provide for Casual Birth
by giving any ten inhabitants of a borough power to
make the Council provide a proper maternity home. If
that doesn’t increase the birth-rate, nothing will but a
premium of £lO on a baby and £5O on twins.
• * • *
Melbourne’s larrikin “ pushes,” quiescent
awhile, are now warming-up again ; South Melb.’s
“ Flying Angels,” having committed several
violent assaults, are promptly emulated by North
Melb.’s “Crutchy Push”—all the members being
more or less one-legged. Having battered a cons-
table badly—for which one offender was ordered
to pay Bs. 6d., the cost of anew helmet —the latter
followed this up by breaking a man’s leg, after-
wards took him to hospital with a pleasing story
of his having fallen 60ft. off a wall ; and a few
nights later horribly belaboured a citizen who ob-
jected to having his horse stolen. They wound up
by breaking a crutch over his head and left him
insensible. For this latter offence the tender-
hearted Bench fined the ruffians hold your breath
—los. !
The other day a tram - conductor asked
the magistrates for protection on the ground
that he had received notice from the Crutchy
ones that they intended battering him to
death as he went home late from his avocation.
And Dr. Lloyd, J.P., the man who aids and abets
the push by letting its murderous members
off with a ten-bob fine—well, he didn’t say that
he would appeal to the Government to try and
make the streets a trifle safer. He coldly advised
the a jplicant to proceed (after he has been killed,
apparently) against his assailants, who will
naturally leave their names and addresses with
him to facilitate legal action. And by the glare
in the gentle J.P.’s eye, it seems probable that, if
the threatened murder comes off, he will be almost
wild enough to fine somebody 2s. 6d.
m * • *
The assault of B. B. O’Conor, M.L.A., on
a high public official in the Justice Department
whom he accused, during the Estimates debate, of
corruption, is a good instance of the of
notoriety-seeking Ms.P. to advertise themselves
at the expense of the public servant. On being
brought to scratch by the Minister, who unex-
Eectedly demanded that the member should prove
is words or eat them, Mr. O’Conor immediately
climbed down—said he didn’t mean corruption at
all, never meant to hurt anyone’s feelings, but
wished to point out that all public servants were
not treated alike. But his first speech will go
over the land, with 24 hours’ start of the apology,
which is small satisfaction for the public service.
The last instance of this sort of thing was the con-
fident demand for investigation into Principal
Librarian Anderson’s management of his in-
stitution, made by Sleath, M.P. It is well
known that Sleath was greatly deceived over the
strength of his case which has practically broken
down.
* * * *
Librarian \nderson, of N.S.W. Public
Library, in asserting the other day that library
books have been mutilated by a person with the
object of levying blackmail on descendants of
Botany Bay’s early visitors, either repeated a bit
of ancient gossip or should be obliged to hand the
mutilator over to the law. Blackmailing of that
type was common 60 years ago, and survived
sporadically till about 30 or 25 years ago, but then
eased off. Anything like its recrudescence should
be promptly stamped out, and if Mr. Anderson be
not merely retailing history he should swear an
information.
* * * *
There will probably be a gory war bet ween
’Obart and Lawn’ston over a proposed monument
to the fallen Tas. heroes. Why not have a port-
able affair which could be wheeled around as the
bile of the inhabitants demanded ?
* * * *
When Donald Macdonald first returned to
Australia from Africa, he brought with him
numerous relics ill the shape of bullets, fragments of
shell, chunks of maize bread, and so on. A handful
of soft-nosed expanding bullets was amongst them.
Certain big daily-paper bosses visited Mac.,
then in his skinny skeleton stage, and handled his
relics inquisitively. “So,” said one of them,
taking up one of the soft-nosed bullets, “these
are the things that the treacherous Boers fired at
our brave troops.” “No,” said Mac quietly,
“ I’m sorry to say they are the things our brave
Tommies fired at the Boers.” He explained that
some of the Tommies used to file the ends off their
bullets just as some of the Boers did —in both
.cases witfiout the knowledge of their commanders.
But explanations of this sort never get irrio the
.J ingo press.
SAVED FROM BANKRUPTCY.
ELAINE: “ Didn't I tell yer, Hemmarlina? I just copped’im
in time; ’nother bloomin’ secon’ an’ ’e’d er blued ’is
ha’penny. ”
Dear Bulletin. — Re Early
Closing Acts and school kids (B.
6/10/’00). No sane teacher would
set such a home-lesson as that re-
ferred to, and it’s pretty certain
that the pupil had been given
probably two or three weeks to
learn his ‘ ‘ regulation poetry ” ;
but that he had continuously
shirked his work, and so was given
a last chance, which of course he
neglected. The boy’s trouble, in
fact, was that of all shirkers—
“accumulated arrears.” The
abolition of these home-lessons
would be a blessing both to
teacher and pupil. —Bunny.
And this, from a teacher
Dear Bulletin. — Re home-lessons
for N.S.W. Public School pupils.
Teachers are compelled to set home-
lessons to pupils in third and higher
classes ; but they are strictly forbidden
to cane pupils who shirk said work.
Ergo, the “ fly ” amateur-lawyers can
quietly defy the teacher on this point,
and so subvert the discipline of the
whole school. The constant correction
of home-lessons is sickening drudgery ;
but many teachers wade through it
unflinchingly, because they believe that
carefully corrected home-lessons are a
powerful help to progress at school.
The “workers” invariably do splen-
did home exercises, while the “ shirk-
ers,” owing to the peculiar regulations,
are enabled to set a bad example which
soon spreads. Why not abolish home-
lessons altogether ? or else alter the
absurd regulations dealing with them ?
—Dominic.
* * * *
Melbourne’s Immigrants’
Home, where some hundreds of
poor old derelicts are herded, is
just one shade better than their
other possible refuge—the gaol.
It is a barrack-like building in the
middle of Royal Park ; and as
bare inside as out. Inmates live
mostly on bread and water and
sleep between blankets, which, to
a casual visitor, appear well-ten-
anted and none too chaste. An
old man brought before Mr. Pan-
ton, P.M., recently, refused the
cold charity of the “Home” on
the ground that the place was
infested witli vermin, so the Law,
preparatory to smiting him heavily
for such rank ingratitude, started
to inquire into the matter. At
latest it hadn’t got far. Mr. Pan-
ton set in motion a sub-inspector,
who reported in turn to the Board
of Health, requesting it to desire
an officer to delegate a subordinate
to investigate the matter. If the
old man had stolen a loaf he would
have been gaoled in record time,
but in the matter of keeping itself
clean Melbourne is never in a
hurry.
* * *
“The recent fashionable
American complaint of appen-
dicitis,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, “is spread-
ing here, and surgeons are mani-
festing the usual transatlantic
eagerness for sticking a knife in
you, and yanking out the useless
(yet dangerous under such circum-
stances) bit of human sewerage.
It is a well-known fact that the
use of the surgical knife breeds
a desire to use it oftener, and a
well-known N.Y. bon viveur after
his second bottle at dinner used to
hang a disc in his button-hole,
1 1 have been operated on for
appendicitis,’ as a warning to his
surgeon friends, who might other-
wise rush at him and try to do it
over again.”
* * * *
The C.E. Australian School
of Theology seems to have given
Anglican " Church dogma one
on the nose. This school was run in Sydney
under the highest ecclesiastical authorities, and
was intended to keep clergyman up to the mark
in theology, as the local University has no theo-
logical chair. T’other day the Synod discovered
that three of the text-books are unhistorical and
unscriptural, and it therewith condemned them.
But these are the text-books on the strength of
whose knowledge various clergy-
men have earned the degrees of
the Australian School of
Theology.
• * * *
Rev. H. Adeney says the
poor of Collingwood and Fitz-
roy, Vic., have only themselves
to blame for being badly housed,
as they herd into dens “in
order to have more money to
spend on racing and football.”
This kind of moral reflection is
always very consoling to Fat-
man and Fatinan’s parson. But
all the same Fatman will fight
M‘Lean’s measure for the better
housing of workmen tooth and
claw in the interests of 20 per
cent, hovel rents.
* * * *
At a recent meeting of the
Victorian Peace and Humanity
Society, a speaker strongly
advocated the establishment of a
Govt, newspaper which would
not disseminate “the vile lies
that were now served up daily.”
When the experiment was tried
in Melb. by Premier Chas.
ON THE WORD OF A WOMAN.—AN EVERYDAY OCCURRENCE.
Gavan Duffy nearly 30 years ago with The Times
AND Mines, the journal, during the brief period of
its existence, was far from being an improvement
on the common or garden variety in point of
truthfulness or news ; and it caused the M.L.A.
who ran it with the Govt, subsidy to be excluded
from Parliament for a number of years.
* * * *
From Melbourne Age :
AN INVALIDED SOLDIER’S PLIGHT.
DAYLESFORD, Monday.
Private William Rickards, aged 22, an invalided mem-
ber of the Victorian First Contingent to South Africa,
who has been staying at Sailors’ Hill with some relatives,
was to-day found in a fit near the Daylesford school by
the police, who took him in a cab to the hospital, where
medical treatment soon revived him. Rickards has
bullet wounds—one in the leg—and contracted fever" in
South Africa, from which he has never completely re-
covered. He was at the front for eight months, and was
to receive ss. 6d. per day as pay, but so far has not had
one penny of the money.
The wounded, unpaid Victorian soldier having
fits in the street isn’t at all what one might have
expected, considering how the Jingoes raged
about the “sacrifices” they were prepared to
make for the Empire. Are they really not pre-
pared to make enough sacrifices to let a wounded
soldier have the pay that is justly due to him ?
* * * *
Melbourne racegoers had a joyful sur-
prise the other Saturday when they found the
fare to Caulfield reduced from the extra special
price of “two bob” (first-class return)to a reason-
able tenpence, which is the ordinary everyday
price for the journey. Seems that the Railway
Dept, had been robbing Peter, tire outside public,
to make up for a comparatively trifling loss on
the system of granting free passes to the women-
folk who travelled on the V.A.T.C. tickets. At
last there came loud complaint from some mem-
bers of the club that the plundered Peter was otten
kept away from race-meetings by the fourteen-
penny imposition, hence a modification of the
system aforesaid.
Isn’t it time for somebody to demand fair play
on the Flemington line ? The ordinary Ist return
fare to Flemington bridge is 4|d., yet scores of
thousands of the public are charged 3s. for every
trip to and fro the V.R.C. platform, the excuse
being even less substantial than it was in the
Caulfield case. Members of the club only, are
carried free to Flemington. All other people are
taxed 2s. 7gd. a time for the benefit of the Railway
Dept., and unless the Govt, will tax holy oppo-
nents of racing, who don’t go to the Cup, but
organise rival picnics, punters are entitled to
demand relief from the burden of injustice under
which they have groaned for years. The sinner is
robbed in all directions. He pays wine, beer,
spirit and tobacco duties, in addition to exorbitant
fares for race trains, whilst the non-smoking, non-
sporting teetotaller, who goes to Heaven when he
dies, is allowed to save his shillings as well as his
' precious soul.
* * * *
The Bulletin hopes that in filling that
S‘African contract for 300,0001 b. N.S.W. peach
and plum jam, Premier Lyne will make it his
business to see that the goods contain no glucose.
• * * *
At a ;I Church Conference ” recently held
in M.L. on the Birth-rate Conference, the
shepherds, unanimously resolved—“ That the
sale of preventives be prohibited to persons under
21 years old.” Why women under 21 should
be forced to have children, while those above 21
are to be exempted, was not explained.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to
idea. that he is ea.silv deceived.
convev the
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney Haunt FOY’S.
V ' .
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
, they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
Write to
MARK FOy, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as if you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
in
All Drapers Everywhere.
Gioie Tens
have N O Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 23, 1900.
My Dear Mykk.—
Locally and elsewhere, there have of late oc-
curred several mixed marriages among members
of Sydney society that have made certain old
families sit up and snort.
The literary sensation of last week was the
arrival of the first shipment of Marie Corelli’s
“The Master Christian.” The Oceana entered
Sydney Heads at 6.30 a.m., at noon the books
were being unpacked with all possible haste, and
before tea-time the public had been largely sup-
plied. A leading firm of booksellers received
4000 copies of the work—most of them had
been ordered before the ship’s arrival. Sydney
School of Arts took 30 for its subscribers, and
not one of these volumes was available for issue
at 5 p.m. same day.
After the hot wind’s scream on Saturday the
Moonlight Sonata came most soothingly at night,
and the two Raphael-faced young men from Govt.
House-—his Ex. and Secretary Harris—came to
its playing as if they had been forwarded to the
Centenary Hall packed in ice and roses. Miss
Elsie Hall cast an upward despairing glance at
the crude, intolerably-bright electric lamps ere
pouring Beethoven’s Moonlight over her audience.
But we shut our eyes, and a little imagination did
the rest.
By the way, what a nun-like face is Miss
Hall’s! Her eyes are not secular. Isn’t that a
good word, and doesn’t it express a lot when
applied to a woman’s eyes ? The music-maker •
will not appear again in Sydney—she says so
quite gladly. In March she takes up the locum-
tenens burden at the Elder conservatorium,
Adelaide.
Miss Annie Perry warbled us “Summer
Night” (the temperature 90 under the starlight),
but I liked her “No, Sir,” best. It gave her
quaint little face, the Albert Moore girl’s face,
such chances to look coquettishly shy.
Painter-musician Wolinski, hairy, curly, spec-
tacled, and very square on his feet, was associated
with “ Her Name,” and She didn’t suffer by what
he sang of. Mr. Taylor made lightning-sketches,
one a portrait of the Distinguished Patron. The
Beauchamp nose is aristocratic, but Mr. Taylor
sharpened it as if he were going to put it through
the eye of a needle.
I counted only two tramp hats (sailors) down-
stairs. The audience was such a nice-looking one,
wearing just the proper quantity of undress that
is full-dress. On the Governor’s left a group of
girls—girls of snow and amber and turquoise-
made a beauty-patch. In the vice-regal crescent
some consuls and wives talked to the Governor.
Hawley’s awful quartette, “They Kissed,” was
given with great dolefulness by the able-bodied,
moist Meister-singers. It ought to be put down
by musical consent, or sung only by men got up
after the style of Richard le Gall'ienne.
One of the decadent races I know, and no
second—the Ethiopians. They worshipped dogs.
Some day, if I’m rich and wicked enough to
break the first commandment gracefully, I’ll
have an oratory with a golden Gordon-setter and
silver collie statue in it. This is apropos
of Mr. Court Rice’s Dog-show at the Exhibition
Buildings. It was a noble collection of 700
entries. Dogs are so telepathic. I’m certain
that every one of these exhibits knew just how
things stood in (or out of) the prize-list. An
erstwhile collie champion had journeyed all the
way from Maoriland only to be ‘very highly
commended.’ It was crushing to a dog whose
Eath has been strewn with medals, trophies, and
hie ribbons. He lay in his straw, silent—where
all others were yelping—his eyes turned to the
wall. I offered the paw of sympathy, but he
only shook his ruff. ‘No,’ lie seemed to say,
‘the wine of life is drawn. They have dis-
covered that my lips are pink, and that I carry
my ears like windmills—go to the next bench
and congratulate Wally, who has beaten me,’
The man who invented the phrase of one man
turning “dog” on another ought to be choked
with his own invention. It is an insult to dogs.
Curiously enough I can never get any dog-
psychology from professional or other exhibitors.
They will tell you of their animal’s pedigree and
how much he cost, but of his spiritual nature they
know nothing. Frequently I have seen in my
dog the desire to raise his life by conscious
endeavor. But perhaps at the moment a cat has
come into the garden and the psychological
moment has passed in dust and flying fur.
Mr. Freeman Lloyd in the ring, judging bull-
terriers ; he wore a long, closely-buttoned over-
coat the same color and fit as the terrier-skins. It
was a kind of oyster-white. His legs were tan,
and his feet black, and he looked down at the
bulls with their own expression, and they looked
up at him confidently as if to say, “Ah, you are
no mere man ; you have some of us in you. We
trust you.” Item : There was a “ Nance O’Neil ”
among the entries —a small one.
There are now two Chief Justice Darleys in
Sydney. One is Nature’s work, the other John
Longstaff’s. After seeing them both close
together I must confess to liking the artist’s pro-
duction even better than the original At Govt.
House on Tuesday the man in oils was presented
to the man in flesh and blood and law. Mr.
Longstaff modestly stayed away—at any rate he
wasn’t visible—so the Governor, and the Bench,
and Bar, and Institute of Bankers, and the
Ministry let themselves go in the matter of ad-
miration of his work. The wife of the C. J., in
black brocade and white lace, assured the Car-
dinal that the likeness was faultless, and
the Cardinal drew her attention to the masterly
treatment of the right band—the pince-nez be-
tween the fingers seemed to twirl slightly, so
easily is it held. Then lie of the Red Hat hastily
took himself away from the picture, for his red
robe was rival to the scarlet gown of the C.J.
Lord Beauchamp, in presenting the portrait,
quoted a fine copy-book maxim verse, which he
had “ dropped across the other day ” and now
brought forth to illustrate the esteem in which the
Darleys are held. Author? if you please, Excel-
lency.
A cluster of Judges and legislators helped H.E.
to tell the Chief wbat they thought of him, and
all hinted that they had assisted to put him on
his present good eminence. What a contrast
there is between the mouths and ears of the men
who make the laws and those who administer
them ! The former sag in the under-lip some-
what, and you can’t see through their ears. But
Bench and Bar look tight-lipped, narrow-eyed,
transparent-eared; all are going for the C.J.
type, or have got it to start with.
The portrait ? It is life-sized, in robes of office
against a hint of dark purple curtain and grey
pillar. Whilst it was being painted, the artist’s
friends saw him ageing rapidly, the original was
so hard to catch for a sitting.
Nance O’Neil, as La Tosca, looks slighter in her
swishing blue robe than in anything she’s hitherto
worn. What a blue it is ! There’s noonday sky
and moonbeams in it, and it looks light enough to
float like thistle-down. When the actress enters
in the last act to slay Scarpia she looks start-
lingly like the well-known picture of Queen
Louise of Prussia —where the Queen is descending
steps with insufficiently-clothed shoulders, and
ears tied up. Miss Fitzmaurice Gill, as Queen of
Naples, wears a very toney robe of white satin
and silver embroidery. Mr. Atholwood is work-
ing a miracle with his non-talky part. To me he
seems more wicked than Scarpia—more insidi-
ously wicked, like Azrael’s as istant demon minis-
ter who watches from behind his master. Only,
Azrael’s public and private life is, I believe, fairly
moral.
The tragedy of that Sardou horror! It’s not
in the painter’s blood-stained forehead, or the
knifeing of Scarpia, but it comes to you with the
singing of the French bugles as the conqueror
enters the city just too late.
Lottie Collins first appeared at Sydney Tivoli
last Saturday. She is wonderfully energetic, but
with all her skill and wealth of dress looks what
she is—well-preserved, strong, healthy, middle-
aged. Her first show is in a riding-habit of scarlet
Melton, under which she wears brown riding-
boots, and above a large, flat hat of the same
scarlet felt, decorated with the spoils of an
ostrich-farm. Her dance in the riding-habit is
brilliantly clever; the handling of the skirt, which
jerks about with jagged-pointed jerks, is one of
the trickiest things ever seen in the House of the
Dreadful Curtain. As a widow she appears in
the correct and proper funereal drapery, but when
she allows her delight at the prospect of a third
matrimonial experience to run riot, the red glow
of her liberty-silk underskirts lights up the whole
house.
To see Lottie Collins is a liberal education in
the tremendous difference between angles and
curves. As the widow, she revolves and spinls;
while as the fast Society girl, she is a lesspn in
trigonometry. As Gabriella Brown, she gets lost
in a wealth of chiffon —there are billows and
billows and clouds of it, and she handles it so
deftly that it never gets in the way. Lottie is
doing a great and lasting work of national benefit
—no woman can see how she handles all those
clouds of chiffon and come away without trying
to do likewise.
Moral Brisbane had a fierce fight with its
conscience lately over Tattersall Adams’ poster-.
ball cheque for £5O. To lose the amount was not
to be thought of for a moment, yet the Committee,
one and all, had scruples about breaking the law.
The Premier’s wife refused to accept it on account
of her husband’s position. Another lady, the wife
of a clergyman, refused on religious grounds ;
finally, I hear, the wife of a very high legal
functionary is to get the cheque and make it over
as a donation to the Hospital, herself—and it will
not go in with the poster-ball accounts. Why it
is more seemly for a judge’s wife to fix the matter
is indeed a mystery.
Sydney artist Tom Roberts, who contemplates
an early flight Londonwards, intends, about the
middle of November, to give a ovse man exhibition
at the rooms of the Society of Artists, Pitt-street.
Rumor has it that said little show (which will
include a three-quarter-length portrait of Gov.
Beauchamp, painted on a commission from the
trustees of N.S.W. National Gallery) will be well
worth a visit.
In new music there is a new patriotic song,
“ The Bugles Sing Strife,” by Augustus Gehde, a
melodious martial composition, full of fervor and
musical patriotism. Also, from Paling’s comes
the “Pom-Pom” Waltz, a bangy production that
pursues a treble path rather unsuccessfully, and a
London hall ditty, “I’ll be your Sweetheart,”
which is as easy to sing as to listen to.
From Hordern Bros, comes “ Shopping by
Post,” a useful guide to the firm’s millinery and
frocks. By the way, you ought to go and have a
peep at Hordern’s imported Cup dresses. Some
of them are very special, a grey poplin being very
low-priced; a sky-blue foulard with a buttercup
vest and much pretty lace ; a pale-grey voile over
cerise; a mousseline de soie and honiton lace,over
voilet glace; a graceful black embroidered voile ;
and many other adorable creations.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Seven-and-sixpenny seats for the first night of
the grand opera co. at the Princess’s sold at the
last minute for as much as two guineas, and stalls
seats were retailed freely at 15s. I am told that a
trader who bought up 18 seats boasted of having
made £l2 by the deal. I, myself, met one em-
bittered stranger from the Riverina who paid a
guinea for a seat, and then found, to his enormous
disgust, that he could not sit in it, Princess seats
not being built to accommodate abnormally-de-
veloped agriculturists of 18 stone. This was
M‘Kee Rankin’s grievance, too —he had to stand
about when ‘in front’ at any of the houses, not
being able to have a seat made to measure.
“At the Princess’, Louis Arens (said to be
Russian) depicts Faust as rather a limp sentimen-
talist. Where should one listen for a red-hot
vocal wooing if not at the lips of the operatic
hero, supposed to have sold himself into endless
torture just for ‘ the bliss of a young lady’s kiss,’
etc. ? But Faust was a German, and Germans do
seem rather milk-and-water in their courting days.
“ Scribe once knew a slim ‘ Hans ’ of 22 who
worshipped at the shrine of a fat Fraulein much
older than himself. He always began his love-
letters ‘ Thou pure and tender child ! ’ though she
made no pretence of being a spring chicken, and
he shilly-shallied secretively on the vei-ge of a pro-
posal for goodness knows how long, for fear, so he
said, the dew would be brushed off their love by
the crude congratulations of the local Deutsche
Club.
“ To look at, Arens’ Faust is a bearded, curled,
pasty-faced person in plum velvet, plumes, &c.
Lilian Coomber is a delightfully young, fresh,
pretty Marguerite. And the plump pigeon’s
plumage, though traditionally correct, is decora-
tive and up-to-date. Soft, grey voile clings
fashionably to her outlines, as far down as the
knees, and then widens out into pleats of goffered,
silk-muslin to match. Puffed slashings of ivory-
satin and a dear little blue velvet cap complete
the toilet of the dressy little Innocent.
“ The night this scribe sampled ‘ Faust ’ Nellie
Stewart (whose husband, it is announced, has
served her with a divOrce-writ), her mother, lady-
friend, and Mr. Musgrove kept a sharp eye on the
stage from their box. Nellie Stewart’s white
satin, embroidered with silver, was seen to fit like
a glove when she stood up, but sitting down, all
of her (a good deal) that showed above the box was
diamonds and flesh-color. The bodice was cut in
a straight line with weai’er’s half-mast sleeves,
met by long white gloves. Our Nellie’s bright
hair was done in a low-done projecting knot, and
right round the edge of her head, so to speak, ran
a massive coil iike a tight-skinned golden eel. It’s
a top-heavy, fat-headed coiffure, and surveying
the face beneath, observers grew pensive and re-
flected that none of us are growing younger. But
when Lord Dick, or anyone else, stepped into the
box for a chat with its principal occupant, the
latter’s face lighted up and again she looked ‘ a
flower of the Spring.’
“The returned wanderer seems chirpy as ever.
Apropos of her French maid, Juliet, she (Nellie)
told an interviewer that her English household
staff at one time included a butler named Romeo,
but the establishment boasted a balcony, and, as
Juliet is very pretty, poor Romeo is a thing of
the past. It is easy to see where Nellie gets her
spirit from ! You should see her mother (up-
wards of 70) bobbing delightedly from head to
foot in tune with the ‘Soldiers’ Chorus.’
“But Nellie was so nervous on the first night of
the Musgrove opera season. ‘ She knew that some
of the papers had said she would be there and that
many might go to see her.’ It was a greater
ordeal than appearing on the stage. ‘ They had
to push her into the box.’ The oddest thing
under the circs, was that Nellie the Nervous let
herself be pushed into the seat facing the
audiences when she might have been sheltered
from view.
“And Nellie as she appears in all her glory
(draped and otherwise) seated in the manager’s
box at the Princess’s is a striking contrast to the
Nellie who took her mother to the Bijou one night
last week. She had a private box there also, but
her creasy blouse and skirt looked as though she
had slipped them on in the morning and forgotten
to change them after putting the children to bed.
The hat, too, had probably seen some active
service on the voyage out from England.
Evidently she didn’t come with the intention
of shedding lustre on the Rickards show. It was
just a business visit by ‘ pantomime boy ’ Nellie
for the particular purpose of inspecting ‘panto-
mime boy ’ Billee. By the way, which of them
will look the. younger when they cut their rival
Xmas figures in Melbourne ?
“Mrs. Lawson’s diamonds lit up Baronet
Clarke’s box at the Tuesday night performance of
‘Faust.’ One of her most gorgeous gems is a
diamond miniature jockey and horse, which makes
a dazzling big neck ornament. A sapphire cross
is another. Her big Creole ear-rings seem to have
been lately discarded in favor of a pair of enor-
mous sapphire-and-diamond ear-studs.
“Lady Lamington was the last to arrive of
S’Malcolm’s ‘ Faust ’ party on Tuesday night.
She rustled in alone, untrumpeted, just before
the curtain rose. A quiet black gown gained a
little lustre from the effect of some fine diamonds
about neck and head. ■
“ President Zeal did not give his usual after>
noon tea to the ladies at the Parliamentary break-
up in Melbourne last week. Consequently there
was a poor show at the ceremony. Like
the blackfellow in the story who says, ‘ No more
rum no more hallelujah ! ’ the society women
say, ‘No tea, no show,’ and stay away in their
hundreds. Why Zeal didn’t give the tea as usual
is not known. The official explanation is that he
will give one at the opening of the new Parlia-
ment. But as people can’t be expected to eat and
drink twice as much then, to make up for the
tea they missed, this doesn’t make things easier
to understand. So few ladies have not been seen
at a Parliamentary ceremony for years.
‘UJanet Lady ’ must have wiped out all scores
up-to-date; by that tea-kettle and crochet At-home
she gave at ‘ Cliveden ’ last Wednesday. Every-
one was there —the members of the various Naice
Societies, besides the flotsam and jetsam of more
fluffy circles. An economic arrangement was the
large bill of entertainment posted up in several
places about the ball-room. A classical pro-
gramme was worked off in the ball-room, a band
played at intervals in the floral-garlanded hall,
and someone sang the old comic refrain ‘ Clever
Mr. Green ’ in the drawing-room. Then all kinds
of good things and cool things were swallowed in
the smaller ball-room. The hostess dazzled the
throng in a new cream creation—a close-fitting
lace veiling polonaise touched up with lilac-loops,
Fair Miss Mary Clarke paled beside her volatile
mamma, in a fashionable blue walking-frock re-
deemed by a creamy vest. Both wore gloves, but
were hatless. At the Madden at-homes the order
is reversed—hats are worn but not gloves.
“On Caulfield Cup day, the Maddens gener-
ously filled the special paling Pen with all the
Stephen clan and a showy French couple who
were mistaken by the general public for a brace
opera stars—only because there was so much of
them. As a fact, Signor Salvi and Miss Lorraine
were the only two leading members figuring in
the grand Cake-Walk on the lawn. In the big
well-dressed gathering, the wife of a leading book-
maker and a music-hall dazzler were most con-
spicuous in remarkably gorgeous white toilettes—
trained and built up in the flimsy style of evening
frocks. Another eye-splitting Glass of Fashion
was the conspicuous Sydney dresser whose mar-
riage with a leading citizen was celebrated in
Brisbane last month. This bride had her tall
figure outlined by a superbly-cut black brocade.
“ Great are the uses of patriotism. The Red vers
Buller petticoat and the General White slip-
bodice are on sale in Melbourne.
“Archbishop Carr is coming down heavily on
mixed marriages. By the latest edict the cere-
mony is robbed of all its tinsel—of blessing, of the
holy-water spray, and the priest’s vestments. The
Archbishop, much troubled in soul over the
matter, has the ceremony shorn of all its glory.
In fact, it now approaches the Registrar’s office
form, in its cut-and-dried aspect. Card. Moran
sometimes meets the mixed wedders half-way by
allowing the ceremony to come off before the side-
altar, but Dr. Carr refuses even this boon. His
‘No’ is cold and firm. It was pleaded recently
that the bride (who was marrying a member of
another faith) was well known to his Grace. ‘To
my sorrow, she is,’ h'e replied, gravely. ‘I handed
her the prize for Christian Doctrine, at
Convent for five years, and now she is doing this
awful thing.’ And more than ever was his‘No’
decisive. But, what a memory !
“Prof. Marshall Hall has been circularising the
musical critics of the London papers re his treat-
ment by Melb. University. The idea apparently
was to induce other competent musical men not
to apply for the Professorship. Futile effort !
Was ever any man prevented from applying for a
billet worth £BOO a year by the fact that someone
else had in his own opinion been unfairly treated ?
Besides, as Percy Betts, the musical critio of
Truth, points out, it isn’t likely that other Pro-
fessors of Music will write ‘ Hymns, Ancient and
Modern.’
“In reply to Parson Gladstone’s attack on
dancing an ‘ex-dancing-master’ writes to the
newspapers defending the Art in whose service the
best years of his life have been spent, as were
those of his father before him. This champion
hints at giddier goings-on in dark church-corners
than in ball-rooms, but he excludes from his
defence of dancing Melbourne ‘ cavorting-round ’
and declares that local things Terpsichorean have
come to a weird pass * since Lady Loch left us.’
Scribe would not be surprised to find that said
1 ex-dancing-master ’ is that well-known identity
who taught generations of Victoriennes to quad-
rille to perfection (waltzes and lancers he loathed
and despised), and who now lives in retirement.
He never was over fond of the Sex, judging by
his stern demeanor towards she-pupils, but his
bark was worse than his bite, and victims rather
liked him. His ancestors trained the toes of
aristocratic England in the way they should go,
and their transplanted descendant holds certifi-
cates from Victoria R. commending his kinsfolk’s
tuition of Windsor Castle small-fry.
“ Some of the smartest present-day Melbourne
and Tasmanian society leaders have felt the
weight of Mr. Z.’s fiddle-stick, and been melted to
tears by his sarcasm. ‘Now for the squatters’
daughters ! Come on, kangaroo-hoppers ! ’ he
would say. ‘ Doctors’ children next! Have your
mothers tied your knees together so the World
won’t grow too healthy ? ’ ‘ What’s that beetle-
crushing sound ? The parsons’ girls, I guess !
The sermons have gone into their heels ! ’ The
slightest symptom of a romp called forth passionate
remonstrances: ‘For Heaven’s sake, don’t part
with the only pull you’ve got over barmaids.
They’re twice as pretty as you are. They’re ten
times better dressed. If you’re not even ladylike,
God help you ! ’
Allan and Co. is the only firm that seems to
have turned its poster-ball advt. to really profit-
able account, by issuing an artistic little souvenir
illustrated with photos of the fetching Allan prize
group.—Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Somebody has just discovered that Syd-
ney’s old cemetery at Deyonsh ire-street is being
shockingly desecrated. Graves are pillaged
(chiefly for coffin-lead) and the whole place is a
wilderness of scrub. There are two institutions
the local establishment whereof might help to
civilise N.S.W. One is the inauguration of a
Jour des Morts, whereupon people would visit and
decorate the graves of tneir dead (which would, as
a consequence, be decently maintained between-
whiles). The other is a society for visiting and
bestowing comforts upon the myriads of aged
and infirm stacked away in the hideously-cheerless
Govt, asylums. As one of the Confucian’s
Strongest traits is his respect for the aged, per-
haps Quong Tart will whoop-up some of his coun-
trymen to give the alleged whites a lead in this
matter.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland's articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
(2itiZ6ns’Cife]ssurance Company [united
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Plylßting Policyliolciers exceed 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses.
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secretary.
SoreTbroaf
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morel! Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
“Condy’s Fluid” can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A ribald “tothersider,” who was struck by
Bigjohn Forrest’s laugh, has christened him
“Red-gum Forrest,” and the title sticks.
A Yic. candidate for Parliamentary honors
recently said that Federation had accomplished
one great thing—it had made Australia the fifth
quarter of the world.
Maoriland Postmaster-General Ward says
he has received letters threatening him with
assassination unless he puts more gum on the pro-
vince’s postage stamps.
Re oldest N.S.W. civil servant (8.,
20/10/’00). Surely Auditor-General Rennie is the
oldest civil servant both in age (80 years) and in
length of service (54 years).
A terrible calamity has happened to a re-
putable Maoriland medico. The villainous printer,
in “making-up” Sawbones’ professional card in
the local paper, mixed it with the advt. of a
local blood-stallion, with paralysing results.
An old Sydney bookseller went over last
week in the person of Mr. E. F. Flanagan, who
for many years carried on business on Brickfield
Hill. He was brother of the Flanagan who wrote
a history of N.S.W., now a rather rare book.
The presentation of the portrait of N.S. W.
Chief Justice Darley, which took place at Govern-
ment House, Sydney, on Monday, was a depar-
ture from the usual custom. The former
“ Chiefs’ ” portraits were presented in open Court.
Clancy and Kiley are two of “ Banjo’s ”
heroes in “The Man from Snowy River.” Troopers
Clancy and Kiley, of the Imperial Bushmen, have
both passed away in S’Africa ; their deaths were
mentioned in the papers on the same day last
week.
One of the first white women to travel
overland from N.S.W. to Victoria died last week
—Mrs. Anne Coates, a resident of Armstrong’s for
44 years. Mrs. Coates arrived in Sydney from
England in 1838, and was 78 at the time of her
death.
Prof. Marshall-Hall’s Musicians’ Union
has pluckily affiliated with Melb. Trades
Hall, and the probable result will be the appear-
ance of Prof. Hall on the Trades Hall Council.
Melb. would rather like to see the martial pro-
fessor conducting a strike.
The late Thomas Holt, M.L.C., from
whose estate at the Warren, Marrickville,
Sydney, a body of nuns was recently ejected, was
both religious and benevolent in his day. He was
N.S.W. first Leg. Assembly Treasurer, and was
the first to propose that the Speaker of that
House should each evening, on taking the chair,
recite the 67th Psalm.
Rupert Clarke’s grand-dad was essen-
tially a nothing-for-nothing man, whereas his dad
was a bit too free, and gave a lot for nothing.
Rupert is a “cross” of the two —gives nothing
for nothing, yet is a good sport with a keen eye
to the main chance. Said the other day about
buying Bill of Portland, “So I would—ah—if I
thought—ah—there was money in him.”
Many years ago, in Muswelbrook (N.S.W,)
district, a lady was killed and her son left for dead
by an aboriginal, who also carried off her 3-year
old. daughter. The latter was never heard of
afterwards, and it is now surmised that Mrs.
Governor, mother of the Breelong outlaws (who is
a full-blooded white) was that child. Mrs G.,
who is at the aboriginal mission station out back
does not take kindly to the interest shown in he.
by curious visitors to the station.
NOT HIS FAULT.
DINGO FLAT HAMLET: “Look here, you know, I
didn't write this play !”
Bismarck said that Kruger was one of the
most skilful and remarkable statesmen he had
ever met. The editor and printer (combined) of
the Cow Flat Spectator combats this,
and in a mordant leading article
states he would make Bis-
marck prove his words were
he alive.
THE LUST OF THE FLESH.
FIRST SHEPHERD : “ Did you leave the Chockful Islanders
because they hungered too much after the World,
the Flesh, and the Devil?”
SECOND DITTO: “ Yes; I found they were too keen on the second.’
Auditor-General Rennie, now in his 80th
year and the 54th of service under N.S.W. Govt.,
has seen 12 Governors and 28 Ministries pass in
and out of office in N.S.W. The only Premier he
ever stubbornly resisted was G. H. Reid. With
x few other Premiers his relations were strained ;
but with Reid the friction was so intense that
only through fear of Parliament Reid would have
had him superseded.
When the late Vic. Chief-Justice Higin-
botham was Attorney-General in the M‘Culloch
Govt., during a quarrel between the two Houses
of Parliament, Gov. Darling allowed him to write
his despatches for him. The epistles were a shade
too masterful for Downing-street, long-accustomed
to Governors who knew how to kiss the rod. So
Darling was promptly recalled, and Victoria
has paid his widow a pension of £lOOO per
annum for tne last 34 years. A
big price for a rhetorical Attorney-
General ; but Higinbotham got even
with the British Govt. By allowing
the Confederate cruiser Shenandoah
to coal and recruit at Port Mel-
bourne, he considerably swelled the
damages they were mulct in when
the Alabama claimsa ward was made.
The late Dr. Howitl, of Melbourne, who
died about 25 years ago, was brother to William
Howitt, the well-known author, who visited him
in ’5l. A few days before reaching Hobson’s
Bay Wm. Howitt dreamt (or had a vision) that he
saw his brother sitting on the verandah of his
wooden house at the top of Coll ins-street, East.
On landing he found that all the details of the
premises were exactly as they had appeared to
him nearly a week before, and he recorded the
circumstance in a paper on clairvoyance.
There was once a delightfully
suave N.S W. Prothonotary, at
whose office-door one morning knocked
two rough-looking men. “Be stated,
gentlemen,” said the courtly old official —
1 what can I have the pleasure of doing for you ? ”
“Well,” replied the burlier of the visitors, “it’s
jest this way, Mister Sheriff. The ’angman wants
an hassistant, an’ me an’ my mate here thinks one
of us might soot fer the job.”
If Premier Seddon swells much more he
will burst. Speaking at Wellington Labor Day
Demonstration he declared that “ at New Zealand
Hill (where one Maorilander was killed) Maori-
land wiped the stain of Majuba Hill off the
Empire’s scutcheon.” Also that “‘New Zea-
lander ’ is a sure pass to a billet through America
and the Empire.” Later on in the same day,
while opening a Salvarmy barracks, he said,
“ There are only two generals, Booth and Roberts;
and I’m willing to follow either of them.” In
fact, Digger Dick’s style of Imperialism is daily
growing more like the Salvarmy style of religion.
The Australian bard is surely coming to
his kingdom of honor ! Roderic Quinn, the poet,
and Quong Tart, the Sydney Scotch-Chinese adver-
tising tqa-man, were bracketed in the report of
guests at the recent official sod-turning of Casino-
Lismore railway. (N.8.-—Quong Tart was men-
tioned first.)
Occupancy of the judicial bench goes
farther back in the family of Justice 'Owen than
in that of any other member of N.S.W. judiciary.
The Thomas Owen who ruled the Court of Com-
mon Pleas in England in the days of Queen Eliza-
beth was a direct ancestor of the present Justice
Owen. Thomas Owen was buried in Westminster
Abbey.
The honorary degree of F.R.C.S., Eng.,
has been conferred on Dr. Alex. M ‘Cormick, of
Sydney. The doctor, now in S’Africa with the
N.S. W. troops, was formerly Professor of Anatomy
at Sydney University, and is, it will not be too
much to say, generally recognised by his brother
medicoes as Australia’s most accomplished surgical
operator.
The last request of Cordua, the Boer
officer shot by “Bobs” for his complicity in the
plot against the British at Pretoria, was for a bath,
and his only words at the point of execution,
when asked if he had anything to say, were : “No;
this is the price of failure.” The request for the
bath is no doubt ascribable to the spread of
British influence.
The marriage, at Brompton Oratory,
London, of Mr. F. W. Cape to Miss Ethel Dibbs,
daughter of Mr. T. A. Dibbs, general manager of
the Commercial Bank of Sydney, unites two
families already historically associated in early
N.S.W. history. The Dibbses were born in Syd-
ney, and the Capes arrived in the days of Gov.
Brisbane; and the Capes were schoolmasters to
the Dibbses, and the Dibbses bankers and agents
for the Capes.
Ex-Police-Magistrate Pollet Cardew, who
died lately at Stanthorpe at the age of 83, was one
of the genuine pioneer squatters of early Queens-
land. He settled on the Flinders when even
explorers thought the country untouched by white
man. But like many of these courageous pioneers
he found the land an unwilling servant and, when
verging on old age turned over to Govt, employ.
He was appointed P.M. and held the post till his
retirement a few years ago.
Tasmanian warrior Peers has been ex-
plaining to the local press that the whiskers
exhibited in a gilt frame,” and described as
those “of the first Boer shot by Private Peers,”
were really only those of a live Boer—-which had
been taken off in hospital. But the fact remains
that when the whiskers were shown (from a
public platform) as those of a slaughtered Boer,
the Jingo audience evinced no disgust and the
Jingo press made no comment.
Lord Brassey was a visitor to Victoria m
’B7. A spark from a railway engine having got
into one eye, he was obliged to wear a patch over
it. He attended the Jubilee fancy-dress ball at
Govt. House in a naval uniform, and, until the
description of his character was published, every-
one thought he had assumed the r6le of Dick
Deadeye.
The latest exploit in the way of missing
things on the part of an eminent political lawyer
happened while he was up country, commissioned
as a Supreme Court Judge. The train arrives
there at something to 7 a.m., and as the landlord
couldn’t get him out of bed in time, the train had
to be hung up while the drowsy traveller was
rushed out of his pyjamas into his other clothes.
As a Judge, by the way, the most striking cha-
racteristic of this particular Q.C. is extreme
deliberation.
Prof. Morris, of Melb. University, told
a conference of Library. Associations in Adelaide,
the other day, that “a book published in Sydney
had no chance in Melbourne, and vice versa.” A
lot depends on the book, anyhow. Seemingly,
the two ponderous vols. by Mr. Morris have had
small circulation outside of his own little sphere of
influence. “ The Man from Snowy River ” might
have been published in another Australian city
than Sydney without loss or gain to its circulation
anywhere.
The death of Teoni Topi Patuki severs the
last link that bound Southern M.L. to the tradi-
tional Maori. Topi, who was at least 94, de-
scended from Tau-i-hara-nui-rangi-a-moa, a name
which has reference to the times of the moa. As
hereditary head of the tribe, Tau-i-hara-nui was
regarded with the greatest awe, and common
people didn’t dare to look upon his face, while his
equals felt his sacred presence an oppressive
restriction to their liberty of is
what latter-day natives say, at any rate.
Even diplomatists occasionally mistake
their audience. At a banquet given recently by
the A.N.A., in a Vic. country town, a prominent
M. P. unexpectedly took his legs from under the
mahogany, balanced carefully, then launched
forth into speech unmistakably prepared for the
benefit and laudation of a body of railway
employes. Much language and quite smin. were
spent before those nearest the orator succeeded in
turning the torrent of whiskied eloquence in its
right direction —on to the merits of the assembled
A.N.A.
A scriptural Christian name is one of the
sins of his parents that invariably find a man out.
The other night, when Matthew Davies was try-
ing to hold his own against satirical questioners at
a Melb. election meeting, the thing that always
knocked him out of time was the voice of a jocular
voter crying “O, 3fatth-ew ! ” The candidate had
some pals present who did their best to keep him
in countenance by shouting “Shame !” upon his
disrespectful questioners—the same old “ Shame ”
whicli was heard in days of yore at bank meetings
when any brutal citizen dared to cast a doubt on
the doings of the land boom crowd. But even these
faithful barraekers were powerless against “O,
Matth-e w !”
Colonel J. E. N. Bull (Vic.), who recently
celebrated his 94th birthday, enjoys excellent
health. The veteran, after long service in a
British regiment, reached N.S.W. in ’4l with the
rank of captain, and was employed by the Govt.
On the breaking out of the Vic. diggings in’sl
he was appointed the first goldfields warden at
Forest Creek, and he resided at Castlemaine for
45 years. When the volunteer movement began
he was one of its most enthusiastic supporters.
He retired from the force with the rank of Colonel
about 20 years ago. His father fought at Water-
loo as a captain of artillery. Mrs. Bull, who is a
year or two younger than her husband, is also
hale and hearty.
Mr. “Johnny” Hunt (“Boondi” and
“ Flaneur ”) writes :
Dear Bulletin. — Let me correct a couple of slight in-
accuracies in your kind and sympathetic par. of 20/10/’OO.
Some of my excellent but over-appreciative friends have,
I believe, decided to present me with a testimonial, but
as I have not had a single idle day during the last quarter
of a century, nothing in the shape of a “public benefit ”
is needed, Lam Deo ! My left eye, alas, is wrecked, but
unless there are “ complications,” the cataract now form-
ing on my right eye can be removed when ripe and the
sight of that eye be left as good as new. Cataract may
ripen in a month or a year, consequently the date of my
month’s retirement to a hospital is problematical. My
long martyrdom in any case is more than compensated
for by the good-will and sympathy shown by many ster-
ling friends. —Jno. I. Hunt.
The celebrated Jenny Lesley, whose
lovely face and form are depicted in Leighton’s
famous picture, “Wedded,” in N.S.W. National
Gallery, appeared in the dock at London Old
Bailey, the other day, under the name of “Mary
Crane,” and got 20 months’ gaol for theft. Her
beauty is quite extraordinary. She has a noble
head, crowned with a wealth of golden hair, and
carries it with such rare dignity as to win from
her associates the pet name of “Swan-neck.”
Her figure, too, is perfect in proportion and grace,
and her hands and feet are exquisitely formed.
She always has been, in fact, an artist’s ideal
vision—and she is a confirmed criminal with many
convictions. Her favorite game is robbing sus-
ceptible old gentlemen.
Tasmanian obit. : On 10th inst., John
Field, of Calstock. He was born at Launceston,
Tas., in 1821, and was the last of four brothers,
Charles, Thomas, William and John, who de-
parted in that order from the scene of their
exploits, sporting and otherwise. The green
jacket and black cap have on numerous occasions
fluttered first past the box, and the historical
Malua, Sheet Anchor and Blink Bonny first
tasted mother’s milk in the Calstock paddocks.
“Old Jack’’was a rough diamond, and looked
it all. When the four brothers were in their
prime in the old V.D.L. days, upon one occasion
they swaggered into the Ship, at Hobart Town,
and breasted the bar. The landlady, who knew
them individually, gazed on their stalwart frames
in silent admiration, and at length remarked:
“Well, yous Fields are a hugly race, sure-ly!”
John had a soft spot or two beneath his knotty
exterior, and read his Bible regularly every night.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
“ Pelican ” tells a story of bush hos-
pitality :
Our coach broke down near a certain “Travellers’
Rest,” and we passengers (squatter’s wife returning home
and self) were compelled to put in a night. The accom-
modation was unspeakable—meals, rooms and beds. And
about 1 a.m. a shot-gun roared a double report close to
my head, and Mrs. Public-house burst through my lock-
less door, meagrely clad, to inform me that Jim (her hub.)
was drunk, an’ was blowin’ holes through the roof as he
lay in bed ; “an’ would I please take the gun from him ? ”
I didn’t like the job, but went in and was relieved to find
Jim quite amenable. “ Wantsh gun ? S’orl rite I —taksh
and go shootsh poshum. I’m orlrite —I’ll keep quiet if
you make Mary undress (she was in her nightgown) an’
come to bed.” “Yes,” chimed in Mary, “it is all right
now ; he’ll keep quiet.” I strolled out on the verandah
in my pyjamas, and suddenly heard a yell and crash, and
out of my fellow-passenger’s room fled Mary, followed by
the lurching James, both clad as were our first parents,
save that James was this time attired in a carving-knife.
I settled this contract with James—on the point of the
jaw—his partner not appearing. The rest of the night,
or morn, was peaceful. At breakfast Mary appeared and
tendered an apology to my fellow-passenger. “You are
married, mum?” “Yes.” “Ah, well, ye knows, last
night is the sort of thing we pore married women has to
put up wid I ” ■'
• • * »
Concerning bush-made whisky :
Dear Bulletin.— There is more real delight in a pint of
“ mountain dew ” —made in gullies all over N.S.W. —than
in a bucketful of the best Scotch or Irish ever imported.
The other morning a chap came down from the mountain
with a bottle of it, and all hands at the milking-shed had
a couple of pulls. An hour later the writer passed that
yard, and found the old man and one of the boys in
“holts” in a comer, with gore flowing copiously from
both, while the mother and the other boys were trying all
they knew to “bail up” the bull. Three pigs and a
couple of kangaroo-dogs were squabbling over a diseased
bullock that had “ pegged out ” the day before and had
not been shifted, and some hens and ducks stood outside
the ring and fought for the scraps of meat which flew in
all directions. Passed place again in the afternoon and
saw the bull bailed up and leg-roped, and the cows bel-
lowing wildly about what remained of the defunct bul-
lock. The head of one unfortunate cow had been re-
leased from the bail before the greenhide leg-rope had
been removed, with the result that she had kicked her
hip out, and lay moaning piteously. The milkers were
all fast asleep after their exertions, and I hadn’t the
heart to wake ’em. It was bliss. You can get it in
Sydney ; but there it is so messed up with water and
coloring and flavoring matter that 80 per cent, of the
bite is out of it. Here we get the “ rale white tack,”
straight from the still—the proper stuff to run amok on 1
—Yarrcm. /
P.S. —There are a dozen stills within five miles of here.
• * * *
Snake-proof fencing is a novelty. Near
Lake Cowal, Wyalong way, there is a homestead
and surrounding garden, about acres, enclosed
in wire-netting to keep snakes out. The
men’s quarters have also netting compounds
round them for protection. The local snakes are
mostly of the genus Hoplocephalus, and as many
as 17 of them have been killed in the house in one
day before the fencing was erected. The owner
of the station offered so much per head for venom-
ous snakes killed on the run, but gave it up when,
in a very short time, 1000 had been paid for.
» * * «
Illiterate shift-boss to new hand (who is
a bit of a swell): “What’s yer name?” New
Hand: “Herbert Scratchmere.” I. S. Boss:
‘Wh—at!” N. H. : “Herbert Scratchmere.”
I. S. B. : “ What country do you come from ? ”
N. H. : “South Australia.” I. S. B. : “Ha!
Then from now on your name is K-r-o—Crow.”
And “ Crow ” it has been ever since.
BOILING THE BILLY.
TOWN SOLICTTOR ( reading over menu to client
from the Very Never-Never Land): “ Would
you like SOUP to start with?”
COUNTRY CLIENT: "No, thanks, I’d sooner have
TEA.”
“Fairholm”: “ Yarrum ” (8., 18/8/00)
errs in saying that the “water-iguana” can’t
climb dovm. I have repeatedly seen it do so.
Also, when taking refuge in a hollow trunk, the
reptile has got to go down head-first.
• * • *
“AF.” : Have wagered a man that the
brown snake and the yellow-bellied are the same ;
and also that there are not more than 30 species
of lizards in Australia, and that all Australian
lizards have five toes on all four feet. Are you
listening, M‘Cooey ?
“Vril”: Be P.H.C.’s Dravidian dingo
theory (8., 25/8/’00). The pariah dog that swarms
in Chinese towns, nosing round for the succulent
baby, has more in common with the dingo than
any other known canine.
• ♦ * *
“ A.P.R.” : According to a writer in May
Century, the dog is descended from the jackal,
and not from br’er wolf as popularly supposed.
When allowed to mongrelise freely, it is asserted,
he becomes a “small, yellowish animal, with
brown bees over the eyes, a white tail-tip, and a
height at the shoulder of about 20in. ; i.e., he
resumes the jackal type. ” Excepting perhaps the
“brown bees,” this description seems to tally well
with that of the dingo.
* * * *
At; Opunake (M.L.), recently, a few war-
riors and wahines, on the tramp, wanted to put up
at the village pub., but the money, proffered in
advance, was contemptuously refused —“House
full!” The aged wahine in charge of the party,
however, sent one of the youngsters for the local
policeman, demonstrated her ability to pay, and,
accommodation being still refused, promptly took
out a summons. It was court-day, and the beak,
after hearing the complainaut, called on the land-
lord to make good his excuse. This Bung, of
course, could not do, so he was fined £lO for re-
fusing travellers accommodation. Kapai te
J udge l
* * * *
“Rod”: To “Moke” (8., 22/9/’00) on
the practice of drenching a horse through the
nostrils: —
This method is very common, and causes many equine
deaths. The most merciful and effective way of drench-
ing is first to put a halter or headstall on the patient, and
then back him into a stall or into a corner so that he
can’t run back ; pass the bight of a plough-rein over
a beam or rafter immediately over his head, bring it down
and put it through the nose-band of the halter from the
rear and slip it over the muzzle so that it will rest just
behind the front teeth, then draw tight. The halter pre-
vents the rope from coining too far forward and slipping
off, and the head can be pulled as high as necessary with
little trouble, and the dose easily administered through
the mouth. A man who has tried this method a few
times can doctor a wild or vicious horse single-handed, as
after a couple of attempts to plunge the animal finds him-
self helpless and submits.
• • • •
“ Geebung ” : Be recent picture, in a
Sydney weekly, of a diamond-snake having all
but swallowed a full-grown hare. Riding along a
bridle-track one day saw a piece of snake sticking
out from under a hollow log. Brought full force
of stockwhip on to the piece, but it never flinched.
Rolled log away and revealed a combination of
hare and tiger-snake, the latter between sft. and
6ft. in length, and the hare, from butt of tail to
nose, about Bin., not more. Snake had managed
the head and neck all right, but in trying to over-
come the shoulders had died. Now, if a sft. Gin.
snake dies in the attempt to swallow a hare Bin.
long, how can a 9ft. snake (length of the illus-
trated one) swallow with impunity a “full-grown
hare, ” generally about 18in. in length and nearly
Gin. in dia. ?
m * * m
H. J. M‘Cooey re the only Meston :
(Queensland aboriginal protector Meston reports finding
“ a new species of bird ” somewhere within the kick of a
brown cow of the railway-line. I don’t know whether
Meston is more truly awful as ornithologist, ethnologist
or aboriginal linguist. I can produce a long list of 260
alleged aboriginal words with definitions attached which
Meston put off on a distinguished ethnologist, and I
can prove that only three words out of the lot are abori-
ginal. It was Meston, also, who saw lyrebirds 600 miles
west of. Brisbane 1 Scientific naturalists and ethnological
students hereby yell aloud for Meston’s scalp.
* • • •
“ Mutton Bird” : Be dingo feigning death.
Once ran a dingo down, and after the first clout I
gave him he rolled over as if dead.
1 then hit him with a 11b. stirrup-
iron till I thought every bone in his
body was broken, and threw the
supposed corpse on an ant-heap.
Rode on, and, happening to look
back, was astonished to see the
defunct making off into the scrub.
“ Peter K.” : Be
carnivorous plants.
Many of the Drosera
are insectivorous. The
common Sundew, for
instance, secures its
insect-victim by means
of a viscid secretion
upon the outer tenta-
cles of the loaf. These
bend inward, and the
insect is passed by
means of succeeding
tentacles to the centre
of the leaf, whei’e it
is drowned by the
abundant secretion and
is gradually absorbed.
The Sundew will
thrive on a diet of
morsels of roast meat.
Low, marshy ground
vs the home of all in-
sectivorous plants.
* * *
“ W.J.”: Any Bulletin reader know
whether the “native-companion” is an eatable
bird ? Have been told that the flesh is too black.
By the way, it is hard to get them within firing-
range, unless a rifle is used.
* * * *
“ Tas.” : “ Werrimee ” (16/6/’00) is right :
it is only a love of mischief that causes parrots to
strip bark from trees. Proof: Put almost any
parrot into a cage with a wooden perch, and
notice how soon the perch is destroyed and a new
one needed.
* • • *
Re “ human nestlings ” (B. 18/8/’00). An
alleged account of a ’roo-hunt, lately printed in
another London paper, says “ the kangaroo is a
very ferocious beast, and, when driven to bay, it
will leap up and strike at the hunter’s breast. To
prevent serious injury, the hunter wears, sus-
pended from his neck, a fibre shield.” Fancy
Wire-fence Jimmy hunting’roos with a door-mat
down his chest! Another item from an ’Ome
paper: “ The horses in the bush wear rope-
• shoes.”
An indignant ratepayer writes to Widgee
(Gympie) Divisional Board:
I wish to direct your attention to the state of a small
humpy occupied by a couple called ; it consists -of
one room in a filthy state, and is becoming a nuisance ;
they are dog-breeders ; there is about 14 dogs, they appear
to occupy same house as themselves. What with the
drinking and road being infested with fleas, I consider it
ought to be seen to, regarding keeping down plague and
contagious diseases. —Mrs. S.
• * * •
“Bogan” (8., 30/6/’00) : Be pigeon-pair.
Tame pigeons nearly always breed a pair of
different sexes, but bronzewings invariably
breed two of the same sex. This may
act as a natural preventive of in-
breeding. Have also bred the native /
“ crested pigeon,” but it is with them
so difficult to distinguish between the
sexes that I cannot speak with cer-
tainty about the results. I have several
times found four eggs in a tame pigeon’s
(turbit’s) nest, but cannot say if all laid by
same bird.
“Robbie”: He the blacks’ fondness for
liquor. When I was acting as Postmaster at the
Big Scrub I used at intervals to get the office
scrubbed out by Belle Belle, a dusky matron of
the neighborhood, and would always arrange with
the publican to save the “leavings” for a month.
This and a fig of black ’bacca would be Belle’s pay,
and, as she scrubbed, the messenger stood by to
give her an occasional tot of tire horrible mixture
of spirit-drainings and “ dead ” beer, as otherwise
she would have “surrounded” the whole of the
poison in a few minutes, and possibly thus have
done herself to death. [lf “Robbie” hasn’t
exaggerated the case against himself, his yam
furnishes a cheerful instance of how the alleged
white Christian will serve the black brother or
sister when he gets a chance.]
* * * »
Claimed that the world’s heaviest bullock
was lately killed in South Australia by Messrs.
E. Laughton and Co. It was bred at Monkira
(Q.), and when dressed scaled 19921b5. Live
weight, 30431b5.
* * * *
Of 49 children born at the S. Australian
Aborigines Mission stations during the last 12
months, no less than 32 are half-castes. Jump up
whitefellow !
* * * *
“ R.W.S.” : I put a 4-ft. wire-netting
fence around some growing green-stuff to keep
the hares out; but every morning I found inside a
hare or two, which, on seeing me, would try in
vain to jump out. Yet, I suppose they must have
jumped in. Anybody enlighten ?
“Canip” : Be wild cats (“ E.M.,” B.
25/8’00). It is pretty certain that the progeny of
tame cats gone wild do grow to larger size than
their parents. I recently dropped across a few in
gidyah scrub on Belyaudo, and all were above
average tame-cat size. Strange also that these
cats, despite their climbing abilities, invariably
nest in logs on the ground.
POSSUM-HUNTING AFTER THE SUB.
TOP HUNTER (hanging by tomahawk): “If you
don’t let go me legs I’ll hit you on the head
with the Hanky axe."
DESCENSUS A VERNI!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ya/rding lambs, with long-tails breaking,
Toiling in the teeth of Fate
After old ewes bent on taking
Any opening but the gate.
Blasphemy and blue lights blended
In the fiery stress of work ;
Hapless newchums recommended
To a hotter place than Bourke.
Using four-inch rails to flog, and
Using words as quaint as coarse ;
Running when your horse turns dog, and
Barking when your dog turns hoarse.
Tearing shirt* and ripping leathers;
Toiling, early hours and late,
Keeping up ten thousand wethers
To the hungry drafting-gate .
Dusty men with grimy faces
Rushing crossbred weaners through,
While a coughing super places
Orders, underlined in blue.
Straining wires with blistered finger:
Scrufflng old ewes down the dip,
Kicking tarboys, sacking ringers,
Cursing grass-seed in the clip.
Riding round eternal fences,
Dragging dead-stuff out of dams,
Taking Uncle Kruger chances
In a yard of angry rams.
Snaggers, sixtooths, Sangers, Suttors,
Learners, twinkles, weaners, wool,
Cull-ewes, kelpies, combs and cutters
Make the wisest man a fool.
Fancy workers, fluke and flusters,
Foot-rot, blow-flies, crows and kites.
Mongrel*, maggots, mutton-musters
Fill the days and haunt the nights.
Out of all this wild confusion,
After meditation deep,
I have come to the conclusion
That the road to Hell is—SHEEP !
GRASS HOPPER.


Boer War
-^Souvenirs.
h
Another extensive shipment to hand.
Genuine Pieces of Shell fired in battle mounted on Rifle Model Brooches, and also Bayonet
Brooches. The shell fragments have a small gold shield engraved “Africa, 1900.” Price
12s fid to 255. Souvenir Spoons, Baden-Powell head in relief.
Used Cartridges made into Fruit Knives, Charms of Silver and Gold, Heads in relief work of
Lord Roberts, 8.-P., Kitchener and other heroes, 2s.
They are worth a visit of inspection, and you are invited to see them.
Plain Figures. . . ,
• . . • Cash Prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
Stated in Q. Assembly that a Javanese
was missed on a N. Q. sugar plantation, and after
four days his body was found in a vat of juice. A
little trifle like that didn’t stop the syrup from
going into consumption. Pass the treacle !
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send -their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
HATS.
HATS.
HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
N.S.W. millionaire-squatter M‘Caughey
has ordered 1000 trucks to be at Bourke to take
southward 100,000 of his sheep, perishing through
drought. There will be 40 train-loads.
* * * *
“ Alex. M.” re the peculiarities of Austra-
lian English :
With reference to “ Locust’s ” remarks (B. 11/8/’OO), an
Australian friend of mine writes to me that “ such stric-
tures make him very tired,” in view of the fact that many
educated English people lamentably misuse their mother-
tongue—as in the case of the curate who reads—" He
that hath yahs to yah, let him yah.” But the fact that
our language is thus bedevilled in one direction by the
noodles of a bogus “culture” is no reason why an
attempt should not be made to relieve Young Australia’s
v ernacular of some of its orthoepic vileness. A some-
what extended observation of the way even the educated
local young person speaks has given me the following
results.
The most notable and the commonest characteristic
(a Cockney importation, by the way) of “Australese” is
the giving to the a-sound (as in “plate”) the i-sound
(as in “ice”). Then, as the o-sound in “open” is
further given the ow-sound as in “ now,” these two ren-
derings turn “Open the gate” into “ Owpen the ghite.”
The other o-sound (as in “ dog”) and the nearly equiva-
lent a-sound (as in ‘ ‘ tall ”) are represented by a closely-
combined o-a-sound with which “off” becomes “oaff”
and “small” “ smoall.” (A few experiments in very
rapid consecutive utterance of these two vowels will be
required to show that this is so).
Next we come to the sound locally given to the “ a,”
as in “ man,” “ tram,” &c. This peculiarity was very
difficult to analyse, and it was some time before I could
decide that the local pronunciation of such words em-
bodies simply the prefixture of an ee-sound to the proper
a-sound, the words cited becoming thus : “ meean,”
“ treeam.” (This peculiarity, also, is not easy to identify
unless the two sounds are very rapidly combined.)
In the local sound of “ ou,” as in “mountain,” again,
the apparently unanalysable peculiarity will be found,
upon close observation, to consist merely of the rapid
prefixture of the ee-sound to the “ou”—resulting in
“ meeountain ” ; the t-sound also in this word being re-
presented by a nasal abortion which it is impossible to
put in characters. Before the 00-sound this illegitimate
“ ee ” is made somewhat longer—“ school,” for instance,
becoming thus “ skeeool.” The 00-sound itself, also, is
completely lost in such words as “to,” “you,” &c., and
the short ee-sound of terminal “ y ” is much lengthened ;
so that, to embody several of my instances in one sen-
tence, one Australian youngster will “sing-out” to
another (they never “call out” in Australia) “Alaow”
(Hallo), “Joahnee; a-ya-gownta” (are you going to)
‘ ‘ skeeool a-Mundee ? ”
The “y” in such words as “my” always receives a
pronounced ee-sound ; so that, with the customary drop-
ping of the aspirate, and the conversion of the broad-a-
sound into the short-e-sound, “ my hand ” becomes “ me
end.” Where this en-sound legitimately occurs, also, the
tendency is to make it “ un,” and short “i,” as in
“ bill,” being also turned into the dull u-sound, “ twenty
shillings in the pound,” becomes, with the customary
final-g-dropping (a fast-expiring English society-fad, by
the way), “ twuntee shulluns in the peound.” This, of
course, is an extreme rendering, but the characteristic
intonations are common even amongst Australian Univer-
sity-graduates.
The prevalent interpolation of “r ” between a terminal
and a commencing vowel, as in “the lawr of the land,”
is so common amongst even the upper middle-class Eng-
lish that it need not be noted as specially Australian, any
more than the neglect or misuse of the aspirate, which,
with young Australians, is frequently derived from ill-
educated British parents.
* * * *
“Ben S.”: lie stalking bustards (“ A. 8.T.,”
B. 8/9/’00). A good way is with calico, framed
and colored like a cow. But the best way to bag
them is from behind cover, as they fly south in
early summer. They fly mostly above open coun-
try, and are visible at a mile. From a rise, I have
shot five in an hour. Pays well, too. By the way,
why do they go south in summer, and when do
they return ?
“ W.T ” : In skinning a blue doe kanga-
roo recently found two joeys, each about 2in.
long, adhering to teats in the pouch. Nobody
whom I have asked about it has met with a simi-
lar case of twins. Has any Bulletin reader ?
BY-THE-WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ilis gaze was in his pewter-pot,
With sweetly pensive air,
As one whose soul delighteth in
The amber fluid there.
He listened to our “ tallest ” yarns
With courteous interest.
Then drained his pot and told us this
(And then we gave him best).
“ Once, me an’ Jim went to the lake
To see what we could pot—
The day was hot, we’d had some beer,
We lost the bloomin’ shot.
“ Well, seven swans came streakin’ by,
’Twas hard to let them go !
Jim slaps the ramrod in the gun—
And skewers ’em in a row !
“ An’ did she kick ? My boy, she did l
She knocked Jim nearly blind,
She spread him out —flew from his grip—
An’ killed a hare behind !
“ I don’t believe in bloomin’ blokes,
Wot’s always spinnin’ lies ;
These ’ere are solium facts, these is,
On which there ain’t no flies.
“ The swans fell flop into the lake,
A-squirmin’ on that skewer ;
Jim bucked straight in to fetch ’em out—
Jim can’t be beat; he’s ‘ pure.’
“ Like sportsman true, Jim battled through
That slippery lagoon ;
When he came out his pants was swelled
As big as a balloon.
“ He couldn’t walk a yard, the way
Them pants was bulgin’ out ;
I emptied ’em—chock-full they were,
Of perch, an’ cod, an’ trout.
“ Who’s—what’s a lie ? ’Ere, come outside 1
I’ll punch y’ black an’ blue !
I’ll—what ? a beer ! —all right, ole pard—■
I don’t mind if I do I ”
VIC.
ALONE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Ken. : Library par. wants date and hour to have
value. Don’t handle fact as if ’(were fiction Wyalong :
Too “strong” for Bulletin. Should have sent it to
some “ religious ” paper.. .. R.A.K. : We know building-
trade swindles worth a dozen of yours. And we also
know a new swindle that would be worth thousands to an
enterprising jerry-builder, but we’re keeping it dark
Harry Grey : Razor poem declined... C. Poole : “ Ideal ”
published; “Shouting” in type; may possibly print
“ Moaning.”.... W. Nankervins : You talk of the sweated
labour of Europe “underselling the American manufac-
turer in his own market.” In the name of all that is
wonderful, in what does the European artisan under-
sell the Yankee in the Yankee’s own market?
Policy-Holder: The Society in question will announce
the results of its quinquennial investigation almost im-
mediately. In an institution which spreads its business
over so many countries the work takes much time
N. : Steal from some of the ancients ; Boake is too
recent... .R.T.R. : Did we in a reckless mood name an
acid that would turn a red nose white ? If so, we’ve for-
gotten that red-nosed item. When did it appear?
Andrews.: “Voice” and “Weary” want force and
interest... .Louis M. : “ Dental ” declined.... Ives. B.D. :
All Scots do not resent being called “ Scotch.” If they
do, why is the Melbourne “Scotch College” so called?
....W.A.W. : A most lovely criminal libel is that war-
lecturer item. And how the Jingo court would whack
it into The Bulletin ! This paper is now a very sus-
picious old dog indeed... .A. 0.: Very old indeed. All
the bebaubled politicians explain that they took their
titles to please their wives Claris S. : Your motif too
stale. The story, originally told of a N.Q. policeman, is
very widely known... .J. L. Hanley : Immediately before
opening the letter in which jmu accuse us of being
bigotealy anti-Irish, we opened one (from “ Tyne ”)
charging The Bulletin with being “ practically a Fenian
organ.” What do you want—and what are the specific
acts or omissions on which your indictment is based ?....
M.S. : “ Kindly publish this skit on my husband, and
oblige.” Skit on him yourself, madam. Issue your inane
paragraph in pamphlet form, and charge the unhappy
man with the price of your crime... .Melb.: Architect
Butterfield and the St.' Paul’s Cathedral people didn’t
“ hit it off ” together, seemingly. The Church is
not expected to speak kindly of any dead person who
quarrelled with its business managers. Christianity
draws the line at that. ... Mumbo: Have referred the
matter to Hop., who says that Jimmy and Joe Governor
are partially white—and how do you, who have never
seen them,' know which end of them is white ?
H.G. : S’Rupert’s uneasy retreat from the Leg. Council
was explained in The Bulletin’s “ Woman’s Letter.” He
feared that he might be again led into an 1 indiscretion of
the tongue E.O.W. : The Sunday paper in question is
a Pro-trade paper—that is to say, it is a little Free-tection-
ist in its views. At heart it is Calico-Jemmy.... Harum-
Scarum : Just the glimmer of a good idea, but utter lack
of skill.. .. A.C. : “Gabriel” no good. Don’t remember
the other ; will investigate H.M. : Neither up
to mark.... . J.W.C. : Too late in day about bark-strip-
ping cockatoos John F : Still unsuitable J.C.G. :
Lacks power and pith.... A.D.B. : “Spring” weak....
O. : If you wrote with fewer flourishes your mattei
would be more carefully read... .Quoere : We don’t re
member verses. Presume they were a parody—and we
soon forget parodies J.H.F. : The lady is probably in
no way related to the personage in question : anyhow,
she is only giving the world hoary chestnuts. By thi
way, your pars >nal paragraph a e so clumsy that they’d
soon get us seven years.. ..lveoro : You take 2 cols, to
say, in effect, that it does not look well to see a papc i
announcing the publication, on a certain coming date, <
a hostile open letter to So-and-so, politician or what m•:
THE DEAD MAN AND THE LIVE HORSE.
MARY: “ M’ word, that funeral is early.”
J IM: “ Yep. Th’s ryces' at Kcnsingtin in th’
afty'noon.”
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.—AN INFLUENTIAL CONVERT.
“ Er —did you know the Rev. Mr. Fatley?”
“Yaas. Pretty well. Me eat him. Very sorry. Me put dis black on my hat for him.”
.iid then to find, when the date fixed arrives, that the
mblication is postponed ; and, when the letter ultimately
loes appear, it is a meek-and-mild affair, and buttery
instead of critical A. C. Denby : “An improved Bul-
letin —a paper without the vulgarity and heartless
brutality which disfigures your paper.” You mean a
snobbish Jingo print without any particular vim
L.B.E. : Some of your par. has gone in H.lt.M. : “ Slip-
oanel” doesn’t hit us Quilp N. : Don’t care for
“Tasman.” Nicotine: Ten pages would kill a cat
3.T.5. : “Gabler” too heavy.. . .G.O.W. : A little more
porridge, and we’ll see Friday: Strictly common-
place. . .. V.W.S. : Medically speaking, we should say the
cause of death was convulsions Uloola: One “Minor
Poet’s Hope ” squashed Prospect : Sorry not “Bush”
or “ Tears.” Barb. B. : Received. . .Snody : May do in
abbreviated form E.C.VV. : Declined Pots: Very
nearly good enough. Try again Lamp Black: Well-
written but too squalid 1.A.0. (Manilla): Many thanks
for letter Magdalen : A very brief and dry murder
Box 11 : Received with doubts Wasp : Too little plot
and too much blast E.J.W. : The unlawful black baby
is a variant of so many old baby yarns R.T. : “ Stroke
of Genius” under favorable consideration W.P.O. :
Anyhow, Tub Bulletin, unlike several sixpenny and
other papers, has never been stopped in the poet
on the ground that it contained indecent matter
Kate A. : Not ill-written, but subject stale, and treatment
too long-drawn... .Vulcan : Had that 6.30 yarn before—
which discounts the rest of the screed Eller: Hair-
balls are common in bovine stomachs W.Y.S. : That
cricketing gag is ancient, and—in original form, with
which most people are acquainted—unprintable
W.A. : What on earth is the Salvation Army’s "Grace
Before Meat” scheme? We are all rather tired of the
Harmy’s schemes Kyra : Unusable Savage W. :We
can scissor our own Lempribre, thank you C.W. :
Looks like a weak echo of verse lately printed... .Helen
I. : The tootling Salvarmy lass is no novelty in Sydney.
....James S. : Bulletin doesn’t tackle its opponents in
such petty ways as that.... A.S.: Combustion consists in
the combination of the carbon, &c., of the burning body
with the atmospheric oxygen, and the combination takes
place less freely in sunlight Wat Tell : Too like a
rather bald narration of actual occurrences ..CJ.A.S. :
Clumsy'touch and labored humor... G.H. : Main inci-
dent good, but treatment much too long-winded and
digressive... .G.F.H. : Truly a hair-raiser—but unprint-
able C.S.M. : We loathe the average parody, and yours
is even below the average Tighe’s Hill: Both sections
are tyrannous when in power ; there is precious little
to choose between them. The general public, which
cares nothing for either, should carefully hold the
balance by running one set against the other
R.A. : Idea old, and treatment weak R.M.H. : Thanks ;
noted... .R.T. t : You add nothing of your own Wya-
long : Unprintable, of course... .Eva Y. : Too apparently
a personal threat Judge Kotze :It was reprinted in
many recent English papers, but we cannot give you date.
C.E.D. : Nothing in ’em....Ouilga : Rather crude,
but not humorless. Will consider... .F.A. : Not a bad
story, but the handling lacks pith and power... .Killaloe :
Neither rhyme, reason, nor metre... .Meando : Bulletin
has no use for letters which have also been sent to other
papers. This print travels strictly “on its own."
Albert Mac. : Something in the idea, but you lack skill.
No inconsistency in the case you mention ; it was Seddon’s
personal action we objected to—not to the result thereof.
O.Q. : Chaste item! Vehna 0.: Poetical; too
slight... .Mup :No value K.W. : The time is near at
hand when to call out “ J.P.” to a man in the street will
be actionable..... H.F. : Some items will do ; considering
sketches Empis : Well, it might have been worse
His Mate : “ Dreams” dull Mad : Not quite strength
enough.... .8.8. : Not our style Q.E.D. (M.L.) : Cal-
low emotions in crude verbiage Wilson F. : It would
be cruel to encourage you on the basis of the specimens
sent M.C. : Please don’t use. French titles ; you evi-
dently only know just enough French to get yourself into
trouble C. M‘B. (S.F.) : Thanks, but Bulletin doesn’t
want long stories ; it is generally very sorry, indeed, after
printing anything much over two cols C. A. Machen :
Subject profoundly uninteresting to the great bulk
of the public. Also the proposed controversy is
mainly a personal one, and we have no space to
spare A.M. (M.L.): Now, do you really think
we could print that in all its baldness ?
H. J.: So you expect us to say in print that the resident
surgeon should be hanged. Thanks Jack (Q<) : (1)
There is reason to believe that the story of the private
marriage alluded to is true. (2) The wife of the Duke of
York is not his brother’s “ widow.” She was only engaged
to marry the deceased Prince. (3) The Bulletin got
about the first copy of the book in question which reached
Australia, and published several chapters from it as trans-
lations from the German. It is now too widely known to
be of interest as a subject of comment.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.H.S.B. (M.L.) : Send address and drawings will be
returned.... M'Gregor : “ Lyddite ” motif ancient, and
your sketch inspires not the artist.. ..P.S. (Bon.): Only
much artistic humor could relieve so poor a subject ...
Fairholm : A much-used theme K.P. : If you don’t
write your name legibly on the drawing itself, you can’t
expect us to know to whom it belongs.... Unavailable :
J.A.8., T.P.C., E.A.A.D., V.J.R.
The trustees of Melb. National Gallery,
in one of their brief artistic intervals, have pur-
chased “A Bush Symphony,” to the great grati-
fication of John Forde Patterson, who, being
honestly- proud of his effort, considers the £2OO
of the Gallery fathers a better return than double
money from a private purchaser. “A Bush
Symphony ” is a really fine sample of the art
which, though full of poetic feeling, is essentially
sane in its suggestion of Nature. With its sur-
face effect of flatness and misty gaiety of colour-
ing, the picture charms at first glance all specta-
tors not hopelessly conservative. The scheme
strikes them, of course, as being more decorative
than deep. Presently the mist rises sufficiently
to reveal the artist’s full purpose, and then, as a
rather wild enthusiast observes, “ Beauty born of
the bush emerges from her mystic veil (not that
the veil is mystic) like the spirit of dawn, evanes-
cent and alluring.” “An Australian art for an
Australian people ” is admittedly a motive of this
debateable painting. Patterson’s treatment is not
so much unconventional in its color scheme as in
its consistent contempt for easy effects. He has
not brought out any particular points at the ex-
pense of the picture. The “Symphony” differs
entirely in spirit from the exciting “ Breakaway ”
of Roberts, the human “ Down on his Luck ” of
M‘Cubbin: the violent “Hawkesbury” of
Streeton, or the fourth-act melodramatic “Bush
Fi-e ”of Longstaff. One day it may be regarded
as the “ first flush in the dawn of a new Austra-
lian school of art.”


MAJORITY RULE IN QUEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND (underneath): “ Ghck ! Isay! Get up! You’re choking me!”
FAT MAN PARLIAMENTARY MAJORITY (on top) : “Well, didn't you elect me to sit here?"


ftftl
“THE CROWN JEWELS”
"At a meeting held last week a committee was appointed, with Mr. W. Madden as chairman, to draw up a programme to be commended to electors and candidates for consideration as embracing
progress with prudence. PROGRAME OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL PARTY.-1. The safeguarding of the Legislative Council against the insidious attempts being made to cripple or abolish it."
VOTER: “We’ll have those railings down presently!”
CARETAKER ( amused ): “ My friend, you have been saying that for years."


n REMINDER.
MAILS FOR ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, IRELAND,
and WALES.
Leave Sydney.
October 30
November 6
November 13
November 20
November 27
December 4
Arrive in London.
December 2.
December 9.
December 16.
December 23.
December 30.
January 6,1901.
MAILS FOE AMEEICA.
For San Francisco.
Leave Sydney
November 21
December 19
Arrive
December 14.
January 11, 1901.
For Vancouver.
Leave Sydney
November 7
December 5
Arrive
November 29.
December 27.
FOR SOUTH AFRICA.
Leave Sydney
November 9
December 10
Arrive at Capetown
December 10.
January 7, 1901.
Christmas and Rein year Cards for igoo and igoi.
TWIN EVENTS
THE NEW CENTURY.
THE BIRTH OF A NATION.
HORDERN BROTNCRS, Pitt Street,
To mark the above events, have imported the Largest, Most Varied, and the Choicest Lot of Cards
and Calendars ever seen in Australia, apropos of the occasion.
Loose Cards, 6d to 30s per dozen, post free. Envelopes sent with each Card.
PACKET CARDS
The New Century Packet of 25 Cards. Post Free, 8d
The Commonwealth Packet of 50 Cards. Post Free,
Is 4d.
BOXED CARDS
The value in Boxed Cards is unapproachable.
No. 1 contains Ten charming Xmas and New Year
Cards with envelopes. Post free, Is.
No. 2 contains 10 Art Autograph Cards and Envelopes.
Post free, Is 3d.
No. 3, the “Empire” box, 8 Artistic Autograph
Cards and Envelopes. Post free, Is 6d.
No. 4, the “ Sepia ” box of 10 choice Cards and
Envelopes. Post free, Is 6d.
No. 5, the “Tartan” box, suitable for sending to
Scotch friends, 9 Cards and Envelopes. Post free,
Is 6d.
No. 6, “ Staunch and True.” 8 Khaki Cards (Lancers,
King’s Hussars, and Life Guards) with appro-
priate quotations. Post free, Is 6d.
No. 7 box contains 12 Assorted Comic Cards with
Envelopes. Post tree, Is 6d.
No. 8 box contains 12 choice and specially selected
Cards and Envelopes. Post free. Is 6d.
No. 9 box contains 12 selected Cards in Black and
White, with Envelopes. Post free, Is Gd.
No. 10 box contains 20 Cards of exceptional value.
Post free, Is 6d.
No. 11 box contains 8 chaste and artistic Cards with
Envelopes. Post free, Is 6d.
No. 12 box contains 6 beautiful Cards in Black and
White, with Envelopes. -Post free, Is Gd.
No. 13 box contains 9 beautiful Cards with Envelopes.
Post free, Is Gd.
No. 14 box contains 20 well assorted and choice Cards
with Envelopes. Post free, 3s 2d ; or 2 boxes for
5s 8d.
No. 15, Local View Box of 10 Cards. Views of the
Harbour and Public Buildings in the City, with
Envelopes. Post free, Is Gd.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Sydney’s Traders of Fashions,
203, 205, 207, 203, 211 Pitt-st-, Sydney.
ĥ
I
in
i '
"• W.
>• IM
Photo from Life.
Original may be seen at 113, Regent Street, London, W.
mg)
(mM
mn
The HAIR
Unoer Royal Patronage.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes tne hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from faling, is the most
cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
ħ
for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
that may be desired.
because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays Irritation, and
keeps the hair in whatever position desired
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour the 6calp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye.
B
h
KOKO is sold in 1/ , 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. Koko Maricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
0 AUTW H— See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle
ĥ
ħ
young birds while the foot is very small and consequently
before the bird’s worth has been ascertained.
“ Yarrum’s ” bird, under the circumstances, might have
been worth 10 pence, though perhaps it was an
Exhibition Antwerp, a bird often confounded with the
“ homer ”by the uninitiated. This pigeon is too valuable
to “ fly,” and hence easily gets lost.
( Continued on jmge SL )
a
sea
Brandt’s
Steam
Cooker
Will Cook a Joint
and a Pie, Boil
and Steam Vege-
tables, Puddings,
at one and the
same time, with
one flame, at a
cost of One Half-
penny.
No Burned Food.
No Tough Meat.
Price of Cooker,
without Stove,
No- 1, 7/6
No. 2, 10/6
No. 3, 12/6
Each.
it3T Send for Catalogue. TEfi
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt St., Sydney, *—■ AND
422 & 424 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
190303111
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by I)r.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
THIRTY STUD€NTS’
CHORUS SONSS
h
Write for
Pan’s^>
, Australian
J dlusic look
No. 22.
It contains 30 of the Best Chorus Songs In the
World. Here is the List.
There is a Tavern in the
Town
Clementine
John Brown’s Body
Polly-wolly-doodle
Hark, the Jingle Bells
./. Pierpont
Buoy Long
The Mermaid
Gum Tree Canoe
Mush, Mush
Canadian Boat Song
Thomas Moore
Old Black Joe Christy’s
Cricket on the Hearth
There's Gold in the Moun-
tain A. Briescoe
Hen Convention
Ellie Ithee Sep. Winner
Good Old Jeff America
Doodah Day
Upidee
True Love
Lindsay Lennox
Ye Banks and Braes
Old Scotch
I’se Goin’ Back to Dixie
C. A. White
Massa’s in the Cold Ground
Forster
La Marseillaise
Rougct de L'isle
Two Little Girls in Blue
Graham
The Little Brown Jug
Wait for the Waggon
Dulce Donium
John Peel
The Old Log Cabin in the
Dell _
Auld Lang Syne
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Australia,
or direct from the publishers,
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 27S Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne**
Legal Notice.
EXT OF KIN ENQUIRY.
WHEREAS by Judgment of the Supreme
Court of Queensland made in the matter of the
estate of SOLOMON BRODZIAK (also known as
GEORGE MITCHELL), deceased, lateof Sydney,
New South Wales, Master Mariner (sometime
Hotel-Keeper), and in an action by Queensland
Trustees Limited against Caroline Rodgers, an
enquiry was directed as to who were the persons
entitled by virtue of or according to the Statute
for the distribution of intestate estates to the
estate of the above-named Solomon Brodziak
living at the time of the death of-the said Solomon
Brodziak at Melbourne, Victoria, on the fourth
day of December, 1897. AND WHEREAS by a
subsequent order of the said Court such enquiry
was directed to be by advertisement, NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN to all persons claiming to
be next of kin of the said Solomon Brodziak and
to all persons claiming to be interested in the
estate of the said deceased through any of iiis next
of kin that they are to come in on or before the
twenty-fifth day of March, 1901, and prove their
claims at the Registry of the said Court at Bris-
bane, in the Colony of Queensland, or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said judgment. TUESDAY,
the second day of April, 1901, at eleven o’clock in
the forenoon at the said Registry is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this ninth day of October, 1900.
J. BLOOD SMYTH,
Registrar.
(L.S.)
W. H. Wilson and Hemming,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors,
Selborne Chambers, Adelaide-street,
Brisbane.
NOTE.-IT IS BELIEVED that the said
Solomon Brodziak by his first marriage had issue
one daughter, Julia, and that she married one
Panizza in India, and afterwards resided in India
and in Germany, where it is believed she was
divorced, after which she married again. It is
also believed that the said Solomon Brodziak had
issue by his second marriage one daughter, Carry,
who married and died, leaving one child who has
since died.
“ The Last of Six ”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. B
Ernest 1< aveno. Paper covers, 141 pp. :6<
post free.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
W.A. Govt, is in a dilemma. Parliament
talked about the “ alarming increase of gambling ” in
Perth. Local Chamber of Commerce passed a resolution
condemnatory of its tolerance, and proposing that the
Mayor be requisitioned to convoke a public meeting.
Dilemma is brought about by .the fact that Govt, gathers
in much revenue through sweeps, and doesn’t like
to move against totes, betting shops, &c., without
also going for “ consultation ” promoters. Police com-
plain that the leniency of magistrates handicaps them
considerably. Meanwhile, it is unlikely that anything
will be done till the new Parliament comes along—if
then.
• • * *
‘Vic.” : Has it ever struck the army of punters
that this year’s Melb. Cup looks like a mare’s race ?
Consider the chances of La Carabine, Mora, Contrast, The
Bride, Nitre, and Cyanide ; all have won at l£ miles, or
better. It is the first year in the history of the race that
a mare has been top of the list, i 1
Be starting prices. A Northern bettor put a
pound on Paul Pry the day before he won one of his races,
also 108. each on two good outsiders. They ran — one,
two, three, and the winner lost 12s. (Paul started at sto
2 on.)
• * * •
When Nelson won in M.L., all the naval men
won a little— owing to the name. If there are any sport-
ing tars in Melbourne, surely they won’t resist the claims
of The Mariner and Seahorse for Derby and Cup.
* * * *
Bananaland public is kicking against tote-
running clubs appropriating “fractions” to the extent
they do. “Fractions” in other tote States go to chari-
ties, but up-North racing clubs swallow them all. In-
vestments on totes are paid over less 12J percent., of
which 2£ goes to Government, and 2 to patentee who
works the machine, and the club gets the balance, with
“fractions” on top. These are often considerable. As
nothing less than Is. is paid, 9d. on each ticket is fre-
quently gathered in, and when the favorite gets home the
total represents a tidy sum. The public wants sixpence
paid, and what’s left handed over to charities.
« • » *
“ Certain late doings of Australian gee-gees and
their owners,” writes Tub Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “ smell like Cronje’s laager. They are getting into
very bad sewerage here, and all owing to the stupidly
cronk games of a few. Once their wins were amidst
cheers, now they are submerged in silences thick as
coffin-lids.
* • • •
“ Punt” : Re Bulletin par. a little while back
anent Jenny Moore’s dual win at last Hawkesbury meet-
ing and at same gathering 12 months before, and refer-
ence to the turf axiom—“ Horses for courses ” : Hurrah
is the best exemplification of this that the writer has
heard of. She has won on six different occasions at
Moonee Valley (V.), but never got home nor (as far as
memory serves) filled a “ drum ” elsewhere.
* * * *
A Queenslander, writing to a Brisbane paper,
speaks of Persimmon as b,y far the best horse he has ever
seen. His box, 30 x 15, is padded sft. high with 15in.
leather ; then porcelain tiles to the roof. It is heated bj
gas and hot-water pipes, and has enamelled mangers.
His fee is per mare (limited to 40), and his list is
full for three years to come. Truly Perdita 11. was the
P. of W.’s gold-mine when she leaves behind her sons
capable of returning 12,000g5. a year.
♦ * * *
“ Gun ” : The way in which nag-owners work
with city shops is scandalous, and ought to bring a heap
of informers round the “ leetle ” double-layer, who is
such a cold-blooded swindler. Not long ago a winning
nag (entered in a race that looked the best of good things
for him) was, after a “word” with the owner, used by
the shops from Monday till Saturday, and not taken out
till the eleventh hour. Writer has often heard that
owner thundering against starter and handieapper for
imaginary wrongs and charging them with “ taking the
bread out of his children’s mouths,” &c. Yet he doesn’t
scruple to plot with the shops to rob the public of its
hard-earned shillings. And there are lots more like him.
« * * *
Adelaide bas not a single athletic club, and the
fine runners that the schools turn out have nothing to do
after they leave, barring an occasional “ Sheffield ” for
cash prizes.
* * * *
The approach of the cycle-racing season has
brought Plugger Bill Martin back hard and willing as
ever. Bill must be about 43 years of age now, according
to a biography published by his authority in a Melb. cycle
journal a couple of years ago, but he still has the vigor
and dash of the two-year old combined with the eye of a
fat M.L.O. for the main chance. Poor old Bill has never
yet had a real chance at an Austral meeting. Since he
debuted in Australia, he has had to stand down twice
while the big race was being run through disqualification,
once he was in S’Africa, and on the two occasions when he
got a start, he fell in preliminary heats. Given fair luck
it should always be good business to back Bill for any race
with a £3OO prize.
* • * »
This spring there are nearly always two or three
cyclists on the track between the Westralian goldfields
and Port Augusta, the nearest good-sized settlement in
S. Australia. The distance, from 1700 to 1800 miles, can
be covered by a strong rider and walker in three weeks.
A recent arrival reports a fairly well-defined track all the
way, grass everywhere at present, plenty of water, and a
little gime. Rabbits have got as far as Norseman now,
more than half-way from Eucla (the border station) to
the Westralian settled districts.
• * • *
Death of once-famous 17. S. sculler, Hosmer, is
announced. He was 42 years old. Australian Elias Lay-
cock beat him over Thames course in ’BO, and subse-
quently, when Laycock won big Hop Bitters prize,
Hosmer was third. He was only second to Hanlan (when
latter was in his prime) among American scullers. Hosmer
and Gaudaur (present world’s premier) heat O’Connor
and Hanlan for world’s double-sculls championship eight
vears ago. Hosmer was also a remarkable walker : he
has to his credit a mile inside 7min., and 10 miles in
lhr. 18min.
• » * »
The extent of “pot-hunting” among N.S.W.
swimmers last and several previous seasons was disgust-
ing. Crack performers would join, in some instances,
four or more clubs and gather up all the pots possible,
but the governing body has come down flat-footed on the
practice and passed a rule to stamp it out permanently :
No swimmer can be a member of more than one club at a
time. ’Twas expected that some of those affected would
kick at the annual meeting, but after sounding in differ-
ent quarters they saw there was no chance of scoring and
wisely refrained from fighting a hopeless cause. Other
associations would do well to follow suit.
* * * *
Billy Buck, the Melbourne tough who got 18
months for unlawfully wounding in a brothel row, despite
evidence as to general character by several influential
racing-men, in his appeal for mercy referred to “ the in-
justice of the stigma” cast upon Delilah by society gener-
ally, and asked, “ What are these girls, your honor, but
wives on the time-payment principle ? ” Mr. Buck came
to Australia 10 years ago as a star amateur boxer, and
turned professional only to be badly mauled by Frank
Slavin. He is reputedly the son of a clergyman, and if so
bears out the old maxim about parsons’ children.
• • • •
- Apropos Fitzsimmons’ remarkable fighting
9 powers. ’Tisn't generally known that both his hands are
badly used up, and have been for a long time ; also, that
his right arm is hooped a bit as the result of a kink.
Last month Yankee scribes had a lot to say
about a statement made by M.L. pug. Fitzsimmons that
he had been offered 200,00)dol. to “ throw ” his then
coming fight with Sailor Sharkey, the money to be avail-
able before he shaped up ; but Bob wasn't to be got at—
victorv was more to him than filthy lucre, he said, even if
the amount offered were tenfold the sum named. But
the story and the sentiment wouldn’t go down. Fitz’s
own admission that he went under to Jim Hall, in Syd-
ney years ago, for £25, and that recent very fishy-smelling
affair with Jeffries were trotted out. Besides, the
Yanks couldn’t see how an offer of eight times the size of
the purse (25,000dol.) in evidence, wasn’t fetching enough
for even a saint Fitz’s tale didn t catch on.
♦ * * *
“ Old Timer r : Must break a lance with “ John
Maelachlan (8., 13/10/’00) on the boxing side. To call
boxing “ a flesh-battering exhibition is based upon sheer
ignorance Besides, ’tis just as well in a highly-civilised
community that what is called hy weak-kneed people
“brutality” should be encouraged. Not the brutality
which consists of putting upon the weak and helpless, of
course, but that which shows itself in a certain insensi-
bility to pain, or (at all events) in the capacity of bearing
pain without flinching. Consequently the nearer boxing
approximates to actual fighting the better. The theory
of the “ survival of the fittest ” and the fittest as the best,
is still evidenced in the development of the hardihood a.nd
manliness of the British race. One would scarcely imagine
that such rough sports were among the “ arts ” which
soften the manners and prevent them from becoming
brutal. Yet the civilising influence of athletic exercises
is undoubted. Take the late Tom Sayers, for instance :
By the influence of training, and the ambition to dis-
tinguish himself “ in the noble art,” he was transformed
from a rather ugly ruffian into a quiet, well-behaved, and
(when not engaged in the prize-ring) peaceable man.
Other instances ad lib could be given to illustrate one’s
point.
• • • *
Announced at a Sydney boxing-hall recently:
“ GenTm’n Jim ’ll take a benerfit ’ere nex’ Saturday fort-
nit, when, besides some boxin’, ’alf a dozen men o’ war
sailors ’ll give a hexerbishun of cutlery exercises.”
• * * *
A London correspondent : —“ Jim Phillips this
week called Tyler (Somerset) for throwing. T’other
umpire, at bowler’s end, said ‘ No.’ So a pretty dead-
lock has already arisen.” Phillips seems to be about the
only first-class umpire nowadays who is not afraid to
swear to a “ chuck ” when he sees it.
* • • *
Bowler M'Kibbin is now in a Port Adelaide
solicitor’s office, and plays with the S.A. inter-state team.
* *' * *
A new champion has appeared in Melbourne.
He is an expert bricklayer's laborer, and undertakes to
run up a 50ft. ladder with a ton of mud quicker than any
other bricklayer’s clerk in existence.
» * * *
John Norton’s Sydney Spoetsman is the first
newspaper published in Australia in which the proprietor
frankly invites his writers to dismiss all thought of libel
laws and “ give it hot” to everybody who deserves it.
“ Leave the libels to me,” says the bold John.
» * * »
“G.J.M.”: “Yarrum” (B. 22/9/’00) thinks it
strange Sydney pigeon-flyers don’t advertise for their
lost birds. The fact is that birds of any value can’t get
lost within 500 miles of home. Homing pigeons are
trained systematically. They get thoroughly acquainted
with their loft and its surroundings when but a few
months old. They are then tried successively at four
opposite points of the compass, beginning at about
1 mile’s distance, and doubling the length of journey each
time. Inferior birds get lost early in the course, but the
good “homers” always turn up though they may be
delayed hours, or even'days, by contrary winds or fogs.
Brands and rings do not prove a bird to be valuable.
Most owners brand their birds, and the rings are put on


UNDER*
** II
Levef
A. Saunders’s
Strong. Reliable LEVERS —“THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 159. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new }-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, 1 7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£5 6s, £6 6s, * 7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Hind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Eaunder?.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-lleart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
m
err;
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and Ruby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Broocu.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
Hand-made
Solid Gold
15s ; extra
heavy, 3ns,
•<*. Saunders. a
Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
, 6s 6d, >8 6d, 108 each ; 15c. Gold
heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra
365, 40s. Send lor card.
A. Saunder 9.
Registered 150. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 1 s
3 Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c. Gold, sini. ..
pattern, 20s and 255.
Gold Brooch,
Red or Blue
A. Saumiers.
2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
*«a_j
'erg
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
£=£ jrT _
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, <3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
ALA
:
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
ffj,
mm.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. £a aiders.
Cold ii-ooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; lGe. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs : Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
lied Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 6s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Pjjjp
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunciers.
“ Nellie Stewart” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20s.
Size thicker, 258. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Cent's Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3; Other f: tyles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
iu
as
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain.
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, J Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold. Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 1
Superior Quality, £6, £o, tit.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
V)
Ladies’ Lons: Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Roby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
6s Gd. Very Neat.
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s fld;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies 01
phires, 10s 6d and 12s Hd each ;
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each,
and Size oi Diamonds.
Saph-
Lar^er
Price
ĥ
Gold Crosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s ; lf>o. Cold,
20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Eubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
iflHI
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s ;
15c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
Gent’s or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
Baden-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
<*©
A. Saunders.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin-
go-Bragh ” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Charm, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s Cel.
Only a Few Left
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
ISc. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring-, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
1-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s,
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond King,
£3, £4, £5,
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; ISc.
Gold, £2.
.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest S tyle.
A. Saunters.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s. £3; 15c.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid Gold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9e. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold. 355, £2 and £2 His ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s fid ;
Monograms, 2s fid extra.
A. Saunders.
Larpre Size Gold Shield
Links and Etombell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dumhell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies. 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Gold Rinjr Turquoise
and Pearls, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS
namaja-ar .i/hcv -ojxixavaT:
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
\Railway Station/5
SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
h
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-st., Sydney; 269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
mmn
G*~o TO TTTiT.T.-
' I(I ORA N O for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &TRIPE
Matt a lassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
» Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
D*MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite ot
English
Society
S. Harvey, Ltd.
London Bdge S.E
ĥ
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auct.on Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales lleld at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—--
IDVCFXjEDVLEITTS
Massey-Harris Go., ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The proposed reduction of Vic. Leg.
Council from 48 members to 40 will set peopla
thinking of Ali Baba.
All hail the joyful news ! An armed party
of specially-imported Indian niggers is to dance
at the Australian nation’s birthday-party.
It begins to be strongly suspected that
the Lyne Govt, is going to drop the Industrial
Arbitration Bill through the convenient crack at
the end of the session.
The T< >ry majority in S.A. Leg. Council
is known as the “ Thirteen Club.” Cliaffey Baker,
practically the leader, is President of the Council,
and the remaining 12 have therefore a majority of
one in a chamber of 24.
Why the frantic haste in forcing the
Arbitration and Conciliation Bill through N.S.W.
Assembly by means of all-night sittings before
empty benches if the Bill is not going to be intro-
duced into the Upper House ? It is now five
weeks since the third reading in the Assembly.
It leaks out that several of the people so
red-hot to get Q. Chief Justice Griffith into the
Commonwealth Parliament, on his own or any
terms, look to him as the leader of the preferen-
tial- trade-with-the-Empire party. Griffith lias,
in private circles, championed that idea for years
past.
An almost unique occurrence in Vic. Par-
liament was the “pairing,” t’other day, of the
Opposition leader, in favor of a Govt, measure,
with a leading Minister (and practical co-Premier)
who opposed it; ex-Premier Turner supporting the
One - Man - One - Parliament Bill, while Treas.
Shiels disapproved of it.
Opponents of State control of Adelaide
tramways assert that Govt, cannot make the lines
pay, and they even go further and allege—with
tongue in cheek —that Snow’s eo. will never pay,
either. A humorous commentary on this asser-
tion is the fact that large sums of money are being
spent in the Adelaide press—daily and weekly
alike—in puffing Snow’s proposed Westinghouse
grab.
Thus one ot Melbourne’s “prominent
citizens,” an ex-suburban mayor, at an election
meeting:—
He was sure they would all agree that the Constitu-
tional party should unite and prevent the return of a
Trades Hall man to represent Melbourne in the coming
Parliament. To prevent that catastrophe—
He thereupon proposed—Mat. Davies, of the
stinkful Mercantile Bank, as a fit and proper
person, &c. And, when you come to think it
out, possibly the gentleman spoke more truly than
he knew.
“A.P.” : About the biggest sweating
N.S.W. Govt. Department is the “Roads and
Bridges.” It lets dozens of petty road-jobs
every year at unpayable prices to aspir-
ing navvies, who are unable to pro-
perly calculate costs or gauge the
value of the work, but who, having
saved a trifle from their last spell on
wages, are bitten with a desire for
higher things—to their- own ultimate
disaster. Then they go back to
ordinary “ toil ” with a shred of
pride at having, for a time at least,
been “their own boss.” That’s
the attraction that mostly coaxes
cheap work from the dull-brained
toiler, and the Works Dept, dili-
gently fosters the idea by its sys-
tem of small contracts. -
At the Anglican Church As-
sembly lately held at Melbourne, it
was stated that there were in Vic-
toria 28,000 houses of only one or
two rooms—mostly quite unfit for
habitation. If the Assembly had
pushed its inquiries a little fur-
ther it might have dropped on the
horrifying fact that, bad as Victoria
is in this respect, the other pro-
vinces are even worse. At the census
of 1891 all the provinces except
Queensland furnished particulars
under this head. Results : —ln
Westralia 3687 dwellings, or 36 per
cent, of the total dwellings in the
State, were of one or two apart-
ments; in Tasmania the one and
two apartment houses were 6561,
or 22 per cent, of the total; in
N.S.W. they were 41,013, or 19
per cent.; in Maoriland, 22,558, or 18 per cent.;
in S.A., 9345, or 15 per cent.; in Victoria,
28,497, or 11J per cent. It reads like a descrip-
tion of a crowded part of Europe rather than of
Australia.
In view of past happenings no Australian
Parliament should go into recess without a legal
proviso that it can be called together at any date
on the demand of, say, two-fifths of the members.
Then there would at least be some kind of check
on the Ministry, which now runs things just as
it pleases for half the year, and knows perfectly
well that the Legislature can’t get at it to remon-
strate.
S’Malcolm M‘Eacharn takes great pride
m the fact that his requisition to stand for the
Federal Parliament was signed by all classes of
the community, from an Archbishop to a wharf
laborer. Dr. Billy Maloney, the chosen of West
Melbourne, will oppose him, in which ease Mac
may get the Archbishop—who hasn’t a vote, by
the way—but Maloney will certainly get the
lumper.
S.A. Assembly begins to persuade itself
that really there is no need to cut down the dimen-
sions of the State legislature because of the
coming of Federation, and unless the people get a
hand in the business—by means of a popular con-
vention or in some equally effective way—no
alteration worthy of the name will be authorised.
The Holder Ministry is too anxious to keep office
to act with any vigor in the matter.
Westrnlia’s entrance into the group of
paid Leg. Assemblies is, on this continent, the
final triumph of a principle which 20 years ago
was scouted by the vast majority of Australasian
politicians. Only one member of Westralian
Assembly, outside the Ministers, has been
hitherto paid. This member, the Whip, has, since
the inauguration of responsible Govt., been paid
£2O a month, contributed by the Ministers.
Queensland now proposes to have a say in
the matter of the Australian capital. Bananaland
argues that if the matter of future “density of
population ” is to have weight, then the capital
should be shifted away from the Victorian direc-
tion towards the north of N.S.W. inasmuch as
Queensland has more scope and more attractions
for population than any of the Southern States,
and will, undoubtedly, in the future outstrip them.
Labour member Higgs’ proposed clause
prohibiting members of Q. Parliament being
directors, shareholders, or agents in a syndicate
railway scheme, then before the House, was in-
dignantly rejected by 28 votes to 20. It isn’t
decent—-in fact, it is shamefully corrupt—for any
politician to vote that the State should grant
valuable concessions to his own shindykit, but
Queensland Parliament doesn’t harry itself about
questions of decency.
The recent Queensland Opposition stone-
wall was perhaps the most justifiable in Aus-
tralian Parliamentary history. At last general
election no mention whatever was made of the in-
tention to depart from the established principle of
State railways, and the Opposition rightfully con-
tend that the opinion of the country should be
taken either by referendum or dissolution. Premier
Philp, however, has shamelessly settled the matter
by a closure amendment.
Until every Vic. Leg. elector is de-
clared fit to sit in the Council, that body is a
gross insult to those who elect it, and its existence
is a standing announcement that the bulk of its
constituents are political lepers and outcasts,
unfit to enter the Chamber which they themselves
create. And no scheme of reform is worth a
straw unless the M‘Lean Govt, is willing to make
the Council accept it—even by refusing to vote
the money for payment of the interest on the
public debt, and wrecking Fat Man’s securities
until he complies.
AN IDYLL OF THE GAS-BOX: THE
HERALD OF SPRING.
One of the first signs of Spring in Melbourne
suburbs is the appearance during the milder even-
ings of the unmarried daughter of the house with
her best boy, who, crouching on his haunches,
entreats (on a mouth-organ) someone to “ tell ’er
that I luve'r ” until the small hours.
Maoriland has no regular
hotel-closing hour. The mat-
ter rests with the local autho-
rities, so the Auckland closing
hour is 10 p.m. ; the Welling-
ton hour is 11, and in some
districts hotels keep open till
midnight. Writer remembers
a time when the hotels at one
side of George-street, Dun-
edin, had to close at 10 p.m.,
while on the other side, which
was in a different licensing
district, the beer flowed freely
till 11 or 11.30. It is a
curious system and leads to
much cursing.
M.L. Premier Scddon is
now legislating for the poor
devils who are made to work
extra hours gratuitously in
offices and banks. The new
“Shop and Offices” Bill pro-
vides that the word “retail”
be omitted from the old Act;
thus bringing the wholesale
houses into line with the rest;
and a new clause renders it
unlawful for an employer to
work any assistant after 7
p.m. on five days in the week
or after 10 p.m. on the remain-
ing day of the week. Clause
16, dealing with the employ-
ment of women or young per-
sons, has been amended to
provide that overtime shall be
paid at one-half extra, with a
minimum of 6d. an hour'. An-
other new clause prevents the
employment of shop-assistants
without reasonable remune-
ration in money—the “mini-
mum wage” for girls under
16 being fixed at 4s. a week ;
for boys under 17, ss. ; and
6s. for otuer shop-assistants
under 20. Office - assistants
and clerks may be employed
after hours for four weeks at
each balancing time; payment
for such overtime being at the
half-extra rate, with a mini-
mum of Is. per hour. In all other respects, in-
cluding compulsory half - holiday, the one-time
despised clerk is now raised to the status of the
M.L. laborer.
Sam Griffith’s fat is in the fire. T’other
day Brisbane Courier sadly announced that, in-
asmuch as the Labour party would oppose any
proposal to pension off the Chief Justice before
his time (with a view to his entering the Federal
Parliament), and as a number of Govt, sup-
porters were also strongly against any such pro-
posal, the matter was to be dropped incontinently.
Griffith is reaping the just reward of his political
apostacy of some years ago.
S.A. Leg. Council has successfully blocked
early-closing legislation for four years. A Bill
was passed in S.A. Assembly by a two-to-one
majority in ’96, and by larger majorities ever
since, but without avail. Much of the bitterness
existing arises from the fact that E. T. Smith,
M.L.C., a pronounced opponent, was one of the
founders of the movement, and another, Pascoe,
M.L.C. (now a provincial merchant), was, when a
shop-assistant, one of the committee of the Early
Closing Association !
That weak institution, the Holder Govern-
ment, has abandoned the wise proposal of letting
the people elect a convention to supply S.A. with a
new Constitution suitable to its requirements
when its larger concerns are handed over to the
Federal Government. Kingston supplied all the
grit of the Kingston-Holder Cabinet, and when
he left it became a mere well-meaning ghost.
Holder is even willing to make it a condition that
whatever changes are made the blessed Upper
House must be preserved from demolition.
The Sydney ferry companies having re-
fused to obey the Navigation Act, passed quite
recently by N.S.W. Parliament, said Parliament
proceeds to alter the Act so as to suit the con-
venience of the ferry companies. The original
Act declared that 321 b. of buoyant apparatus for
each passenger was necessary to make things safe,
but the companies having replied that they will
see the law darned first, Parliament and the Lyne
Government back down with great velocity, and
the amending Act now says that 161 b. is quite
sufficient. A case of government by ferry co.
In a recent Melbourne Argus leader
(18/10/’00) on the Woman Suffrage question, the
organ of the reactionaries orates thus :
On this matter both Houses claim to represent the
opinion of the country. Let the electors make it unmis-
takably clear whether or not they are in favor of extending
the franchise to women !
Yet when the M‘Lean Govt, proposed a referen-
dum to make public opinion unmistakably clear
on this same point the Argus furiously opposed
such a notion as unconstitutional, un-British and
entirely unprecedented. As a sample of Peck-
sniffism this would be hard to beat, except in the
Argus.
What short memories the people have !
Five years ago Chamberlain and his Unionist
friends greatly helped their Tory allies by leaven-
ing the latter’s programme with promises of old-
age pensions, restriction of immigration of desti-
tute aliens, and shortening of the hours of labor.
Not one of these promises has been fulfilled, but
Joe Screw and gang have instead plunged Eng-
land into a bloody war, robbed countless homes of
their breadwinners, and made the prospects of the
coming winter, with its dear coal and foodstuffs,
SENSIBLE TO THE LAST.
“It would be ridiculous for me to say that you are the first
girl I ever made love to.”
“I'il forgive you, dear, so long as I am the last.”
the most terrible for a generation. And yet the*
electors have been fools enough to place Chamber-
lain and Co. in power again !
Beautiful patch from Brisbane Courier re-
Philp’s closure compromise:
It may be pointed out that a further amendment of the
standing orders will be easy should difficulty arise. Sup-
pose, for instance, that there were any hardships involved i
in keeping 3i) Govt, supporters continually at hand to
listen to interminable Labor speeches, it would be a
simple matter for the Premier to move his original motion ,
(enabling the gag to be applied by the man in the chair at
his sole discretion) and carry it. One division with 30 •
affirmative votes would be sufficient. In that view the
first half of an important step has been taken and the
rest is child’s play.
The Philp Govt. are not a chivalrous lot, but
their conduct is decency and courtesy itself com-
pared with the course advocated by the Courier.
Iu We.sti'rilia also the Government is put-
ting through a measure to prevent a politician
sitting simultaneously in State and Federal Par-
liaments. Unless Lyue moves promptly in this
matter N.S.W. will be very badly left. Under
the splendidly-democratic Federal Constitution
the best and most intelligent democrats will be
the only men who will get a chance to hold the
two seats. So the good democratic State legis-
lator’s vote will be lost on State measures because-
he will be away attending to his Federal duties,
while the Tory State legislator, not being able to
get a Federal seat, will run things gaily in his
absence.
Melbourne electors are now being freely
postcarded to this effect:
MELBOURNE DIVISION—FEDERAL HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES.
It has been arranged to present the requisition which,
you have signed, asking Malcolm McEacharn to allow
himself to be nominated as a candidate to represent the
Melbourne electorate, on Thursday afternoon, 11th Nov.,,
at the Town Hall, Melbourne. You are specially requested l
to attend and bring any friends in the electorate.
In the pitiful struggle to make it look as if all
Melbourne was crying for McEacharn to repre-
sent it, this postcard is being sent to hundreds
who never signed any such requisition. It is-
probably hoped that they will come out of curio-
sity, and the crowd thus created will be set down
as the unanimous voice of Melbourne crying out
for its Malcolm and refusing to take any other.
Two recent Melbourne Argus utterances.
The voice of Oct. 8 re majority rule :
The Trades-hali is absolutely committed to that
principle of government. So are we all. No other
principle could give satisfaction to a free and justice-
loving people.
The voice of Oct. 10 re M‘Lean’s proposed
referendum to ascertain the opinion of the electors
on womanhood suffrage :
The use of the referendum to enable the constituency
of the one House to coerce the other House is its use in
its very worst form.
The referendum is a means to ascertain the views
of the majority of the constituents of both
Houses. You can’t have real majority rule unless
you have also a means of finding out what the
majority wants, and of enabling the majority to
express itself. The Argus is “absolutely com-
mitted ” to majority rule, but any proposal for
letting the majority express itself drives it mad,
and when the Council minority is against the
Assembly majority, any proposal whereby the
majority may cUerce the minority (so that the
majority may rule) makes the Argus cavort as
above-mentioned.


■
K
'k
l
1
%
2
(<{ s£z_x£i_s£z_s£z. s£z.y>
t? 1? 1? 1? & 1?
fl^' z v V7£ v s ~ 2 $ Jr *$ s ~ z^
t£z_x£z_s£z_x£7 sktskl
J *? J? 1 jT a? j€* 1?
1 zss"zss- i.;~'
K
X
ffi
'i
■:
/■-*
W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITEP.
ANOTHER SHIPMENT JUST ARRIVED, AND THEY SELL FASTER THAN WE CAN GET THEM.
GENUINE LIPP PIANOS
WORLD FAMOUS.
EXQUISITELY PURE & SWEET TONE.
PERFECT MECHANISM.
Rich, Lipp and Sohn.
UNSURPASSABLE STRENGTH.
W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
■» STEINWAY PIANOS
?| lE rrTfl EI ™^TTm PI^ sTO r n IS A distinctly original creation, whose highest standard of excellence
pL™5 ES^T L A I xr^°^ (^JST^?r iRESSIVE IMPROVEMENTS made in building up a new and perfect
SYSTEM OF PIANO CONSTRUCTION BY STEINWAY & SONS.
W. N. PALING & CO. LIMITED
Have PIANOS by all BEST MAKERS
wYvi? rmPj? _ IN AUSTRALIA, AND PAYING CASH AT THE FACTORIES, THEY
TRE FIRST CHOICE OF THE WORLD’S MARKETS, OBTAIN PIANOS VERY MUCH CHEAPER THAN OTHER
A CREDIT THUS ENABLED T 0 GIVE YOU BETTER VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY, EITHER FOR CASH
THE BELLING AND VICTOR PIANOS.
sassaKS latest iiiprotemenis '
W. N. PALING & CO. LIMITED
Guarantee for Five Years every instrument they supply.
PALIN6 & CO.
RESPECTFULLY INVITE
INSPECTION
OF THEIR IMMENSE STOCK
OF
Violins, Guitars, Mandolins, Polyphons, Accordeons,
Concertinas, Flutes, Cornets,
and every known MUSICAL INSTRUMENT, STRINGS and FITTINGS.
ALSO,
The Celebrated ESTEY ORGANS.
SHEET & BOOK MUSIC.
The Trade supplied on Best Terms .
. . . Send for Catalogues and Prices.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles is. everywhere.*
INFIRMITIES HAVE AT LAST
A CONQUEROR
IN
The Great Herbal Remedy ,
VITADATIO
Another Victory Over
Hydatids.
Forsyth-street, Sand-hill,
Wagga VVagga, March 3, 1900.
E m y duty to testify to the wonderful cure of
Hydatids that has been affected in my own case bv the
use of WEBBER’S VITADATIO. I have suffered for the
PAST SIX (6) YEARS from HYDATIDS on the LUNg!
and during that time I had several SEVERE HEMORR-
HAGES. My life at times was despaired of, and twice
the Sacrament was administered! to me by our minister
(Rev. G. A. Carver). Life in itself was simply a burden.
I was attended to by doctors in Wagga and Sydney who
were very kind and did all in their power to alleviate my
sufferings. After using the VITADATIO the HYDATID
and CYSTS were EXPELLED from my body, and I am
thankful to say I have been restored' to HEALTH and
STRENGTH SOLELY by the USE of WEBBER’S VITA-
DATIO. lam willing that .you should use this in any
way you choose, hoping it may be the means of leading
other poor sufferers to try WEBBER’S RENOWNED
VITADATIO. Yours respectfully,
Witness : W. J. FIST. (Mrs.) H. A. RUDD.
The facts of Mrs. Rudd’s illness are to my knowledge
exactly as she states, although I know nothing of the
nature of the disease or its symptoms, but she certainly
is now well and strong. (Signed) GEO. A. CARVER,
Incumbent, St. John’s, Wagga.
We the undersigned, know that Mrs. Rudd suffered as
stated above, and we supplied Webber’s Vitadatio to her
(Signed) T. DOBNEY & CO.,
Storekeepers.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5 s Gd; Small Size, 3s Gd.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s Gd.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
( Sole Proprietor.
4®"AS'K YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
BEWARE or
IMITATIONS!
are only genuine
when the* coyer and
tube are embossed
with this
Dun Tyres
Trade Mark.
We
have
a
monopoly!
and WHY
Because
saaAj. dolHnO
simply outclass
all others for
Speed !
Comfort!
!
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for
12 months.
Foremost ever since.
IST" First in 1888.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z. ***** Clarence Street, Sydney;
The studied fencing which characterises so
many official replies to questions in N.S. W.
Assembly was forcibly illustrated in Premier
Lyne’s answer respecting the fees paid to Judge
Murray as a temporary member of the Public
Service Board. The querist simply wanted to
know whether Judge Murray is paid for Board
services, and, if so, how much, and the Pre-
mier droned the reply that so far nothing had
been paid to Judge Murray. He didn’t say
whether anything was going to be paid, or whether
the Treasury was committed to anything ? It
was a dodge, not an answer, and that kind of
fencing is an insult to the House.
Writes Mr. A. Dawson, M.L.A. (Q.) :
Dear Bulletin, — Re Glassey’s motion to obtain a Royal
pardon for the Ayrshire Downs strike prisoners of ’94,
and your comments thereon. Let me state that the
Labor-party “ long: ago persisted on the case being re-
viewed.” Judge Miller, before his departure for England,
submitted by request a review and report to the Dept, of
Justice. The late Premier Byrnes had the case in hand.
He died. Then Dickson, at the instance of the Labor-
party, tackled it —and did nothing. Premier Philp now
has it in hand, and is still deliberating. We cannot
scruff the Cabinet and shake the pardon out of it. Every-
thing else has been done. Petitions, protests, supplica-
tions to date have all ended in abundance of promises
and no performances. Some two years ago a monster
petition was presented to the Governor praying for the
prisoners’ release, but the combined forces of Snuffle and
Funk defeated us.
Despite the momentary check, evidently
caused by the attack of what friend Munro terms
“the gutter press,” Matthew Davies has at last
announced himself for the Melbourne electorate
in the State Parliament. Melbourne has been
long represented by G. D. Carter, the whisky-
seller who proved such a 'mighty failure as
Treasurer in the Patterson Govt., but Carter has
wisely dropped politics now that one-nian-one-vote
is law, and has retired. Melbourne has always
been a solid Tory electorate, but the alteration of
the franchise may change it completely. There
are, however, several candidates already in the
field and, in the multitude, Davies may slip in,
especially as. the lodge racket is being strenuously
worked in his interest. What a memory the
public must have to give any of the old boom
crowd even a hearing ! In any other community
Davies, Munro, and co. would have to address the
electors from behind stout wire-netting.
Despite Sydney D.T.’s sneers, the large
audience at the Town Hall meeting to protest
against Govt, making Nicest People’s roads
through the Botanic Gardens, showed a public
spirit which Premier Lyne knows better than to
defy. The pity is that the Domain road goes on.
It is apparently beyond the capacity of the ad-
vocates* for Destruction of Natural Beauty
to realise that Sydney has enough roads,
and lamps, and dust, and noise, and animal
odors already. The protest against further urban-
ising the Domain foreshores is the protest of
people who wish as long as possible to keep the
charm of the country in the heart of an over-
grown city. No matter how much Premier Lyne
“improves” roads, he can never supply a beauty
like that he takes away. Instead of making a
Hopetoun-Avenue of road through the Gardens,
he should have thought of making an avenue of
trees through the heart of Sydney slums.
From a N.S.W. Imperial bushman to The
Bulletin :
With us are a regiment of English yeomanry, called
‘ Paget’s Horse ’’—real good fellows, mostly public school
men, but rather new-chums. Our boys look down on
them on that account, and lose no opportunity of “ rubbing l
it in.” The Englishmen have on their helmets “ P.H ”
and have therefore been christened “ Perfectly Harm-
less.” They retaliated by saying :“ An Englishman says
Yes ; a Dutchman, ‘ Yah *; and an Australian, ‘My
blanky oath.*”


Henry Skinner,
.
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101*3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balte
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
YOUR WATCH
WON’T GO?__—-
Why not lay it aside and invest in a new one ? Eight
here we introduce to your notice one of our
FAMOUS SILVER KEYLESS LEVERS,
the oases of which are solid silver. The movement is
of the best quality, and manufactured specially for
rough handling. The balance staff pivots rotate in
the best-quality jewels, and the balance itself is com-
pensated. This ensures the watch keeping
Accurate and Reliable Time.
On receipt of the sum of £2 we shall be pleased to
Forward this Watch on Approval,
and if you are dissatisfied with the value we will
return your money. Remember that this watch is
guaranteed 6 years. Thus you can have"
Reliable Time for a Penny a Week.
The watch will be forwarded, securely packed and
postage free, to any part of the Australian colonies
on receipt of £2.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
GS4 George Street, Sydney.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FERBRAYAIS
FER BRAYAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlu: constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
r cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET.. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“J«Aa* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
SOI n BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WORI.D OVER
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
FOR INFANTS
LINS
FOOD
& INVALIDS
When added to diluted Cow's Milk it produces
complete and perfect diet for the Youngest Infant.
ADAPTED FOR USE in all climates.
MELLIN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS,
COLDS, and
BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlet may be obtained of GOWJN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence
ALL GROCERS
AND
STOREKEEPERS
SELL IT.
The Standard
Sauce of the
World.
h
SAUGE
TRY IT.
The Original Worcestershire.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN b CO., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
HHHHHHHHHHH h h h h h hhhhhhhhh
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
Ii
H
H
H
H
H
c. Q-. HATTB’S
Display of
Spring 1 & Summer Millinery
and Dress Fabrics
is the
• SHOW OF THE SEASON •
Ladies will find Hatte’s Show Rooms a
palace of enchantment, surpassing any-
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.
The Millinery is directly imported from
the best houses of Paris and London ; and
the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
from the leading manufacturers of
England, the Continent, and America.
m- HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
•has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothing better than one of his
TWO cum -A SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You
have a big range of materials for selec-
tions ; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
(free); and your orders will be faithfully
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department you will save at
least 30 per cent, by patronising
C. Gr„ HAT T E,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
- H
H
H
H
H
H
i
H
H
H
§
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHH H H HHHHHHHH
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND-
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It'is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.-—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper. Chariton, says :—“ It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “Ihave made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“ Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says .-—“Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says: — “Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable. ”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. JAd. of London,
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability, j
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M'Millan, Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.LC
Sydney ; L. A. Jessop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide W.
IT. ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A.’ w!
/arquhar ; Wellington, N.Z.. C. M. MontefioUe.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
I MUSEM-KNT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
omprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
kirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
>ocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Ivlondyke Grub (which
■auses roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can he
arried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
stonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
ourcharacter, very superior, for parlor entertainments).
Vizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please'
nstructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
ralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
7 H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
\ (Mention this paper when writing.
ASTHMA CURE.
| GRIMAULT’S
; inDiAn cigarettes
5 Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
i Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
P
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectu*,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd,—“ It has increased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. C. T. DAYIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter—
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. It. MIL/ SR, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinary memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
THOMSON’S
MEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTIMG ”
CORSETS
ENG-liXSH MADS throughout.
These Worlds Rev owned Corsets have been entirely Re-
in oil died, and are vow the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailiny fashion of long waist.
rm
T
<m
M
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
S r .B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA KTOBLiESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-, Ld-, London-
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
fUJ
“ MONTSERRAT " LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
tn J^ L t A -NCET saysi-'-We counsel the public
Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
an/form of wholeso »« drink than
ir,v?i' B ' _ y se u. ln t, ; e British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Js‘[ i c J’ ener i obtained su pplies for the troops in the
in°Cuba’ 3nd the Amerlcan Government for the troops
Solo Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON a
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents s
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.;
E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
“ M. Turlutu,” a rude man, on some
aspects of nursing :
A recent Melb. Argus article on “ Nursing as a Pro-
fession ” gives most of the points of the game in a work-
manlike way, and touches incidentally on the registration
difficulty. The public has a sort of hazy idea that every
young trim person who labels herself Nurse Gissie or
Nurse Queenie, and accepts a couple of guineas per week
for bullying the servants and setting her cap at the
eligible son of any more or less well-off people who em-
ploy her, possesses some gaudy, legal right to do all this
and more if she wants to. This right, moreover, she is
popularly reputed to have gained by a long course of
deep study at a hospital where she has alternately
soothed the last hour of the dying patient with sweet,
womanly sympathy, and -queened- it over the establish-
ment generally d la Miss Glory Quayle. Without the
mystic certificate aforesaid none are genuine. As a matter
of fact, any tousle-headed, student-ogling Gamp who has
been fired certificateless out of a hospital may put on a
becoming uniform and compete with nurses who really
do understand the art. Indeed, it isn’t even necessary
to go near a hospital to qualify for the private racket—a
neat uniform and a monumental cheek are enough, the
certificate existing only in the imagination of her victims.
Nobody has a greater respect for the real sick-nurse
than the writer, but she is an evolutionary product and
a long way in the minority. One may roughly divide
nursing aspirants into three classes according to their
motives for entering upon the work—l. Those who want
to marry a doeter. 2. Those who wish to satisfy prurient
curiosity. 3. A rare but splendid class : those who really
desire to learn sick-nursing. The first two comprise the
Nurse Cissies, the last perhaps exemplifies the noblest
development of woman’s nature. Regarding registration,
the main requirements seem to run something like this :
No nurse to be under 25 years at time of registration, and
to produce a certificate of health from a responsible
medical man. To have had at least two years’ experience
in a public hospital of at least 30 beds, and to have been
actively engaged in such nursing for the 12 months pre-
vious to application. To produce in addition a certificate
of competency of similar standard to those now granted
by the big city hospitals of Melb. and Sydney. It is a
large order, but it would tend to eliminate many sweet
young things of 20 who, hung round with a gaudy arma-
ment of clinical thermometers and probes, do serious
damage to the health of her Majesty’s lieges in the inter-
vals of setting respectable households by the ears. Next
to benefit-clubs, Nurse Cissie is the greatest curse with
which the unlucky medico has to struggle nowadays.
Concerning Australia’s stumpy little old-
fine friend—mem. to printer : Be sure not to
lexve the “ r ” out of “ friend ” —John Alexander
Dowie :
John Alexander appears to be doing better than ever
with his precious faith-healing gospel in the sausaged
city of Chicago. He runs a “ Zion ” there, consisting of
light tabernacles, sundry sanatoriums where missionary
dealers lay flabby hands on the multitude and perform
cheap “ cures,” a bank, lace factory, and other going con-
cerns. Property worth nearly half-a-million pounds is
vested in Dowie. He keeps the game alive with Zion
magazines. His title is “ General Overseer on Earth of
the Christian Catholic Church,” and when he started off
for Palestine the other week 50,000 Zionites went to the
railway-station to cheer him on his way. Wonderful
things can happen to a Dowie in the America which is so
mighty smart and so remarkably credulous. The stodgy,
square-headed bounder tells them that he had to leave
Melbourne years ago to escape the importunities of his
believers who “implored him to found a wide-world
church.” “ He built the Free Christian Tabernacle with
seats for 3000, and every day thousands were turned
away,” and the strain of his success was more than he
could bear—so he told the New York reporters ere sailing
for ’Ome. And though the pressmen took his yarn with
a good deal of salt, the fact remains that they
seriously interviewed the old humbug from Chicago
who is amassing property faster than Gen’ral Booth.
Present scribe attended a Dowie meeting in Melbourne 17
years ago. It was a small meeting in a smallish hall, and
the editor of the War Cry— one Rev. Horsley—took the
chair. Dowie delivered a lame, clumsy address to the
effect that the gift of healing had been handed down to
the church by the Apostles, after which he invited one or
two pimply girls in the audience to testify that he had
cured their mothers of lumbago, cancer, neuralgia, and
other ailments, and the girls said, “Yes, Mr. bowk,
mother is getting on nicely, praise the Lord ! ” or words
to that effect, Then a couple of scowling Dowieites came
round with the plate, and the present scribe felt that he
was being had for sixpence, and the testimony meeting
concluded with the Doxology. Dowie at that time didn’t
look to have the ghost of a show of ever being worth
£500,000. He was the dullest mountebank imaginable—a
poor speaker, and a palpable humbug. But in the world
of faith and superstition the man with a new- doctrine and
a brazen front is bound to get on. The Dowie man has
an agent at work in Australia—a shepherd with the queer
name of Willhide, who lately arrived at Sydney from San
Francisco, accompanied by his devoted and enthusiastic
wife, a charming and 'spiritual-looking woman. It is
rough on the couple that they should have to battle
against Sydney and Melbourne memories, however faint,
of John Alexander D., but 15 or 10 years is quite a long
time, and probably they’ll learn to travel and do good
on their own, and say as little about John Alexander as
possible. ......
Europe is threatened with a return to the
glacial period. A ’Murkan engineer has proposed
to cut a channel through the Florida peninsula,
and so divert the waters of the Gulf Stream from
the west coast of Europe to the east coast of
America.
“It is no easy matter to deal with 90
nurses, and a number of young male students,”
said a member of Melb. Hospital committee
t’other day. And everybody laughed. The
humorous light in which we regard contingencies
for the realisation of which we have only horror is
strongly characteristic of the humbug that governs
our moralities.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE BE
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s od.
AlfaUne Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
AIiFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
Sent Post Free
. . . and ...
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■■. WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
jMPORTRN
T.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmtlSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills- Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but ino9t effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s,
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and efifectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
SYDNEY
BUI SB AN E : l(iO Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELHO U UN It: 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
N\Z. . WELLINGTOX : 01 Lambton Quay.
jP EIITH: Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s),
KALGOORLIE ; Hannmi-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Fiesse-sireet.
FREMANTLE', Henry-street.
HAVE YOU
ABADLEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
{Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FXLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney- Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ĥ
FRINGES,
ff ntural Curly, from 8/fe eaot
PLAITS and TAILS,
fOln. long, MO. tJI real half,
CUTTINGS & COMBLNQ*
•opted tip, i/6 per az.
W« are the cheapeitin Mp
trails for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigz«ll>
110 Wiiauu Sttiket,
corner of Palmer.etreet,
- SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Dost.
Send stamps for full Prloo LlsV*\
fXHPpt atteotiori yvon to Country Ol<Wlt
ħ
Medical.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, eta
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Dr. Boxwell’s
PILLS
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEO-
Li TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. 83P" Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Eills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert—Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
Vis a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
“COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM”
THE
HEAB
/COMPLETELY restore the
V 7 Hearing 1 and relieve sing-,
jng, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited . after trying every,
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Medical.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE.
'SS&
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J-COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A RELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in onr “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Ele'ctric Belt that it
h
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES)
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
T Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot Irom any Chemist.
Proprietor .—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
LAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
tor my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
hy adn " n »SrEUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran
Melb. says: “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate rehef, aßhough I had during two months previous
tried ail sorts of remedies without success.”
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
ħ
h
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
rhm^ s V or all V f,°, unds ami Skin Diseases,
Sore Byef,°&c!’ Ulcerated Le & s ' Wmples,
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Stores 65 ' PnCeS IS ' lid ' and **• 9d - each of all Dru^
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARItICOTT Ltd.
BRIPPORT, England. *
DEAF
The New Patent
ISOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Arethesame
r to the ears as glasses are to the
fX es ' Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
.Lxplanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST. 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES
Address —L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Advt. from Kobe (Japan) Chronicle :
WANTED A HOLIDAY ! !
TTITE, the Students of BUNT SAN’S DOKURITSU
VV EIGO JOGAKKO, desire to inform our country-
men that WE have found a place for the continuance
of our studies under Bunt San during- the reconstruc-
tion of our College. We cannot give Mr. Bunt a new
liver, but will give him a holiday—on Sundays.
April 30, 1900.
A lad recently absconded from the Govt.
Industrial School at Burnham (M.L.), and got to
the Bluff, where he shipped on board an English
boat as a seaman. Instead of letting the youth
clear-out, and thus, while ridding the province of
a burden, give the boy a chance to make a start
elsewhere, the dunderheaded authorities had him
arrested and taken back to Burnham (500 miles).
Here all the theatrical surroundings of a “dreadful
example” were prepared. The boys were all
summoned to the punishment-room and the head-
master made an impressive entry with his flogging
instruments. The boy, however, spoiled the in-
tended tableau by darting at the head-master and
stabbing him in the throat with a penknife. The
curtain fell and the moral effect was lost. The
master is in hospital and the boy in gaol—ready
for a criminal’s career.
The Victorian Government resolved that
there “wasn’t time” to attend to Old Age
Pension matters this year, so the Assembly
dissolves without anything being done. _ There
was time enough to despatch contingents,
and to fool away lots of public _ money on
the shooting of complete strangers in S’Africa,
and to hold long Jingo debates, and to pass reso-
lutions expressive of thankfulness that the
slaughter was going on satisfactorily. But when
it was merely a question of saving the local poor
and aged from death by lingering starvation there
wasn’t time. Why not tell the straight-out truth :
“ Our aged poor must starve for another year
because the money that should have assisted them
has been spent in Boer-shooting.”


BUYERS of road Bicycles find better service and
greater value in the EASY RUNNING
MASSEY - HARRIS than In any other Bicycle.
What we say they’ll do they do do.
Factories—Toron to, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 355 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
Infringers of the Dunlop Tyre Co’s patents in
England are getting a warm time. One man, who persists
in making tyres on the Dunlop principle, has recently
spent 14 days in gaol. Upon his release he again started
the old game, with the result that he has once more been
committed to prison, this time for an indefinite period.*
Don’t Hesitate.
There is just one thing to use if your stomach,
liver or kidneys are “out of order,” and that
“one thing” is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The supposition is that you want a prompt cure
and a lasting cure. That is why Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are recommended as the one
thing for your condition. They cure promptly,
perfectly and permanently. One of the thousands
cured gives strong proof.
HE SUFFERED FOR YEARS.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE.
Mr. John Kerr, 161 Church-street, Camper-
down, write ;: “I wish to inform you that for a
number of years I was a great sufferer, caused by
biliousness, frequently being laid up a week,
sometimes a fortnight, at a time, constantly tak-
ing medicines, and seemingly deriving no benefit.
A friend advised me to give Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills a trial. Did so, and after taking them
for a time found myself getting better, and now
for the last two years I have only lost one
day. I still keep them by me and occasion-
ally take a dose, which keeps me right.”
Strong proof he speaks after being cured two
years. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills positively
cure biliousness, indigestion, constipation, dys-
pepsia, headaches, liver and kidney complaints,
piles, pimples, and blotches. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, price Is. l|d. per bottle or six
bottles Gs. 6d, Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58
Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO..
Ideal Tyre Coy.,;
RIC HMOND, VICTORIA
and CHRISTCHURCH,N.Z
XX th Century Cookery
and Home Decoration
By MRS. ARONSON,
“THALIA,” Sydney Maid.
322 pages, over 1000 Recipes, with 16 Illustrations
of Home Decoration by Fred. Leist and
D. H. Souter.
Price 4/6*, Post Free 5/2,
FROM
William Brooks & Co.,
17 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
ĥ
Branches:
Victoria-street, Wellington", iN’.Z.
Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
Rundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
Ed ward-street, Brisbane, Q.
WONDERFUL
WONDERFUL
BICYCLE!
biaufcy/j* 11 US riders say about the latent RED BIRD.
" Oli,. it’s a nevfeet
The Goold Bicycle Co.,
64 King Street, SYDNEY.
The Caulfield Cup, as all now know, was won
by Ingliston, with ilora second, the outsider Alix third,
and L.a Carabine in the same old fourth place which She
filled last year. Then caine Cornquist (the only other
horse, bar Sagacity, that ever looked like a winner in the
last half-mile of the race), and after Cornquist came Bar-
barossa. So, of eight horses favored by Tins Bulletin,
four finished among the first six and these included the
actual winner. Yet when it came to picking 3 of its
favored 8 to fill the “ places ’ this scribe chose the wrong
ones.
Probably the Caulfield Cup “ form ” was true
enough, as “ form ” goes in a bustling mile-and-half race
on a circular course where 24 animals are being ridden
for good positions. There was much jostling—the winner
got a nasty knock early in the race—but no accidents.
Ingliston’s style of shooting to the front at the critical
moment suggested that if the race had been run again on
Sunday he would probably have finished first, or second,
or thereabouts. Kinglike was a disappointment, but
then he is a slow beginner, and a slow beginner needs
luck to get him into a front place for a Caulfield Cup.
The case of Kinglike, the “ hot pot,” points the moral,
and does not adorn the tale. On Wednesday he won the
Eclipse Stakes (11 fur.) brilliantly, Mora being among the
beaten ones. The showy chestnut mare finished fifth.
On Saturday she was meeting Kinglike on 31bs. worse
terms than before, and she beat him, over 12fur., by
(say) 16 lengths. Alix was another glaringly inconsistent
performer during the meeting, whereas Cornquist and
Barbarossa ran respectably in all their races.
• * • •
Caulfield Cup winner Ingliston was bought by
present owner—Caulfield trainer Leek—for 50 guineas
from breeder J. O. Ingiis. Ingliston is by Malua from
Chakwa, by Richmond, from Contest, by Tregeagle (Imp.)
from Proserpine, by Lucifer (imp.) by Melbourne. He didn't
run as a 2-year-old. At 3 years he went under several
times before winning Mentone 5 fur. Maiden Plate last
April. Two months later he was second to Madam in
Cambria purse (7 fur.) at Caulfield, then he won Rich-
mond Handicap (9 fur.), was subsequently second to Lan-
caster and afterwards annexed August Handicap (l£
miles) at Flemington.
* * * *
Caulfield meeting casts considerable doubt on
the alleged good quality of this season's three-year-olds.
Kinglike, the Guineas conqueror of Malster and Finland,
won the Eclipse Stakes with a ratherbrilliant rush, it is
true, but he didn’t beat the reliable Paul Pry in better
style than Severity and Tarquin had taken him down in
Caulfield Stakes. Yet Kinglike is the undoubted boss of
the Derby horses on paper, now that Hautboy is a goner.
He is more than likely to win the Derby, in which case
the other youngsters, anyhow, will look a poor lot.
Re the value of the time-test in actual racing ;
2'22 for the 11 fur. Eclipse Stakes is accepted as an Aus-
tralian record, and it stands to Kinglike's credit. There
were only eight runners, and the pace was made by The
Chief from the very jump. Conditions were favorable to
a record. An hour later, 17 horses went crowding along
for the Coongy Handicap, over the same course. Clean
Sweep, a second-rater, was in front all the way, and,
although he didn’t equal The Chief’s pace for the first
mile, he ran the last two fur. in lsec. faster time than
Kinglike (so the clock said), and was being rapidly over-
taken by George Frederick at the finish. G.F. showed
the finest public performance of all the Melb. Cup horses
that ran at Caulfield. If he can stay two miles he should
go very near to taking the big prize.
La Carabine’s performance in the C.C. was also
impressive, considering that she wants a few more
gallops to make her quite hard. Merriwee and Seahorse are
interesting questions. Last year’s Derby and Cup winner
has grown somewhat, and is evidently in the best of health.
■He was not touched with spur or whip in either of his
goes at Caulfield, which served as exercise gallops for
him. Seahorse, on the other hand, was rather “ baked ”
after the Eclipse Stakes, in which he finished ahead of
the black “ crack.” Present scribe doesn’t think it pos-
sible for Seahorse to be thoroughly readied up for a two-
mile race by Cup Day, but as to the Maorilander’s speed
and gameness there is no question. If he can be sent to
the post as fit as Merriwee he should beat last year’s
winner, anyhow. People begin to think that Merriwee’s
series of defeats last autumn, when he wasn’t well, must
have taken some heart out of him. The stable, appar-
ently, still believes that he will run a great race in the
Cup, but recent “ form ” is discouraging to those who
haven't backed him, and who were not looking at his Caul-
field failures through hope-colored glasses.
The second, third and fourth places in the
Caulfield Cup were filled by mares.
The hurdle racing at Caulfield was a caution to
punters. On the first day, Soult (i 0 to 1) met Redeemer
(7 to 2) ata difference of 2ibs. over the 2i mile course and
beat him by many lengths. A week later the pair met
again, Boult this time conceding 91b. instead of receiving
21b. ; but the distance was shorter by more than a quarter
of a rnile and on their previous running Redeemer had
but a poor show. All the same, Redeemer, starting at 10
to 1 beat the 4to 1 Soult by four lengths. Punters were
off him this time.
* * * *
ft That mare of mystery, Mora, nearly pipped
Caulfield Cup this year. Had she got home, there’d have
been-much hard cursing. Last year, she was a lot tossed
about in the betting-market; this time, most left her
religiously alone, for she didn’t seem to be doing too well;
still, the money kept coming. Friends got letters from
Some of her connections advising them to go for Sagacity
or Gauleon —former for choice, as Morals work wasn’t
satisfactory. Month or more ago rumor had it that
V Teddy ” Knight sold her to a Sydney shop Mo., and last
week the information was sprung upon the public through
the papers as fresh, and as if the sale had only taken place
day before —£700 was the sum named. Her position in
the race was a big surprise to everybody not in the know.
“ Thank Heaven Mora didn’t win ! ” is a fervently uttered
remark, heard on ail sides now. She’ll be worth watching
in some of the coming big things.
* * * *
Ingliston’s comparatively easy win of Caulfield
Cup with 7.4 up in very fast time makes Lancaster’s
chance in Melb. Cup look extremely rosy. Early present
season Ingliston (7.1) ran second to Lancaster in V.A.T.C.
Malakoff Stakes, 1 mile 3 fur. Lancaster gave Ingliston a
long start from the turn and beat him home by a neck.
Lancaster has 7.10 in the Cup, and on the running re-
ferred to the two miles should suit him to a T.
• m * m
“Punter”: M.L. crack nag, Seahorse, goes better
every outing, and should surely nave a big say m the Cup.
Eclipse Stakes (Wednesday last week) saw him run ibs.
better than in Caulfield Stakes. He was a rare good ’un
in spring of last year, and now gives indication of reaching
that form again. When considering Seahorse’s prospects
it’sjiist as well to_remember that he holds the Austra-
lasian record for miles —3m. 56 l/ssec.
»«»-
“ Punter The utter absurdity of thinking
you can pick ’em was never better shown than in Caul-
field Cup. Kinglike’s running, compared with recent
form, proved a regular paralyser. As showing what was
thought of him, all the tens offered (prior to the big
Caulfield event) about his chance for Melb. Cup were
eagerly snapped up. Now, sixteens are plentiful. With a
inuch 'better course at Flemington, and consequently a
much better chance for a good horse, also the opportunity
provided by a two-mile journey to make up lost ground,
it’s quite on the cards that he’ll pull through those
who are already “on” him; but he’ll make no new
friends unless he gets away with the Derby.
* * * *
.Sydney shop-totes swindle was never more glar-
ing than on Saturday. Why the public touches them and
comes again and again.is a mystery. Once in a way big
divs. are heard of, but ’tis any odds that the manipulator
himself is the only one then “ on.” Writer remembers a
case where a £2OO div. was declared ; shop man put a
friend's name down for it. Friend claimed the money,
and wouldn’t be put off till he got £5O. Later he catne
again, but Mo wasn’t on. Scene that followed brought
hundreds round, Wrecking the place. Shop closed that
day, and never re-opened. Writer has a card of Saturday’s
“ best tote ” before him, and, among other transparent
fakes, is Alix (third in Caulfield) paying £1 135.-6 d. for os.
Nag started at 100’s to 2, with 12 Do 1 freely offered about
a place. Legal recognition of the tote-machine would
soon settle this systematic daylight robbery, and give
people who will bet (no matter how great the odds
against them) a fair deal.
• * • *
The Manifolds, tired of seeing Mysore refuse
fences in public and on the training track, made a present
of the horse to Godfrey Watson last week. The new
owner gave Mysore a chance in Saturday’s Steeplechase
at Caulfield. He was sent to the front as soon as the
field had got fairly going, and without showing the least
sign of bad temper or cowardice, he proceeded to run
away with the race. Perhaps it was the policy of letting
him make his own pace which did the trick. Or the sight
of his old jockey in new colors might have had something
to do with Mysore’s reformation. He won by the
length of the proverbial street—a ridiculously
easy victory, though not a matter for astonish-
ment considering that his opponents were a
common lot. A few idiots hooted the winner, for no
better reason than that they hadn’t backed him on the
off-chance of his running straight. Mysore has run a
couple of steeplechases since this scribe named him in
June as the likely winner of a second Grand National.
His starting price in each instance was 10 or 12 to 1, or
even longer odds. £1 on Mysore every time he has run
since The Bulletin’s first par. appeared would have
brought a profit of about £l7 to the backer. Not a bad
brute to follow, after all.
» * * «
Sydney Hunt GlubOup miles) at Randwick,
Saturday, for “hunters” with huntsmen up, excited much
interest. Nags were mixed, but they were well ridden,
and “ lepped ” in style, though most tired a deal towards
the finish. Absence of breeding was very noticeable, as,
bar the winner, Mr. H. L. Mackellar’s Taipo (a three-
quarter-bred gelding which humped the crusher of 14.8),
there was nothing worth mentioning in the way of blood.
• • • »
Old Whakawatea (13 years) is still in line with
front-rank sprinters. He popped up at Randwick on
Saturday, and won Stockbridge Handicap(6 furlongs) well
backed, in 1.16, two lengths away from second nag, Blue
Nobby.
* * * *
Capt. Scott, who married the widow of Hon.
Jas. White (in his day Australia’s straightest horse-owner),
won a hurdle-race in Oork (Ireland) last month per Aus-
tralian jumper Kiora, who, ’twill be remembered, was,
with Chesney, wrecked at the Gape en route 'Orae.
Kiora humped second lowest weight of eight starters.
Australian rider T. Maguire was up. Just previously
Capt. Scott’s Ca Ira 11. pulled off a good thing, but same
owner’s other nag from these parts, Raven’s Plume,
finished nowhere in a field of two.
* * * •
A racing dispute ventilated in Warrnambool
(Vic.) Civil Court, lately, was so “ strong” that the P.M.
declined to adjudicate, suggesting a higher court and a
jury. The ex-trainer of a racing mare sued the owner for
fees, &c., and his evidence was “ pure.” He knew the
mare was going to lose, though he couldn’t or wouldn’t
say how. He received sundry sums, apparently out of
pure kindness of heart, from a party who had presumably
accidentally backed the winner of the race that the mare
lost. He had told the inquiring stewards a lot of
“ fairies,” though they didn’t save him from being
“ rubbed out ” for 12 months. Again asked how he knew
the inare would lose, he remarked, “ Oh, anyone would
know that." Pressed, he finally admitted that the boy
had orders not to win, and that, out of three starters, two
were stiff 1 That must have been something like a dead
bird—a real “ moral."
• * * *
“The totalisator has undoubtedly taught people
to be moderate, and not to risk money which they have
not got, and educated the public, so to speak, to ‘ play
whist for sixpenny.points.’ ” —Chaffey Baker.
* « « *
“ Leo ” : At a recent M.L. way back meeting a
rank outsider won the chief race, one of the few ticket-
holders being a “ hayseed ” sort of man. The despised moke
paid a little div. of £57 odd. The old farmer got much ex-
cited, and, waving his ticket in the air, kepton yelling “ I’ve
got it! I’ve backed it 1 ” Just then a smarty rushed up
to him and shouted, “What! Have you backed it?
Why, so have I. Come and have a drink. Let’s have a
look at your ticket.” The old fellow innocently handed
it to him, and the spieler deftly changed it for another.
Old Hayseed didn’t notice, and exultantly walked up to
the pay-out counter to receive his £57. . . . But, after
all, the ticket was never presented for payment, the
“ gun ” having funked.
• » * *
The number of tote-permits issued annually in
M.L. is limited by statute. The Colonial Secretary now
purposes amending the Act so as to obtain power to in-
crease or decrease the number at his discretion. Of
coarse it is obvious that the present total will have to be
augmented, as the country districts are howling because
there aren’t enough permits to go round. ' Another
amendment gives clubs power to remove undesirable
characters from their courses without being liable to
actions for “ illegal ejectment.”
* • ' • •
Died on 12th inst. “ Merlin,” P. G-. Monaghan of
Tasmania, sporting writer and handicapper, aged 54. He
wa3 a walking race-almanac, and a familiar figure on
most courses in Australia. He was connected with the
old Cornwall Chronicle and Tasmanian for upwards of
3D years, and closed his eyes finally in the house where
they first saw light.
* ’ » * *
The ultra-pietists of Perth, W.A., held a meet-
ing t’other night to advocate the abolition of con mlta-
tions. R. S. Haynes (brother of the East’s John) tr 1 to
move as an amendment:—“That this prayer-meeting is
of opinion that Parliament should pass an Act to make
people honest ” ; and a lady moved in favour of State
consultations in aid of charities—which proposal, of
course, did not find favour with a concourse of saints.
• * * *
Seldom has there been a tougher display of
dogged courage than that exhibited by Peter Murphy in
his fight with Jack M’Gowan at Melb. Demo. Club last
week. Murphy, though the taller by 4in. and the heavier
by 51b., was outclassed from the jump by the little South
Melbournite, and as the rounds progressed he was con-
verted into a chopping-block. Every round promised to
be the last, but Murphy endured it all and came up smil-
ing for another hammering in the next 3min. His limit
was not reached until the 20th round. The win gives
M’Gowan the title of light-weight champion of Australia,
and leaves Hegarty, who has more than once beaten
M’Gowan, in the anomalous position of being only feather-
weight champion. Hegarty is the only man who proves a
stumbling-block to the actor-pug. They have met several
times, and though they have drawn a couple of battles,
M’Gowan has not been able to score a win.
* * * *
Cocker Twjedie, whose star is rising high,
invented a new knock-out blow on Saturday night at
Melb. Vic. Hall, where he beat his previous victor, Ned
Cullen, in 12 rounds. Cocker fought just as cleverly, but
with far more fire, than in his first meeting with Cullen
four months ago. He got a score of heavy hits in the
early part of the fight, and was given no rest, but never-
theless succeeded in lasting out his taller and reachier
opponent. From the eighth round, onwards, the fight
was the Sydney man’s. Cullen was eventually sent
out with a light snick from the wrist which tapped
his spine as he was passing. The mill was game and
gritty from start to finish and the hall was crowded. A
few more shows like this and the Murphy-M’Gowan go,
and pugilism would be restored to the favor it commanded
before the introduction of the “ schlenters ” that have
ruled for the past five :years. During the evening
Otto Cribb made his bow amid loud, cheers, and com-
plained that none of the Southern scrappers would take
him on.
* * * *
Otto Cribb— the undefeated M.L. puff. —sud-
denly made rip his mind to leave for Yankeedom, and
straightway departed Wednesday this week by the Mari-
posa, under the guidance of chief-steward James, who
brought Bob Fitzsimmons and Griffo to the States, and
was responsible for Hebrew pug. Ohoynski’s presence in
Australia ten years ago.
* • * •
Black bruisers Starlight and Ike Stewart met
a third time at Golden Gate A. 0., Sydney, last week,
before a packed audience, and after 20 promiscuous
whirling rounds, Starlight got the big end of the pu-se.
There weren’t \hr e good punches struck, and yet
applause was frec,ue it and loud. Neither got hurt worth
mentioning, for neither could hit hard enough even if he
landed. The antics of Starlight, -who fought by far the
fairer fight, and the faces he often made at critical times,
rendered the thing extremely funny. There’s talk of
same two coming together again, but Sydney has had
enough of them ; they should give Melbourne a chance.
* * * *
Sydney waterman-pug Johns (here mentioned,
months ago, as a genuine comer) had another go at “ the
Poet” in Golden Gate A.O. (Sydney), Saturday night,
and won again on points (with much to the good) after
20 rounds. Fight hot all the way, and the night the
hottest this season so far. There is talk now of matching
Johns against Tweedie, or any other of the clever ones in
the lOst. division.
* * * *
Scratch pullers, Clancy and Ryan, are matched
for the N.S.W. supremacy and £25 aside (best two in
three pulls) to take place in Sydney some night (unfixed)
next week. Ryan holds the championship and is a
quarryman at Cockatoo Island, scaling close on 17st.
Clancy follows some similar calling but is a bigger man
every way and owns a ham-sized iron hand. It appear-
ances count Clancy’ll win, but Ryan’s a real champion.
Contest is exciting much interest among city navvies and
lumpers. Said that giant pug, Barker, who once nearly
killed huge Dutchman, Harry Placke, is good at the game
and may be matched against winner, but writer won’t
have him—he’s too long and lathy.
* » * *
Sydney swimming season began Saturday with
a big splash. Seven clubs had fixtures and over 300 men
competed. Confidently anticipated that through the
advent of Leo and the expected return of Hellings and
Lane, also the fact that Australasian championships take
place in Victoria next month, this will be the most inter-
esting season yet known.
* * * *
At S.A. League of Wheelmen’s two-days’ car-
nival, begun Saturday, Bilmartin figured for first time
since that trouble three years ago, and got a big recep-
tion ; but though starting in three races he didn’t get a
place owing to lack of form. Feature of gathering was
Vic. Palmer’s riding. He won Century Handicap (1 mile)
from scratch, Flying Handicap (with 50yds.) and three
heats, including one in League Handicap (2 miles), to be
finished this Saturday. S.A. premiership mile went to
H. M. Aunger, Mathias second, and Wilksch third ; time,
2.6 2-ssec. Internat. scratch 5 miles was won (in 12m.
25.) by Victorian S. E. Gordon, Aunger (S.A.) second, and
R. W. Lewis (N.S.W.) third.
* * *
M'Kibbin, playing for Pt. Adelaide in club
cricket, made a cipher and failed to get a wicket in his
first match. The surprise of Adelaide cricket, so far, is
G. Gillen’s fine form. Against the bowling of Jones,
Reedman and co. he made 45 in great style on an in-
different wicket.
»—• ■ * *
Cricketers come in families. Witness the
Trumbles, Gregorys, and Giffans. Three of the latter
play with West Adelaide—the latest, Claude, being a
nephevv of the great George.
* » » »
An out-back N.S.W. cricket club has seven
Chinese members, and in-a recent match against a team
of shearers four Ohinkies put up 110 amongst them, and
one took 4 wickets for 28 runs.
* * * *
“Pad.”: A bowling feat was accomplished
t’other day at Lady Robinson’s Beach (Sydney). Harry
Sherlock, bowling against Arcadians, got 9 wickets for 7
runs. Seven went down before four successive balls one
time and three on another occasion. Tenth man was run
out. The side made 16 altogether.
• * » *
Weiss and Roberts shifted their show to Melb.
last week, and opened there Thursday. That day’s play
ended in Roberts nulling up 480 points. Play of both on
Friday was sensationless—albeit Weiss made breaks of 113
and 173 and Roberts 113 (unfinished). Saturday night
the Englishman was in great fettle, coming along with
138, 109, 98, 82, and 81 ; Weiss’ highest was 75. Roberts
notched 932 to t’other’s 417 in two hours. Weiss was
then 831 points in front of his handicap. When play
ceased in Sydney Weiss had 1583 to the good, hence
Roberts, in five sessions, reduced the Cornstalk’s advan-
tage down to 752 points. Monday last Weiss opened with
a break of 140 and gave a miss in baulk ; Roberts failed
to score, then Weiss compiled 250 —both these inside half-
an-hour. Roberts’ best breaks, afternoon and evening,
were 148, 143, 126, 201, 166, and 116. Before they started
Tuesday the board showed—Weiss 17,195, Roberts 14,439.
Looks as if finish might be interesting.
A N.S.W. solicitor caught it hot t’other day—
was fined £4 and costs for “ carrying firearms on Sun-
day,” and £l7 and costs (£1 each for eight wild ducks and
nine plover; for being found with protected game during
close season. Notice of appeal has been lodged.
Piles and their Cure.— Mr. Frank Buckhurst,
Chemist, Mutual Store Buildings, Flinders-street,
Melbourne, has now a stock of the famous
“Cannalin” remedies, so successful in the treat-
ment of the worst forms of this complaint. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, entitled “Piles
and the Way to Cure Them,” sent free on applica-
tion —or from the Sydney depot, 257 George-st.
Patents for Inventions— Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.
reports a quiet week in wheat. Notwithstanding the
slightly easier prices owners were prepared to accept,
transactions have been limited. Freights are still mur-
dering export, and millers, with a market at their mercy,
only accept offers below those nominally queted—to wit,
for prime, 2s. 9d. ; F.A.Q., 2s. Bd. to 2s. B|d. ; and pinched,
2s. 3d. to 2s. sd.
A medical correspondent to The Bulle-
tin :
Re par (B. 13/10/’00) about a recent Vic. case of alleged
plague. The facts : A child fell ill in a small township
near Tallangatta, and a Sydney nurse who had been
stationed at the Plague hospital happened to be staying
in the vicinity, came to see it, advised the mother to take
it to the nearest doctor, and quite incidentally mentioned
that there were certain points of similarity between the
symptoms and those of bubonic plague. The mother at
once rushed off to the Tallangatta medico who, on hear-
ing her version of the nurse’s remarks, thought right to
inform the central health authorities, as he had had no
personal experience of An expert was dispatched
to the place, followed by a bacteriologist to make the
diagnosis absolutely certain, but no trace of bubonic
plague was found by either, and Victoria is still free from
the disease.
At Poverty Point.
With the demolition of the old Melb. Opera House, to
make way for Harry Rickards’ new theatre, passes the
oldest recently-used Melb. theatre. It was built in the
60’s, for the late William Saurin Lyster. The Opera House
was the scene of many strange events, including the
tragedy of ’B2, when a young Englishman, named Greer,
shot his wife and her supposed lover, Frenchman Soudry,
and then suicided, during the progress of a play. The
oldest Melb. theatre is situated in Queen-street, and is
now used as a billiard-table factory.
“F.C.D.” writes, re the “Georgia Magnet,” now ex-
hibiting in Sydney : “ This kind of thing is quite played;
out in America, where there were, at one time, many
‘magnets’ on the job. Anyhow, so far as this lady is
concerned, when she was showing in this town (name
given), I offered to bet her husband £5 that I could do
everything the ‘ Magnet’ did, but he was not ‘ on.’ ” The
correspondent’s best course would be to make a public
challenge and offer of wager. Then we’d know ; all about
it!
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) Theatre orchestra is to be more
than doubled for the production of Macbeth. , Neither
Locke’s nor Sullivan’s music is to be performed, but a
new setting by Edgar Stillman Kelly, written- especially
for M‘Kee Rankin at a cost of £5OO. The front row of the
stalls is to be removed in order to accommodate 42 musi-
cians.
Nellie Stewart’s remarks to an interviewer about a year
ago on the art with which she “ built up ” her legs so as
to make herself look like areal boy when she played
principal boy at Drury Lane, are remembered. She is to
be principal boy in Musgrove’s pantomime at Melb. Prin-
cess’. Probably she will try on her “building-up”
theories there. We shall see. But, looking at Nellie
Stewart’s draped figure, it doesn’t seem possible that she
can make herself, undraped and in tights, anything but a
shapely woman. She is hereby warned not to try—to
any great extent.
Advertised recently in Adelaide that, on «, certain even-
ing, at Wirth’s Circus, a daring citizen would allow him-
self to be shaved by a hairdresser, named Tregeagle, inside
the tigers’ cage. The authorities put a stop to the little
caper ; but, if this scribe should ever want to go under
the razor, he would like to have an operator of Tregeagle’s
nerve.
Williamson is making Her Majesty’s in Melbourne a
strong rival to the Princess’ as a handy and elegant house.
The theatre will scarcely be recognisable on Oct. 27, its
next opening date. Nearly the whole of the front,
hitherto given over to wine-shops and dealers in the
seductive trotter, is to be devoted to spacious stairways,
a handsome crush-room, open-air balconies, and well-
planned retiring-rooms. For the future Williamson’s
patrons will have their exits and their entrances with all
desirable convenience.
Sample of biograph now on exhibition in N.S.W- :
“ Shooting Boer spy in Ladysmith.” Officer in charge is
seen to go up to spy and cuff him before giving orders to
shoot. After firing, officer walks up to dead body and fires
at it with his revolver.
Melba, in Dublin recently, patronised by Lord Lieut.
Cadogan, sang to stalls at five guineas apiece for the
command night.
“H.F. Re Ibsen and his detractors. Ibsen shares
with the few the highest art quality, that of suggestive-
ness ; the word is subordinate to the thought. He ap-
peals, with all great painters, sculptors, and composers,
to the imagination. If the realist and photographer—who
are very tired of Shakespeare—can see nothing in him that
is their misfortune, for their horizon is darkened to
shining light.
Charles H. Hoyt, the American playwright and author
of “ Chinatown ” has been committed to a lunatic-asylum
in Hartford, Conn., at the instance of his partner, Frank
M‘Kee.
L. : Was in a panto, cast once and had to sing a song in
an enchanted forest where the trees were alive and were
each worked by a man concealed in the trunk. I was a
bit struck to hear one tree say to me, “ Come on, Cully—
move up stage a bit and give a bloke a charnst to do ’is
little bit o’ business.”


MRHkX
nm
m
l.
DERBY Tobacco wins,
because on account of its
matchless qualities it has
the largest sale of any
Tobacco in the Southern
Hemisphere.
DERBY
WINS!
WHAT?
T)ERBY Tobacco
WINS
RESPECT
because it is always evenly
excellent in manufacture.
CUSTOM
because it is of superb
flavour. .
FRIENDS
because after you have
smoked it you don’t want
any other brand.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.,
187 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone 3490.
ħ
h
NOTICE TO
A UNIQUE MEDAL FOR
SCHOOLS & CLUBS.
Our Own Exclusive Design.
GOLD HALL-MARKED MEDAL
Price, 17/8
ĥ
SCHOOLS & CLUBS
M,-MARKED SILVER MEDALS
WITH GOLD CENTRES.
Price, 3/8
.ALL-MARKED ALL SILVER
MEDALS. Price, 2/6
Rarely
the Eyes
Of two people are alike, and often the two eyes differ in
the same person.
Each eye tested separately by a qualified Optician, who
for many years has done nothing but test vision.
We make no charge for testing, and charge London
Prices for Glasses if they are found to be necessary,
Opticians to the
Walker Hospital
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-st., Sydney.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY Nov. 3
CUP DAY S Nov. 6
OAKS DAY Nov. 8
STEEPLECHASE DAY .. Nov. lO
Largest entries ever received. Accommodation
for thousands. The conveniences for the comfort
of visitors to Flemington now surpass anything in
the world.
its* Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
abridged prospectus
—OP-
A. SHADLER, LIMITED,
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT, 1899.
CAPITAL, £30,000, divided into 30,000 Shares of £1 each-
-10,000 FULLY PAID-UP SHARES issued to the Vendor, together with £BOOO in Debentures to be issued by the
Company, as and in full consideration for the sale of the businesses.
10,000 SHARES obtainable on the following terms, namely
2s. 6d. per Share on Application ; 2s. 6d. per Share on Allotment*
Balance to be called up as and when required.
10,000 SHARES are to be held in reserve for future issue if required.
JAMES INGLIS
(James Inglis and Co., Ltd.)
8. T. KNAGGS, M.D.
DIRECTORS :
A. O. SHADLER.
J. O. SMITH
(Messrs. Morgan and Smith).
0. L. GARLAND.
BANKERS : Commercial Bank of Australia, Ltd.
SOLICITORS : Messrs. Pigott and Stinson, 28 Oastlereagh street.
AUDITOR : Thomas Davis, Incorporated Accountant, Gladstone Chambers, 90 Pitt-street.
SECRETARY : Mr. Charles Freshfield.
HEAD OFFICE : 187 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Company has been formed for the object of acquiring, as a going concern, as and from the 11 th day of
August, 1930, the Trades and Businesses of Mr. A. 0. Shadier, as now carried on by him at Sydney and suburbs under
the stvle of A. SHADLER (Established 1851), including the Goodwill, all Working Plant, Stock-in-Tia <•, Book Debts,
and other Assets of the said businesses ; also to Purchase the Business now carried on by Mr. GBURGE SMAIL,
Baker, at Miller’s Point.
The purchase by the Company will include the valuable Leaseholds of all the businesses in Sydney and suburbs.
The result of the trading of the businesses for many years past has been fully inquired into and reported upon by-
Mr. Thomas Davis, F.S.A.A. (Eng.), and his certificate concerning the whole, and proving the average percentage of
net earnings, together with tabulated histories of the operations of all the Branches, is nowin the possession of the
Directors.
The business of A. Shadier is well and favorably known in New South Wales, having been established and con-
tinuously conducted with profit and success for over 46 years, and being thus one of the very few commercial concerns
of long standing, its conversion into a Company will enable investors to become interested in a thoroughly sound
commercial enterprise, the trade and connection of which are most extensive, and the profits remarkably regular and
satisfactory.
Power has been vested in the Directors by the Memorandum of Association to issue Debentures, and such
Debentures to the amount of £BOOO are to be handed to the Vendor as in part payment of purchase money, and will
be redeemable over a series of years.
Particular attention is drawn to the fact that all the Assets vvill be transferred to the Company absolutely free of
liability other than the Debentures referred to.
Under the Contract for Sale Mr. A. C. Shadier has consented to hold the position of Managing Director, thus
securing continuity of Management.
Mr. Shadier also covenants not to enter into opposition to the proposed Company.
Memorandum and Articles of Association and tne Agreements with Mr. A. C. Shadier above referred to may be
inspected at the Offices of Messrs. Pigott and Stinson, Solicitors, 28 Castlereagh-street, Sydney ; or Thomas Davis,
Incorporated Accountant, Gladstone-chambers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney.
All information in connection with the above may be obtained at the office of
Mr. THOMAS DAVIS,
Incorporated Accountant, Gladstone-chambers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
rro CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
X 1*- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES!
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake —saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches —particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all. information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED-
THE FIFTEENTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
OF
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
To be Presented to the Shareholders. at the Fifteenth Ordinary General Meeting , to be held at
the Bank, 126 Elizabeth-street, at Noon on Tuesday, SOth October, 1900.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the shareholders their Fifteenth Report, with a balance-sheet and statement of
profit and loss for the half-year ended 30tli September, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, tax on note
circulation, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net profit, including the balance brought forward
from last half-year, amounted to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £14,933 8 8
From which must be deducted additional interest, at the rate of one-half per cent, per annum,
from Ist April to 21st June last, on the deferred deposit receipts, in accordance with the terms
of the arrangement of 21st June, 1895 • 906 6 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. .. ..
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :
Dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum on preference shares ..
To reserve fund .. . . ~ ..
Balance carried forward
£14,027 2 S
During the half-year the Directors paid off the fifth instalment of the deferred deposit receipts, payable in 1903-4,
leaving a balance of £361,433 14s. 3d. outstanding.
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the 31st inst., and at the branches on receipt of advice.
The Fifteenth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the head office of the company, 126 Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the 30th day of October, 1900, at noon. By Order of the Board)
Melbourne, 18th October, 1900. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF ABOVEMENTIONED BANK.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank on the 30th September, 1900, were as follows :
BALANCE-SHEET of THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Dr. FOR THE HALF-YEA* ENDING SEPT. 30, 1900. Or.
£14,027 2 8
£6,080 17 7
5,000 0 0
2,946 5 1
To proprietors’ paid - up
capital, viz.
31,184 preference
shares paid in cash
to £9lss £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash .. .. 116,875 10 0
£420,919 10 0
~ Reserve fund . / 15,000 0 0
„ Notes in circulation .. 106,361 0 0
~ Bills in circulation .. ~ „ 125,138 4 9
„ Government Deposits
Not bearing in -
terest,£3B,lls4s. 10d.;
bearing interest,
£327,424 9s. 4d. .. 365,539 14 2
~ Other Deposits—
Not hearing interest,
£670,299155. 7d ; bear-
ing interest—new de-
posits, £1,077,689 os.
5d 1,747,988 16 0
; ■■ — 2,113,528 10 2
~ Bearing interest —deferred deposits .. 361,433 14 3
~ Interest accrued thereon and rebate
on bills current 29,108 9 2
~ Profit and loss .. .. „ .. 9,933 8 8
£3,181,422 17 0
Contingent liabilities as per contra
£33,424 0 2
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal £459,526 13 10
Coin in transitu
Gold and silver
bullion or bars ..
Cash at bankers
Victorian Government
inscribed stock, Metro
politan Board of Works
and municipal deben
tures, at cost ..
Balances due from other
banks
Notes of other banks.
Bills and remmittances
in transitu
Stamps ..
50,000 0 0
23,281
16,096
12,919 16 7
26,287 17 9
435 0 0
112,367 12
699 5
By real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises, at cost to new bank..
Other real estate, at valuation
~ Sharesin othercompanies, at valuation
~ Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts
„ Bills of exchange and promissory
notes discounted, not included in
above, exclusive of provision for bad
or doubtful debts
„ Chattel property at valuatjpn
£701,614 1 4
191,718
79,399
17,792
Liabilities of customers and others in re-
spect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra
1,824,093 2 5
364,755 16 5
2,050 0 0
£3,181,422 17 0
£33.424 n 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To. current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, &c.) ..
~ Bank note tax
~ Transfer to reserve fund
~ Balance ...
£22,204 4 7
1,036 2 6
5,000 0 0
9,933 8 8
£38,173 15 8
By balance brought forward .. .. .. £2 008 710
„ Gross profits for the half-year, after ’
allowing for interest accrued on deposits,
rebate on bills current, and making pro-
vision for bad and doubtful debts.. .. 36,165 710
£38,173 15 8
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance ' J. £15,000 0 0
£16,000 0 0
By balance brought forward .. .. .. £lO,OOO 0 0
~ 'Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 5,000 0 0
£15,000 0 0
The first bit of spirit exhibited by the
Melbourne public against the resuscitating boom-
sters was at Matt. Davies’s meeting the other
night. Despite the fact that the hall had been
carefully packed with leather-palmed and rubber-
lunged barrackers as a preliminary, the outsiders
came in and swamped the hall. They also
deluded Matthew into the idea that he was
“alright,” by permitting him to have his say.
Then the candidate announced that he would
answer any questions, and a well-dressed, fnendly-
looking man, seemingly respectable enough to be
safe, calmly asked if the candidate was in favor
of the abolition of grand juries. Next followed
a jocular enquiry as to the whereabouts of
the missing mace, and from that onwards
nothing could be heard but the wild attempts of
the barrackers to maintain an appearance of public
approval, and the voices or electors putting
personal and pointed queries to Matthew. When
the crowd was just warming to its work the
candidate moved a vote of thanks to the chair and
declared it carried. The meeting melted out boo-
hooing and asking Matthew why he wasn’t game
to take a vote. Matthew, by the way, advertises
that he is positively going to the poll; if he keeps
his promise he' will very likely lose his £5O
deposit. So far, it is only the customers of Matt, s
banks that have lost their deposits.
Detective Ward* a S’African “ veteran,
invalided home with enteric, promptly recovered
his place in Sydney police. On Monday night he
was taking to the lock-up a young man wanted for
“ purse-snatching.” For a time the arrestee went
quietly—then he suddenly began to desperately
resist. The pair rolled about the pavement, and
a young man walked up, and placing a revolver
close to the detective’s head fired, and fled.
Prisoner tried hard to flee too, but Ward, though
bleeding badly, grimly held on, and people came
rushing up. Then three policemen arrived and
were preparing to run in both constable (who was
in plain clothes) and captive. Later on they took
the wounded man to hospital and the “ wanted
to the other place. Meanwhile, Ward is in a
serious state —it is not quite known whether the
bullet fractured his skull —and the young man
with the pistol is being urgently sought for.
A. Shadier. Limited, is the title of the Co.
registered on 16th inst., to take over the well-known and
long-established bakery businesses of Mr. A. 0. Shadier in
various parts of Sydney, and that of Mr. G. Smail at
Millers’ Point. The Co. has also acquired the extensive
premises in Pitt-st., known as the Mutual Stores, which are
being converted into “ the largest and best-appointed re-
freshment room in Australasia. _ The capital is £30,000 in
£1 shares, of which the vendor takes 10,000; the
public are now offered 10,000, and the final 10,000 are
held in reserve. The directors are well-kno.w.n men, ard
the assets taken over are valued at £15,142. The pur-
chase price of the entire business is fixed at £lB,OOO, in-
cluding £2858 for goodwill, or about one year’s average
profits as certified by Mr. T. Davis, accountant. Vendor
receives no cash, but in addition to his 10,000 shares will
receive £BOOO in debentures, to be redeemed by theeo. over
a series of years. The money subscribed by the public will
therefore go into the business. Mr. Davis’report, pub-
lished with the prospectus, which appears in another
column, speaks very highly of the position and prospects
of the co. The company s refreshment room will com-
fortably seat 500 persons. It will be elaborately finished
and 3Cdeg. cooler than the rest of Sydney. Mr Arthur
Payne, of Earl Beauchamp’s household staff, will super-
intend the management, attendance, and general working
of the establishment, and smart boys in irreproachable
duck suits will carry ice and jellies.
Damp-rag Holder now says he is against
doing anything in the matter of State purchase of
Adelaide trams, because there is no one at present
in the State sen ice who knows anything about
electric trams, and the State is too tired to get
someone; because the session is nearly ended, and
he doesn’t feel equal to an extra day’s work or so;
and because the purchase would involve an ex-
penditure of £1,500,000. The S.A. Railway
Commissioner estimates that it could be done for
£1,000,000, and would pay so handsomely that, if
the profits were set aside to pay off the original
cost, the Stare would soon have its tramways abso-
lutely free of debt. But the private grabsters
have apparently got political leverage on Holder,
and the soul of the Shadow-turned-sideways
belongs not to himself.
The recent acquittal of the woman O’Neill,
charged, at Sydney Central Criminal Court, with
attempting to poison one Stanfield, renders it
incumbent on the Crown—in view of the strong
primd-facie case it worked up against the accused
at the police - court —to move heaven and
earth even at this late stage to find out
where the strychnine came from and who
really put it on the chops. The jurymen acquitted
the woman without hearing any defence-evidence
beyond her own statement, and further marked
their feeling in the matter by making a collection
amongst themselves on her behalf.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
ini.
■w
bills
DISCOUNTED-
oxr.srvsr.
[flont deplete D.4<|.Co., Ltd-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEDEAGH ST-,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
e^s
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office-in- Australia.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Established 1879.
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. .1. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith "<q.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600— assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commcicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,S«o.«o<> 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23,4/’OOl 1. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esa., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.l
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyongl, New-
castle • with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - J AMES BURNS Esq
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... • ■ £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000 ...
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
deni Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
A » A T - •• £l>ooo,ooo
PMD UP CAPITAL and RESERVES 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
'■ M,NN E;™ 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Friday, Oct. 26, 5
-Gabo, Saturday, Oct: 27,10 a
Leura, Friday, Nov. 2, 5 p.in
p.ni.
. m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
■ Gabo, Saturday, Oct. 27,10 a.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Saturday, Oct. 27,10 a. m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 27, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Oct. 30, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 3, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACIiAY
TOWNSVILLE
| Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 27, 2 p.
I Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 3, 2
E.d
LUCINDA POINT i
GEEALDTON }
CAIRNS. &c. i
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Caryo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets..
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« TrGst€€s, €*€C<itorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C-.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payableby Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
* DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JO Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Banh of .New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
■Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
.. 1,200;000 0 0
.. 1,950,000 0 0-
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters, of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ti}brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S Cnjbrocatioij.
ħ
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Pri'ce'of Medica tor (feiaSTT inches long; Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin 4{\/ m
Nasal Ointment, only ■ w / Post Free.
home catarrh CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal , Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
' AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
|jl N GLAND VIA AMERICA
A-J by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINR>
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Si r. et,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
KT. ID. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING! .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW CUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports. __
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents;
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney. General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD '
Business Announcements.
PHILLIPS,
hegal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MININ&, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE-CHAMBERS, 352 GOLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
- LINCOLN, STU ART & CO.
* PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds.Vicunas, or fast
color Surges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class c f material, £3 To
measure, capital Trousers, very
’good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure, £s*
Clerical S.uits. to measure. £s*
Riding* Breaches, 255.
Riding Habits, <fcc. - -
We supply ready-made. Men'a
capital Tweed Suits. 21s'. & 255.
1 Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2fis.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette suits, 395.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s (id.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. (id. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. 6d.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s 6d.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs.
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s. 9d., ss. 6d.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Rugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. 6d.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. (jd.
So:t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4*. fid.' Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
Is. 9d,
Neck ties, all shapes and colors,
~ Is.
White Shirts to .measure, Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
(is. 9dv. 9s. (id. „ .
-We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask- for any
Information. Our hook, “The Philosophy of Dress’’ and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
h
Fair Girls and Gray Horses:
l By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at; Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
_S.S. Rockton, Friday, Oct. 26
’ Transhipping at Melbourne.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinjra, Friday,
October 26.
Pest and Cheapest Ponte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney,' Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passen.t/er Accommodation,, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide.S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
* Leaving two days earlier on account of the Melb. races.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return I7llosto£l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial pons
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and liilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(I)‘|luiraith, (H'EacharnS go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6foo tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD. &
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


OUR WATCHES ARE A HOUSEHOLD WORD,
OUR SALES AVERAGE 1000 A YEAR.
OUR WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED TO WEAR A LIFETIME.
OUR Watches are Kept in Thorough Repair for 3 Years (Breakages Excepted).
OUR ACCURATE TTMKKEF.PERS. OUR V AL.UE UN APPROACHABLE.
F
WALTHAMS.
Silver,
47s 6d
llSRmipi
f.lhT&h'iit'ZXi
mm
wmm
mm
. . .
mmwsst
mimm
Si
fowM'S'.V.'V.,
10c. Gold,
£7 10s
WALTHAMS.
18c. Gold,
£l2 10s.
HUNTING
KEYLESS.
14c. Gold
£9 10s.
LEVERS.
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
Oxodised,
25s
% 1 ?
Silver,
40s
Gun Metal,
255.
OPEN FACE
KEYLESS.
Silver,
453.
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
Silver,
45s
m
WlO
P<?*
ay
iL&INCSTsk'I
ICe. Gold
£7
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
18c. Gold,
£l4 10s.
HUNTING
KEYLESS.
Gold Filled,
85s.
ROTHERHAMS.
Silver,
Keyless,
£5
-
■ '
tint
ny/A
m
m
Silver,
Key
Winding,
70S
ROTHERHAMS.
18c. Gold,
£l6.
HUNTING
KEYLESS.
9c. Gold,
£ll 10s.
ENGLISH LEVERS.
KEYLESS
ĥ
HUNTING
LADIES’ GOLD WATCHES,
9c. Richly Engraved Oases ..
14c. „
£3 10s.
£4 10s.
KtYLESS
ħ
HUNTING
LADIES’ SILVER WATCHES.
WALTHAMS .. .. Richly Engraved Cases, 50s.
OUR SPECIAL LEVER „ „ „ 50s.
GENEVAS, First Quality ~ „ „ 30s.
BOYS’
90 KING STREET
SYDNEY
KEYLESS WATCHES.
SILVER HUNTING .. .. 25s to 80s.
OXODISED OPEN FACE .. 15s to 355.
NICKEL OPEN FACE .. .. 15s to 355.
YOUTHS’
KEYLESS
LADIES' GOLD WALTHAMS.
10c. Richly Engraved Oases .. .. £5 10s.
14c.
18c.
£7 10s.
£9 10s.
HUNTING
Please Send for Our Illustrated Slips of Latest Novelties. All Goods Post Free.
h
Our Only
Australian
Address:
A
90 KINS STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute
F€€ BY
L€TT€R .
£1
liKlftdiQg
MediciQes
HEALTH
IUCE
m
i
I; I
STRENGTH
MI
ctbo
tit
VITALITY
SURCICAL INSTITIJTE
&SURCICAL INSTITUTE
ANO
I
''C~TI | *
icioes
Forwarded to
All Parts
of
AftStralia.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
Open to Inspection.
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS,
For privacy Patients may
corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
SYDNEY.


THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY, Limited.
VICE-PRESIDENTS :
Sir SAMUEL DAVENPOET, L.L.D., K.C.M.G., South Australia.
The Hon. JOHN DOUGLAS, 0.M.G., Queensland.
DIRECTORS:
Thb Hon. WILLIAM APLIN, M.L.0., Queensland.
ERNEST BAGGALLAY, Esq., J.P., London.
J. A- BAM, Gape Colony.
Thb Hon. J. F. BURNS, New South Wales.
EDWARD HENRY BUTLER, Tasmania.
The Hon. A. M. CAMPBELL, Natal.
Lieut.-General The Hon. Sib ANDREW CLARKE, R.E., G.C.M.G., 0.8., C.1.E., London.
Sib SAMUEL DAVENPORT, L.L.D., K.C.M.G., South Australia.
0. 0. de VILLIERS, Cape Colony.
The Hon. ALFRED DOBSON, Q.C., Solioitor-General; Tasmania.
Lieut.-Colonel GEORGE FERGUSON, South Australia.
SEYMOUR THORNE GEORGE, New Zealand.
BENJAMIN WESLEY GREENACRE, M.L.A., NataL
J. B. HARCOURT, New Zealand.
HENRY HENTY, Victoria.
The Hon. Sib ROBERT G. W. HERBERT, G.C.8., D.0.L., L.L.D., J.P., D.L., London.
Thb Hon. ROBERT JAMESON, M.L.C., NataL
The Hon. J. F. LEVIEN, M.P., Victoria.
The Hon. Sir JAMES G. LEE-STEERE, K.C.M.G., Speaker of the Legislative Assembly,
Western Australia.
The Hon. WILLIAM THORLEY LOTON, M.L.C., Western Australia.
H. BYRON MOORE, Victoria.
Dr. EDWARD E. MORRIS, Melbourne University, Victoria.
The Hon. GEORGE M'LEAN, M.L.0., New Zealand.
The Hon. ALBERT NORTON, M.L.0., Queensland.
The Hon. Sir JAMES PRENDERGAST, New Zealand.
The Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.0., New South Wales.
Ihe Hon. Sir GEORGE SHENTON, Kt., President of the Legislative Council, Western Australia.
BRUCE SMITH, New South Wales.
LUDWIG WIENER, Cape Colony.
HERBERT WILMAN, Cape Colony.
The Hon. WALTER HORATIO WILSON, C.M.G., M.L.C., Queensland.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Victoria.
The Hon. AGAR WYNNE, M.L.C., Victoria.
General Manager: LESLIE J. PARK, A.LA.
Assistant General Manager: A. E. CROMBIE.
Actuary : JAMES PTJLLAR, E.E.A.
Consulting Actuary: ROBERT THOMSON, E.I.A.
Report by the Directors in connection with the Fifth Actuarial Investigation of the
Affairs of the Society.
THE Directors have the pleasure to present to the Members their Report in
connection with the Actuarial Investigation for the Quinquennium ended 31st
December, 1899, together with the Report of the Actuary and of the
Consulting Actuary to the Society.
In accordance with the Reports of the Actuaries, the Directors have satisfaction
in announcing that the surplus at the end of the Quinquennium amounted to
£278,879 14s. 4d.
Of this sum the Board has decided to add £67,969 to the Investment
Fluctuation Fund, bringing it up to £102,776 Os. 3d.
The Board has also decided to specially reserve a further sum of £35,000 to
bring the valuation to an Hm 3| per cent, basis.
The amount of £175,910 14s 4d. is thus left for allotment and distribution.
This, together with the amount of £25,864 15s. 3d. distributed during the
Quinquennium, as certified by the Actuary, is equal in reversion to over
£400,000.
In view of the fall in the rate of interest throughout the world, the Directors;
after most careful consideration, have deemed it desirable at once to make provision
for valuing on a3| per cent, basis. They feel assured that although this decision
involves a smaller bonus than might otherwise have been declared, they will receive
the hearty support of the members in their resolve thus to strengthen the reserves,
the effect of which will be to place the Society in an absolutely unassailable position,
and lead to an increased bonus-earning power in the future.
The decision to increase the amount at credit of the Investment Fluctuation
Fund to £102,776 Os. 3d. was arrived at after complete investigation of all the
assets of the Society. The Directors, however, hope that a smaller amount will, in
actual experience, be found sufficient, but they have preferred to take a conservative
view rather than discount a possible or probable improvement in values in the
future.
The last five years have constituted an important period in the Society’s
history, the Directors having during that time modified the former policy of expan-
sion, and devoted themselves specially to consolidating the business and strengthen-
ing the position of the Society. The figures above quoted indicate how successful
that policy has proved, resulting, as it has, in so large a surplus being disclosed,
notwithstanding the low rates of interest which have prevailed, and enabling the
Society at once to change the valuation rate to 3| per cent.
The Directors feel that this is a result upon which they may congratulate the
members of the Society.
HENRY HENTY, Chairman.
LESLIE J. PARK, General Manager.
Melbourne, 4th October, 1900.
PROGRESS OF THE SOCIETY, 1873-1899.
‘5 • 0
Policies Issued—B2,6oo; Assuring—£2s,474,7oB.
Amounts paid to Policy-h01der5—£2,358,324.
Accumulated Funds at 31st December, 1899—£2,385,266.
Claims paid immediately on . proof of death and Title.
Premiums may be paid at any office of the Society in the
Colonies or in the United Kingdom. Policies are kept in force
out of surrender value so long as there is sufficient to pay one
quarterly premium. The Society is established throughout on
the Pederal principle, and this secures for its members the widest
scope for remunerative investment.
Chief Office for New South Wales: 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
LESLIE JPA UK, General Manager.
A BOSS MILLER, Secretary.


Found by Accident.
THE GRIP OF LA GRIPPE.
The Expulsion of the Enemy.
The Case of
■Vlr. ALEXANDER HISLOP.
(For the “News .”)
One of the best known chefs in New
South Wales is Mr. Alexander Hislop,
residing at No. 34 Burton-street, Darling-
hurst. That gentleman has been engaged
as chief cook in some of the leading hotels
and restaurants in Sydney, and also in
several important country towns in the
mother colony. His popularity was account-
able for our representative hearing of a
visitation of illness whilst at business in
Albury, the details of which were supplied
in the course of the following interview :
“A few years ago,” began Mr. Hislop,
“I was at work on the Albury railway
station, and whilst there I had a very severe
attack of influenza. It came on like an
ordinary cold, and I treated it lightly for
some time; but it eventually got me down
altogether. The first indications were a
tingling, dry sense of fullness in the nose,
and I used to sneeze nearly the whole day.
The pains in my head I shall never forget—
particularly across my forehead. I could
not breathe through my nose at all, and my
eyes were red and watery. Through a
harassing dry cough, which came on at
regular intervals, my throat got very sore.
My lungs were quite clogged up with the
cold, and I became so hoarse that I could
not make my voice heard. I was unfortunate
in having aching pains all over my body,
but intensely acute in my back and legs. I
was never free from thirst, being always
feverish. My temperature increased every
day, and caused me no little alarm.
Whenever I was exposed to air a little
cooler than what I was accustomed to, I felt
flashes of heat and chills one after the other.
I was always wanting to get near the fire.
My windpipe was inflamed and seemed
swollen, and provoked considerable pain.
During the first stages of my attack I forced
myself to eat a little food, although my sore
throat made the task a difficult one ; but in
a few days all appetite had forsaken me
entirely, and I could only drink large
quantities of water. It was a risky and
foolhardy thing for me to do, but many a
night I got out of bed and tramped the
station platform from end to end because I
was too restless and feverish to sleep.
Luckily for myself I have a constitution
like a horse, or else those walks in search
of relief would have caused my death. I
was too weak to stay out long, and on
returning to bed I had to lie in a feverish,
burning state till morning. As the disease
laid a firmer hold upon me I had water
running from the nose and eyes, and my
■ cough became a little more moist. There
was also a slight dis h.rge from my throat.
My pulse had attained a rapidity which I
did not think possible, and I was so reduced
'u flesh that the complicated symptoms
jcasiond me distressing forebodings.”
“ W hat did your doctor say ? ” asked the
1 -porter.
“He said I had influenza in its most
serious form. I came down to Sydney for
treatment, and remained three weeks here.
During those three weeks I took every care
of myself, with a view to getting better as
soon as possible. My doctor’s directions
were closely attended to, and I did every:
thing that common sense could suggest to
assist in my recovery. I did not waste one
teaspoonful of liis medicine all the time;
but at the end of the third week I thought I
might just as well suffer at Albury as in
bydney. My doctor had v given me any
relief with his physic, so I went back again,
feeling every bit as bad as when I went
away. I thought I would never be well
again, so depressed and low-spirited had I
fot. However, on returning to the country
engaged a furnished house, away from the
noise of the station, as 1 was too worn out
and irriVable to stand it, and I made up my
mind to lie up till I was either killed or
cured.”
“And what sort of progress did you
make ? ”
“ I made very rapid progress indeed.
The taking of that furnished house was the
luckiest thing I have ever done in my life.
Through an oversight on the part of the
previous occupier, a bottle of Clements
Tonic was left on one of the mantel' ‘oces,
and I read the label. ‘Everything else has
failed to cure me, so I will give this a trial,’
I said, and right glad lam that I did. A
few doses eased my chest of a thick, yellow
phlegm, and my breathing became much
easier. The soreness of my throat was
cured simultaneously with my cough, and I
soon had a longing for food, which I ate with
a relish. The splitting frontal headaches
went as quickly as they came, and the
pains all over my body left me as I daily
grew stronger. I could walk about without
feeding as though my legs would collapse
un&er me, and without feeling light-headed
or giddy. My eyes, which had looked so
bleary red and watery for weeks, now
looked clear and bright. As I continued to
get along so well, I knew I had hold of the
right remedy, so I sent to the local store for
a couple more bottles of Clements Tonic.
By the time they were exhausted I had not
a sign of influenza about me. T could eat
well, sleep well, and work well. I had not
been able to smoke for weeks, but now I
could enjoy a pipe as much as anybody. I
do not know what would have become of me
at that time if it had not been for Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of the most severe
attack of influenza when my doctor and his
.medicine had failed.”
“Do you ever feel any ill-effects of your
illness now?”
“No ; none whatever. But I frequently
work long hours at a stretch, and get a
little run-down. I am never without a
bottle of Clements Tonic in the house, so I
soon pick myself up again.”
“Do you consent to your experience
being made known ? ”
“Most certainly. I tell all my friends
what I am indebted to for my present good
health, and you are quite welcome to publish
my case in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alkxandkr Hislop, of 34 Burton-street, Darling-
hurst,- Sydney, in the Colony of Ne» South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document consisting of three folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a i rue and faithful account of
my illness and cure by C lements Tonic, and also con
tains my fu’l permission to publish in any way rm
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv
ing any payment; and I make this s lemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true and bj
virtue of the provisions of an Aot made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition
of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Darlinghurst, this 18th day of Aueusi
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
TliOS. J. HUGHiij. J.R.
X3T THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE 1
GRAMOPHONE-of
ZONOPHONE!
ĥ
BARGAINS I
Coin Slot graphophone £c
Same as formerly, £l6.
Gem Phonograph, 30/-
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try l
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT*
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, «£900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEITY COMEEXITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDHEY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually In England,
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs In
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours :—Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almoud, and Plaiu.
• Proprietors : —GOOOALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiacu, Perth, W. A.&6S,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
FALSE
ECONOMY.
Every housekeeper worthy of the
name knows what “false economy ” is.
There is no need for us to go into
details.
But why ladies, whose management
of their domestic affairs is so skilful as
to call forth the admiration of their
friends, can be so careless—there is no
other word for it—in the purchase of
foot-wear is beyond explanation.
Your shoemaker may offer you an
article which he declares to be of the
highest grade, and which may only be
of poor leather, finished in good style ;
in short, an expensive shoe which will
be worn out in “no time.” False
Economy 1
He “ HERZ ” Shoe
Has a reputation for Quality and
Durability which the makers are
jealous to maintain.
Call and see
them at
HUNTER’S.
USE
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
V
*
i pi*
INTENT LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED KIOS M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle),- Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eta.
Business Announcements.
CHAKMING GIFTS
FOR CYCLISTS,
TOURISTS, LADIES,
SPORTSMEN,
AND ALL
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
KODAKS
Kodak Photography is the best hobby
in the world. It is mastered in a few
minutes by anyone.
No Dark Room Worry.
Films Changed in Daylight.
KODAKS FROM
s s * to £7 15s.
Send for Illustrated Price List, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
281 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
,(so at London, P*ris, Berlin, -Brussels Vienna, Sr.
Petersburg, M< s ow and K. Chester, N.Y.
y aouT v
PIIiJLS.
F° R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pro o r & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
There has been a terrible and disastrous
hurricane at Mafeking—probably caused by the
escape of some of Baden-Powell’s advertising-gas.
Reported that Chinese from Canton and
other Southern ports are flooking into Hongkong
by hundreds, and buying up all available property,
at almost any price. Already many old residents
in the lower terrace levels have been turned out to
make room for Chinese tenants who are prepared
to pay higher rents, and now only the aristocratic
quarter of the Peak (which represents Hongkong s
Potts Point) is clear of the Celestial. As yet the
Pro-Chinese Gov. Blake and his nominee Leg.
Assembly do not see their way to set aside a Euro-
pean reservation. Chinese servants, too, have
become very independent. They demand double
the wages asked a few years ago, and employers
who quarrel with them are at once boycotted.
Dear Bulletin.— Re your par. on boilers
(6/10/’00). In Chow-ridden N. Territory gold-
mines it is now the custom to engage a, Chinese,
who is put along with a white man to look after
the steam-raising apparatus. After about six
weeks, when the Chinkie is supposed to savvy
all about the machinery, the white brother gets
the sack on some paltry excuse, the yellow man
being kept on in charge, of course at _ reduced
screw. As to a Chow’s capacity for looking after
machinery “ on his own,” present writer recollects
a case that occurred on a steamer manned by
Celestials. The cook in charge of two steam
rice-boilers (which, to say the least of it, were
fairly “ ripe ”) found the job was taking too long
every morning, so, to expedite things, he hung an
iron bar and a big billy of water on the end of the
safety-valve lever. Fortunately this ingenious
device was discovered by the chief engineer m
time to prevent the inevitable explosion and sub-
sequent translation of Sam War to the land of his
Joss. —A. 8.8.
“ My wife locked the door and threatened
me with a poker unless I would sing.”— Evidence
in recent Maoriland assault case. It is unpleasant
to be threatened with a poker, and yet plaintifi
might have overlooked it, considering the nature
of the compliment. There are few women who
appreciate the old man’s top-note like that.
Westralia hurries along to get level with
her old sisters. There latest development m
that direction is the re-introduction of the office
of police-superintendent. Chief-inspector- Law
rence, amateur-Commissioner Hares second-in
command, gets the job.
“VonKotze”: In matters Montgomery
v. Phipson (l/8/’OO). It must not be forgotten thal
the English language has been built up and n
continually enriching itself from other nations (a
truly British “trait”). In fact, this marvellous
ability of assimilation is the mam reason of its
success as the world’s interpreter. An older,
purer, and more classical tongue, say German, 101
instance, will behave very unbendingly indeed
towards the parvenu intruder, the modern impor-
tation from another language. The unfortunate
stranger is punished for its presumption with the
pillory of italics, inverted commas, &c. And mst
here I find an illustration ready at hand. While
English usage permits of the plural commas,
the German pedant, in linguistic exclusiveness,
still insists on the correct Greek commata,
“dramata.” All of which makes the English
language what it is: catholic in the best and in
the worst sense ; the courtesan of the world and
its queen. Why then begin carping at the very
element of its progress ? If, for instance, fagade
has not yet been assimilated ; another year or two
of undisturbed digestion, and the morsel will have
gone to join the rest.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on pag
23 of this issue.*
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the FA.MOXTS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne,—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, hut w iihout benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at. once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, hut derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonce,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
V iolet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwell.vn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter t hree of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any f.itigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain’ and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M.' MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made tip here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
arid on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain,'yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Branch :
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
DA.PTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCBRa
OF
FINE SILVER.
■
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
.•BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
*nIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding’ Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Sineiiiug Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Food? are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
INFANTS
9
l
J
FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tina by Chemists, Go., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s F-jod’ has, dv
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
i AND
the aged.
Melancholy and hopeless-looking advt.
from Sydney D.T.
QMITH, JOHN, left the British and Foreign Wharf
t> "ui u * i. n j- i • ii
Probably the smallest Govt, grant m the
world is that paid by Victoria to the Free Library
of Noojee. It amounts to one shilling per annum !
A sum is voted by Parliament every year for
country libraries, and the money is doled out
proportionately. It would-be interesting to know
how the Treasury pays ISoojee its grant of “a
bob —by cheque or in stamps ? and how much
of the subsidy goes in books, and how much in
salaries. Somebody should call for a return, to
make 3ure tliat the money isn’t wasted 1
TI V> North-German Lloyd's sea-
monster is the (grosser Kurfurst, starting 7th
Nov,, from Bremen, for Australia, on her maiden-
trip. The vessel carries 13,000 tons, “displaces”
22,000, and has 137 first-class and GO second-class
staterooms—all appointments being up to the
most modern style. Huge as is the Grosser K.,
however, the colossal White Star Oceanic exceeds
her in burden by 4000 tons—the capacity of a big
vessel in itself.
On Richmond River (N.S.W.), a dredge
lately dragged up some crystallised hollow pebbles,
with water inside. At Araluen, a stone, which
was apparently a petrified human heart, has been
found. What politician was drowned at Araluen ?
“FL.”: Re reported murder of native
Christians at Kumchuk, China. Writer knows
the place well. It has a population of about
250,000 and the reputation of being the most anti-
foreign place in Southern China. It is also the
home of the hordes of pirates that infest West
River. At Kumchuk I met the Scotch wife of a
Chinaman. She told me they were married at
Goulburn-street, Sydney, and also stated that she
™ '
« end be murdered
The Victorian Forest Commission recom-
mends the setting aside of a large forest domain
in perpetuity. The denudation of timber in Aus-
tralia has progressed at such a rate that there is
serious danger of this Continent becoming bald, to
the hopeless detriment of the rainfall,


Are You Aware That
of all Medicines, BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS holds first place as the Specific
for Liver and Kidney Ailments and Derangements of the System arising from Impaired
Digestion, Assimilation, and Bile Flow ? They act in exactly the some way as nature’s
animal bile, and while correcting and strengthening weak and impaired organs, yet do so
in a perfectly natural way. So widely is their value now known that thousands of people
bless them daily, and
150,000 Bile Beans
are consumed every night. They cure many ills when all else fails. »uuh Is the state
ment made not only by the proprietors but by the vast army of those who hn"e been
strengthened by them. In every town and city and in most of the important vih«.~es
throughout AustivFa and England, they have effected cures when all else has fail©
Women and young children who have been benefited are numerous. Indeed they
Are Consumed
by weary worn-out women whose life has lost its charm. In such cases of Debility and
Depression they are Invaluable. Remember they are purely vegetable, and the youngest
child or the aged woman may take them without fear. All Chemists stock them, or you
can obtain them from the BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY, upon receipt of Is. ljd. For Headache, Female Ailments,
Constipation, Indigestion, Liver and Kidney Troubles, Spring Blood Troubles, Piles,
or Rheumatism, they are the Most Effective Remedy Known. Over 150,000 Bile Beans
are taken
Every Night.
\
h
ĥ
MERCHANTS!
READ
MARK
LEARN
“ I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
by my customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S. W.
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.” .
PAUL WILKINSON, Chemist,
Maryborough, Vic.
“ We are pleased to inform you that the
two Rational Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. & CO., Butchers,
Tooicoomba, Q.
and INWARDLY DIGEST!
m
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up) of the
HATIOWAL
Cash Register
TO
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINCHAM, General Manager.
The Spirit of Chivalry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
The fact that they were an ill-matched couple
had long been in evidence. Masculine sympathy
was unanimously directed towards the wife, but
her lady friends were not less undivided in their
commiseration for her husband. Indeed, the only
common ground of the two bodies of sympathisers
was the inquiry: How on earth had they ever
come together ?
It may be stated here that the question in-
cluded an ignorance of their earlier history. It
was based on the superficial assumption that
neither had undergone any change in character or
temperament. Certainly, as a matter of mere
guess-work it might have been hard to discover
that the prototype of the flighty, frivolous Mrs.
Hardy had been, at the date of her marriage, a
timid, saintly young lady, notable for her en-
thusiasm in Sunday-school work. But the thing
oughtnot tohavebeen impossible. At anyrate, that
conception did not present the difficulties that
would have encountered every conclusion based
on the supposition that Hardy had changed. The
man was plainly a fool, and it seemed unnatural
to imagine that he had ever been anything else.
His exact value to the world seemed wholly nega-
tive. A leading light of his church, he was wise
in his knowledge of absurd points of doctrine.
He looked a miserable, nervous little creature,
whose chief characteristics were effeminacy and
weakness.
She was doubtless not much his mental superior,
but she was gifted with the vivid womanly in-
stincts that make up for so many deficiencies.
And she had already discovered that there was
much more in life than her husband made of it,
even if she had no very definite name for the in-
adequacy she felt. The promised unending dull-
ness of this daily round had long before alarmed
her, and she had awakened to longings, which in
their very vagueness led her far beyond the circle
of feminine dependency.
What precise justification she found for the en-
couragement she gave to both Taylor and Ken-
nedy m their attentions to her, is purely a matter
for her own conscience. There must have been at
first a delicious thrill of alarm in discovering
where she stood, which would be, in course of time,
deliciously outgrown. Doubtless the basis of it
all was that she had confidence in herself and
knew she could be trusted. The form her hus-
band’s objections took was not known. There
most likely had been some words between them,
but the echo had not reached listening ears. It
was felt that an attitude of lofty womanly disdain
of suspicion would be certain to quieten him.
Undoubtedly he was very fond of her in his way,
and he had a pride in her that was almost manly.
The additional fact that he at times possessed a
hesitating belief that she was part of his ordained
punishment in this world, served to define the un-
certainty of his estimate of her.
11.
The reason that brought Kennedy to the Mel-
bourne-street station that afternoon was never
discovered. The supposition that it was in obedi-
ence to a mysterious prompting is partly negatived
by his excessive surprise at encountering Mrs.
Hardy, while the attempt to conceive it as an
errand of some importance is answered in the
fact that it never received attention.
He thought when shaking hands with her that
she looked paler than he had ever known her, and
he could almost swear to a forced note in her
greeting. “But you are not going away?” he
said. “We simply can’t have that.”
“ Why ; can’t you get on without me ? ”
“ I can’t live without you. You know that.”
“Oh that is nice of you to say so much. But I
am going only as far as Ipswich.”
“ Make it Sydney and I’ll jump in with you.”
Under his glance she blushed at the reckless
suggestion. “Mr. Kennedy, you are dreadful!”
she murmured.
“No, I’m not. You would soon find that out;
I would be kindness itself.”
She felt partly persuaded of some background
of sincerity in his tone.
“ I believe you would,” she said in her con-
fusion.
“ I may take it as settled, then ? ”
“No, no ! I am afraid I don’t like you well
enough to try that.”
“Why, I thought I had been making decent
Erogress lately. lam simply shocked at your
eartlessness.”
“ Ah, that is nice of you again. You say it as
if you almost felt it.”
“If you dare me— ”he exclaimed in an ex-
aggerated pretence of indignation.
“ I’ll lock the door; lam afraid of you,” she
said in alarm.
“Yes, you had better lock it; I won’t be
answerable for myself. You are looking so splen-
did, you know. And it is such a chance—one
feels like flying in the face of Providence. This
train meets the Sydney mail somewhere about
Corinda; it could be done so easily. I wish I
knew what to do ! ”
She answered his smiling appeal with a
reproving glance. “Be on your best behaviour;
that is what you must do.”
“ Why, have I been very wicked ? ”
“ Aren’t you always so ? ”
“No!I am so easily imposed upon—l get no
chance.”
j There was a laughing challenge in his glance,
but her voice changed to sudden earnestness.
“Well, lam sure you are the happier. Oh, you
laugh, but really I could preach to you—l am in
that mood. But you wouldn’t understand. There
is the whistle ; good-bye—for a little while ! ”
He stood looking after the carriages, somewhat
confused in contrasting her evident relief at
departure with the impulsive pressure she had
bestowed on his hand. It was in leaving the
station that he was startled out of his abstraction
by an incongruous sight. A man, bare-headed
and in slippers, jumped out of a cab that had just
driven up, and, as he dashed up the steps, Ken-
nedy was able to make out that he was carrying a
photograph in his hand.
111.
Kennedy was sitting in destucory perusal of a
magazine when Hardy burst into the room in a
state of intense excitement.
“ Where is my wife ?” he cried. “This has got
to stop; it has gone on long enough.” His voice
quivered with crying emphasis; it was plainly
evident that he was facing issues from which he
shrank-
“ What the devil do you mean ? ” answered Ken-
nedy, in surprise. “What’s the matter with you,
man ? Out with it! ” He stared in bewilderment
at the trend-ling object. “Here, here; drink
something ! ” he shouted, rushing to a decanter on
the sideboard. ■ You mustn’t faint, you know; we
can’t have that.”
Hardy looked up in pathetic helplessness. Even
such rough kindness was so at variance with his
expectations that it shattered the self-control he
had been endeavoring to maintain. “My wife !
he said, with a sob.
“ What about her? You don’t mean to say—
Kennedy stopped himself with a gasp. The vivid
explanation of her whole manner in their meeting
was flashed before him. Yet he made an impul-
sive effort to reject it. In pity of the wretched
husband, he was reluctant to feel convinced of her
infidelity.
“ She’s gone—she’s gone ! ” cried Hardy.
“ Oh,, nonsense, my dear fellow ! You’ve made
a mistake; you’ve worked yourself up into this
state. It is not that; it can’t be ! ” He was con-
fused between the wish to pacify the man at any
cost, and the utter uselessness of it in the face of
what he himself knew.
“ Well, I don’t know,” Hardy exclaimed, help-
lessly ; but with some return of reason. He was
considerably relieved at having to confront
merely irreconcilable phases of his trouble, in-
stead of the blackness of certainty. “You are
here, and that is something. But what has
become of her ? She is not at home.”
“Oh, she is out somewhere; she is visiting.
Are you sure she didn’t tell you she was going
out? ”
“Yes, she did ; she said she was going to Mrs.
French’s.”
“Well, isn’t she there?”
“No, she hasn’t been thereat all to-day. I met
French in the street, and he made me go home
with him, of course in the expectation of finding
her there. I stayed for dinner, and then went
home, thinking she must have had a headache,
and so had not been able to go out. But she
wasn’t at home ; the girl said she went out about
four o’clock.”
“It seems strange,” murmured Kennedy. The
dreary simplicity of the whole wretched plot left
him no room for doubt, so that it was with an
absolute sense of relief in temporarily averting
the worst that he stumbled on a side-issue.
“ But what made you think—what made you come
to me ? ” he asked.
“This letter! This is what I found waiting
for me when I got home. You don’t mind ; you
don’t blame me ; do you ? I feel that I have in-
sulted you. But you can see—you understand
exactly how it was ! ”
“A letter!” Kennedy murmured, examining
the envelope that was handed to him. “ But it is
not your wife’s handwriting, is it?” He was
conscious of the fine diplomacy that prompted the
mild inquiry.
“No; it’s anonymous. It was left at the
house this evening before I got home.”
Kennedy hesitated a moment in endeavoring to
connect this further fact with what he already
knew. ‘ ‘ Does it concern me ?” he asked.
“Oh yes ! You bad better read it. Then you
will understand ; then you will see that .”
He broke off to reach his apology the quicker.
“ I have wronged you greatly ; I hope you will
forgive me. She must have gone to call on some-
one else.”
Kennedy looked at him, in doubt. It seemed
incredible that he should already feel assured of
his wife’s safety. His buoyant nature was really
pitiful.
But, as for the letter, he needed no glance at
that to acquaint himself with its contents. The
vivacious little woman had wished to perpetrate
an absurd joke—ehiefly at his expense. Hardy
was to be entreated to watch over his wife’s rela-
tions with him, as he valued domestic peace. Oh,
but it was a crying shame ! Her husband ; had
she no thought of him ? No degree of contempt
could justify her in such grim torture ?
“Ah, yes,” he murmured, as he finished. “We
have to thank some kind friend. But really you
ought not to have been so foolish as to take any
notice of an anonymous letter. As for the in-
timacy of Mrs. Hardy and myself, I swear to you
it has always been of the most innocent nature.”
“Yes, yes ; lam sure of that. But you see it
was the whole circumstances of the case! My
knowing she was not where she said she would be —
her absence from home—and this letter. But I
am sure I humbly apologise for it all. I have
wronged you—and her too,”
Kennedy watched him as if expectant of dis-
covering some irony in his glance. “Yes, you
have wronged her.” There was an echoing mourn-
fulness in his tone.
“ I have wronged her the most,” Hardy con-
tinued with absolute brightness. “She would
never forgive me if she knew. But we’ll keep it
from her. You’ll be as silent as the grave ! I feel
that I can trust you.”
“Oh, yes, that needn’t worry you,” Kennedy
answered. “We’ll never let her know; never!”
The grim humor of his position was so insistent
that he ended in a burst of hysterical laughter.
“ Oh, what a fool you have made of yourself,
Hardy ! ” he exclaimed in pretended explanation.
“ But never mind ! It is all over now ; isn’t it ? ”
“I don’t wonder that you laugh at me,” said
Hardy good-naturedly. “ I would laugh, too, if it
hadn’t given me such a fright. But, as you say, it
is all over now ! And you’ll forget about my
coming here—you have promised that; haven’t
you ? It is very good of you; but you have been
good all through.”
“And what are you going to do now?” Kennedy
asked.
“ I had better go home and wait for her. You
see, she has gone to some friend. She took it for
f ranted that I would think she would be at
'rench’s, and so w ouldn’t worry about her absence.
That is why she didn’t leave a message for me at
home.”
“ Yes, that will be it. Then you had better go
home-—he saw the piteous picture of the hus-
band’s vigil, but he ended calmly, “ and wait for
her.”
“ I may as well go at once, then.”
On second thoughts I’ll come some of the way
with you. As a matter of fact you have upset me
a bit, and I feel that a walk will do me good.”
“I hope you forgive me ; I feel that I have
been very foolish.”
“ We’ll let that pass. But I say, it won’t be far
out of your way to go down by the Cable Hotel.
I promised Taylor I would stroll down for him
before nine, to goto the theatre. I’ll just drop in
to let him know I don’t feel like it —provided he’s
there.” In recalling Taylor’s emphasis in regard to
that little arrangement, Kennedy had to face some
evidence of his own stupidity in discovering only
at this late hour a further joke that had been
played upon him by the fleeing pair.
IY.
When, after leaving Hardy on the footpath, ne
was informed by one of the girls in answer to his
bland inquiry, that Mr. Taylor was upstairs, he
stared at her in astonishment.
“ Are you sure ? ” he asked.
“Yes, of course I am,” she answered confi-
dently, “They did think of taking him to the
hospital at first.”
“The hospital, Rose!” he exclaimed in dull
surprise. “My dear girl, you are dreaming?
What on earth do you think you are talking
about ?”
“ Now, Mr. Kennedy, what is the joke ? If you


NEW MANHOOD 1
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep I
Dr. CLARKSON’S
■yrriu. fill your Nerves with Electricity every night while you sleep, end take
W Pr. CLARKSON’S R€-INVI6ORATOR
, „ Cl Hawn of new life in every organ of your body,
during the day, ten da y s yo^.^ U energy, and your heart will beat stronger with the
All the Nerves will be charged with rene TVT„ rvo ,f/ failing- in Vitality, Sleepless, Despondent,
gladness of youthful vigor. To men D VSD ’ e ptic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys ; who
Losing Memory, Wasting the and the Re-Invigorator as
rs,rr k «“«»<*« nm ™ s “ d orsam is ‘ roly
wonderful. ITS TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
ELECTRIC BELT
IT FILLS the Blood with the fire of youth, and gives new vim and confidence. While it is on
the body, the Nerves teem with vitalising warmth, and within a few weeks the full vigor of
man is restored.
MY €L€CTRK BODY B€LT
has been brought to the highest state of perfection by twenty years’ study and experiment. It is
unlike any of the old-style belts, and is warranted to be stronger than any other body appliance
made. It is guaranteed for one year without any expense for renewals or repairs.
Price—Electric Belt, 10/-; Re-Bnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle—3 Bottles, £l.
AND
if
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
you are
1, Woair trv mv New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills.
Sick or weaK, rry my send you my p amp hlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
Call if you Can. If not, let
Call or
Apply:
OWL
OTJT
RATE
IDIRjTTG- store.
Cut-Rate Price List Post Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
don’t want to believe me, I am sure I don’t care
All I know is that Mr. Taylor broke his leg about
five o’clock, and that he has been swearing hard
ever since.”
“ Broke his leg,—swearing hard ! ” There was a
congruity in the two facts that threw an instant
ray of light on connecting circumstances. “Oh,
Rose, my girl, you are an angel,” he exclaimed.
“But, one moment more ? How did it happen ? ”
“Just as he was coming down the stairs. He
tripped on his overcoat and fell to the bottom.”
“ Oh, he did ! What a wise dispensation of
Providence ! Just as he was coming down the
stairs; just as he was leaving in time to catch the
Sydney mail! ”
“Yes, he was going to Sydney. But how did
you know ? He made up his mind only half-an-
liour before.”
But Kennedy had rushed past her up the stairs
and was knocking at the door of Taylor’s room.
It was not till he saw the man in bed that he knew
how intense was his satisfaction. “Well, old man,
this is unfortunate, ” he exclaimed. * ‘ How did you
let it happen ? ”
“Curse you; I wish it were you,” said the
amiable Taylor.
“Of course you do; that is natural enough
under the circumstances. Oh, but you have ill
luck ! But, then, the moral of it all ! Yes, you
have plainly been sacrificed for the sake of the
moral of the story ; but, of course, you see that. ”
“ What the devil are you talking about ? Don’t
stand there grinning like an ape, man ! What is
it you want to say ? ”
“ What did I come for—let me think ! Ah, I
remember; it was to tell you I wouldn’t be going
to the theatre.”
He noted the flicker of a smile cross Taylor’s
face. “Well, neither will I —you can see that.”
“Yes, but the difference is that you never in-
tended to go.”
“ And what if I didn’t ? ”
“Nothing; except that I would like to point
out how beautifully the joke has missed-fire. But,
really, old man, you wouldn’t believe what a fool
you look, cooped-up here instead of enjoying a
sort of honeymoon trip to Sydney.”
Taylor studied the matter a moment in silence.
“ I suppose that fool of a husband has been over
to see you ? ” he said at length.
“Yes —he got your note, if that is what you
mean. But he has comparatively quietened-down
now. You see, he is satisfied that as I am on
hand she herself is sure to turn up. It has evi-
dently never occurred to him to suspect his dearest
friend.”
“Damn you, I was never the man’s friend ! I
was never that much of_ a hypocrite. No one
knows it better than you.”'
“ Well, I won’t insist on it. You are fearfully
touchy to-day. somehow.”
“ But do you mean to say that he doesn’t sus-
pect—that you haven’t given the game away ?”
“That’s it exactly. You see, I dropped to the
whole affair as soon as he came in. The fact is,
I was talking to her at the station this afternoon
while you were so busy breaking your leg. Oh,
man, if I had only known, what a difference it
would have made ! I wouldn’t be here wasting
words on you, for one thing. But I am reminded
that it must have been your messenger that I met
as 1 was coming away. He wasn’t more than half
a minute too late.”
“ Don’t mention the blockhead ; I am tired of
cursing him. He actually drove to the Central
first, and then came back to tell me she wasn’t
there.”
“ My dear fellow, you have been tried indeed.
Providence seems to have been against you. But
the great thing is that it is my innings now.
There is a chance to earn her everlasting grati-
tude, and I don’t intend to miss it. All I want to
know is, when will she get back ? How long will
it take her to recover from the shock of finding
that you are not on the mail ? ”
“ Who told you she would come back ?”
Kennedy met the shock of an imposing obstacle.
“Oh, she’ll come,” he added in ironical sugges-
tion. “To nurse you.”
“Damn you ! ” said the other, feeling the keen-
ness of the stab.
Kennedy had taken a time-table from his pocket
and was studying it. “ Nine five and ten fifteen! ”
he said. “ I’ll give her till ten fifteen. I am
certain she’ll come. There is nothing else she can
do.”
“Yes, she’ll come,” said Taylor quietly. He
seemed to have readied a sadly reflective jnood.
“ Well, I’ll leave it to you to keep him quiet till
she does come. And she will manage the rest;
she is clever enough for that.”
“That is good of you—it is generous,” said
Kennedy. But his relief was evident, though his
tone was ironical. “I recognise the noble con-
duct of the man who sees his own goose is cooked,
but doesn’t mind letting another have the benefit
of his experience.”
“Don’t rejoice quite so much,” said Taylor.
“ Wait till you get your reward.”
Kennedy looked at him piercingly ; the denial
of a preconceived notion was so sweet that he
could not contain himself. “Do you mean to
say” he exclaimed. “It will come; it will
come ! ” he broke-off.
“ Don’t be so sure. She may break with me
over this cursed failure, though it is no fault of
mine—she is the sort of passionate fool of a woman
that would. But I’ll swear that she has had such
a shock that she won’t be ready to take you on.”
“We’ll see—we’ll leave it to her. But I must
be going ; Hardy will be getting impatient,”
“ He is waiting, for you.”
“ He is—waiting there like a beautiful innocent
while we discuss our mutual esteem for his wife.
Oh, but life is a lovely business—there is so much
in it. Which reminds me, Taylor, that I envy
you.”
“You envy me ! What the devil is there to
envy about me just at present ? ”
“ Your experiences—the sensation of falling
down stairs when so much depended on your
reaching the bottom safely. You must have
offered up the most curious mixture of prayers
and blasphemy that ever came from any man.”
“Damn you, get out before I throw something
at you ! ”
Y.
Kennedy did not give Hardy the facts of Taylor’s
condition, in the fear of rousing his suspicion. He
explained instead that the man was shamefully
drunk, and he had had some difficulty in getting
away from him. But he was conscious of how
completely changed was his attitude to the hus-
band. He felt now as if Hardy were only too
ready to be convinced of his wife’s flight, as if he
were secretly using every endeavor to unearth the
facts in support of that conclusion. At any cost
he must not be allowed to learn the truth. Her
position demanded that he should make every
effort to keep the man in ignorance.
He pointed-out that the better course for him
would be to endeavour to find his wife instead of
going home to wait in restless idleness for her
arrival. He suggested that they should drive
round to Mrs. Hardy’s friends, not indeed to
make direct inquiries, hut to get admission on
some pretext in the hope of discovering her.
Friendly concern at the rumoured illness of an
inmate would be the best card to play.
It was not till Hardy was feeling wearied in the
search that Kennedy announced he would accom-
pany him home, as his wife was sure to be there
by now. He explained that his view in going
with him was to help him through the meeting
with her. They must divert her suspicions as to
what had been the cause of Hardy’s own absence.
“ She is there,” exclaimed Hardy eagerly as he
noted that the house was lit-up.
“What did I tell you!” answered the other,
triumphantly. He talked loudly in going up the
path m order to warn her of his presence. He
was hopeful that such fact would indicate to her
that she had not been betrayed.
They found her uncovering the piano as they
entered ; she was the picture of a domesticated
wife bent on the hospitable entertainment of a
visitor.
“I have to apologise, Mrs. Hardy, for keeping
your husband away from you so long,” said Ken-
nedy. “ The fact is, he came over to see me, and
I made him go to the theatre.”
“I hope you enjoyed yourselves there.” She
faced them with the bewitching calmness of her
womanly audacity.
“For my part, I did,” said her husband. “I
have spent a most enjoyable evening.”
Kennedy was conscious of how complete was
his admiration of her fearlessness. And he was
conscious, too, of how much it was inflamed by
the sense of their kinship that lingered in her
glance. The eager impulse to claim all of what
that seemed to hint, at carried him to the passion-
ate desire to have her for his own.
“You will have to face some inquiries,” he
said to her, when Hardy, succumbing to the dis-
turbing influences of his relief, had left the room.
“ But I don’t think they will be of a very search-
ing nature. You’ll get through without diffi-
culty.”
“ I can’t understand it all—how you have
managed it. But I realise how much I owe you.
What can I say more than that such unfathomable
generosity ” It was doubtless some confusion
between gratitude and shame that caught her
voice and sent it quivering.
“We won’t discus- it from that point ; it isn’t
worth while,” he said, hastily.
“ But that letter; do you forgive me that ! It
was because of him —I seemed to see in it a way
to save him from some of the pangs of uncertainty,
to save him some suffering. You will say I had
no right to do so at your expense ”
He felt a definite relief in surrendering to the
view she presented. “It was foolish to do it at
such a risk to yourself,” he suggested.
“ I never stopped to consider that. But, then,
I never saw this ending to it.”
“No, that wouldn’t have been natural,” he
murmured.
“ Do not think I regret it! ” she continued,
impulsively. “ I am far from that. Even if you
had done nothing but betray me, I should not
have regretted coming back. I know my own
mind now, though up there it was different. I
could have thrown myself under the train.”
“ Do you know, I was half afraid of that! ”
“Ah, but it would not have been from disap-
pointment, Oh no, no ; but f. an despair, from
contempt of myself ; do you understand ? ”
“ What a mystery you all are ! ” he exclaimed.
“Don’t say that, or I shall feel—. Will you
believe me when I say it was for my husband’s
sake that I came back. I cared nothing for my-
self. But to save his name from disgrace, to
plead at his feet —.”
He faced the conviction of something irrevoc-
ably lost, but he managed to murmur, “I think
he is happier in ignorance.”
“Yes, now I And that is why lam so thank-
ful to you. It is in his name.”
He was in some uncertainty as to whether she
had deluded herself, or was merely attempting to
delude him. But it mattered little, since he felt
he was in the wrong mood to be a party to any
deception. “I don’t think lam exactly deserv-
ing of your thanks, then,” he said. “For it was
not out of consideration for him that I attempted
to keep him quiet.”
“ Well, we won’t quarrel about that. You
have acted nobly, however you put it.”
Oh, lie was sure now of what made her avoid
his glance. It was fear —a delicious, quivering
fear against which she had raised all the forces of
her feminine nature. “ How can it be noble when
it was from a selfish motive ? ” he asked.
“What was the motive, then ?”
“My passionate love for you.”
She faced him now; she seemed to have been
suddenly assured of her strength. “Oh, don’t
spoil it all for me,” she exclaimed. “ Let me
think of you as I ask.” She continued after a pause,
“ Yes, I’ll tell you something ! Only a few hours
ago I was madly in love ; or, at any rate, I thought
I was. And now it has gone —in a flash. Why,
you ask ? Ido not know ! Only it is this : I had
a glimpse of the real value of what 1 was prepared
to throw away. I saw how perilously near— ”
The necessity of convincing him was to her own
mind so urgent that she faced him bravely in her
shame. “Suppose it had been thrown away, and
I had had to come back. Oh, it is a tiling that I
can’t, can’t speak about! I have had the hateful
taste of it in my mouth these last hours. But
now that I can begin again, and with your help —
don’t you see what a help my faith in you as a
man, as a fellow-creature, will be ? It means a
new belief in human nature for me.”
“ You are trying to convince yourself,” he said.
“You are trying to humble yourself sufficiently
to face the future you dread.”
“ I am afraid of you,” she murmured.
His vivid sensibility to her whole manner
revealed that she knew her fear of herself was far
more dangerous than her fear of him. “Oh, no,
you are not; you believe me thoroughly,” he
answered.
“You are so strong—so convincing—”
He caught in her glance an instant glimpse of
unfathomable depths, and enfolded her in his
embrace. “My darling! You are mine; you
trust me! ”
“I know I do. I cannot help myself,” she
murmured, quiveringly.
“To-morrow, then?” he whispered.
“ To-morrow ! ” she gasped. “ Oh, no, no; you
must give me time.”
There was a sound of approaching footsteps,
and Hardy entered, to find his wife bidding their
visitor good-night. Kennedy was saved all pangs
of conscience at his exhibition of incoherent grati-
tude as they parted, in a passionate resentment
against the man’s temporary possession of what
was really his.
JOHN REAY WATSON.
A Creed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
God finished the tree
And saw it was good ;
The gloss on the leaves
And the wave in the wood.
And then he made you,
And knew you the best,
The flower of your eyes
And the curve of your breast.
Now, when I would praise
In contemplative mood,
I think of the tree
With the wave in its wood.
But when I would love —
And to love Him is best —
I think of your eyes
And the curve of your breast.
Yet that which doth lift
All my spirit above,
Is to sit ’neath the one
And the other to love.
RODERIC QUINN.
A London Nonconformist clergyman has
been practically forced to give up his charge
because the pillars of his congregation would in-
sist on crediting him with having inspired a novel
written by his daughter. Easy to imagine how
the holy men were made to sit-up by such passages
as the following
After a dose of father’s belov ed people, I feel as though
I hate the very name of religion. Christianity, so far as I
can see, comprises a set of the meanest, rudest, most ill-
bred people on the face of the earth. If one wants to see
a mean, dirty' trick performed, or to know exactly how
far an insult can be carried, one has only to watch the
behaviour of our Church members, and the way they
treat the man who has the misfortune to be their pastor.
Manchester Sunday Chronicle (July 29):
Panama has had a history of sack and sieges since
Harry Morgan, the buccaneer, stormed its walls and
looted its treasures of gems and gold, but the battle
between the city folk and the Columbian rebels on
Wednesday was the fiercest ever fought on the Isthmus.
The Government troops, aided by every able-bodied
man in the city, manned the entrenchments. The rebels
charged with all the fire of the reckless Spanish-American
soldiery, and were met with splendid courage.
Sometimes the machine guns and rifles fired point
blank, muzzle to muzzle, so close and desperate was the
hand-to-hand struggle. Eleven times the insurgents
charged, and eleven times they were repulsed. The
trenches were heaped with dead.
In one, defended by the young aristocrats of Panama,
hardly a man was left alive.
The rebels suffered terribly, nearly all their officers
having been killed before they gave up the attack, which
was the last forlorn hope of their uprising.
An ambulance corps from 11.M.5. Leander attended to
the wounded, and the sailors cremated the dead.
The peace treaty which was signed after the battle
grants amnesty to all the revolutionists, provided they
give up arms, ammunition, and ships. Officers are per-
mitted to keep their swords. The foreign adventurers
are to be banished in one week, and political prisoners
are to be released.
It reads like a stirring episode, but the man who
filters our cable news through London was too
busy sending particulars about some royal infant
getting its first tooth to supply any details to Aus-
tralia.
“ General ” Booth, that eagle-nosed Napo-
leon of the popular-religion business, furnishes his
own description to a nicety in the registration of
a trademark. His official portrait: “William
Booth, trading as the Salvation Army, 101,
Queen Yictoria-street, London, E.C., Merchant.
Paper, Stationery, Printing, and Bookbinding.”
It was a very provident and cautious
damsel who summoned her “ boy ” to Richmond
(Melb.) Court t’other day. The trouble arose
over the customary undesirable baby. But when
evidence was about to be taken defendant stopped
the course of the law by observing casually that
they were going to be married next day, and it
was hardly worth while going through with the
business. The lady blushingly admitted that she
believed the happy event was to take place
almost immediately, but she wanted security
that he would keep his word. This new scheme
for compelling performance of contract or getting
damages for breach of promise before the act of
breach, so to speak, so confused the Bench that it
adjourned the matter for a week, and the parties
left on the most friendly terms. If that young
man knows what’s good for him he’ll keep his
promise. It isn’t every man who has a chance to
marry a lady of such foresight.
Concerning Paul Kruger’s hoard :
General Count du Barail, writing in the North Ameri-
can Review, on the score of “ probability,” if nothing else,
seems to dispose of the oft-reiterated assertion about
Kruger’s greed in extracting concessions from foreign
mining-prospectors for his own aggrandisement. The
General states that Kruger found himself without funds,
and, warned by the Jameson Raid that he had to he pre-
pared for fight, he conceived a heroic expedient, but one
which might reflect on his honesty. “ For the good of
his country he carried Ills devotion to the point of risking
his reputation.” The President did make “ concessions,”
as it was his only method of raising a fund without dis-
covery by the ever-watchful eyes of Britain. It would
have been suicidal to have started a public war-fund and
the Transvaal had no budget. The hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds raised did not, as the vulgar assert, go
into Kruger’s pockets—he used the money instead to buy
the most modern and improved Creusot and Krupp guns.
He engaged skilful and experienced mechanics. He
transported the guns to S’Africa not in continental but in
British steamers, so as not to excite suspicion. It would
be interesting to any fair-minded person to know, in view
of the terrific outlay in war-material, how much the
vilified old exile really has in his possession. It is most
doubtful that it amounts to the two millions decided
upon by the fanciful cable liar.
“ Smiler ” Hales describes the Boer girl
as he has seen her :
So much of my whole career has been passed amidst
the rougher and more rugged scenes of life that a
description of dainty womanhood comes awkwardly from
me. But I have read so much about the ugliness and
clumsiness of the Boer women in British journals that 1
should like to try and describe this daughter of the veldt,
although only a farmer’s daughter. Ido not know if she
would be called short or tall, hut her cheek could have
nestled comfortably on the shoulder of a fairly tall man.
[“ Smiler” himself is comfortably tall.] I don’t know how
much hair she had, but there was enough of it to make a
fellow feel as if it didn’t matter a rap if half the earth was
bald. It was not red, nor yellow ;it was like honey
kissed by sunshine. She had the sort of forehead which
one never sees on the face of a fool, Nature’s signboard
for an emporium of brains. Her eyes were large,
brown, ami fearless, nor yet wavering. Her mouth
was perfect, not one of those sepulchres which
disfigure some feminine faces, not childishly small
like a bud bursting into bloom, hut a strong, true mouth,
large enough for a prayer to slip through, but not big
enough to swear with. Her waist would just about fill
the crook of a strong man’s arm [“Smiler” is a strong
man], and make him feel that there was no room for any-
thing else under Heaven. The arch of her bust was like
the curve on a wave as it breaks on the beach in the bay,
not the stiff lath-and-plaster models one is so apt to see
walking round the streets of cities. Her hands were
shapely, brown, and strong, cracked a little by wind and
weather ; not toy hands, but hands that conic! spank a
baby or help a husband when all the world had damned
him past redemption.


A Living Skeleton
Changed into a Healthy and Robust Child.
The trying weather of summer makes children drowsy, lifeless, and with-
out energy. They lose appetite, their blood becomes impure, and they break
out in sores.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
■
"'S/
»
n
%
I
fsfm
Iff/
A
Mrs. Emily Air, of Murray Park, Adelaide, So. Australia, very kindly sends
as a photograph of herself and family, which we reproduce above, accompanying
the same with the following testimonial:
“The trying hot weather of our summer has a very debilitating effect upon
children. They run down in health, become drowsv. «.»vhctit«- a... i *
out in sores on-the fur.
id Ayer's rdoraapu-riila » perfect remedy for this oondl-
n ,io toe appt rite, and tones up the whole system,
ily twelve motwo d\ '"XS. stYfiluki.
skeleton into a healthy -and rob use ciiij'ic simply by civing it small doses of Ayer’s
blood,
id ten on
* >o you wonder, then* .phat people call 1 1
World's Creates! Nmlly fiUsdlcinis”?
It is the greatest family medicine the world ever knew, good for all ages and
&:5 conditions. When you take it you get mote benefit f rom your food- yo
Mood becomes richer, your nerves are made. stronger,, and the * he 'e system \
eornes filled yd;,h nnw life and.yi»o.r, ..
h
ĥ
1
for 1
s,
’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
Sen*Sen (*,
fFARRINGDptU
LONDON.
ħ
h
IfimUABLE TO
{ SIHGEBS X SPEAKERS
ĥ
PLAIN HOM€ TALK
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 30 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, bub about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concern ini' mar-
■ a fte, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
t a “ rl Stht future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imforniation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d. *
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is fid post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is fid.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is Bd.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. Tiib
Art or Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is fid post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s fid.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer's
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Maoic. Is 6rl post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is6d posted.
L °WR R ,T S E R L^d R ' VRITER * 1s B ost - General Letter
lR i oN fli V ED M hhr AND Hls Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted. J '
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (.Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse s Advice to a Mother, 3s Gd posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son<'s
Is 3d post free. ? f
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Evert Man llis Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons fold and new! thati
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertisecl
by him are still obtamable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of ol JiiCIAIj Books—most of which can onlv be obtained frnm bim
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, »atr«t^Fr,e"a,i™,hera
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
WS
Ij'Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Side Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosßveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, fee. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF TN TWENTY MINUTES. This is > fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.” I
BEECH AM’S FILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
thoy act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beceham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENCLAHD
Sold. Everywhere, in Boxes, ls ljd, and 2s 9d each.
Wf
\\k>
h Vv
A/ 4 K 'Vv* */ \
L\:,i
/
Vim..
mat
" WX
m
n v
1} MU i
s^>
?s§s
THE EARLIEST AUTHENTIC REPORT.
Dolly Pinktites : “I wonder who the first actor was?”
Cissy Footlites : “ Samson, I guess. He brought down the house by his feats of strength.”
MAORI LAND : aijd Other Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shilling's (post free).
‘,‘THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER C 0.,. LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
.
teyillll
■ -
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity o t the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
mmomgsKsgsim
mm*-***
.v
A
N.Bi—ASK FOR
Sold Throughout the World.
DINNEFORD’S
imz
o
❖
IRISH MOSS
.GEORGE " BON NIN GT ON
&
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MOSS
CURES WKILE
SLEEPING.
uenza, _
1 ~ , I > '‘‘ '■ 'V, :
YIELD
lit
cr
v
QU
oughs
TO ITS A


PERDRIAU
1 FOOT, 4d.
5 FEET, Is Bd.
10 FEET, 3s 4d.
15 FEET, ss.
& CO.,
.
L
m
270 George-st
■i
20 FEET, 6s Bd.
80 FEET, 10s.
40 FEET, 13s 4d.
60 FEET, 20s.
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND TT* '
-QQNTE ACTORS. '
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
the WORTHINGTON
IS THE ORIGIN Al
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
MARK.
34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
.
ħ
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
<©HE j^EBOT
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PBOPRS., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ the blook:, w
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
so
h
'
w
c.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltli STRliia’, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post irom alt Ike colonies promptly
attended to.
ĥ
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCO A
. * v
BREAKFAST- ..
ONE THOUSAND PEOPLE ....
died from Consumption in Sydney last year, and this dire disease is spreading day by day. And no wonder. If oitizens are so careless about their supply of Milk, the wonder is that there
are not more deaths. There will be ! !
HERE’S A. SJEIOIrIT STORY.
A milk supplier to Sydney had three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was afraid his healthy cattle would become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another
supplier who sent his milk to the same distributors. The seller now feels annoyed to think that the Sydney purchaser had been paying for ad the milk .from the diseased animals for some
months past. THIS MILK IS BEING SOLD IN SYDNEY TO-DAY ! This is no fairy tale, but an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an individual case;
there are many, alas! too many 6f a similar nature. ' , >
-nyprvr 02?* DAIRIKS -A-INTI* CATTLE ....
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every cow in every dairy thoroughly inspected, as well as the premises and utensils used.. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
arriving under standard quality is condemned. They laugh at local inspection. They lose suppliers because of their strict methods of inspection.
The Company sells milk in bulk or in bottle that is PASTEURISED. If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a premature death. Use only the milk supplied by the
F.F. &I. Coy., and they will get healthy and strong. Strong robust people will grow the stronger. If, after this NOTE OF WARNING, you continue to use milk from cows suffering
from Tuberculosis—or, in plain words, Consumption—you deserve to die, for the fault rests with yourself.
The F F and I. Coy., Ltd,, is the only Company who has an Inspector in iteregular employ. If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with us ; but if you want to rear
harbour 1 street!’SYDNEY. N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE COY., Ltd. "
COMPRESSORS.
ħ
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
I
H
o
CO
UJ
“ New Ingersoll.”
PARKE & LACY C°! L T ?
SYDMEY, 3XT.S.-W.
lake Steam Pumps
h
“ DUPLEX’’
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES gitfen for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
"A s‘-
&
jJMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE
ĥ
'I he Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. M.
<9
The lUtMlt.
»« *t„. Rfrulnwff
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELDT.
