

•G
GAELIC
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity,”
The Lancet.
R. Gr. WATKINS «Sfc CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOII
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prize
Medals.
Steam
Engines
Sold,
sdf
SEND FOB PRICES AND PARTICULARS
W SNE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WINE
AUSTRALIA.
SS' Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTEtEET, SYDNEY.
BATTLE & C°
* V W'rir
SOLE AGENTS FOR
’B5 Pitt Street,
' > :■ ... -
‘v »"> -i. -'r V- < ‘ ‘
, Proctor & C
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE- PORTABLE,
ACTION VRR.TTf!ATj FTXED A* ~
m
PUMP
AND
AND
5.
-sr&t-
THORNE’S
Established 1831.
That’s All!
At WHISKY
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
I
HOBART.
—-
Hadley’s Orient fjotel.
'bum
i -
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WlMPOLftffi GEORGE HOTE L, opposite S
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day,-or 2 Guineas f ier Week.
to
/
"I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toany partof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, I«s. (id.
Sole Agents :
Th e Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
5^
PERFETIIIDITER.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
be DATED ! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and trouble. It is Bapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shilling's (post free).
DATING STAMP CO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
sdf
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Beading Beit oi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government).
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 Y orli Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
SEND Foil A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
AND LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
sdf
How Do! May I send yon
my
JEJxfra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILD ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
sedf
nV ■!
sdf
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
: _ ; : : !
THYE G-IR-:E.A.T
CASCADE AL
IS HIKIIRIE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO,, 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
sdf
sdf
Manufactured by the Celebrated
T. C. Williawie ftn
BEST AMERICAN
FINEST AMERICAN
Obtainable of all heading Tobacconists ...
PHOTOS
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
-/hie; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOHS.
R. 6ENMCRT,
89c Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris, France
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EOISWANI ~
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIEE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE REL T <
RILITY.
Have no Worthless J “‘"
Imitations.
THE EDISON & Ml
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasi
Edwa
tralßuil
The Bulletin
Vol 21. No. 1070.
fSaturday, August 18, 1900.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


BOOKS BY POST.
CORELLI’S New Book, “ Bov,” 3s. and 4s.
BERTRAM MILFORD’S “ Aletta,” A Tale of Boer War.
3s. and 4s.
BADEN POWELL’S “ Ashanti Campaign,” “ Matabele
Campaign,” 9d. each.
ALL POST FREE. Stamps or Postal Notes.
sdg
5 Macquarie Place,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin publications.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogtlvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. Gd.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Rodertc Quinn.
No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlet Bvo., Is. Od., post free. Out of Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, 11s., post
free.
The Ways of Many Waters;
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *,* Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles :
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 10d., post
free. *** First-class for recitation.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. 11. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *»* “The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
£®°Supplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dvndop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
the
the
the VOICE
. . THIS . ,
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
sdf
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
I?. The TraCiira or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of ,a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SI N G E RS
and
rUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
... Contain NO cocaine dr other poisonous it ruff ... U
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
The Red-Headed Girl.
(WITH SOME ALLUSION TO SPHING.)
ISPE AK of life —of love. I sing the Spring
which yet, though dimly seen, stands
smiling at us over drifts of Winter
snow. The Spring, the gentle Spring,
the precious Spring, forever shrined within
the heart of man—its purest heritage from
heaven —of that I sing. Whjr. should we
dream of Death, why fear his sting, when on
the steely sky the rose-bloom glows, and on the
chilly bosom of the Winter’s snow bright, rosy
steps of Dawn appear ?
If the world, as the Kabbalists say, be but an
emanation from the Infinite, anatom in the Adam
Kadmon of the Visible, shall there not be in every
being—-yea, in every atom in the frame of every
being, in the microcosm as in the macrocosm—a
metaphor of Spring ? As Spirit is the Apotheosis
of Matter, so shall not Matter be also Incarnation
of the Spirit? And shall not the red-haired girl
gladden us with her peach-blow cheeks, and
writhing ringlets ravishing her neck of snow ?
She is indeed a metaphor of Dawn and early
Spring, for the hot blood that burns beneath her
snowy skin mantles upon her rounded lips and
throbbing bosom, and blazes there, like the fire of
a polished ruby hidden in its deepest heart, and
flashing forth its lambent radiance to command
the dazzled eye.
Red hair and black, dark eyes and blue, the
universe hath radiance fo’- them all; but some-
where in the heart of AStna burns a fire that
crimsons all the heavens when it chooses. The
azure sky bends down, the violet answers it in
kind ; both are pure and gentle and celestial
of their sort; but on the sky the deep red glows
when morning comes, and underneath the violet
are fires without which all the tendrils of its roots
would wither in a chill and frozen earth. Ye
know it not, oh foolish ones ! the red ray quickens
all the germs of life, and Aphrodite could not rise
above the foamy Wave till warm Aurora, with her
glowing finger, .stirred the surge. The heat of
morning dwelt within the pines of Mount Meru,
else had the D ivas never found the lotus growing
on the fluctuations of the wave. Sweeps, like the
sword of Seraph, through this inert universe of
clods, the red fire of fecundity ; and grasses grow,
and lichens flowers in the Alps, and blood-like
snow lies on Spitsbergen plains, and Iceland flings
the breath of blooms upon the passing wind—all,
all, because the red ray of the sun demands its
homage from the sympathetic worlds.
“ Rosae cordon in ore tua invenio sings the
soul of man—-“in thy mouth the rose’s heart I
A BOOKPLATE, by Norman Lindsay.
find.” Yea, in thy mouth, oh red heart of the
sun ! the world finds fragrance of the rose, and
breath of orange flower.
* * *
Ad-am was “ red-earth,” so the Rabbins say ;
but before Eve came, (the He-va, mother, whom
the Yod had not yet made a fruitful one), there
was Lilith, the golden-haired, and round the apple
on the tree her rosy locks were twined. Oh, fair
Lilith ! red-haired Lilith ! thou broughtest first
to man that passion which is his uplifting—and
his bane ! The serpent snared thee for his own,
and on his high uplifted head, there shone the red
sheen of thy burning, locks. Lilith ! Lilith !
sweet banished one, one strand of thy red hair
was eaten with the apple which our parents stole !
The Devil knew the sweet, the bitter, of that
tasting, oh Lilith, red-haired and warm and
amorous ariiong the virgin buds of Eden’s shady
groves! The Devil knew it, and he knows it yet
—alas ! I know it too; for round my heart, and
round the heart of every man, there is that single
golden hair, burning and chafing and embracing it
with fire. The flaming swords of seraphim point
every way, out from the innocence of Eden:
theirs is the white light, of perfection that only
Brahrn himself can face ; we, poor mortal men and
women of the dusk, must stumble on with Lilith’s
hair about our hearts, and red blood in our veins.
‘ Heard you ever of “golden ” hair, my reader-
gentle or ungentle ? Dreamed you ever of Cleo-
patra on her barge, or Sappho on her rock above
the sounding surf? Have you considered Zenobia
on her throne, or Semiramis the fierce, or Boadicea
the terrible in fight ? And the poisoners, from
Poppsea to her of the Medici, have they ever
becomes visible pictures in yoiir mind ? These
were not dark-haired languishes by still waters,
as you may have thought. They bore the red
crest of the Devil on their heads, and the red hair
of Lilith twined about their hearts ; and the red
nipples which gave suck to their young burnt the
lips of the babes whose red gums bit them.
4- The color of the Blessed Virgin is blue, because
her chaste bosom suckled a God-child; but
Babylon was clothed in scarlet,
and her throne was upon many
waters, where the red sun kissed
the reeds as they bent before the hot
wind from the- desert. There is
philosophy in this. . . .
Lilith was Passion—created when
Adam was ; ethereal, elusive, beauti-
ful. Eve was of Adam’s flesh—his
sexual complement. Eve -first felt
de§ire —touched, as she was, by the
invisible fingers of Lilith —and to
Adam she communicated that sweet
impulse which- makes us all to sin.
The hair—-the red hair—of Lilith
was eaten with the forbidden fruit;
and tnat invisible gossamer of desire
is coiled about the heart of every
man and woman—yes, of-every living
creature, from the protoplasmic
monad to the Russian countess.
And the highest type of Passion, the
most beautiful incarnation of Desire,
was, among the gray-beards of the
schools, as it is among the unlearned
gray-beards now, the Red-haired
Woman.
* ♦ !■ » -
The stern surroundings of all life
demand a complement. Cold calls
for heat; heat makes the zephyr
necessary. In the frozen North, the
red-haired woman burns amid tlie
stiows ; the blue-black tresses of the
tropic maid are tangled by the wafted
winds from purple seas. A red-
haired Venus matches best the
heather of the Highlands, while an
ox-eyed Juno dallies by the wimp-
ling waters of the South. So does
sweet Nature cater to our needs*.
The black hair in the chilling
North would speak of darkness more intense than
that which comes when, from the Arctic rim, the
sun descends to death. The Scalds, the Runes,
the Kalevala and the Eddas tell us how the frozen
world was still and speechless—in the dusk of
death—until the red tongue from the mouth of
Hell was licked across the expanse, and Friga
shook her flaming tresses loose among the clouds.
But the ideal of a languid poet, writing verse in
languid lands, is thus embodied in his glowing
words: “ Her eyes resembled the full-blown
Nymphiea ; her arms the charming stalk of the
Lotus; her flowing tresses the thick darkness of
the Night.”—To paraphrase his verse :
Her eyes the purple Nymphasa approve
Within whose heart a dew-drop sparkles bright :
Her arms the Lotus—metaphor of Love ;
Her flowing tr ;wi. like the robes of Night.
They say that there are few
red-haired women in Boston,
and none at all in Cambridge.
The blue of their stockings
strikes in, and they have a sort
of cerulean satisfaction in their
supremacy over all the dis-
quietudes of life. The Boston
woman’s soul is a sea of
serenity, barely ruffled by the
emotions of the clammy cod-
fish ball and the continual
dropping into it of the baked
bean. She would philosophise
over a lover as if he were a
new combination of Peruvian
bark with calomel and May
apple, and she would micro-
scope the microbes on his
moustache before she would
let him kiss her. The heart
of a Boston virgin is a prehis-
toric trilobite shrined in a
glacial bosom ; and if Death
on his white horse rode through
the back-bay districts he would
meet no evidences of life more
vivid than a brickdust-colored
Spitz poodle. Even gray mules
die therein despair. So Chicago
—although in iniquity, they
say, it almost rivals Boston—
can show up very few of the
red haired girls. The frog-
pond was the nucleus of Bos-
ton, and the foundation of
Chicago is mud; so their
wqmen are sallow-hued and
droopy and web-footed. In
Cleveland and Kansas City the
red-haired woman blossoms as
the rose. She has snap and
vim, vigour and victory, and
can raise the devil when she
will.
* sft *
A red-haired woman can
raise the devil anywhere, for
when she becomes red-headed
hell gets too cold for old Satan
and he comes to her vicinity
for warmth. But it is in Cleveland that the
softest snap i;j the way of a red-haired woman is
to be found. The lake breezes and the Kelly
Island grapes koep her complexion clear, and the
red of her cheeks is like sunlight on the snow. In
all the North there is no other city where the
women are so beautiful as in this Forest City by
the lake. And, except in Kansas City, there is no
place where red-haired women are so plentiful.
But in Cleveland their hair is softer, their necks
more swanlike, their step more springy than else-
where on earth. They are the Liliths of this
modern time, and it is no wonder that the coal-oil
women bring a better price in foreign markets
than the prudes of Boston or the lank Lydias of
New York. Standard Oil is much more lubricious
than watered railroad stocks or the indigo-tainted
suds in which Puritanic stockings have been
washed. The Cleveland women are more plac-
able, they walk better, they sit, more gracefully,
they are softer in the eye-glance than their Kansas
City sisters ; and then they have a twist to the
hips, as they perambulate in the Spring sunshine,
which makes an old man wish he were young
again. The red-haired Cleveland woman is a
strawberry who furnishes her own cream, and 9an
sweeten with her kisses all the bitter things we
have to take in life.
But what shall I say of the red-haired jay-
hawker of Kansas City ? To her, white mules
bow down in reverence, and bald-headed men con-
gregate upon the street corners to snuff the atmo-
sphere as she passes. There are more of the class
ill this town than in any other place I ever visited ;
but, as I intimated before, they lack lubricity.
Their voices are grating, and tlieir hair is harsk
to the touch —it has, in fact, the feel of the brick-
dust which it resembles in color. But they do not
allow themselves to be slighted, by any means.
They have high cheek-bones and prominent chins,
and when one of them fixes a fellow with her
glittering eye he has to surrender or take the
next train for Topeka, where the women have
hair as dark as the Kaw river mud and com-
plexions the color of a Sorosister’s stocking. The
EX. LIBRIS:
A BOOKPLATE, by Norman Lindsay.
Kansas City woman is shrfewd, sharp and progres-
sive ; breezy in her ways as the hill-top town she
lives in ; but she would rather trade corner lots
wit a stranger than play the badger game on
him. Therefore, her red-haired sister never
tangles the wayfarer with a loop of Lilith’s hair,'
but lassoos him with a rawhide lariat. If she
wants him she is going to have him, even if he
does come high. He must surrender or leave town.
The red-haired Kansas City woman, when she
dies and becomes somewhat sublimated and
etherealised, goes to Colorado—which is her Pur-
fatory and the Paradise of the red-headed man.
he sojourns there until until she is sufficiently
spiritualised to be reborn in Cleveland—the
heaven of red-haired women. I spoke of
Colorado ; yes, Colorado is the Paradise of the
red-haired man and the Purgatory of the red-
haired woman. At Denver, at Colorado Springs,
at Manitou, the red-haired woman is much in evi-
dence. The ordinary mail, at those places, is in-
capable ; but the red-headed man is a daisy and a
darling. Somehow, to those of us whose* hearts
are dreamy and whose minds are mystically bent,
the great Rockies, with their snowy breasts and
their libations of the morning sun, speak of
eternity and purity. The man whose hair is
tangled with the sunbeams knows not this ; and
the passionate throbbings of the woman whose
still heart is quivering with the electric voltage
of the air appeal to him. Alas ! there are too
few red-headed men in that land of deceptive-
distances. It is the, Purgatory of the red-haired
woman—the Paradise of the red-haired man.
* * * *
Butin ordinary climates and among ordinary
people the red-hfeaded woman has her. innings,
and is not to be despised. I wish I could quote
what some of the gentle poets of old England say
about her, but I dare not. These sterilised old
virgins and unsatisfied matrons of the Women’s
Clubs would prosecute The Gatling Gun if I did.
They discard me as an “ abandoned old repro-
bate,” while they maunder over Chaucer and Walt
Whitman and Zola and Stinkingwitz, and listen
to cub-preachers’ talk about Marlowe and Ben Jen-
son. I could quote from Marlowe or Robert
Greene or Ben Jonson what would put the printers
of this highly moral engine in the penitentiary if
I chose. And yet, these dessicated people of the
Women’s Clubs who every night press to their
withered breasts, in which the milk of human
kindness has long since curdled, the salacious
Song of Solomon, prate about virtue and sing
their song of “social purity.” The red-haired
girl is quick of temper, and just as prone to kind-
ness. I think Lilith must have been the mother
of Cain, for red-haired women have raised Cain
ever since. But they are forgiving, if you treat
them right; and my_ friend Scott—not Walter
Scott, but one who, if his merits were known,
would be poet laureate of Kentucky—voices my
sentiments in his exquisite but little known
poem:
“ She was angry at me, and the Devil’s own glare
Gave a glint to her eyes and a curl to her hair ;
But I looked at the white of her throat down below,
And I pillowed my head on her bosom of snow
Till the love-light was burning within her soft breast,
And we sank into slumber with lip to lip pressed.”
In other words, when a red-headed woman—or
any other woman, maybe—scolds you, the best
thing to do is to cuddle up to her and quiet her
nerves. The red-haired woman never sulks, and
rarely plays the badger game. The hair of Lilith
which twines about the heart is a bond of Love.
“Lillith, there come sweet symphonies from thee,
Softer than foam from off the surging sea ;
Sweet symphonies that set the heart afire—
Lilith ! Lilith ! grant me my heart’s desire ! ”
J. Soule Smith, in The Gatling Gun (Amer).
For the imaginative illustrator of books there is
in Australia at present the least possible en-
couragement. One sees with surprise, therefore,
the set of pen-drawing to illustrate Boccaccio’s
“Decameron” which ™lr. Norman Lindsay has
executed, and which remain for the present
at N.S.W. Society of Artists’ rooms in
Sydney. The young artist (he is only
21) is a native of Creswick (V.), resident
in Melbourne, and practically self-taught.
Hi 3 incomplete series of some 30 or more draw-
ings contains the finest examples of pen-draughts-
manship of their kind yet produced in this coun-
try. Indeed, one might almost venture to say
that, in its kind, no better work than Lindsay’s
best is being done anywhere. The series is un-
equal ; but some of its pages are masterly.
There are two things which • pen-drawing
can do ; it can imitate, the attitude of life, and
it can interpret the artist’s expression of
life—can state and create. At present Lindsay’s
clever draughtsmanship takes precedence of his
imaginative results. For the workmanship of
them, his best drawings are beautiful. The way
in which he realises the texture of stuffs, the
rotundity of flesh, the contour and poise of bodies
seen nude or under a robe, is a delight to
the eye. Where several figures enter his picture,
as a rule he groups them admirably against a
background no less admirable. He seems to have
steeped himself in the lore of .Boccaccio’s time.
He succeeds least in his faces, which are usually
too posed, too stiff, too monotonous in expression ;
and in his total result, which does not seem to
disengage sufficient spirit, sufficient life. With
rare exceptions, his brilliant technique has not an
equal illustrative value. But twice or thrice—in
the figure of a fencer defending himself, or the
very fine figure of a woman turning in abandon
to her lover (Lidia and Pyrrus) he triumphs.
Mr. Lindsay shows also a number of clever
book-plates, of which two are by grace repro-
duced on this page. The prices of these and
others are 4 or figs.—which includes drawing,
plate, and 500 book-plates.
Arthur Adams, author of “Maoriland and Other
Verses,” is at Hongkong, on his way to war-corres-
pond in China for the four leading M.L. papers.
Paris Nesbit, the clever and eccentric Adelaide
Q.G., issues a poetical pamphlet—“ The Human
Comedy, or Faust Up to Date ” (Hussey and
Gillingham)—which was written at Parkside in
1808, and (truth to tell) reads like it.
The gay correspondent—
V. : “ Sroiler Hales ” is just where he used to be. Lond
Daily. Net ex correspondent, at £lOOO a vear, is worth no
more to literature than the Broken Hill reporter. Still
lie flares and twaddles, is lively and irrelevant. Still
there is a vein of silver in his lead Rebel :
Von Kotze is a N.Q. journalist ; “P. Luftig ” is
the pseudonym of a Cjueenslander. Can’t tell
you more without their authority... .J. 0. Murif :
Your simple theory iB that the Sun is a cold orb charged
with electricity, which generates heat bypassing through
a resisting atmosphere on its way to a negatively-charged
Earth. Thus the temperature' becomes colder as you
ascend through the atmosphere, because the higher you
go there’s less heat-generating resistance. And the sun-
corona “ flames ” may be anode Or cathode rays of different
intensities, marking various points of charge or discharge.
That- is your simple murifie theory... .Tommy : There’ll
be trouble in the Balkans and Sydney Public Library in
the spring—and it’s wanted. As to your query—“ Why
library closes at 10 p.m. ; lavatories 9 p.m.”—don’t know.
As to Complaint of discourtesy—never met it M. :
’T was a beam in our own eye. Webster’s Dictionary says
Rev. Sam Marsden died 1858. G.R. : According to
Lond. Athengmm, “ macabre,” as in Danse Macabre, de-
rives from tire dance of the Maccabees, which is the dance
of the dead, because the “ apocryphal ” book of Macca-
bees supplied part of the funeral mass M.E.P. : Sub-
ject not worth space..... Dalton : “Local simile for a
person in best clothes —‘ Yer done up like a. sore finger !,’ ”
....Writer: Who are you? A.G.T. : Presently, dear
boy !
The Bookfellow.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers .
Consolidated Charged
for Selling Wool J
2§ per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, • Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
ASTORAL
INANCE
SSOC’N BhTD.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURHS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE~TO WOOLGROWERS
ra New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal 10 join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower : . .
COMMISSION .. i ' f per Cent.
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Eire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample. Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application). * * *
Sole Agents in New Sontli Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Skins held Weekly.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
oCdMtd
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
Uo
r.&
m
)
tVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
I
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one oi Stephenson’S
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra, powerful, with suspensory
attaehments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
—Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
STDNB Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges,
Goldsbrough, Mort Go.
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season :
21°
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BTORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers,
MERCHAKrTS 1 ,
WHY push
“other fellows’” Coupons
When you can PUSH YOUB OWN
by using the ....
national Cash Register Coupons
In place of paying the“ other fellow” Five Pounds weekly,
and advertising his business, you can issue your own
Coupons at a next-to-nothing cost !
sf
It is a well-known fact that
half the Coupons issued ■by
the Storekeepers are never
returned.
WHO gets the benefit of this ?
You or the “ other fellow” ?
This is worth your serious
consideration, and it will
pay you to investigate the
NATIONAL
Cash Register
COUPON SYSTEM.
Full particulars on application to • • •
National Cash Register Co
335 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINOHAM, General Manager for Australasia.
r Pateot SS)€€p-Braodii)g LiqOid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting- Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Crimwade & Co,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RlCH & CO. LTD,
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Tilacls, nod, and Blue. 3s 6d per gall, in MIell). and Sydney; 3s 9c3L per gall. ±jol Brisbane.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Sept. 11
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
£ : t
Demonstration H. oct 1
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in above.
Name,
Address.
Caulfield C. (SPECIAL).
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name _____
Address
metropolitan S. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
60,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name
Address
s
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name :
Address.
JS
«
Melbourne 0. November 6
100,000 Subaorilaera at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me wfiarpg in the above.
Name
Address
& • *
Melbourne C. (special.)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ' .. .
Address
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
Best Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
m
\
-v \
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarenee-st., Sydney.
..O'**'
*;;>**•
%
Chills
Ever become
chilled through and
through ?
The acute sen-
sation of cold is
followed by; fever-
ishness and aches in
all parts of the body.
Finally the whole
trouble settles in the
throat and lungs in
the shape of a cough.
There is nothing
so bad for a cough
as coughing.
cherry
Pectoral
■will cure these chills and coughs. A
few doses are sufficient at first. More
time is required later on.
Stop coughing and you will get well.
Keep coughing and you invite bronchi-
tis, pueumonia, or even consumption
itself. Better stop your cough at once
and thus end the whole matter.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
LADIES i
1,,11ir Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6:1
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
yew South Wales . .
Harbors’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
AOStraliai? flOttial Providept Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMEBOA, Secretary.
sdf
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
ASS’ Send for Price List. T£!i
H. HILLIEB, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
sdf
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
'f he Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
m PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
FOOD Is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN'S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
sdf
sdf
Cures While
! * '
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Croup, Catarrh, Colds.
CRGSOLENE when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the preventmgthe
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful,disinfectant. Harm.
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court, I ftffjrf Af|
Lombard Street, LaJIIUUII
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELYETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
t*
m
&
&
o
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, G-rimwade ifc Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
. ■
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout,' Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
sa fest and m ost gentle
hiedicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
df
IDINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
Mum
■ ■ ■ .
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR PINNEFORP’S MAGNESIA,
jjgß/fmffgmmßmmmmmmamam n iiiiwinii'niwmiitfJiiA—'mM 1 ..^wbwhm
The Jolliest Book of the Year
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rude.”
U.S.W. Carriage & SadLdLlery Manf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? It so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, ±7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and str-ongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
LOs. Ladles' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUU SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
sdf
Dolirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Drivin’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The world has many kinds of trade—
Some hard and others easy ;
An’ some are clean an’ nobly paid,
An’ others cheap and greasy.
The world has many sorts of toil
An’ many people strivin’ —
Some use their brains, some till the soil ;
But I exist by drivin’!
Not drivin’ sheep or lazy cows,
Nor even starvin’ cattle,
Nor yet with foamin’, roarin’ bows
And engine-room a-rattle ;
Not drivin’ four tough, ill-mouthed blades
Of horse-flesh, young an’ borin’ —
But drivin’ sobbin’ up the grades
An’ down with brake-shoes snorin’.
Oh, it’s drivin ’ — drivin’ —
There’s many millions strivin ’ l
Some men sleep aft,
But most men graft,
An’ I am drivin ’ — drivin ’ /
The “ Tank ” is but a poor machine ;
The “Fairlie’s” almost slower ;
The “Fell ”requires some keepin’ clean,
But this machine’s a goer !
The cars may swing or backward fling
Their weight, but still she’ll shift ’em ;
A six-wheel coupled Yankee rig
Is b ailt, I guess, to lift ’em.
It’s not the softest kind of thing—
This population-movin’;
You’ve got to keep one optic aft,
An’ one ahead an’ rovin’;
There’s semyfores to dodge an’ duck
Both goin’ an’ arrivin’,
But every man must trust to luck—
Which same applies to drivin’.
Oh, it’s drivin’ — drivin ’ —
Both goin ’ an’ arrivin’;
I dodge an’ duck
The worst of luck
An’ get there somehow, drivin ’ /
I’ve never heard a loco, sing
Up-grade with black smoke liftin’,
Nor down with lazy, rollin’ swing,
Nor round the bright curves driftin’;
I don’t suppose she’s learnt the way
(Well oiled in every bearin’)
But often, on a greasy day,
I’ve heard some healthy swearin’.
An engine is a thing of steel,
So what’s the use of sayin’
She sings in every mighty wheel ?
As like as not she’s prayin’
For luck to cross the trestle that
Is some darned fool’s contrivin’ . . .
I’ll bet a sovereign to a hat
She’s only drivin’ —drivin’.
Oh, she’s drivin’ —drivin’ —
By reck’nin’ an’ contrivin’
I get her there
With time to spare,
An’ bring her back —still drivin’ I
It’s nice to lose your sleep at night
An’ keep awake all day-time,
To watch the starin’ head-lamp’s light
An’ keep the blessed way-time ;
It’s cheerful-like to risk your bones
Because her belchin’ funnel'
Knocks slack an’ lime an’ bricks an’ stones
From every rotten thnnel.
It’s grand to stand half-roasted and
The other half at zero,
To hold the lever in your hand —
A poet’s bloomin’ hero ;
It’s nice to watch the crowd that’s met
Both leavin’ and arrivin’,
Who rush their friends an’ quite forget
The chap ahead that’s drivin’.
Oh, Pm drivin’ — drivin’ —
There’s many thousan’s strivin ’;
Som.e men drive cores,
Some foamin’ boivs —
I set six wheels a-drivin’!
Now hear the words my loco, speaks—
Slow, rhythmic, yet not singin’—
As by the peaks an’ tumblin’ creeks
Her eighty tons goes ringin’ . . .
“ Man’s life is just two far-stretched rails
With many a curve an’ crossin’;
The levels change, the wide curves range
Up grades an’ down a-tossin’ ;
An’ men must live, an’ men must die,
So what’s the use of growlin’ ?
The “ danger” falls, the whistle calls :
Full Steam ! —an’ take it howlin’.”
These words are cheerin’-like to those
Whose lives are full of strivin’—
The smooth valves gape, the smooth valves
close,
An’ I am drivin’, drivin’.
Oh, it’s drivin’ — drivin’ —
The ivorld’s a place to strive in ;
When cold an’ numb
My hour has come,
Perhaps I’ll go there drivin ’ /
M. L.
QOILP N.
Lady Roberts is very simple in manner,
while her appearance is that of a nice buxom
boarding-house landlady. Before she left to join
the Field-Marshal in South Africa she visited
Kilmainham Hospital. Extensive additions had
been made to the premises, and a big new range
erected. To inspect this latter Laly Roberts,
Iressed in a plain black frock and big white apron
with a bib, tripped out to the kitchen. The work-
men were just preparing to leave when Lady R.
laid to the foreman, “I’m sure you have put
it too far forward, and all the work will have
to be done over again.” Replied the genial work-
man, patting the lady affectionately on the
shoulder, “Oh, no, cookie, just wait till you’ve
cooked a dinner with it and you’ll find it all right,
my dear 1 ”


THE
PLUM
sd
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, JOs. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or withlvory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WB
GUARANTEE EAC.R RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
ORA.IG &c AITKEKT, 680 GEORGS ST., SYDMBY.
The Australian Ujidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting— _ ■ |
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors: '
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,330,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
sf
FEDERAL mire HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
11. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOOLGROWERS!
The enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your Wool and Produce is one of the ways in which we have studied your interests
before our own.
our supporters.
IT IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in getting every possible good result for
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
THE BEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
GIVE US
YOUR SUPPORT
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L™
Financiers ;
Wool 9 Hides, Tallow, Shins, and General Produce Brokers .
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
B
BB
OWVTVIAKE
IRE RECOGNISED AS THE MOST
PERFECT,
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
sdf
sf
9
k
ONE MILLION AND A QUARTER POUNDS
1,250,000 lbs. TOBACCO
Were the Sales for Dixson’s Sydney Factory for Year ending 30th June.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading* Tobacco in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING. DOES NOT CHANGE.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Ojjice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1070.
SAIIJKDAY, AUGUST 18, 11)00.
Price 6d.
RETURN OF THE FEDERAL LEADER.
BARTON (on his return to Sydney): “ By Jove, I thought my labors as a Federal delegate were finished, but I see there's a lot to be done yet!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the AustralianB. ,,
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... A 1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand . that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilach and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 256 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Dlaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l td. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —lJd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is how sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 18. 1900.
The Federal Railway Problem.
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have
power to make laws for the peace, order, and good
government of the Commonwealth with respect to :
XXXII. The control of railways with respect to trans-
port for the naval and military purposes of the Common-
wealth.
XXXIII. The acquisition, with the consent of a State,
of any railways of the State on terms arranged between
the Commonwealth and the State.
XXXIV. Railway construction and extension in any
State with the consent of that State.—Commonwealth
Constitution, clause 51.
The railway problem was one of the ques-
tions which the Federal Convention shirked
by a half-hearted compromise. At first the
mass of the delegates viewed the idea of
“ handing over our railways ” as sacrilege
and something akin to throwing mud at the
Ark of the Covenant. Later, as they grew
more familiar with it and with each other,
the bogey shrank considerably. The original
idea that all the other five provinces were
bent on robbing “ our province ” of some-
thing or other, and that each State was the
victim of a conspiracy of the five other States
directed against its goods and chattels, and
was itself a member of five separate con-
spiracies, one against each of its five neigh-
bours, faded away as time went on. And in
t he latter days of the Convention the idea of
handing over to the Commonwealth not only
the existing railways, but also the work of
future railway construction, began to be
viewed rather favorably. But the delegates
were still doubtful, and while it was easy to
decide that the railways should be federated,
it was difficult to decide how to do it, so in
the end the Convention compromised by
giving authority to the Federal Parliament
to deal with the matter if the States were
willing. And the problem is so very urgent
that the Federal Parliament will unques-
tionably have to deal with it at an early date.
♦ m • *
The question really resolves itself into
three, each large enough for any ordinary
politician to wreck a reputation upon. They
ire as follows :
(1) Should the Federal Government take over the
existing railway systems and the work of future railway
construction ? It can’t well do one without the other.
For the Federal Government to take over and combine
all the existing lines into one great system, and yet leave
the work of future construction to the States, would
mean that six new separate provincial systems would
immediately start, and instead of the dire confusion of
six railway systems there would be the worse confusion
of seven.
(2) If the Federal Government takes over the existing
railway systems, on what basis should their value be
estimated, and on what terms should the purchase be
effected? s
(3) On what system, if it is possible to devise any sys-
tem, should the work of future construction be carried
out so as to remove any serious imputation of unfair
dealing between States and and portions of States ?
It is impossible to deal with all these ques-
tions in one article, but they may be taken
by instalments.
• • • •
The reasons why the Commonwealth
should take over the railway systems are
overwhelming. There are at present three
distinct gauges among the Australian State
railways—and even this is not inclusive of
sundry toy branches built on a baby-gauge
of their own. Victoria has the sft. 3in.
gauge. N.S.W. lines are on the 4ft. B|in.
gauge. South Australia’s railways are
partly on the sft. Sin. gauge and partly on
one of 3ft. 6in. Queensland and Westralia
have the 3ft. 6in. gauge. So has Tasmania,
but as that province can’t be connected
with the mainland lines its discrepancy
makes no difference. The results are ex-
pensive and remarkable. A train can run
right through from Melbourne to Adelaide,
but not from Melbourne to Sydney, nor
from Sydney to Brisbane. There is a slow,
laborious and expensive process of trans-
ferring passengers and goods at the borders,
and when border tariffs are abolished and
trade is greatly increased in consequence,
this expense and aggravation will be vastly
increased. When railways multiply twenty-
fold, as they will some day, and there are
twenty border crossings for one now exist-
ing, the aggravation and delay and waste of
money will again be vastly increased.
• • • •
The various gauges, too, cause a grievous
waste of rolling-stock and engine-power. If
there was one gauge and one management
for all Australia, then when the harvest had
failed in Victoria and there was little wheat
to carry, the superfluous rolling-stock could
do duty in Westralia, or the Northern Terri-
tory, or Queensland, or wherever there was
a superfluity of work. The harvests of the
various provinces don’t all fall at exactly the
same period, and with one gauge and one
management the rolling-stock which hauls
wool at one season in N.S.W. could haul
grain or sugar elsewhere at other times.
When each province’s rolling-stock is prac-
tically imprisoned in that province, each
province has to keep enough to supply all its
requirements in its own busy season, and
leave much of it to moulder on sidings or in
sheds for the rest of the year. There is a
melancholy lack of convenience and economy
about this system, and yet this is only a
small part of the evil.
* * * *
The diverse gauges also make Australia
very helpless in case of attack. The
great purpose of railways in war-time is to
take troops and supplies as swiftly as pos-
sible to the scene of trouble, to fetch non-
combatants away, and also, if the defence
fails, to fetch the defeated troops away and
with them whatever may be useful to the
enemy. Assuming that Queensland was in-
vaded it may safely be assumed that every
man that S.A., Victoria and N.S.W. could
spare would be at her service, Federation or
no Federation. But under existing condi-
tions there would be more goodwill than
practical aid. The S.A. and Victorian rein-
forcements could get along safely as far as
Wodonga, for there is a continuous sft. 3in.
gauge from Adelaide to that town. Then
much valuable time would be lost unloading
men and properties, and reloading them on
to N.S.W. trains, the Victorian and S.A.
rolling-stock being useless beyond that point.
If the N.S.W. trains were not there—if the
province’s rolling-stock was all employed
carrying its own reinforcements northwards,
and shifting non-combatants away from Syd-
ney and Newcastle to the interior, and doing
other work incidental to the defence of its
own coastal towns, the much-needed rein-
forcements from the South would simply
have to moulder on the Victorian border and
drink beer, while Brisbane took care of itself.
If they and the N.S.W. Contingent did get
as far as the Queensland border, they could
get no further (except very gradually and on
foot) unless Queensland trains were there to
meet them, N.S.W. rolling-stock being of no
further use. If Queensland’s southern line
had fallen into the hands of the enemy, that
province might meanwhile have been com-
pelled to make a bonfire of so much of its
rolling-stock as was penned up on that line.
With a uniform gauge, its cars and locomo-
tives could retreat over the border and help
to bring up men and stores from the south,
but under the present wonderful system it
might be necessary instead to set them on
fire or blow them up at the border to prevent
them falling into the hands of the enemy.
In case of invasion, the three separate rail-
way gauges would paralyse every serious
attempt at defence, by cutting off the pro-
vinces from one another, and blocking every
possibility of rapid movement. To all intents
and purposes they would cut off half or two-
thirds of Australia’s defenders, who are few
enough already. An enemy moving round
the coast in swift vessels could strike at one
place and another, generally keeping ahead
of a defence force which had to connect with
three separate railway systems—all more or
less disorganised by sudden pressure— on its
passage from Melbourne to Brisbane, or vice
versa. A uniform railway gauge is probably
worth a force of 100,000 men for defence
purposes.
• * * *
There is no visible hope or possibility of
agreeing on a uniform gauge except by
putting the railways under one control. If
the N.S.W. one of 4ft. BJin. was accepted
as the standard, then the Victorian lines
would have to be narrowed —a comparatively
cheap matter; and the S.A., Queensland
and Westralian lines would require to be
widened—a matter of some expense. It
would be impossible for each province to
pay its own bill—in that case N.S.W. would
get all the benefits of uniformity gratis ;
Victoria would get them at a cheap rate;
the other provinces would pay heavily. The
bill could not be assessed at so much per
mile of line ; in that case Queensland and
S.A. would pay twice as much per inhabitant
as N.S.W., and yet they would be paying
for a work equally beneficial to the whole
continent. Yet, if it were proposed to
divide the bill according to population, and
the N.S.W. gauge was adopted all round, the
complaint would promptly arise that N.S.W.
paid more for work done in S A. and Queens-
land than those provinces paid them-
selves. Considering that the provinces have
never managed to agree on any important
point involving the outlay of money,
the chances of an agreement, on this one
could find accommodation and to spare on
the point of a needle. A Federal manage-
ment would have none of these exasperating
problems to consider. It would merely have
to decide which gauge should be adopted
throughout Australia, to adopt that gauge,
and to charge the expense of alteration to
the railway revenue of Australia, without
allotting it among the provinces at all.
♦ * * *
This is not a question to be hung up, on
the ground that the time is not ripe, or on
the excuse that public opinion is not ready
for the change. The necessity for a uniform
railway gauge may not be urgently felt now,
but, in years to come, when there are a
dozen lines crossing the N.S.W.-Queensland
border, and as many crossing the Victoria-
N.S.W. border, and N.S.W. connects in two
or three places with S.A., and there are 30
separate places, instead of only two, where
the break of gauge wastes time and labor and
money daily, it is certain that the necessity
will be felt. And it is better to make the
reform cheaply when there are, perhaps,
10,000 miles of line to be altered, even
though the time may not be technically
“ ripe,” than to do it at ten times the cost
when public opinion is ready for the change
and there are, perhaps, 100,000 miles of rail-
way to be dealt with.
* * » •
But however important it is to put existing
railways under Federal control, it is at least
equally important to place the work of
future construction in the hands of the
Commonwealth. In railway construc-
tion matters separate provincial manage-
ment is a burden too great to be borne.
The difference can be expressed in a sen-
tence. The object of an Australian railway
management would naturally be to con-
nect every place which seemed to promise
a profitable railway business with the nearest
seaport city in Australia —the one with
which it could be connected at least cost,
and to which its products could be carried at
least expense. A really Australian manage-
ment would naturally do this to keep down
its own construction bill, and also to
develope trade for its own benefit; trade
can’t be developed by dragging a ton of oats
500 miles, at great expense, when it could
find as good a market 250 miles away, at
half the outlay for freight. The object of
separate provincial management is to give
every place which seems worth a railway
access to the nearest seaport city in that
proving That city may be 500 miles away,
and there may be an equally good one in
another province only 250 miles distant, but
the cast-iron rule holds all the same. Many-
places are denied a line, to the great loss of
the country, because a railway won’t pay by
reason of the distance to “our ” capital, and
though it would pay to connect them with
another and a nearer capital such a thing is
contrary to provincial policy. Othersget aline
twice as long as is necessary in order to bring
their trade to “our ” capital; and by reason
of the heavy freights involved through need-
less miles of haulage it does them little
good, and the line being a failure through
the overwhelming expense of this needless
haulage it involves a heavy loss to the State,
and thus the system is a disaster all round.
How many millions of good Australian bor-
rowed money have been fooled away by this
parochial policy it is difficult to guess now,
and how many places have lost their chance
of prosperity through it is not pleasant to
think of.
• * * •
Furthermore, if railway control is left in
the hands of the States they will have to
separately borrow the money for construc-
tion, and as their credit will be inferior to
that of the Federal Government they will
have to pay more for the money. There-
fore the railways will cost more—a very
small difference in the interest rate, accu-
mulated for a century or two, would easily
end by making the new railway built under
State control cost twice as much as the same
line built under Federal management.
Again, if State management is perpetuated
the Federal capital and territory will be in
the ridiculous position of depending on the
goodwill of some adjacent State or States
for communication with Australia at large ;
if it is surrounded by N.S.W. territory,
N.S.W. can refuse it any direct connection
with Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide,
and give it a line to Sydney only,
thus securing all the trade. This
would indeed be a curious situation for any
supreme Government to occupy. And, lastly
and above all, there can be no real
Federation of interest and sentiment if the
internal commerce of the Commonwealth is
divided by five conflicting interests, and five
hostile railway construction policies maintain
a state of civil war in the interior of the
Union —or the Commercial Disunion, as it
should be called under such circumstances.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Faying the Bill; an Address to the
Cornstalk Jingo.
The New South Wales finance committee, in the
course of its report on the lamentable monetary
affairs of the province with the biggest deficiency
in Australasia, made one suggestion which The
Bulletin prognosticated several months ago. It
didn’t prognosticate that the finance committee
would make the suggestion, or that it would be
made by anyone in particular—simply that it was
bound to arise from some source or other. The
finance committee proposes that the cost of the
Transvaal Contingent up to the end of the finan-
cial year just closed shall not be charged to the
current year’s revenue, and, presumably, that the
rest of the bill shall not be charged to next
year’s revenue, but that it shall be put quietly
away into the floating debt and left there to be
liquidated on some future occasion. On the
strength of this precedent it seems fairly probable
some one will also rise to suggest that the cost of
the Chinese Contingentshall likewise go peacefully
into the floating debt, to be paid on some future-
occasion. Even if the finance committee’s pro-
posal to raise the annual appropriation towards,
paying off the Cornstalk deficit from £150,000 t0£400,000
£400,000 a year is adopted, and providing there
are no more deficits, this means postponing pay-
ment for 10 or 12 years, by which time many of
the old Jingoes who hollered for the war will be
dead and gone, and a new generation will have
grown up to find the money. So far, not one
manly Jingo has arisen to object to this proposi-
tion, and unless they do arise every Jingo of the-
crowd deserves the contempt of whatever honest
men there are in the community. A few months
ago Cornstalk Land was ablaze with the
red flags and red streamers and waving umbrellas
of the people who wanted to “ make sacrifices for
the Empire.” Well, a small body of men went to-
fight for the Empire, and so far as their pay and
sundries were a fair remuneration for their
risks they didn’t make any sacrifices. But,,
leaving them out of the question, the
great bulk of the people didn’t go to-
fight for the Empire, and the only way they
can do anything for the Empire is by manfully
paying the bill themselves —not leaving it to their
children or to chance. And there should be no
doubt about the personal character of the
payment. If they meet the bill by econom-
ising on the road vote and leaving a bigger bill for
the repair of the highways to be paid hereafter,
or by saving on some other ordinary vote and
making the difference good out of loans, they are
shirking it just as meanly as if they didn’t pay it
at all. If they pay it by cutting down civil ser-
vice salaries, or not granting promised increases;
or by starving the education vote and thus injuring
the chances and prospects of the coming genera-
tion ; or by paring down the charitable vote and
thus making the sick and poor and aged stand the
cost of their .Jingoism ; or by postponing old-
age pensions when these might otherwise have'
been granted, and thus again screwing the cost of
their “patriotism” out of the misery of the poor
and aged; if they do any of these things, then;
they are again meanly shirking their responsibility..
In view of the fact that the ordinary N.S.W..
revenue is admittedly barely sufficient for ordinary
expenditure, the only manly and honest way
to. “make sacrifices for the Empire” is to
levy a temporary war-tax and make the sacrifices
right off. The Bulletin, much as it opposed the
war, advocates this, and is ready to pay its share
of such a tax, but in the absence of any signs of
support it seems that this wholly non-Jingo paper
is the only honest Jingo of the lot. It isn’t a case-
now of subscribing to a Patriotic Fund (which,
at the best, didn’t amount to more than a frac-
We!
London, July 26.
The Kaiser, in bidding farewell at Bremenhaven yester-
day to the German troops ordered to China, said : “ Your
mission is to avenge thedeathof the Ambassadors and Euro-
peans who have been murdered in Pekin and elsewhere.
When close to the enemy remember that no quarter is to
be given, and that no prisoners are to be taken. Use
your weapons so that for a thousand .years to come no
Chinaman will dare to look at a German askance. Pre-
pare the way for a Christian civilisation. Good-bye, com-
rades.”—Recent Cable.
Lord God of hosts, the heathen rage,
And bring to scorn the sacred page.
But, tho’ they will not bow to Thee,
By My mailed fist! they shall to Me.
It often makes Me feel quite riled,
To see Thee treating them so mild.
And how the heathenist Chinee
Gets over Thee, gets over Me.
I know in our affairs of State
We rulers see some things too late ;
But sin Thou passest, or don’t see,
Will never pass below with Me.
So now I’ve girded up my loins,
Sent out My men, My ships, My coins,
With guns beyond the Yellow Sea
To civilise for Thee and Me.
Thou soon shalt see the heathen die,
No living Hung or Chang or Li
Will there be left to disagree
With what is taught by Me and Thee.
A few may climb the golden stair,
But most of them will go elsewhere,
And bow to Nick the stubborn knee
• That would not bow to Me or Thee.
When by the gun sweet peace is won,
I’ll ship them Bibles by the ton,
And take them out in silk and tea
For Christian folk in Germany.
I’ve told My men to see Thee through,
They know just what they have to do ;
But when the nations all praise Me
I’ll alter it to We, Thou’lt see.
MILLS WOOD, S.A.
WM. SYM.


tion, comparatively speaking); that was a matter
of advertisement and notoriety, and the value of
the subscriptions came back in advertisement. It
is a case of meeting the real expense—meeting it
as a matter of duty, and getting no more kudos
out of it than by settling for the income-tax or
the dog-tax. As regards 99 per cent, of the
prominent Jingoes—they didn’t fight themselves,
and if they are not willing to pay promptly and
fully then their alleged British patriotism is a lie,
and their alleged enthusiasm for the empire is
shoddy, and their alleged loyalty is sham,
and they are things of gas and bunkum.
The Jingoes who kept their own skins in safety,
and who are now apparently quite prepared to
keep their cash in safety also by leaving posterity
to stand the expense, deserve the unutterable con-
tempt of every decent white man of whatever way
of thinking. They enjoyed the excitement, the
drink, the banquets, the flag-flapping, and the
heroics, and whatever was to be got out of the
business. They secured the profits on the sale of
horses and provisions and shoddy saddlery. They
made money exporting victuals to South Africa,
and they talked at appalling length about their
own love for the Mother-land, and their readiness
to make sacrifices for it, and their eagerness to
help bear the burden of empire. Yet it now
begins to look as if what they really meant was
that they loved the Mother-land and were quite
willing that their children should make sacrifices
for it. British Jingoism was at least respectable.
It commenced honestly by levying a big war-tax
on itself with hardly a dissentient voice. It
couldn’t all fight, but the part that didn’t fight
was at least prepared to shoulder the dreary, in-
glorious burden of footing the invoice, and byway
of showing its sincerity it commenced at once.
N.S.W. Jingoism is in danger of proving mere
beer-froth.
+
The Foolish Victorian Licensing' Law.
Nathaniel Levi, M.L.C., is trying to do Victoria
a good turn with a Bill providing that a license
may be transferred from one public-house to
another in the same district, provided the new
house is much better than the old. Under the
foolish law fixed on Victoria in the days when a
teetotal Ministry lay like a keg of cold tea on that
province’s chest, a license can’t be transferred to
any place more than a certain very small number
of feet distant from the old original pub. It was
in the wealthy days that this was enacted. Just
when the silly law was passed, dozens of owners
of old, mouldered cockroach-haunted wooden pubs,
in country towns were building fine new stone
or brick premises with a view to shifting their
businesses and pulling down the superannuated
shanties. The law shut down like a steel-trap on
any transfer of the license, except when the new
place happened to be just alongside the old one,
so in many cases the new hotel is a sly groggery,
while the licensed business is carried on in a
wooden wreck which has ceased to be an hotel
because no boarder vyill stay there, and is only a
dirty shed used for drinking purposes. The best
example of how the new stroke of genius worked
that the writer ever met was at a little town
on a branch line in the N.W. district. A fine
large, luxurious brick hotel was being built when
the intelligent statute stepped in and prevented
the owner getting a transfer of his license from
his old wooden crate down the road. The new
place was l|ft. too far away from the old one, or
something to that effect. So he kept on the old
Elace to save his license, and the new one because
e couldn’t sell it for a butter-factory or a lunatic
asylum, and people stay at the new place, and
walk down to the old one for a drink, and carry
their spare drink back with them in their pockets.
Nobody stays in the old place except the drink-
seller, and a dog, and some cockroaches and rats,
and a gopher or two, and a large centipede, and
three worms and a blow-fly. The owner would
gladly put a fire-stick into it and remove a long-
standing eyesore if only he could remove his
license to the new establishment ; but the sapient
law says he mustn’t. And all over Victoria simi-
lar places are to be found. Nat Levi, M.L.C., as
a member of a House that understands good liquor
and likes to have its drink comfortably, has struck
a valuable idea.
The “Aged and Infirm Worker.”
A hunk from a Maoriland paper—about the five-
billionth similar hunk that the minimum-wage
idea has evolved from the Tory press of Austra-
lasia :
Mr. G. W. Russell told the House some unpalatable
truths the other night concerning the effect of our labor
legislation, and not the least effective of these home-
thrusts was the statement that while we have fixed the
minimum wage we are making it more difficult for
middle-aged and elderlv men to earn a living, for surely
it stands to reason, as Mr. Russell pointed out with some
force, i hat an employer, being compelled to pay a certain
wage, will invariably give the preference to strong and
energetic young men most capable of earning it, while
middle-aged and elderly men will be passed over and left
in idleness. This was certain to be, the effe t of the
wage law, just as certain as the day ’follows the night.
There is no use closing our eyes to the ugly fact t at old-
fashioned sentiment is gradually being squeezed out of
the relations between employers and employes by the
legislation of the hour, and who can blame the em-
ployer if he takes the trades-unionist at his word and
reduces the whole matter to the sordid considera-
tion of the maximum quantity of work for the legal
wages ? This is what he is doing now, and what the law
is compelling him to do. The wage in every trade is
being assessed upon the quantity of work that a young
and vigorous mechanic can do in a given time. No one
contends that the middle-aged or elderly man can do the
same, and, being unable to do it, does it not follow that
he will invariably be passed over wherever the employer
has a choice, and the work given to the younger man ?
The most cruel and tyrannical part of the wage law is its
effect in preventing elderly men from taking work at the
wage they can earn, and thus sacrificing them and their
livelihood to younger and more active workers. It is too
soon yet for this inevitable consequence of the maximum
or minimum wage to make itself felt. But the day is
close at hand when the hardship it entails will compel a
demand from the elderly workers for the relaxation of
this law, in order that they may honestly get bread to
eat.
It is curious how many Tories are grieved to their
inmost soul over the minimum wage—not lest
it should make them pay a decent price for labor,
but lest it should lead to the elderly and infirm
person being deprived of his employment. And
that elderly and infirm person is mostly a foolish
lie. He never got any great show even in the
worst of the sweating days when his boss could
get a younger and stronger man. He has a better
show in Maoriland now than he ever had before,
for these reasons : (1) The number of persons em-
ployed in the province’s industries has increased
so very greatly under the influence of Protection
and enlightened Labor legislation that there is a
far smaller margin of unemployed, and the elderly
worker has to be engaged to a greater extent to fill
the demand ; the writer can remember a time in
Maoriland, before the Protection and Labour legis-
lation era, when labor was so plentiful that em-
ployers could reject every man above 45 and still
find more men than they required, and in those days
the elderly one got employment only as a semi-
charitable matter and at any wages which the
employer liked to name. (2) Before he becomes
elderly (no man is born elderly) he now gets
sufficient employment and at wages which enable
him to make some provision for his old age;
formerly he didn’t. (3) When he becomes elderly
if he chances to get employment he now gets it at
a living wage, which he formerly didn’t. (4) He
has an Old Age Pension to fall back upon which
wasn’t the case in the good old Tory days, and
Maoriland has prospered so under Protection and
Labour legislation that it is able to pay these
pensions without extra taxation! Also the old-
fashioned sentiment between employers and em-
ployed never did exist to any extent worth
mentioning, so the loss of it isn’t worth
grieving over. Nowadays the aged person
is certainly more in evidence than he used
to be, but that is not because he was better
paid or better fed or better employed under
Tory Government in (say) 1886 than he was
under Liberal government in 1896. There was
simply less of him. The Maoriland people aged
55 and upwards numbered 30,869 in 1886 and
60,387 in 1896. It is the same in every province.
And because more aged inhabitants are now
visible in the streets through their being more of
them in existence, the impression arises either
that Liberal legislation makes people older, or
else that the old man in the times when the Tory
party bossed the show was concealed in factories
where he was too busy earning huge wages to
come out and show himself. And there is. simply
more of him—partly because that is the natural
state of things and partly, it may be, because he
now gets enough food to keep him alive longer.
A Land Resumption Question.
Sydney Sunday Times raises a very pertinent
question :
One point in connection with the wharfage resumption
scheme is very necessary to bear in mind, which is that
every care must be taken that the citizens are not com-
pelled to pay twice over for the improvements effected by
the Government.
What is meant by this will readily be perceived when it
is recollected to what an enormous extent the value of the
adjacent property will be improved, and that unless
adequate steps are taken by the Government to protect
the public, the landowners will not only be paid directly
for the resumed property, but will be placed in a position
to extort from future occupiers perhaps twice as much as
the original value in consequence of the enhanced rentals
which will be obtainable for premises in proximity to the
resumed area.
An English publication recently gave some striking in-
stances of the way this has worked in the case of several
towns and cities where large public improvement works
have been carried out. Liverpool affords one striking
example. The ground upon which some of the docks
there were built was but a few decades ago merely a
piece of waste sand, in which rabbits burrowed, but when
the new docks had been erected at public expense the
value of the adjoining land was so greatly enhanced
that its rental value is calculated at £40,000 a
year. Another instance is that of the town of Bootle,
which has now a rateable value of £9 per head of the
population, the highest in England or Wales. This is
simply due to the fact that the town has raised £330,000
to carry out public improvements, and the single land-
lord who owns it has raised his rent exactly in proportion
as the ratepayers paid to increase the value of his pro-
perty. Thus while in 1879 the amount of rates in Bootle
was £9OOO, the ground rents were only £IO,OOO. In 1398
the rates amounted to £94,000 and the ground rents to
£IOO,OOO.
The meaning of this latter example is that, if the
State or tne municipality had owned Bootle
instead of it being owned by a private landlord,
the huge sum spent on improving the town would
all have been paid off in a few years by the in-
creased rentals which the expenditure of this
money created. It is for just this reason that
The Bulletin advocates, seeing that N.S.W. has
gone into the Sydney resumption business, the
resumption of all Sydney and suburbs by the
State, the payment of the landlords in State
securities, and an enactment that the State shall
never again sell the land, but shall be the sole
owner of the site in perpetuity. Then it could set
about the gradual reconstruction of the crooked
metropolis—all of it, not merely a small fraction—
and the increased ground rentals it created would
gradually pay for the reconstruction. Also, for
the same reason, The Bulletin argues that the
Federal Government should be sole ground-land-
lord of the Federal capital and the adjacent terri-
tory for ever—so that the land-values created by
the expenditure of the people’s coin will be the
people’s property. And by exactly the same
process of reasoning it holds that the Federal ter-
ritory should consist of 5000 square miles instead
of 100—that the unearned increment created by
the expenditure of the people’s money may not
slop over a too-narrow boundary on to the private
owner’s possessions.
♦
Alfred Deakin’s Proposal.
Alfred Deakin said something that wanted say-
ing very badly indeed when he told the Victorian
Assembly last week that a Convention should be
elected by the people to draft a new State Consti-
tution for Victoria, and that the new Constitution,
when drafted, should be submitted to the people
for acceptance or rejection by Referendum. Hig-
gtns, of Geelong, started the debate by moving
that the Upper House needed reform ; but Hig-
gins, of Geelong, came forward with no definite
proposal for bringing the necessary pressure to
bear on the 48 Rich Landlords. Df.akin struck
the true note when he said that the.whole Consti-
tution needed remodelling on thoroughly demo-
cratic principles, and on a smaller scale to suit the
new conditions arising through Federation ; and
that the people, in view of the great success they
had made over the Federal Constitution, should
be entrusted with the work. And then, when
only four members had spoken, the subject
was dropped for rather over a month to allow
Bennett, M.L.A., to talk about the neces-
sity for a committee to inquire into the
dismissal of a railway-porter. It was a pitiable
falling of the biggest and most urgent subject in
Victorian politics. Just now, if there was only a
Kingston at the head of the Ministry, there is a
great and unique opportunity to rouse the people in
the matter of Council reform. An Enabling Bill
authorising the election of the proposed conven-
tion and the taking of the Referendum could be
drafted in a few hours, and passed by the As-
sembly in a few more, and thrown out by the
Council in less than 30 minutes. Then the
Assembly could go to work by itself/ as S.A.
Assembly did under Kingston’s guidance over
the S.A. Council Reform scheme. The Ministry
could announce that the proposed Convention was
going to be called without an Enabling Bill—
there is no law against the people electing any
Convention they please. Nominations could be
called for ; the ballot for the election of delegates
to the Convention could be taken at the As-
sembly’s approaching General Election, and the
Convention could meet and draft the new
Victorian Constitution. And when it was
drafted it could be submitted to the people by
Referendum. The only illegality would lie in
paying the expenses of these proceedings out of
the public revenue. If the Council would not
authorise that, which it probably wouldn’t, the
delegates would have to be unpaid and to receive
no allowance for expenses, and the cost of ballot-
papers, &c., would nave to be defrayed by passing
round the hat. By taking the election of dele-
gates and the election of Assembly members
together, and taking the Referendum and the
election of Federal members together, the ex-
pense could be kept down to a minimum. The
best Liberals in Victoria could be got to sit on
such a Convention, and give it their assistance.
And when a new Constitution was drafted, and
accepted by an overwhelming majority of the
people, and passed by the Assembly, then if the
Council rejected it there would be material for a
storm which would blow the Rich Landlords off
their decrepit legs when the next instalment of
them went before their constituents for the usual
walk-over. Providing the thing was done as
Kingston would do it, it would rouse a burst of
enthusiasm that would be the beginning of the
end for the 48 Rich Landlords. But if it was
done in a perfunctory way by a cold and unbeliev-
ing cattle-salesman, it would be such a farce that
it were better not attempted.
*
Emancipating the Publican.
The combined brewery interest of New South
Wales will doubtless fight hard against the propo-
sal of Watson, M.L.A., to abolish “tied ” public-
houses, and the public-house interest will probably
fight as openly as it dare in favor of the abolition.
That is, it will fight when it thinks the sleep-
less eye of the brewery isn’t upon it. In a coun-
try which objects, in theory at least, to slavery,
the proposed abolition of the tied-hotel system
should be greeted with enthusiasm. It is a
monstrous doctrine that because one publican
borrows money from a brewer, therefore, in
addition to being personally bound to pay in-
terest and principal in full, not only he but
every other publican who comes after him in
that house, so long as it exists, should be com-
pelled to buy his liquor off that brewer only, no
matter how exorbitant the price or how un-
speakable the quality. A system under which a
publican can sell not only himself but a long
row of publicans who came after him into com-
mercial serfdom is an anomaly on the edge of
the 20th century. It is also monstrous that the
publican should be legally punishable for selling
bad liquor when the law well knows that he
is compelled to take any liquor, however
bad it may be, that the brewery slave-
owner likes to send him. It would be
equally monstrous if he wasn’t punishable for
selling bad liquor. It is a grievous wrong to the
public stomach that, in many successive streets of
public-houses, it may not be able to get a drink of
good beer, because, when whole streets of pubs,
are tied to one or two big breweries, these breweries
are in no way compelled to take the trouble to
make decent liquor. The average man will drink
bad beer rather than walk a mile or two for better,
and if the law is so fixed that a few brewers of in-
ferior liquor can shut out all concoctions that are
better than their own, they have no motive for
trying to improve their brew. Everything is com-
pirative; and however bad beer may be, it will
sell if the vendor can prohibit the supply of a
better article. Further, the law professes to pro-
hibit any man holding more than one public-house
license, and the legal decisions which ignored and
over-rode this law by letting a brewer hold 150
licenses, if he could get them, on the dummy
system, is a thing that calls for all the dis-
respect the community has about it. In the
interests of law and freedom and good beer,
and of the national stomach and the public liver,
kidneys, and brain, the tied-house system calls
loudly to be abolished, with contumely and with-
out compensation. When the brewers invented
it they didn’t pay any_ one for the use of their
new money-making device, and there is no reason
why any one should pay them for the loss of it.
+
The Sympathy of the 48 Rich Landlords.
Apparently the Victorian Tory is taking steps
to square himself with the electors, in view of the
Federal elections. Sargood, Wrixon and Agar
Wynne are now sponsoring a Compensation for
Accidents to Workmen Bill before the House of
41 Rich Landlords. It is not very large or violent
or revolutionary in itself, but it is wildly revolu-
tionary compared with some previous attitudes of
the Upper House. It applies to railway, factory,
mine, quarry and engineering employes, and those
engaged on buildings over 30ft. in height. What
the workers in other branches of employment have
done (including those on buildings of or less)
that they should be refused compensation lor
damage is one of the subtle mysteries known only
to the 48 Large Proprietors. The employer shall
not be liable unless the injury causes disablement
for at least two weeks. Contracting-out is per-
mitted, but only provided the Registrar of Friendly
Societies is satisfied that accident is provided
against by a scheme not less favorable than that of
the Act. The scale of compensation is not lavishly
generous, though it might easily be much worse.
For death—the workman leaving others wholly
dependent on him—compensation is to equal three
years’ wages, but may not be less than £l5O nor
more than £3OO. For total disablement, 50 per
cent, of this amount —which is wonderfully illogi-
cal, for a totally disabled man can earn no more
than a dead one, yet he has to be fed, clothed,
housed and attended, while the dead one hasn’t.
Also, the dead man’s life insurance (if he has any)
is received by his family ; the disabled one’s pre-
miums have to be paid. Total permanent disable-
ment should mean more compensation than death—
not less. Then for partial disablement 50 per cent,
of the victim’s wages during a certain varying
period. If he leaves no dependents—in the case
of death —£10 is to be the limit allowed for
medical and funeral expenses; so the bill of the
man of sorrows and weepers will have to be some-
what brief. It is a respectable little Bill, which
might be much larger, yet which might be ex-
pected, considering whence it comes, to be a great
deal smaller.
Gentleman One.
Judge Hood spread himself largely in Melbourne
last week in the matter of a Gent. One. Said his
Honor: “I am satisfied that many years ago
(before 1890, when the Court ordered him to pay
up), the solicitor misappropriated his client’s
money, and has evaded payment ever since, and
now sets up a sham defence. . . . Morally, it is
theft. . . . The Court is bound to be severe when
such improper conduct is detected.” The solicitor
was thereupon suspended, but at the expiration of
five years, provided he has meanwhile settled with
the complaining clients, he is given permission to
apply to be reinstated. It will be observed that
this misappropriating solicitor had for 10 years
disregarded and flouted the Court’s previous order
to pay up, and the Court took no notice of it
until the defrauded client moved in the matter.
The defrauded client couldn’t move earlier, being
a minor and in the hands of a trustee. Judge
Hood, being in talkative humor, also observed :
“I have seen it stated that a lawyer who uses his
client’s money practically escapes where another
man would go to gaol. The very reverse is the
truth. Where the conduct complained of is not
criminal, the layman would escape while the
lawyer would be punished. And where the con-
duct is criminal, lawyer and layman are alike
enmeshed, while the former is, in addition, de-
prived of his means of living.” So the lawyer is
enmeshed, is he? Well, The Bulletin has a notion
that any layman whom his judge was “satisfied
had appropriated another person’s money, en-
trusted to him,” would very suddenly find himself
inside a Victorian gaol (he wouldn’t get ten years’
grace), and would also be deprived of his then
means of living—his billet, or situation, or prac-
tice. Further, the police would make it very
difficult for him to find another billet when he
came out of gaol (though that is by the way). The
fact is that if a man be a gentleman by Act of
Parliament he can misappropriate trust-moneys
and go practically unpunished. In many cases,
when he comes to that, he has no practice worth
speaking of to lose, and even being “struck off”
is a mere formality. The defaulter in ques-
tion was admitted by Judge Hood to be practi-
cally penniless ; his practice having left him, his
profession is, for the time being, of no use for
making a living, and he loses nothing by losing it.
He is deprived of a shadow. If he pay up he will
be reinstated in due course, but if his practice is
worthless will he pay up to get it back ? And
think of a defaulting cashier being simply ordered
to cease being a cashier, and getting 15 years in
which to refund the shortage, with no prospect of
punishment if he doesn’t refund except that he
will still have to cease being a cashier ! And ex-
lawyer Hoop has the cool assurance to say that
Gent. One is treated more harshly than the
common, ordinary person !
——♦
Local Jingo politicians are beginning to slowly
realise what asses they showed themselves over
the Transvaal contingent business ; but the word
is “Keep it quiet! Don’t say anything!” The
net result of tne war frenzy is that we have ex-
ported to Africa at enormous expense several
thousand first-rate settlers—of whom “ a very
large number ” (says the Sydney Telegraph cor-
respondent, Aug. 9) “ have already volunteered to
remain as permanent constabulary,” with the
bribe of 10s per day and upwards. Lond. Times
correspondent at Pretoria (June 20) backs this up—
A great number of Australians have been greatly struck
by the possibilities of the country for stock-raising and
fruit-growing, and many have determined to settle.
Meanwhile, the sick and crippled are coming back
to Australia. If the Lyne Govt., the Philp
Govt, and the rest, had deliberately set
themselves to injure this country for the bene-
fit of British Africa, they could have devised
no better means than “the Transvaal contingents.”
And it seems the exportation of able-bodied men,
the bone and sinew of Australia, is not yet
finished. The Bendigo Miners’ Association has
received a letter from a S’African engineering
firm, asking for 3000 miners to work in Rhodesia
and elsewhere at from 20s. per day upwards.
Mechanics and engine-drivers are required at 30s.
to 40s. per day, and it is said that 10,000 men are
wanted altogether. The worth of the guarantee be-
hind this wages-bait does not appear ; and there is
apparently no guarantee of permanent work ; but
the money looks tempting. If they go, it will be a
big blow to the prosperity of Australia —a fine
result of the doctrine of “ Australia a recruiting-
ground for the Empire.” The Bulletin is glad
to see that the Bendigo A.M.A. counsels caution.
Rhodesian promises are very thin pie-crust.
Though the Law mendaciously boasts that it
holds all men innocent till they are proved guilty
it takes all manner of care that, once convicted,
the subsequent paths of rectitude are well pro-
vided with thorns. A marine-stores collector,
summoned to North Melb. Court recently to show
cause why his license should not be cancelled on
account of his having been convicted of larceny,
urged that he had held the said license for the last
three years with credit, and that the only convic-
tion against him was away back in ’93. The Bench
postponed the matter for two months in the hope
that it would be carefully forgotten meanwhile.
The law, be it observed, says that a man convioted
of larceny cannot hold a marine-store license.
That seems to mean that when a man who holds
such a license is convicted he shall thereby lose the
license—be struck off the rolls, so to speak. But
in this case the man was convicted of larceny in
1893. In 1897 the law decided that he was a good
enough person to be a rag-and-bone dealer and
johnny-all-sorts. He ran his business honestly till
1900. And then the law suddenly rose up in great
arrears of wrath and demanded that his license
should be forfeited for something done four years
before the license existed. Why the law’s memory
was so short in 1897 and so long in 1900 is not ex-
plained. If the rag-and-bone dealer could afford
to go to the Full Court and hire Isaac Isaacs to
conduct the case, he could probably be able to
drive his horse and scrap-iron and rabbit-skin
waggon through the Act. It surely was
meant to be so retrospective as all this ?
. ♦
The plague, as predicted, has shown itself again
in Sydney with the spring, and, unless people
keep on energetically cleansing their premises and
exterminating rats, the second visitation is likely
to be a much more serious matter than the first.
Instead of springing nftw from one solitary source
of infection, the disease may at any time develop
from numerous different centres, with the dire
result that, by repeated reinforcement of virulence,
the malady may assume that horrible and rapidly-
fatal pneumonic form—wherein a patient’s lungs
literally rot within an hour or two—which is the
Black Death indeed. That gross relaxation of
sanitary vigilance has already taken place is evi-
dent from the condition of the public conveniences
of certain leading Sydney hotels —places which,
during the height of the scare, simply reeked of
disinfectants. In view of the mad panic which
any considerable recrudescence of the plague would
certainly produce, it has become the urgent duty
of every citizen promptly to advise the authorities
of any observed neglect of hygienic precautions.
For the Federal elections (Lower House) the Q.
Govt, is dividing the province into electorates—
on the whole, perhaps, the best system, under the
circumstances. A total of 101,269 voters on roll
gives 11,252 for each of nine divisions. Wide
Bay, the largest, will number 12,736 votes ; War-
rego, the smallest (in voting strength) will include
9102. Southern Q. is to have five members ; the
Centre one, and the North two. The fractional
representations over the one and two members
due to Centre and North are to be combined,
giving one extra representative whose district will
be partly in the North and partly in the Centre.
The South has a little the worst of the bargain
this time, for its voting strength of 67,095
names carries five members and a fraction;
if it possessed 67,512 it would be entitled
to another member. Some divisions include
five of the present electorates; Warrego, the
largest, has no less than eight. Had the province
voted as a whole, the North and Centre would
probably have been left out in the cold altogether,
the South securing the whole of the representa-
tion. As it is, the North and Centre (Democratic
Queensland) have a decent chance—to the gain of


AGENTS—
THE TRANSVAAL WAR !
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND GAN T BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 81 Quken-st., Brisbane.
65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
- ———
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
Chief Office—
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURYES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
Progress in Australia. Tlie Northern plural
voter is groaning a mournful “ Ichabod,’ and
dropping a dismal tear on his beloved allotment
pegs. The Kanaka-coddler is also shivering in his
shoes, but the Q. Democrat joins hands hopefully
with his Southern brethren and trusts, with their
help, to purge his land of Mongol pestilence,
Syrian plague, and Polynesian barbarism.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Rose of Persia.”
Royal “ Absent-Minded Beggar."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ The Green Lanes of England."
Palace British Biograph Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Brough Co., Farewells.
Her Majesty’s “ Tess.”
Theatre Royal “ The Orphan Heiress."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall Scherek's Orchestra (Saturday
afternoon).
Not a new show, nor the gleam or vestige
of one, rose oil Sydney’s theatrical horizon last
week. The nearest approach to one consists of
the addition to the Biograph show at the Palace
of certain pictures revealing, or purporting to re-
veal, the daily life of Pope Leo X1 [f. Leo X1II.
is an elderly unmarried gentleman residing in
Rome. He is a grand old kindly vestige of :i past
era, and wears skirts. Also, he leads a patient,
grey existence in a large building, with a lot of
elderly unmarried men around him, and doesn’t
eat much, and never drinks, and never goes to the
theatre, and reads mournful, pious books in Latin,
and gets no joy out of his money whatsoever. But
he does an awful amount of work, and occasion-
ally has half a boiled egg and goes to bed early.
To be a good, honest, respectable Pope is
probably the most lonesome billet in Christendom.
It is doubtful if any other elderly, unmarried
gentleman eats half a boiled egg occasionally in a
palace of 11,000 apartments, and never quits his
tremendous residence, and never has any dissipa-
tion except when another single man of advanced
years reads to him from the life of some saint, and
leads so absolutely harmless an existence. The
Pope of the day is the extreme end of a long
peninsula of survival sticking out from the conti-
nent of the dead past into the ocean of the more
or less live future. The views given of the daily
life of this grand, but rather desolate, institution
further convince the writer that it is a good and
honorable and very dreary thing to be a Pope,
and that the billet is a sacred one with a great
lack of healthy exercise about it. Judging by
what can be seen, the Vatican is a fine property,
which would be somewhat improved if it possessed
a water-frontage, so that the Sacred College could
fish for bream over the front wall ; and there is
about it an atmosphere of silence—the accumulated
silence of 750 years—that would get on this
scribe’s nerves if he lived there long. But as any
respectable Pope would probably object to him
living there at all, he isn’t likely to be affected
by it.
* * * *
The British soldier who blackens his
miserably thin and hungry wife’s eye, and then
goes to the South African war and is shocked at
the stage-Boer’s treatment of certain women —the
stage Boer doesn’t hit his women captives in the
eye, but it is understood that he is going to do
something wrong —continues to rouse the fury of a
right-minded gallery at Sydney Royal. Curiously
enough, the gallery only laughs at the wrongs of
the pathetic English wife with the black eye, and
though that lady has obviously not had a square
meal for many weeks, and is lamentably short of
clothes and boots, and has been faithful to
her Bill while he was in gaol, only to be
spanked and deserted when he came out, she gets
no sympathy whatever. She drifts out of the
story in her broken boots and her torn skirt, and
her slept-on back-hair, and starts back alone to
her attic, and there is no reason to believe that
her Bill ever returns to her, or even gives her
another black eye by telegraph. But Bill comes
across another man’s wife, who is prettier, and
wears nice clothes, and after proudly stating that
it is the duty of every British Bill to defend a
woman in distress, he plugs a Boer with such
energy that the Boer wishes he had never been
born, and there is great applause. The other
man’s wife is rescued by an armoured train, but
not even a go-cart comes to the rescue of Bill’s
own battered “missus.” Judging by these differ-
ences, it would seem that the Transvaal was a
much safer place than London for a woman in
Bill’s time.
* « * *
“ Rose of Persia ” has lost one of its lead-
ing characters. Miss Dorothy Vane has
quitted the _ tijneful Asiatic vegetable on
account of her approaching marriage, and
the part of Hassan’s stormy wife is now
taken by Miss Fyvie Dench. Thk Bulle-
tin proposes to form its opinion of the new lady
by close and intense observation during the week,
and express it in next isjue. Meanwhile, it regrets
Miss Dorothy’s departure, and wishes that charm-
ing lady every happiness. The fact that, in her
last stage-character, she was a discontented wife,
who offered a priest the loan of a number of
Gardening implements with which to attack her
usband, is one of these curiously-irrelevant
things which will happen in this very irrelevant
world.
* * * *
On Wednesday next Mr. Dampier gives a
matinee performance of the “ Merchant of
Venice ” at Sydney Criterion in aid of the Prince
Alfred Hospital, and as there is no reason to
believe this will be anything like that recent
fashionable charity performance where everything
except £3 14s. Id. went in expenses, The Bul-
letin feels justified in urging the public to attend.
This show is for the hospital, and not chiefly for
the landlord or largely to buy decorations for
the vice-regal box. His X. and Lady Mary
Lygon, also the Chief Justice and wife, and many-
other notabilities, are lending their countenance,
and when one considers the countenance of one of
the patrons it seems probable that he, at all
events, won’t mind if the loan is never repaid.
“ Hamlet ” is to be repeated on Friday night, but
otherwise the “ Green Lanes of England ” will be
desecrated by the boot-marks of the well-dressed
villain and the stousher and the fallen gentleman
in the red suit as usual.
* * «
The hullabaloo in China means another
break in Brough’s plans, and he now meditates a
run in Adelaide before going west. After that
India, but if the Chinese rising is still on the rise,
the company’s Celestial prospects will look blue.
It will mean small profits and quick returns.
* its # *
Potts’ Point and co. rolled down in its
joint and several carriage drawn by its fatted
horse to a theatrical performance done by itself at
Sydney Lyceum, for the benefit of the battered
veteransfrotn Africa and their belongings. Takings
were £194 odd, and out of this a magnificent
balance of £3 14s. Id. was left for the
good cause. “Expenses” rose up like an
armed Boer in the night, and swallowed the other
£194 odd. All fashionable Sydney attended, the
vice-regals being present in a box decorated at a
cost of £11 3s. 7d. The ladies who minuetted did
so in wigs hired for £5 16s., which were paid for
out of the proceeds. According to the balance-
sheet, published in S.M.H., everything—stamps,
telegrams, cab hire (who arrived in that cab ?) came
from the same source. The theatre cost £50 for
the night, and £13 for i j at rehearsals, and the
properties and gauze drop ran into £23 8s. fid.
Nobody did anything for nothing appa-
rently, so that only a microscopic amount
resulted. However, the Miss P.P’s. fan-danced
to their own enjoyment, and nobody can say the
wounded soldiers at the front are any the worse
for it, and the lessee of the theatre is £03 better.
But it was a terribly tight fit. If Only £4 more
had been spent on hanging green stuff round the
Governor’s box it would have been necessary to
stop 5s. lid. out of the pay of the sick and
wounded soldiers, to make good the loss. Surely
a more thrifty management might have made a
trifle for the fund by the re-sale of the £11 3s. 7d.
worth of furnishings put into the gubernatorial
place of honour. Who has got these furnishings
now? His X. did not take them away in his
pocket.
m * * *
This week’s novelty at Sydney Tivoli con-
sists of two flying Patterson brothers, who fly as
extensively as can be expected. The fooling of
the funny brother is probably useful as giving the
other brother time to rest; but it should be re-
membered that the audience wants a rest, too. It
is a passing commentary on the slump in the war
business, and the growing tendency to pay the war
bill out of loan funds and say no more about it, that
one Bell gives a grotesque parody of war-corres-
pondent Macdonald’s lecture, and isn’t murdered ;
in fact, he is received by the audience with delight.
The Century Animatographe is frequently
crowded out, owing to the extreme alacrity with
which performers of small ability accept small,
perfunctory encores.
* * * *
“The Man of Forty” was introduced to
Australia on Saturday night at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, but the acquaintance is not likely to ever
ripen into intimacy. The work of a new author,
Walter Frith, it has many fine points, several
glaring defects, and only a little originality. All
the same, Frith’s patchy play, with its strong
suggestions of Pinero, Jones and Grundy, pro-
mises an interesting future for the new workman.
“The Man of Forty” is a debonair Tanqueray, a
widower who adores another and a less strictly
immoral sort of Paula, and whose daughter is
much the same girl as the Ellean in Pinero’s
famous story. The daughter, whilst travelling
under the wing of a chaperone, falls in love (like
Ellean aforesaid) with a bounder—a gaudy actor
johnnie—and this undesirable mash turns out
to be the long-lost husband of Papa’s
grass-widow. But the grass-widow doesn’t con-
fess the truth to her Tanqueray, as Paula did in
the matter of Captain Ardale. She permits the
bounder to produce bogus evidence of his own
decease, so that he can marry Tanqueray’s daugh-
ter as soon as the 40-year-old parent has married
his (the bounder’s) wife. A hard-up burlesque
actress from S’Africa tells the necessary lies to
oblige the bounder (and for the sake of £20), after
which she gets troubled in her conscience, or per-
haps the grass-widow is overtaken by remorse.
Anyhow, the two women come and confess the
swindle, whereupon Tanqueray grabs the bounder’s
windpipe, with the result that he dies suddenly,
yet convincingly, of pains in the head. No trou-
ble comes of this strange catastrophe. The
bounder appears to get buried from natural
causes, and things end pleasantly enough.
* * * *
For no sufficient reason author Frith
added to the improbabilities of the plot by
“doubling” the character of the bad bounder
with that of a virtuous brother who acts secretary
to the Man of Forty. The alleged brethren are
supposed to be so much alike that the same actor
(W. T. Lovell) plays the pair of them in different
suits of clothes. Lovell as the bounder positively
asks to be confronted by Lovell as secretary, and
in a general way each Lovell speaks ill of his
other self. This confusion of Lovells is injurious
to the play. Lots of things are equally unsatis-
factory ; nevertheless, it is an effective play up to
the end of the third act, the fourth being washy.
Four characters outside of the plot ai’e well
drawn, and they give an air of reality to
the melodrama. The bounder’s death is a
strong finish to a stirring act, and the dia-
logue ranges from good to brilliant all the time.
Nine people get good acting chances, but the four
principals suffer from attacks of unreality all
round. Lovell’s bounder would be a very difficult
person to believe in even if the actor were built
for the part, and Miss Noble seems too wise a
girl to have been captivated by his thin wiles.
Mrs. Brough’s character doesn’t hang together,
and Brough, in the name-part, has to shut his
eyes when in the natural course of things lie would
be bound to keep a sharp look-out. Miss Bessie
Thompson, Miss Temple, Leslie Victor, Miss
Martheze, and Reginald Dartrey are bright suc-
cesses as far as they go, and the staging bears the
Brough brand of merit. Next week is the last of
the season, so it will probably be full of revivals.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the fraudulent tiger
continues to fix its glass gaze upon the Orphan
Heiress, and the head of the sinful animal rolls
ominously in its socket as before. Also, a vision
of the Heiress’s angel mother, who has a gigantic
pair of 22-carat gold wings protruding from her
spiritual shoulder-blades, breaks out at the back
of a cage in the menagerie when the young lady
hesitates between marriage with a nice, shiny
villain and mastication by the tiger. The purpose
of this apparition is to influence the Heiress in
favor of the big Chew, but se ting that she is about
to be saved by the low comeUian the young woman
could very well dispense with mother’s services.
** * *
“ Tess of the D’Urbervilles,” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), is the same doleful tale of an
unnatural dairymaid that was staged at Sydney
Royal in January last. The cast of characters is
different in most places, but the false situations,
and the artificial morality, or immorality, of the
plot remain unchanged. Plays adapted from
novels have to go on their bare merits. Few
people pay for the privilege of being able to com-
pare the stage story with the book story. The
majority of the audience know little or nothing
about the novel. Present scribe has not read
Hardy’s “ Tess,” and doesn’t care whether Nance
o‘Neil’s impersonation (of Nance) gives a fair
i,dea, or no idea whatever, of the original heroine.
The play’s the thing. Present writer gathers from
the play that a tall fair daughter reared by rather
despicable parents on a rather squalid farm gets
rid of her agricultural roughness through losing
her Virtue. Her fall from grace has “ lifted her
above her station ” and made of the unsophistic-
ated milkmaid a stagey young woman with a
tendency to stretch out her arms like Sarah
Bernhardt and turn her back abruptly on the
world. The author of Tess’s highly improving
“shame” is the gilded youth of the district,
and he would be glad to do everything handsome
by the girl—except marry her. In fact he loves
Tess with a practical love. She believed in him
three years ago and he wants her to renew her
faith and make the best of him and of her “ fall.”
But Tess prefers to marry a sickly sentimentalist
named Clare —Angel Clare —who is adored by
three loud, vulgar dairymaids, one of whom takes
to drink when she finds she can’t get the prize.
Tess presumes that gentle Angel has learned of
her early giddiness from a letter which never
reached him. Tess’s mistake on this point arises
from Angel’s acceptance of a mere rose as being
something very important which she had to say
to him, and is the first big absurdity in the plot.
• * * *
When it happens that Angel’s bride, in
white wedding dress and fixings, tells the mawkish
prig of her Past, after he has made a brief snuffle-
some confession of his own silly Past, he just
walks out into the adjacent thunderstorm and
leaves Mrs. Angel to her fate. It served her
right, of course. Considering the natural deceit-
fulness of her Sex, any woman who makes a
particular viitue of disclosing her Past to a
husband named Angel is an unaccountable fool.
Tess’s folly results in another Fall. Having been
persuaded that husband Angel is dead, she
takes up with the other fellow on his own
terms, and proceeds to persecute him with her
precious meekness and resignation. Her habit
of sitting bolt-upright at the breakfast-table
soon drives her broad-minded lover to drink,
whereat she considers herself more aggrieved
than ever, so when the wandering Angel turns
out to be alive, Tess goes into the next room,
accompanied by a table-knife, and comes back
with a lot of red paint on the knife and white
chalk on her face. She had murdered the other
fellow, she says. Then Angel takes her away to
Stonehenge, so that she may be arrested among the
Druidical monuments at dawn of day. Present
writer thinks he can see the possibilities of some
powerful acting in this unconvincing melodrama.
He is certain about the quality of the perform-
ance given by Nance O’Neil and Co. It is, on
the whole, poor to middling, but Nance’s per-
sonality retains a strong hold on the multitude,
and the show should flourish for a fortnight.
** * *
At “ Rickards’,” otherwise the Bijou, the
Martinettians produced “A Duel in the Snow”
last Saturday night. The duel is a pretty constant
joke, terminating in one of Paul Martinetti’s
brilliant deaths, and to see Paul the mummer go
through a form of decease is to understand the
difference between real tragic acting and other
acting that passes for tragic in newspaper notices.
The latest infant songster at Rickards’s is a suc-
cess ; also Irene Franklin’s “trade mark,” and
Ferry the Frog, and several other matters are
graciously received.
** * *
Scherek’s admirable Orchestra will have to
miss a Saturday at Melb. Town Hall (owing to a
previous engagement on the part of the hall), and
the next concert is fixed for the 25th.
At time of writing the pursuit of the
Breelong murderers is approaching the farcical.
Jimmy Governor and his mate (the family name,
it seems, was originally “ Grosvenor,” but was
changed to “Governor” on a certain historical
occasion when Gov. Carrington did the head of
the clan the honor of a shake-hands) appear to be
thoroughly wretched ; they commit no more out-
rages, and ask for tucker and newspapers (!) at
huts on their way like any ordinary swagmen.
Every day two or three people meet them ; even
the police meet them ; but though upwards of 200
police and civilians have been tracking them for a
fortnight they remain uncaught up to date. And
now they are crossing a belt of sandy, open
country near Narrabri on their way to good cover.
If they get there !
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melb.) announces a profit of £1521 for the half-year to
30 6 ’OO, which is slightly less than for previous half-year.
The results since the first reconstruction have been :
Dividends
i ront. ( on preference shares only).
Dec., 1592 .. £14,930 5 per cent. =£13,964
June, 1893 5,471 2 „ = 5,587
Dec., 1893 .. 7,004 2J „ = 6,983
June, 1894 .. 5,097 2 5.587
Loss.
Dec., 1894 .. 6,032 Nil.
June, 1895 .. 7,500 Nil.
Dec., 1895 .. 2,017 Nil
Profit.
June, 1896 .. 70 Nil.
Dec., 1896 .. 978 Nil.
June, 1897 .. 912 Nil.
Dec., 1897 .. 1,051 Nil.
. June, 1893 .. 1,207 Nil.
» Dec., 1898 .. 1,41,0 Nil.
June, 1899 .. 1,257 Nil.
Dec., 1899 .. 1,575 Nil.
June, 1900 .. 1,521 Nil.
£26,658 £32,121
The second re-arrangement in 1895 cost £3960 in miscel-
laneous expenses, but by forfeiting £19,330 worth of
capital for unpaid calls the bank covered this liability
and wiped out its old losses, and it has now an accumu-
lated profit of £9901. The earnings this half-year are
equal to Os. Bd. per cent, per annum on the nominal paid-
up capita of £905,098.
The most promising feature about the Aus-
tralian Deposit and Mortgage Bank is that it contrives
to hold its own despite the steady increase in the average
rate of interest on its reconstructed deposits. Thearrange-
ment arrived at in 1896 was that 1:70 out of every £lOO
deposits was to be repaid in 1010, bearing interest mean-
while at 3j per cent. The other £3O was repayable by
three instalments in 1890, 1899 and 1901 without interest.
Therefore the av erage rate of interest at first was £2 9s.
per cent, all round. The payment of the first instal-
ment of non-interest-bearing deposits raised it to £2 14s.
6d. The payment of the second instalment last year raised
the average rate -that now paid—to £3 Is. 3d. per cent.
When the third instalment is paid on Ist January next
the rate will rise to i 3 10s. per cent, and remain there.
The money for the third instalment is already' almost all
available, and after it is disposed of, if the A.D. & M. Bank
can keep on improving while paying 3£ per cent., there
should be a prospect before it. On present appearances it
seems fairly probable (assuming that on real values a
solvent bank should be able to earn even the very humble
dividend of 4 per cent.) that of its £905,698 alleged capital
about £829,000 is lost, and there is a real surviving capital
of about £76,000. But with a small profit coming in, and
no more deposits to meet till 1910, and a patient crowd of
preference shareholders (they would gain nothing by
being otherwise than patient) the A.D. & M. Bank can
afford to nurse its assets and wait for an improvement in
values. The share-market values the institution at about
£150,000, which seems remarkably high on present
appearances.
» * * *
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) closed its half-year at 30th June, 1900,
with a net profit (after writing £l5 off furniture and £484
for net loss by the defalcations of an ex-official)
of £832. The usual dividend at the rate of 7J per cent,
per annum absorbs £937 10s., so the co. is £lO5 worse off
at the end of the half-year than it was at the beginning.
Some previous results compare as follows :
Net Profit. Dividend.
June, 1892 .. £287 10 per cent. =£1,250
Dec., 1892 .. 2,195 10 „ = 1,250
June, 1893 .. 152 10 „ = 1,250
Dec., 1893 .. 99 Nil.
June, 1894 .. 301 Nil.
Dec., 1894 .. 663 5 per cent. = 625
June, 1895 .. 556 6 ~ = 625
Dec., 1895 .. 405 6 „ = 625
June, 1896 .. 826 5 „ 025
Dec., 1896 .. 796 5 „ 625
June, 1897 .. 759 6 „ = 625
Dec., 1897 .. 486 5 „ 625
June, 1898 .. 1,006 6 „ 025
Dec., 1898 .. 2,770 7J „ = 937 J
June, 1899 .. 1,176 7£ „ = 937 t
Dec., 1899 .. 997 7£ „ = 9371
June, 1900 .. 832 7j „ = 937 y
£14,420 £12,500
At the end of 1891 the Equity Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. had no reserve fund, and an undivided profit
balance of £2509. During 8| years it has progressed to
the extent of adding £1920 to its net assets, and it has
now £1250 reserve fund and £3185 of undivided profit.
The £1250 is an utterly inadequate line of defence, and if
the board would transfer the bulk of the profit balance
to reserve fund as a guarantee that it doesn’t intend to
dissipate this amount in dividends and that it really- in-
tends building up its reserves to a safe and respectable
figure, it would be much better for the company’s credit.
A trustee co. needs some solid resources behind it if it is
ever to inspire public confidence, and the conduct of the
management in keeping-up the 74- per cent, dividend
even when it isn’t fully earned (this is the sixth time in 17
half-years that the dividend has exceeded the earnings)
isn’t the kind of advertisement that any trustee co.
should hunger after. The best feature about the report
is that the principal item in the balance-sheet (£11,500)
consists of Government securities. There is also a sum of
£4559 invested on mortgage. If interest receipts were
stated separately from mortgages (as they should be), and
especially if mortgage interest was stated by itself (as it
should be), the soundness of these would probably be so
apparent that it would speak for itself. But the Equity
Trustees lumps its whole income together in one item,
which saves trouble and reduces information to a mini-
mum.
* » • •
The great Castlemaine Brewery Co. (Melb.)
begins to look up somewhat again after a period of de-
pression, though it is still a long way from the glorious
profits and dividends of a few years ago. Its recent his-
tory may be condensed thus :
IB SB a>
o o «
J 3 „ C =2.2 =
S sf sSgg Dividends
o§ 2 £ 8
a- i& < gQa. <
1892 £37,163 25 percent. = £31,250
1893 23,749 £20,000 12£ „ = 15,625
1894 18,648 15,000 7 „ = 8,750
1895 12,284 5,000 7 „ 8,750
1896 9,248 £859 6 „ 7,500
(£65 000 written off Reserve Fund)
1897 | 3,775 | 8,000 | 921 | Nil
(Remainder of Reserve Fund—£ls,ooo—written off
1898 4,201 5,000 853 Nil
1899 6,640 5,000 853 Nil
1900 11,066 2,500 5,110 2£ per cent, = £3,125
£126,774 £63,500 £8,596 £75,000
The Castlemaine Brewery Co. has thus, in nine years, got
through its reserve fund of £BO,OOO and £69,096* of profits
written off, making a disappearance of £149,096. Its total
reserves at Ist July, 1891 were £101,244 ; they now consist
solely of an undivided profit balance of £3922. The dis-
appearance of the reserve fund is not quite so great a loss
as it looks; £50,000 out of the £80,009 was made by
writing up the paper value of the co.’s land in 1888, and
when this item was written down again in 1896 it was
merely a return to the old valuation, and the vanishment
of a temporary paper value. How much remains to be
written off to bring values down to bedrock is abso-
lutely unknown —the balance-sheet gives no informa-
tion—but things look reasonably promising. Iri 1890
the co. floated £lOO,OOO worth of debentures to pay
off its overdraft, and the loss made on this transaction
(£8596) has all been written off out of the last five years’
earnings. With this burden removed, provided business
doesn’t drop again, things should lie much better next
year, and Seeing that the co. is carrying the heavy load
of £133,000 owing on mortgages and debentures it may
perhaps then see its way to start S3'stematically reducing
this bulky burden, *
■» * * *
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) shows a
net profit of £50,829 for the half-year ended 30th June
1900. The usual dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per
annum uses up £34,283 ; an addition of £15,000 is made to
reserve fund ; and the remainder, added to previous
balance, leaves £5659 to carry forward. The Metropolitan
Gas Co. has a paid-up capital of £857,210 ; it owes £857,000
on debentures ; and it has two reserve funds, amounting


Mr. Edward J. Rigby, Managing Director of
the Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, has
sailed for London per R.M.S. China, on business con-
nected with his company. Mr. Rigby expects to be away
about six months, and will return via America. Prior to
his departure he was entertained by the officers of the
company, at the Castlemaine Hotel, South Melbourne,
and presented with a handsome travelling bag as a mark
of the respect and esteem in which he is held.*
* * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creerv, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 240 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * •
Bankers’Magazine, October, 1899 : “Sinceits
establishment in 1873, the Colonial Mutual has written
79.800 policies, representing nearly 25 millions of assur-
ance ; it has paid to policy-holders £2,148,500.”*
» * * *
The quantity of sulphides now treated per week
at the “ Barrier” compares favorably with the output of
any silver-lead mining field in the world. The difficulty
in treatment of sulphides is being successfully grappled
with mainly owing to improved systems of mechanical
“dressing.” In this the Luhrig Vanner plays a very
prominent part. A large number of these machines are
now in use there, and fresh orders are still being given to
the agents, Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. The
South Mine people are remodelling their mill on up-to-
date lines, and will install twelve or more Luhrig Vanners
of the 1900 pattern. The British Co. is also erecting
more of these superior machines.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
» * * »
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Foolscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* ♦ * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bncmj Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* • * *
In view of the copper-finds in Northern S.A.,
and the early starting of Govt, smelters at Port Augusta,
some prospectors up that way still keep their eyes open
for coal and shale. So far the only deposit developed to
any- extent has been the Leigh’s Creek show, which
has been a millstone about the necks of the
half-dozen syndicates and co.’s that have handled it;
but lately shale was found near Sliding Rock of fair
quality—a bit better than- Briggs and the other prospec-
tors of Leigh’s Creek first met. But S.A. is. so firmly
convinced that she has no workable coal deposits that the
prospector who goes aftet the mineral will have to either
go on his absolute own or give away 19-20ths of what he
gets to some daring speculator.,
’WARE IMITATORS
T GEORGE FLAKELAR, of Kalgoorlie, in
9 the colony of Western Australia, Cordial
Manufacturer, do hereby apologise for having
infringed the trade mark of the Zetz Spa Pro-
prietary, Limited, of Sydney, in the colony of
New South Wales, by selling a mineral water
bearing the name of “Zet Spa” in labelled
bottles. I undertake not to continue selling water
labelled in any manner resembling the “Zetz
Spa” trade mark. I have agreed to pay, and
have paid, the legal expenses incurred by the
Zetz Spa Proprietary, Limited, in connection
with the said infringement, and have authorised
the Manager of the Company to make use of this
apology as he may see fit.
Dated this sth day of July, 1900.
ZETZ-SPA Wat«r
Has Many Imitatobs ; But No Equals.
sdf
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAH AHD WAR OFFICE.
sdf
“ THE FINEST - *
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD. 1 '
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Dope Bros. & Co., Ltd., Liverpool. Agents; 1. Rutty & Co,, Sydney,
BLEACHING POWDER, 36'337.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 817«
Ny. Markv/ald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; CS Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO LTO.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent
pure), Blasting: Powder, Caustic Soda, Mining
Requisites, Dandles, etc.
in all to £523,140. One of these funds (£466,536) is
made up out of premiums on shares sold, and this is
apparently kept sacred and treated as a real reserve. The
other (£56,604), accumulated out of profits, is used in a
casual sort of way for improvements to the works, and
should hardly be rallied a reserve fund at all. At the
end of 1892 the two reserves amounted to £492,143,
but since then £27,655 has been added to the big
one out of premiums on new shares sold, and the small
one has increased, despite many fluctuations, by the net
addition of 13342 out of earnings. This can't be called
anything very large : in fact, the Melbourne Gas Co.,
despite its long and prosperous career, has saved hardly
anything worth mentioning. The £857,000 borrowed in
debentures is a tremendous burden, which swallows up
over £41,000 a year in interest. There was a chance in
boom-time to pay off this load and yet give the share-
holders steady 8 or 10 per cent, dividends, but the Mel-
bourne Gas Co. went mad then, like most other Melb. in-
stitutions. The dividend paid in 1885 was 15 per cent.,
arid with a burning desire to scatter all the profits
with a shovel, and leave the liabilities and the re-
serve-fund to take care of themselves, it was run
up steadily till it reached 21J per cent, in 1891.
It was 174 in 1892 ; 13 per cent, in 1893 ; 10 per cent, in
1894 ; 9 per cent, in 1895 ; and 8 per cent, since then.
Between 1880 and 1893 there was a great opportunity to
clear off the indebtedness—in fact, there is still some-
thing of an opportunity, but it could only be done by
cutting down the dividend to 5 per cent. If the co. had
shown a little more moderation in the days when all Vic-
toria was painted red it would be a steady 12 per shent.
div. -paying concern now, with a big reserve and a half-
yearly surplus and no debts. /
» * * *
The troubles of N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co.,
which seems to have struck a bad streak of ill-fortune :
Profit. Loss.
June, 1892.. ..£lO,OOB June, 1897 .. .. £5O
December, 1892 .. 10,015 Profit.
June, 1893.. .. 6.220 December, 1897 .. 519
December, 1893 .. 2,532 June, 1898 .. .. 284
June, 1894 .. .. 33 December, 1898 .. 691
December, 1894 .. 1,109 June, 1899 .. .. 625
June, 1895 .. .. 4,998 Loss.
December, 1895 .. 6,075 December, 1899 .. 1,575
June, 1896.. .. 2,507 June, 1900.. .. 432
December, 1896 .. 1,086
During the same period dividends have been as fol-
lows :
June, '92,15 percent=£sooo June,’95,74 percent=£2soo
Dec.,'92, 15 ~ = 5000 Dec., ’95, 7 \ „ = 2500
June, '93,11J „ = 3750 June, '96, 74 „ = 2500
Dec.,'93, 74 „ = 2500 Dec.,’96, £3/6/8 „ = 1250
Dec.,'94, 3f „ = 1250 Dec., ’9B, £2/4/5 „ = 833
It is getting to be a long time between drinks with the
N.S.W. Shale and Oil 00. The reserve fund has wholly
vanished, and the co. owes £39,000 on debentures and has
an accumulated loss deficiency of £899.
• * * *
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank (Syd-
ney):
Half-year to Profit. Dividends.
June, 1895. .. £795 Nil
December, 1895 .. 500 4 per cent. = £273
Loss.
June, 1896.. .. £452 Nil
December, 1896 . 660 Nil
Profit.
June, 1897.. .. 119 Nil
December, 1897 .. 3 Nil
Year to
December, 1898 .. 1 181 per cent. =■ 1,237
Half-year to
June, 1899.. .. 506 Nil
December, 1899 .. 509 3 per cent. = 204
June, 1900.. .. 616 14 per cent. = 102
Profit .. .. £1,937 £1,816
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank has no reserve
fund, but as it has managed to pay an occasional divi-
dend on its little capital of £6825, and its undivided profit
balance has increased by £l2l in the past 51 years, and
now stands at £3887, it has done, on the whole, much
better than most institutions of its kind, especially when
it is remembered that it never suspended or recon-
structed, even in the daj’s when land banks were going
down so unanimously. In the very worst times it always
more than met expenses, but the constant writing-down
of property values made serious trouble in ’96, ’97, and ’9B.
* • • *
Amid the troubles and embarrassments of the
big Victorian breweries which re-floated themselves in
the boom-time with a huge paper capital and an immense
debenture liability, it is interesting to note the prosperity
of the few concerns which kept sane during that wild
hair-raising time, and didn’t take to wild financing, but
just went on brewing beer, in the old, plain, business-like
way. As an example, Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting
Go., of Castlemaine (Vic.,), shows a profit of £6353 for the
year ended 30th June, 1900 This is equal to £l5 17s. Bd.
per cent per annum on the paid-up capital of £40,000.
Including £4839 brought forward from last year the
amount available is £11,192. AlO per cent div. absorbs
£4OOO ; £5OOO is added to reserve, raising it to £12,000 ;
and £2192 is carried forward. Fitzgerald’s Brewing and
Malting Co, paid 124 per cent div. in 1894, 11J per cent in
1895, and 10 per cent since. It struck some losses, like
most other institutions, through the slump in property
values, still, despite the large dividends paid and
considerable sums written off, the total reserves (£14,192)
are £lOOO more than they were in 1891. Even in the
worst days Victoria was a good enough place for a brewery
that hadn’t lost its head during the boom, and had
attended strictly to its own business.
* * * *
The Australian Brewery and Wine and Spirit
Co. (Sydney) has had varied luck in recent years—or, to
be more strictly accurate, it hasn't had varied luck. The
following is a brief epitome of its recent doings :
Carried to various
Year to accounts to pro- p- •, a
30th June. Proflts vide for losses, Dividend,
depreciation, &c.
1893 £14,067 £13,000 nil
1894 14,568 14,600 nil
1895 13,244 12,600 2J per cent. =£2400
1896 13,798 10,100 5 „ 4800
1897 9,587 7,100 24 „ = 2400
1898 7,643 6,100 nil
1899 7,472 6,000 nil
1900 6,985 6,000 nil
This is not an obstrusively cheerful retrospect for
shareholders. In spite of the large provision made for
losses, depreciation, wear and tear, &q., the gross profits
have a general tendency downwards. Last year, after de-
ducting £lOOO for wear and tear of plant, and making
no allowance for bad debts or values that require writing
down, the net earnings were £s9Bs—equal to only
£6 4s. Bd. per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital of
£96,000. There is no reserve fund, but £4500 stands to
credit of a special reserve for bad debts, £22,000 to credit
of adjustment account, and there is an undivided profit
balance of £7B2o—making £34,320 in all. As the Austra-
lian Brewery and Wine and Spirit Co. is a comparatively
small affair, total assets being £207,679, it should seem
reasonable to hope that it has nearly finished making pro-
vision for past troubles, though there is, as usual, a great
reticence as to the exact size of the trouble, and conse-
quently the prospects of the shareholders are mostly a
matter of conjecture.
* * * *
The Adelaide Steamship Co. celebrated its 25th
birthday recently. It has been a steadily prosperous
affair, the shareholders having received average dividends
of 6j per cent, for 20 years past. The last two years have
shown results as follows :
Added to
Various
Profits. Reserves. Dividend.
May, 1899 £29,550 £10,793 10 per cent. = £20,287
May, 1900 £64,658 £30,U00 16 per cent. = £32,459
The Adelaide Steamship Co. has £202,870 paid-up capital
and £248,107 of reserves (insurance reserve, £157,993;
renewal reserve, £79,942 ; and undivided profit, £10,172).
Shipping is a more or less precarious business, as a rule,
and very few Australasian co.'s in that line have ever
approached the results shown by the Adelaide S.S. Co.
• • • *
Just such a weighing difficulty as is chronic on
the coalfields cropped up for the first time at B. Ilill
lately and threw the Sulphide Corporation’s Central Mine
idle for 24 hours. The truckers work on contract ; but
as there isn’t a weighbridge suitable for weighing the
single skips of ore, the latter are emptied into a railway-
truck, which, when filled, is weighed, and the average skip-
load is then arrived at. Lately themanagementsaid the ore
had been lighter, so that the loads weighed less (and
payment went by weight), while the truckers swore they
had never shoved such heavy stuff in their lives ; and so
they “chucked it up.” But the trouble was fixed up
same day ; the men go on wages—7s. 6d. a shift ; and
don’t men who have to hitch themselves on to IScvvt.
trucks in hot places earn it! —with the promise of a bridge
to weigh every single truck as soon as one can be got.
Broken Hill truckers are the only class of work-
men at the silver-mines who ever strike nowadays ; and
they do it pretty often. But that is easily accounted for.
Most of them are young men, unmarried chiefly,
who are graduating as miners ; and if they aren’t satisfied
they kick first and think afterwards. The curious thing
is that, though a fair number of them are members of the
local Miners’ Association, they don’t take the latter into
their confidence. If they did they would, of course, have
to go through a rather formidable process before reaching
the strike stage.
• • • *
B.H. South, now under new management, gives
for the first time for many years a fair amount of informa-
tion about its doings. The half-year’s results have been
excellent. The net profits may fie set at about £29,300.
Charging against the half-year £1045 for accumulated
income-tax (the Privy Council appeal in the Block 10 case
has upset calculations a little), and writing-off £3062 for
depreciation, the profit is £28,615. The financial position
is fairly strong ; liquid assets amount to £30,982, liabilities
to £12,252, leaving a surplus of £18,730. Of this, £5009
forms a reserve fund, invested in Melb, Board of Works
3J per cents. A heavy outlay for new and enlarged plant
is contemplated ; but the funds for this—" in part,” the
directors, by the way, say—are to be raised by “ drawing
on the reserve which the uncalled capital of the company
constitutes,” which is a neat way of putting it.
• • * *
In its half-year to -Tune 30, B.H. South raised
and treated 48,004 tons sulphides, assaying 21 percent,
lead, 8"8oz. silver, and 17 9 per cent.' zinc. Of these
metals, 67'39 per cent, of the lead, 50-51 per cent, of the
silver, and 13 02 per cent, of the zinc were recovered ; as
to the zinc, the object of the treatment so far is to
eliminate it. This result is, for the times, first-class ; for
instance, in the previous half-year only 61'89 per cent, of
the lead and 47'60 per cent, of the silver were saved. The
improvement is mainly due to re-treatment of the slimes.
But the cost was 4s. 9d. per ton, which is sjd. per ton
more; and that is due to the increasing hardness of the
ore. The milling and other surface plant is now under
control of W. E. Wainwright, a young Australian-trained
metallurgist, who learned the theoretical part of his busi-
ness at Adelaide School of Mines. Plain Sam Mavne,
the underground manager, who has pulled himself up
from the position of wages miner in this one mine, savs
in his report—“ Never since my 10 years’ connection with
this property commenced have the underground pros-
pects looked so promising.’
» » * *
Railway Commissioner Fehon visited B. Hill
lately to enquil j into the proposed State line to compete
with the Silverton tramway, but to run through Pinnacles
and Thackaringa instead of through Silverton. The B.H.
town council had invited people to meet the Commissioner
and urge the construction of the line ; but nobodv turned
up—not even an odd alderman. B. Hilldid look like kicking
a few months back at its huge monoply ; but all the in-
clination has left it again. The field pa vs a private co.'
close upon £lOO,OOO a year, without turning a hair ; but
it yells itself hoarse over the S.A. Gov.’s ninepence per
ton increase, which means no more than 10 or 12 thousand
a year.
• • * «
Wertago copperfield, far-west N.S.W., has got
the results from its first trial shipment of ore, 5 tons alto-
gether. Hand-picked, it gave an average of 25 per cent.
Ore which can be hand-dressed to close on 30 per cent, is
being got from as deep as 104 ft.; below that the water
comes in too heavily for present working.
* • • *
A sensational gold-find was made on Friday
last in the mine of Messrs. Robinson and Rice at Long
Flat, near Gundagai, N.S.W. The gold is described as
sticking out like a mass of coral from a soft calcite forma-
tion, and is almost pure. About £3OOO worth was taken
out in two days.
* * * -tf
The sanguine investors who bought Turon River
dredging shares a year ago at a price which gave a capital
value to the show of 1160,000. and who have been waiting
patiently for the huge returns promised “when Golden
Point is reached ” —it was to have been reached six
months ago—must be pleased with the last two returns
of lOoz. and 12oz. respectively.
* * • •
Girilambone, N.S.W. Consequent on street-
corner whisperings shares in this, the Brokers’Joy. took a
big jump in Sydney one day last week. ’Twassaid a good
report had come from the new manager, and scrip at
once doubled in value. Next day the report was pub-
lished, and shares went back to 3s. 6d. The new boss
simply said that the old boss had gone through the lode
and didn't know it, so what sort of lode must it he !
This mine has a mortgage mill-stone (£lO,OOO of deben-
tures) around its neck, has gutted all the known good
bunches of ore; development has proved it weak in the
lower levels. It takes heaps of cash to run a copper-
mine, and as no part of brokers’ commissions go to that
end the public might do worse than leave Girilambone
religiously alone. Ditto North Nymagee.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell amalgamation scheme. Of course
the S. Tharsis directors have approached the parent mine,
wanting something more than £45.000 for it, and the
manager has given an estimate of the quantity of ore in
the mine and its enormous value. The fact of its being
worked at a loss for nearly a year is quite another matter,
also the fact that before this purchase was proposed the
shares were less than half their present price. The
request was declined ; and the sale is as good as accom-
plished. The others from which ores can be mined to
take the place of barren flux are the Lyell Tharsis and
Royal Tharsis ; the offers made by the big mine for these
are based upon Sticht’s calculations, and are not likely
to be departed from in any respect. Tjie big co. has an
unwritten mortagage on every mine in the field, and is to
be commended for the sporting offers it has made,
instead of pursuing a waiting policy, by which it would
certainly have got the mines for less than half the price,
but would have lost more than the difference meanwhile
in mining siliceous flux containing no copper. Its adver-
sity in this respect has been the other mines’ great
opportunity, and they will he fools if they don’t avail
themselves of it. The Mt. Lyell has worked and can go
on working on its own—none of the others can.
* • • *
It is more than likely that the Tarcoola field,
S. Australia’s very latest far-northern gold-rush, is better
than most of its predecessors. Prospectors report the
geological conditions favourable, at all. events. The
formation is said to resemble that characteristic of
Cobar.
• • • *
S.A. is experiencing a red-hot gold-boom over
the big talk re Tarcoola field. Shares in several shows
have risen 200 per cent., although not a spade has been
put in the ground in most cases. Hardly a single co. has
as much as £5OOO to spend. S.A. has never had a pay-
able gold mine, and now, when the cautious Geologist
Brown advises “ systematic development,” the same old
game of floating cats is being again played.
• + « »
S. mining notes: Two new shows floated on
gkinson. Havelock syndicate, Georgetown, got
3300 z. from 240 tons. Q. Menzies (W.A. mine but
owned in Brisbane) are trying to sell their min-
ing-plant for £65,000; latest cyaniding return from
mine gave 2790 z. from 432 tons. Rockhampton district
July returns: 2000 tons gave 802 oz. Mt. Morgan, for
July, crushed 22,443 tons for 15,7920 z. ; 7d. div., shares
slightly depressed. South Glanmire and Monkland,
Gympi'e, got 16380 z. from 1743 tons ; 6d. div. Another
good reef in 2S. Great Eastern ; shares up to £4. Bril-
liant, Charters Towers, IOOOoz. from 1000 tons. Towers,
for July: Calls, £4562; dies., £15,683; crushed and
cyanided, 62,000 tons for 36,U000z. ; cyanide proportion
still big—47,ooo tons for 19,2000 z.
• * • *
Croydon notes to July 27: G. Gate, 314 S.
Tribute crushing for average of about 7oz. per ton.
Expected to divide £lO,OOO as result of 600-ton yield. A
l-32nd share in tribute sold during the week for £5OO,
making capital value of tribute, with but 7 weeks to run,
£16,000. Discovery reported of small reef carrying
good gold in True Blue lease of Jubilee Consols Co., a
Bull concern. Croydon Consols (another British Co.)
now under exemption. Iguana Consols Syndicate, now
boring with diamond drill for lost Iguana reef, has
just engaged Mr. .1. T. Cole, who comes from Melbourne
with a gooil drilling reputation, to continue operations.
• V « *
Westralian scrip took a turn for the worse last
week. Associateds dropped from 70s. to 605., represent-
ing a quarter of a million fall. At half their present price
they would be fully double their value, so far as it is
visible. A million and a half for a mine whose mill has
had to stop for the want of payable ore, which has been
gutted of all its known rich pockets, and which has spent
many thousands in prospecting, so far without success.
The co. has £200,000 invested in Consols, and. perhaps
another £lOO,OOO in realisable assets, whien is all that is
left of the over half-a-million got last year by the sale of
reserved shares at £l2 each. If the “ bears ” would
only leave them alone they would soon fall to £l.
Perseverance fell 10s. during the week, and recovered ss.
of it. lvanhoes are £lO, and were down to £9 15s.—a big
drop, in face of the fact that they managed to scrape up
another 8000 oz. for the month. The market begins to
talk, and another fall seems certain. L. V. Consols, £ll
10s., and allowing for ex-div. it is a fall of over £2 per
share, which means over half-a-million sterling ! What
gambling playthings some of these Hannan’s mines are,
to be worth half-a-million less one week than another!
But this sort of thing can’t go on for ever. Already
several —Great Boulder and Perseverance to wit—are sub-
ject to no such transformations, and sooner or later all
the others must arrive at their real position. Great Boul-
ders, 325. 6d. —a 6d. fall for the week only. Northern
Associateds, £2 7s. 6d. They reached 51s. one day in
Adelaide and 495. in London. Stated that both Hewitson
and Prof. Liveing have examined and sampled the mine,
and the rise in these shares started the day after their
report was believed to have been cabled to London.
South Kalgurlis, 91s. 3d. The mill has told the truth
about this mine. Good as it is, it is not as great as was
expected, and present output cannot pay anything like a
fair mining-div. on present price ; hence hope is centred
in duplication of plant.
» * • *
Lake View Consols.—July production. Oxi-
dised slimes, 3072 tons, 12240 z. Sulphide ore, 3027 tons,
36390 z. Shipped to smelters, 71 tons, 22230 z. Total,
70860 z. Value presumably about £26,000. Working
costs, £12,103; machinery and plant, £1824 ; mine-
development, £2466; so allowing nothing for manage-
ment there is a good deal less than half profit.
* * * *
Great Boulder. —July output, 3318 tons milled
for 32120 z. ; 9050 tons tailings and slimes cyanided for
55490 z. ; 480 tons sulphides put through the new sulphide-
mill for 6140 z. ; total, 93750 z. The sulphide-plant com-
menced with a small tonnage averaging an oz. and. a half,
and though tonnage will be greatly increased nextlnonth
it may be taken as a certainty that there will be ns fall-
ing-off in the average, which is certain to be kept up for a
long time and'may possibly improve. Manager Hamilton
makes few mistakes, and it is unlikely that he is going to
make the biggest of his life with the G.B. sulphide-plant
after the warnings he has had from other capable but less-
careful managers.
• » * *
Golden Horseshoe : 6202 tons crushed, 5888 oz.;
3264 tons tailings cyanided, 24970 z. ; 3760 tons slimes,
6530 z. and 5860 z. from concentrates. Month’s total pro-
duction, 10,6230 z. This mine maintains the record of the
field, but its depth, developments, area, nryd want of sul-
phide plant do not warrant its being looked for- rd to as
the biggest producer for long. It has by far the greatest
market valuation on the field, which is absurd. The yarn
about amalgamation with the Ivanhoe is re-started.
What basis is proposed? One has nearly double the
market valuation of the other. Golden Horseshoe a few
weeks ago touched £13—£3,900,000 ! and they have been
much higher! lvanhoes, £lo—£2/00,000. Amalgama-
tion on equal basis would be reasonable, and the position
of the mines makes it expedient, but an amalgamation
on market valuation would be monstrous ; for, allowing
all the bad things which may fairly be said lately with re-
gard to Ivanhoe, it has much more than half the value of
the Golden Horseshoe. It has a much better and bigger
record, is developed to a greater depth, is equally well if
not better equipped, and, taking all things together, is
probably as good a mine.
* * * *
Ivanhoe, W.A. Says Sydney D.T. : “The
Ivanhoe treated 6699 tons for 8086 oz.” It didn’t. And
this form of newspaper yarn about the big mines at
Hannan’s is very common. The gold got from milling
this tonnage was 45260 z., showing a remarkable falling-off
in the average value of the ore. 3867 tons tailings
cyanided 15290 z. ; 4032 tons slime's gave 12440 z. ; 34 tons
sulphides, 950 z. ; and 56 tons concentrates, 6890 z. Thus,
though mill tonnage considerably increased, it doesn’t
nearly come up to the quantity of slimes and tailings
treated, showing that they are still working on accumu-
lated, but now nearly used-up, tailings-heaps—a fact
somehow never mentioned in any of the papers. The
current month’s yield will probably tell a tale.
» » * *
Kalgurli Gold Mines. Ore treated for July : 946
tons sulphides and 554 tons of oxidised ore—for 24150 z.
An extraction of 91 per cent. The ores mixed in treat-
ment, therefore different values are not got at. This
mine seems to have more payable oxidised ore above 100 ft.
level than it has payable sulphide ores in all the levels
below, and there are four or five of them. It seems to be
a large pipe of ore shaped like a funnel with the small end
downwards. Writer thought he was in a great mine when
above the 100 ft. level, but the lower he descended the less
he thought of it. A good mine, but at the price (£6) not
good enough.
**- * *
South Kalgurlis : 15040 z. for the month, and
mine said to be opening so well in the lower levels as to
warrant the duplication of the plant, which is now pro-
ceeding, but will take five or six months to complete.
Bayley’s United (Coolgardie): 2346 tons, 18340 z.
There must be a good profit in this. A remarkable fea-
ture that all this tonnage goes through a.20-head stamp-
mill in a month. Is there any other in Australia doing it?
m i r »
Hannan’s Star: 1100 tons, 813 oz. Probably a
payable, but certainly not a div.-paying, proposition.
Another llXioz. added by concentrates. This mine’s
market-value fell over £lOO,OOO in London the last two
months, and is still too high.
* * • ♦
Brown Hill: Gold for July, 64360 z., made up
by crushing oxidised ore and a shipment of rich sulphides.
The oxidised zone is rapidly being exhausted, and the
sulphide zone is not big enough to warrant the present
price of shares. The co. is doing its utmost to develop
other bodies in the sulphide zone —so far, without success.
The Brown Hill people don’t care about any outsider going
down their mine, which is being elaborately engineered
in the London market.
• * * *
Hannan’s Reward : 330 tons, 2950 z .; princi-
pally worked by tributors. Has a large formation, which
would pay with a big plant, but has no hope of doing so
with the present 20-head rattle-trap.
* * * *
The Bendigo Mining Managers’ Association, it
is printed, has been asked if it can select 3000 miners for
the ltand and Rhodesia, and it is intimated that alto-
gether 10,000 miners and mechanics will be wanted, at big
wages. Miners, 20s. a day on the Rand, 255. in Rhodesia.
Mechanics, carpenters and fitters, 30s. per day. First-
class certificated engine-drivers 40s, and second-class 30s.
per day : while a few mining-storekeepers are wanted at
£3O per month. The miners are to be recognised mem-
bers of the Union, must be under 45 years of age ; pas-
sage-money to S’Africa to be refunded out of wages, and
an agreement for 12 months. It seems almost too
glittering to be true ; already some cold water is being
poured on it. The idea may be to cause a big exodus of
mining labor “on its own ” from Australia. Writer sin-
cerely hopes that it will prove true to the extent of
bringing about a substantial ncrease in the miners’ wages
at Bendigo, which have been the lowest in Australia for
many years ; yet the work is the hardest, for the mines
are the deepest, and therefore the worst ventilated.
* * * •
In the advertising columns of this issue appears
the prospectus of the Demon Creek Gold Dredging Co.
(No Liability). The co. is formed to dredge 101 acres,
which have been already secured on the banks and bed of
Demon Creek (Tenterfield district, N.S.W.), and 24 acres,
lease of which has been applied for. Capital is £24,000,
in 48,000 10s shares. The vendors (who take their pay-
ment wholly in shares) receive 10,000 of these fully paid
up ; 16,1 00 are offered for present subscription, and 16,000
reserved-for-f-utnre issue, shareholders having first offer.
Some very good reports are published, various experts
testifying to the high value of the property. Certainly
the fact that the vendors are to have one-third of the co.
merely in consideration of the transfer of their lease looks
a trifle steep, but the demands of most vendors
are, unfortunately, even more precipitous than that.


OVERCOATS FOB THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN K ILTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
Covert coats— .
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES-
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vienna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
fg
S3T Branches or Agencies in every Colony.
BY JOVE! It Works
A POPULAR COMMENT from all using
HARRINGTON’S
CAMERAS . . .
GREAT, LARGE, SMALL or TINY.
** There are over a Hundred different kind's to choose from, at prices from
ss. to £5O.
Note.
HARRINGTON’S FOCAL PLANE
FOLDING HAND CA M ERA v
An elegant High-Grade Instrument, suitable for the fastest work" Fitted a ...
mat Lens with Ids f/8 and Focussing Jacket, Focal Plane Shutter New P^enAdf 1 ?*
able Slit, Latest Improved View Finder, Opens and Cldsps h i Patent Adjust-
o( Mack Ebon, co, P „,d with best qSig’Kg, SSIA %5ST -> ““
Price, with Three Double-Plate Holders, i-plate, £lO 10s
” » i. f-plate! £15155!
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Society
Sydney parson Boyce wants to have British
names substituted for the native ones given to the
Federal electorates of N.S.W. The rev. gentleman
would, no doubt, have delighted in Whitechapel,
Blackfriars, Tooley, Grubb, Snooks, and such-like
designations. By the way, the nomenclature of
Sydney and thereabouts is lamentably and con-
fusingly unoriginal. Thus we have Newtown,
Waverley, Paddington, Glebe, Ashfield, Peter-
sham, Burwood, Granville, Liverpool, Surrey
Hills, Waterloo, Alexandria, and St. Peters. We
are tired of a system the ultimate of which is to
call every town London, every street Victoria-
street, every rivqx the Thames, and every person
Smith. May the Lord have mercy on us miser-
able, unimaginative, grovelling Cockneys !
• * * *
ft is indeed “ sickenin ” to read the tele-
grams published in the Sydney dailies from various
country N.S.W. towns re the Breelong murderers.
Singleton was in the “wildest state of terror”
over the “near approach” of the Governors;
Maitland was merely in the “ wildest state of
excitement.” Yet to get there the aboriginals
■'■'ould have to cross the range, pass down Goulburn
River, and thence along the Hunter —aridiculously
improbable thing. Verily excitement is cheap in
Australia. The climax was a wire from Armidale
to E. News stating that “the Armidale police
were on the alert for the black murderers ” !
* * * •
Sydney D.T.’s correspondent “on the
death-trail” of the Breelong-blacks—a Scotchman,
apparently—is lost in amazement at the riding
prowess of the denizens. People there think
nothing of riding 15 miles straightaway—pro-
digious ! And when Q. Inspector Galbraith’s
trackers got through 60 miles in 12 hours, they did
it “with awe-inspiring calmness,” and the corres-
pondence was cross-headed “A Record Ride.” It
evidently pains this correspondent very much
when he sits down.
* * * •
The expedition of well-intentioned Mr.
Sandeman’s bloodhounds to catch the Breelong
murderers was a quaint performance—like the
King of France’s with 20,000 men, who marched up
a hill and then came down again. The spectacle
of the dogs being carried over rough country by
perspiring devotees on a trail a week old or no
trail at all would have made the slave-drivers of
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” split their sides. And one
of the dogs is a veteran of at least 14 or 15 years’
bloodhounding. His troubles about the Breelong
blacks !
* . • • * ♦
Sample of Breelong panic-news—a wire to
S.M. Herald
WEE WAA, Wednesday.
Two men met the coach from Narrabri to Walgett at 3
o’clock this morning, and asked how far it was to Pilliga.
It was too dark for the coachman to see whether the men
were black or white.
• • • •
The naval contingent departed very
quietly from Sydney. No special trains, no half-
holiday, no suspension of business. The men were
taken per back-street to the wharf, and most of
them were very sober indeed. An exception was a
warrior with a phenomenally hard face, who
waved his gun and loudly and repeatedly ’led
“ I am God ! ”
A HORRIBLE AMBIGUITY.
1ST. LADY ( aged 49): “ Yes, my husband fought in the Crimea in 1854.”
2ND. LADY (aged 30): “Dear me, weren't you anxious about him?”
“J. E.L.”: Be
remarkable recovery
of a watch and chain
(B. 28/7/’00). On the
hill once at Fleming-
ton I was watching a
bookie “rakingit in”
when a man passed
along in front with a
watch and chain
dangling by a button
on the back of his
coat. The bookie,
noticing this, coolly
lifted the articles off,
put them in his bag,
and went on betting.
In passing through
the crush the chain
must have'caught on
the coat-button and
been lifted. Didn’t
hear if the owner ever
“ collected ” from the
bookie.
* *
Ed. Bulletin.—
If the electric-tram
controllers supplied
their motor-cars with
practicable sand-
pipes many of the ac-
cidents could be
avoided. The way
the present pipes
curve causes them to
get stuffed with mud
each time the car re-
verses. Straight pipes
which will let the
sand drop in front of
the wheels are re-
quired. At present
the sand - gear does
not work, and the
wheels skid a few
yards after the brakes
are applied. Jack
Shat, Brisbane.
*
T’other wet
day in Sydney a
bus-horse fell on
the slippery
blocks, within a
stone’s-throw of
the terminus,
and the passen-
gers alighted—
dll but one, a
daintily - garbed
young woman,
who retained her seat with evident determi-
nation to exact her full penn’orth of convey-
ance. A crowd quickly assembled, and. the
charmer inside was the butt of derisive
tongues. She never turned a hair, but kept
on jerking the ’bus-bell and asking the
astonished Jehu to either return her fare or
hurry along to the terminus. It was a
quarter of an hour before the horse was on
his legs and the tenacious damsel was able
to achieve her remaining 50yds. of vehicula-
tion.
* • * *
Melbourne Age and Argus were the
only first-class papers in Australia that made
mourning columns for the Duke of Edin-
burgh. The Argus gave Humbert a little
black also.
* * * *
During the last seven years N.S.W.
sent more appeals to the Privy Council
than all the other provinces of Australasia
put together. The N.S.W. record is 66.
Vic. sent 20, Queensland 12, W.A. 5, S.A.
1, M.L. 12, Tas. 1. Yet the only province
with a Judge of its own on the P.C. is
S.A., with one case in seven years.
* * * •
The director of Adelaide Zoo wonders
when Fowell Buxton, Bart., the ex-Gover-
nor, who has now been in England for nearly
two years, intends to give some sign that
he has not forgotten his promise to present
a stallion zebra to the Gardens, which
already possesses a couple of mares. It is
suggested that, because of the fragility of
his promises on this and other matters, the
late vice-regality was spoken of as his Egg-
shellency.
* * * *
“ Boja ” : Be Melb. Age editor
Windsor’s contempt for news (“Scribe,”
B. 21/7/’00). Small ■ wonder, considering
that the average daily paper menu of news
comes under one of three headings—Faked,
Distorted, or Parochial. In one Melb.
journal, now happily defunct, it used to
be the custom of the cable-code interpreter
to inquire of the printer, before “making-
up,” as to shortage of news. Being in-
formed, he would make good said short-
age ; and that evening pious house-
nolders would read with horror that the Khan of
Onehunga had taken unto himself 24 new wives.
News! Nothing would be called new in the
columns of a daily, save the truth !
• * • •
Sydney’s Mayor Harris discovered the
other day that an important minute tabled by
him was disfigured with quotations from a comic
opera. The old men voted to bowdlerise the docu-
ment, and the merry Mayor’s fine humour was
accordingly lost to print.
NEATER AND LESS HARMFUL .
PATCHWELL (bishop): “I hear, Mr. Sapless, that you no longer make use
of the word hell.”
SAPLESS (curate): “No, sir, the ladies prefer Cinerarium, and the
Sunday scholars can't use it as a swear-word.”
Dr. Armstrong, the Sydney plague-expert,
after inspecting the three cases of alleged plague
in Adelaide Hospital, declares that none of the
patients are afflicted with that disease ! Which
is a very nasty jar for the hospital doctors. Dr.
Armstrong is the first medico unconnected with
the institution who has been allowed to see the
patients. But this sort of thing makes the public
very uncertain as to whether the average doctor
really knows much about the plague.
* * * *
Townsville’s first plague-patient, a child,
was quarantined—he and his family and the
boarders within their gates —out on that sand-ridge
on the town common. Ditto, next case, that of a
night-watchman ; and ditto the third, a parson ;
but a canon, and a curate, and a maid-servant,
who lived in that infected parsonage, just stopped
where they were, and went on eating and drinking
and saying their prayers as usual. Then came
the big-hotel case, and the 50 odd contacts
were just fumigated and let slide. Much explana-
tion wanted somewhere.
* * * *
Not Sydney alone, but every Australian
city, should get its crematorium ready for the
burning of the human dead. Evidence is ample
that the disturbance of a grave years after a plague
victim has been buried awakes the deadly bacilli.
The many reasons heretofore urging the erection
of crematories are powerfully supplemented by
what is known of the rejuvenating powers of the
bubonic germs. It is all very well to say that as
far as one State or another is concerned the persons
who died from the plague were interred in special
places and with special disinfecting precautions.
There is no absolutely certain evidence of this.
Many persons may have—must have—died from
the plague without affording the external signs
which denote plague. That is admitted. And
just as Devonshire-street (Sydney) cemetery now
is about to be opened up for railway purposes,
the graves of these bubonic dead may be disturbed
in years to come. Crematories are an imperative
demand.
HOW THEY LOOK AT IT NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the scare was raging madly.
And the cry was “ Make us clean ! ”
When the contacts grumbled sadly
At their state of quarantine,
When inoculators zealous
Formed conclusions rather vague,
Was it proven—can you tell us?—-
That we really had the Plague ?
Was it Plague, or was it Typhus,
Born of terror, more or loss ?
Was it Paragraphogyphus ?
(Meaning measles of the Press)
Was it spread by lurid chatter
In the tramway-cars, or how ?
What the dickens does it matter
If we haven’t got it now ?


«$
Richly Cut Glass Toilet
Bottle, 43/- pair.
Every
Description
of
Ladies’
and
Gent’s
Toilet
Requisites
in
Sterling-
Silver.
Ivory,
and
Ebony
Ware.
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Ham s mien limb assert Military
Hair Brush, 21s.
Send
for
Illu-
strated
Catalogue
Sterling Silver Puff Box, 455.
Larger, 60s.
JEWELLERS,
GOLD & SILVERSMITHS, etc.
Dear Bulletin. —Stated in B. 28/7/’OO
that Mr. A. H. Nelson had had charge of South
Grafton public school for 33 years without, during
that time, being absent one day from duty. In ’72
and 73 Mr. Albert Gale, of the Sydney Technical
College, was in charge of South Grafton public
school. —C. de W.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The N.S.W. clergy and certain of the
borough-councils are co-operating in a move to
legislatively put down “ football, tennis, cricket,
or other similar games within municipal boun-
daries on the Sabbath day.” Is it intended that a
man may not play tennis in his own enclosed
ground on Sunday ? Also, does it mean that the
quiet and fashionable game of—haw !—golf is to
be put down ? The Bulletin would dearly love
to see the parsons fight the golfers.
* * * •
After a slight rest, the famous N.S.W.
M'Sharry case comes up again. This time
the case is in re Gent. One’s bill of costs
and other tough technicalities. M‘Sharry
has been, probably unwittingly, the best
friend Sydney lawyers have ever had. Bruce
Smith’s address lasted 36 days, and the evi-
dence filled 24 vols. of 500 pages each. There were
colossal preliminary expenses, side expenses and
after expenses, but the mere hearing of the arbi-
tration, without costs, stood the Govt, over
£30,000. The hearing began in July, 1896, and
lasted until June, 1898. One witness received
£8,245 18s. 4d. as expenses, and several drew from
£2OO upwards.
* * * *
Extract from letter of a member of the
Vic. Mounted Kifles, at Bloemfontein :
There was a time when our men were swearing at our
inferior outfits and bad saddlery, but probably no volley
of oaths could exceed in profanity the outcries dis-
charged against the authorities for not procuring our
speedy return to Australia, when invalided, as some of us
have been kept waiting for upwards of two months with-
out a ship.
* * . * »
These are, indeed, the halcyon days of
the daily press. With the2so men of the N.S.W.
Naval Contingent for China were sent two
“ assistant-p&y masters ” at £5 ss. per week each,
who, in addition to their official duties, real or
mythical, represent Sydney morning newspapers
as war-correspondents. The Ministry defends
this job on the ground that “it is a proper thing
to have these men with the troops, so as to get
reliable information as to what is going on.”
It is certainly proper to get reliable
information —but what sort of reliable in-
formation are you likely to get from correspond-
ents with a duty divided between the £5 ss. they
get from the Treasury of this bleeding country
and the screw they draw from the newspapers that
never bleed more than they can help ?
• * • *
Only one medical man has gone with the
N.S.W. Naval Contingent, and it would surely
have been better to send two surgeons than two
assistant-paymasters—to help pay 250 men
(monthly at the rate of Is. 6d. a day, the balance
being drawable in Sydney.) The Government
have taken excellent care that no independent
newspaper had a chance of being independently
represented in China on similar terms. If Lyne
fired Reid from office for an improper payment to
Jawbone Neild, what should be done to Lyne and
See over this disgraceful piece of business.
* * * *
A wise South Australian J.P., who is also
a medical man, lately committed a boy aged 14
for trial for criminally assaulting a married woman
old enough to be his grandmother. What is more,
he demanded heavy bail, and the lad was long
locked up awaiting trial. At the assizes, the jury
stopped the case immediately after the evidence
for the prosecution, and expressed indignation at
the action of the police in respect to the child.
AN ODIOUS
COMPARISON.
STOUT PARTY: “Now, I wonder
what those two idiots are
laughing at?”
o udge BouCaut concurred with their remonstrance.
What was the Attorney-General doing? The
Judge, in commenting on the affair, remarked
that the woman (who weighed about 12st.) could
have thrown the youngster over a house, yet she
asserted that he seized her in his arms, and threw
and held her down. What is lovely woman giving
the public ?
* * * *
A M.L. Chow, on being asked what the
Boxers were, replied, “ Allee same you Salvation
Almy.”
“Hermes”:
He was a tall man
with a Prince of
Wales beard and
he wore a nice
frock coat, striped
pants, and spats
over patent-leather
boots. His white
silk tie was held in
position by a beau-
tiful opal ring, and
he trod the windy,
sloppy Sydney
street with a dig-
nity and decorum
that were a credit
to the whole order
of Fatman. Sud-
denly, as he turned
the corner, a gust
of wind blew off
bis tall hat. It
whirled over five
puddles, glo d e
through a heap of
mud just extracted
a drain by
workmen, and
<•!'/? J' , we an 4
nt .y, Dumped
against my blue
ten - and - sixpenny
serge pants. I took
it across to the tall
gent with the spats,
fopy
it back to him. He
took it gingerly,
laid it down on the
pavement, and
stood on it. When
he got off it he said
quietly : “That
hat’s too small,
I’ve paid 15s. 6d.
already for drinks
for people who re-
turned it to me
when it blew off.
A hat like that
would ruin any man. I’m going to get a larger
one. Come and have a drink.” I came.
* * * *
“ ltan ” : I live in a N.S.W. town where
weekly markets are held. Saw the carcases of 60
pigs hanging there for sale one day recently. Was
told that they had been slaughtered by the
farmers, who held no licenses, and the inspector
did not make any examination. When it is
remembered that condemned cattle are fed to
pigs (the pig is, perhaps, more prone to tuber-
culosis than any other animal), what is the differ-
ence between disseminating tuberculosis and
cancer through pork and beef ? And also is it not
just as necessary to inspect the dead meat of a
farmer as that of a butcher ?
• • * *
“Lynd.”: I recently saw for sale, in
Sussex-st., Sydney, a lot of poultry, that I would
swear were tuberculous. “ Not going to sell that
lot, surely ?” I said. “Bather ! ” was the answer.
“Why, we have a contract for that sort at 2s. a
pair.” Badly wanted, a shops poultry-inspector.
“F. C. Par-
took of a State Din-
ner yesterday at a
Melb. suburban State
School. Menu varied
and enticing, food
good and most beau-
tifully cooked. Was
waited on by willing
and attentive, white-
pinnied damsels of
13 and 14. The girls
seemed thoroughly
interested, and if
they only learn to
cook as well as their
teachers their fu
ture husbands will
rarely run after
strange goddesses.
The department
treated me with a
generosity that
would be better
placed and appre-
ciated if practised
in its dealings with
its employes the
pupil teachers —in-
asmuch as the meals
are given gratis. Yet
they are honestly
better worth a shil-
ling than many of
those supplied in city
hotels.
“Weary”: Considering the state of the
awful N.S.W. superannuation fund, it
would be interesting to* know how Govt, intends
to find money to pay pensions with in the near
future. I know of one country school, closed for
lack of sufficient attendance, where the teacher
(well over pension-age) is allowed to occupy the
residence and collect full pay for six months—for
doing nothing—instead of being granted instant
retirement as applied for.
* * * *
Not so long ago N.S.W. Amateur Colonel
Neild was court-martialled, or something, for
“writing to the papahs.” Now, to all appear-
ance, General French, his superior officer, has
done the same thing, and when John Norton
asked Guerilla Minister See what he meant to do
aboift ft, he was told to “give notice,” which
meant that See hadn’t made up his alleged mmd.
The whole business is intensely foolish. French’s
letter to the London Times was an indiscretion.
He must have known that if one of his own
HIM : “ Well, I’ll own up I was wrong.”
HER: “That won’t do; you must own up that I was right.”
amateur officers had done the same thing, he
would have been heavily sat upon, and he himself
is, or should be, just as much subject to discipline
as the last-joined recruit. If “ writing to the
press ” on military matters is forbidden to mili-
tary persons in general, it is forbidden to the
Commandant, and if General French didn’t know
that it is all the more to his discredit.
* ♦ * *
A sorry sight was the inarch through the
streets of Adelaide of the military invalids from
S’Africa. Only about 30 were able to land, the
remainder being unfit to leave the Persic. The
men marched to the accompaniment of an occa-
sional cheer ; at the Stock Exchange there was a
chilly silence where but a few months before there
had been vociferous Jingoism. The reaction has
set in with a vengeance—the public is already
tired of its new toy.
* * *
The so-called “ Patriotic funds ” are now
petering out in N.S.W., though an effort is to be
made to bring the main fund up to £50,000. The
huge mistake the Bushmen’s Fund was is slowh
being brought home to the subscribers. Of the
£36,500 raised to send away this corps, not a
penny remains; as of course the principal was
used up at the start. The trustees of the fund
aver that the only people they can succour are
dependent relatives of the slain —not of the
partially used-up soldiers.
Disaster has followed the officers of the
“Australian Horse,” as it was represented in
S’Africa. Of the five lieutenants, M’Kellar and
Ebsworth have been killed; Dowling was in-
valided home, and Wilkinson, after a miraculous
escape, was made prisoner. Vaughan alone has
escaped mishap.
• * • *
Long before there was any siege of Mafeking
The Bulletin, in reference to the nauseating
repetition of variations of certain cabled press-
puffs of the Baden-Powell family, remarked that
the Baden-Powells were indefatigable self-
advertisers. This is from a letter received from
an Imperial Bushman
When the siege of Mafeking is truly written it will show
what a gigantic fake the whole thing was. Starvation !
why they were all as fat as whales when the Boers cleared
away. The men who did suffer were Pluiner’s lot (which
fits in with a speculation ventilated in these columns
manv weeks ago.—Ed. B.). Poor devils, they seem to
have' had a real bad time of it; what with fever and insuffi-
cient and bad food. The Buluwayo people look upon the
affair as a joke, and say that they suffered infinitely more
than anyone in Mafeking. Not that the Buluwayoites
suffered any real hardship, but they missed a lot of the
luxuries of life, and prices were high. As an instance
of the lies sent out from Mafeking about their privations
and living on boiled horse-hide, &e., why a thousand
sheep which were there throughout the siege
have now arrived here, to say nothing of train-load
after train-load of provisions stored there for merchants
here before the war broke out. Fancy the garrison when
they knew, as they must have done, that Plumer’s men
were in such straits, taking a waggon-load of their food
just to keep up the farce ! It has enraged the people up
here terribly, and it’s hardly safe to mention the name of
Mafeking heroes locally. I have not read whether the
beleaguered moved out in rags to greet their deliverers,
but one chap who marched in with the relievers told me
that the Mafeking people hardly knew that anything had
happened, and the only human beings that met them
were a few Kaffirs. The whole thing seems to have been
a display of advertising mountebankism unequalled since
Cagliostro departed for other shades.
By the way, up to now only one of those chargers
for Baden-Powell has been selected. Better wait
to see whether any more gas escapes from the
bladder before sending along the other moke.
Evidence daily accumulates to show
that the Mafeking garrison were good self-
advertisers. We used to hear a lot about the
people living on mule-chops, hair-oil, starch, and
so on. Yet Chaplain Green, of the Australian
Bushmen, writes from Bulawayo to S.M. Herald :
The pressure in regard to food supply has been greatly
relieved by the arrival of immense quantities of stores
from no stranger a place than Mafeking. There was food
enough in that town for 12 months, and the merchants
have sent their surplus stock here to get, whilst they can,
high prices for it.
Then a Jamberoo man writes to say that he
“brought his dog out of it all —sleek and fat.”
Now, a siege that a dog comes out of, fat and
well, can’t have been, dietetically, such a very
“tight place.” The Bulletin much fears that
Australia has been fooling itself most hideously
over Baden-Powell.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Re “ R.E.’s ” par. as to
“A” (N.S.W.) Battery. The true reason why
that redoubtable unit never got to the front was
not because it was in any way inefficient, although
it certainly was not the battery when it at last
got away from N.S.W. that it was in Oct., 1899.
Col. Smith would insist on being given his
.ocal colonelcy—his right rank is a Major in
the It. A. —and, of course, he thereby set against
himself and his command the whole river of
jealousy which runs through the British army
from the Commander-in-Chief down. It was un-
likely that all the majors senior to him—let
alone the Lieut.-Colonels and Colonels—were
quietly going to let their junior get up to the
front—where, if he struck luck and sufficient
Boers, he miebt have got a whole brigade of
artillery put under him. Not much ! Therefore
the other chaps worked it so that “A ’Battery
should wander off afar to Western Gnqualand
to chase the cursory rebel and curse discon-
tentedly through miles of sand and months of
disappointment. These be no vain imaginings but
solid facts.— Khaki.
» * » *
Brutal are the conditions under which
many hotel and restaurant employes toil in Syd-
ney. At a meeting last week a restaurant-hand
complained that he had been working 120 hours a
week. “My working-hours were from 4 a.m. to 12
p.m.” The Dago, in particular, is a most cruel
employer.
* * * •
There have been some savage doings, in-
cluding cold-blooded murder, or something very
like it, in Pitt-street, Sydney, near Tattersall’s,
lately. Will the authorities please see that a few
picked policemen, who don’t drink, are put on
special duty in this region, and that the brutal
toughs who regularly congregate and spit on the
footpath there are systematically moved on—or
locked up ! Otherwise, decent citizens will have
to carry guns.
* * * *
Among the poorer classes “lodger” and
“ co-respondent ” are too often merely synonymous
terms—it would be the same among the richer
classes, only they aren’t driven to take in lodgers
—and in view of the devastating moral character
of the lodger, D. Thomson, M.L. A., is opposed to
him having a municipal vote, as provided under
Lyne’s Bill for the better government of Sydney.
Which might be logical if depriving the lodger of
his vote would make him less of a co-respondent—
but it won’t. Nor will depriving him of his
municipal vote make him give up the sinful pro-
fession of being a lodger. If a man is mashed on
a nice-looking landlady whose husband is out a
great deal, he won’t leave her and start a house of
his own merely for the satisfaction of being able
to vote for Alderman Thingumbob once in two
years or so.
* * * *
The measure before Vic. Assembly, aim-
ing to make young Australians moral by packing
them off to bed at 9 p.m., is supported by all
pietists and pretentious humbugs, and Excellency
Madden believes with the rest that virtue is not
an internal impulse, but an external influence,
and wants the youngsters yarded in. It is an un-
speakable outrage to force youngsters indoors
before 9 o’clock on summer nights in a place like
Melbourne. After red-hot summer days the
kiddies in the suburbs do not begin to exist
till nightfall, and then they run riot in the streets,
houses being oven-like and uninhabitable, and
there being no place else for them to riot in. The
man who would pack those children into the hell-
houses built for the workers before 9 o’clock, or 10
either, on close summer nights, for the better care
of their morals, would be a hog of the most obtuse
’ mild.
EXPERIENCE MUST BE
PAID FOR.
MRS. SMITH (whose little boy
has just had his eye operated
upon): “Ten guineas is a bit stiff to charge
for a job that only took you ten seconds !”
EMINENT OCULIST: "My dear lady , in learning
to perform that operation in ten seconds I
have spoiled more than two bushels of such
eyes as your boy’s.”
“A Lady” writes an indignant letter to
Melb. Argus, demanding for her sex the same
Erivileges as are being extended to male rifle-shots
y Govt. “If steps were taken to form rifle-clubs-
for ladies, a considerable number would offer their
services, and would very soon be efficient enough
to help in the defence of forts and trenches “in
the proverbial hour of need.”
The bullet that killed marker Bottle at
Dunboola (Vic.) rifle-butts, on Aug. 2, went right
through the poor fellow’s head and then struck the
bull’s-eye.
Well, after all, it’s only right—
A married man asserts as much.
The husbands went in crowds to fight
And spiflicate the Transvaal Dutch ;
And now, if duty bids ’em go
Where China’s trouble still survives,
We’ll give the married men a show
And send—some regiments of wives 1


NECKWEAR
IN
Charming V ariety
AND
Profusion
o
Lace
Scarves, and
Kibbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
All Drapers Everywhere.
Atelier]ey & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 14, 1900.
My Dear Myke.—
I had a peep at Dolly Vane’s bridal garments at
a leading Dressmaker’s Studio last week.
“ Studio,” by the way, is an elastic epithet, gra-
dually going to comprehend any four walls
wherein a woman does anything for her living,
from nail-shaving to hair-dressing and millinery.
In this case, though, there were so many pretty
things to be seen that we will let the term pass.
Dolly’s wedding frock is a turquoise cloth, with
white tulle vest, huge tulle bow at the neck, and
heavy white silk appliqiie on the revers and skirt.
More bridal, and to my mind prettier, is a lovely,
creamy race dress, of Honiton lace, made as sim-
ply as possible, with transparent sleeves and yoke,
and just a few big choux of creamy chiffon on the
corsage. Then there is a sweet little silk frock of
apple-green glace, sprig patterned, the Russian
blouse pouched back and front over a wide pink
folded panne belt, and a lot of fine black lace
about the hips and on the blouse. All these
frocks are made to sweep, and looking at them
uninhabited, as it were, they strike you as being
twice as long as their wearer-to-be. Like most
very small women, the bride cannot have too long
a train following her.
A black embroidered net stands for dinner-
dress. Little accordeon-pleated lace flounces run
round the bottom of the skirt, a jangling black,
sequined front makes an apron effect on the skirt-
and more black sequins form a pretence at a
zouave. A dinner blouse of black chiffon, ever
so finely tucked, has a berthe of real lace, and Gig
puffed sleeves caught in with black velvet and
paste buckles. A lovely opera mantle is of
strawberry-tinted silk, embroidered in different
shades of the same fruit. Another strawberry-
pink garment is a frock of the new Spring fabric
—fine silk voile —made with a big collar of Irish
guipure over pink chiffon, and a high, black velvet
waistband. And I musn’t forget an Empire tea-
gown of blue liberty satin, with a soft blue fichu
fastening at the left under one big, dark-red rose.
The wearer of all these and many other pretty
frocks I can’t remember, farewelled the public on
Friday at Her Majesty’s. An extra heavy house
gathered to see the last of the sparkling little
contralto, who is energetic in declaring she is
giving up the stage for ever and ever. They al-
ways say that, of course. Sometimes they keep to
it. Flowers poured down as Dancing Sunbeam
made her farewell curtseys. The strong reliable
voice that never went out of tune will be grehtly
missed. It has been the only feminine larynx in
the whole of this Opera Co. that has never
deviated from its legitimate key.
In a libel application last week I see that four
of our very wisest men went to sea in a boivl-
otherwise, tried to arrive at the whichuess of the
why of the “Social Column.”
The benign Chief Justice thought that some-
times very great unhappiness was caused through
the so-called social columns. Mr. Justice Cohen
said his view was that tiiey were published partly
to satisfy the idle curiosity of some people, and
partly to gratify the personal vanity of others.
Mr. J ustico • Owen believed that they were re-
quired by a certain section of the community.
Mr. Pilcher declared that they were written en-
tirely for the delectation of the ladies. And the
wise Mr. Justice Owen observed that the ladies
form one-half of the community.
Acting on all that unutterably unimpeachable
legal advice, I am going to abandou myself to a
perfect whirl of drapery this week. Then, if any
fiery male eye happens to chance along tins
column, I shall refer him, for the defence, to the
verdict of the Full Court as set out about half-an-
iuch back —in effect, that this is no place for men.
Billee Barlow’s frocks are next on the list. She
sings at the Tivoli nightly now. and considering
that there isn’t much of any one frock it is astonish-
ing what big effects she strikes. By the wav,
some of her songs are absolutely odious. All her
cM’c-ness and magnetism cannot eradicate the
dismal blue pervading at least three of her four
“ turns.
“Mashing the Band” is a much-gagged song
that Billee aims point-blank at one after the other
of the orchestra. “Gussie, my dearest,” she
cries, running along to the dark fat man at the
end who looks frightfully uncomfortable, and con-
tinues to become more and more so as the song
grows warmer. Billee sings these songs in a
Heavenly little costume, all shining and gold. The
short skirt and low bodice are built of huge gold
sequin i. The sleeves are of Breton net, creamy
and transparent, and black stockings and snappy
black satin shoes show up vividly. The warbler
wears heavy, corn-colored hair, and looks delight-
fully pretty, singing. Especially as a housemaid
in abbreviated sky-blue silk, with a frilly white
suggestion of an apron, and a tall, sky-blue bow
in her hair. Her last change shows her in black
tights with a black satin cloak lined with white
satin that’s sprinkled all over with little black se-
quins. The bodice is smothered in paste and real
sparkles, and that tiara in the hair is even more
wonderful, as paste, than as the genuine diamond.
I looked in at “ Hamlet ” on Friday and found
Rose Dampier frocking Ophelia in pale-blue dress-
ing-gown-cashmere, with a white fur edging. The
house was crowded, upstairs and down. A
highly intellectual—l might Almost say intelligent
—dress-circle muttered the text under its breath
as the play wound on. Sometimes a discrepancy
arose. The woman in spectacles next to me was
whispering familiar words while Rose was
strangely declaiming from the stage how “Hib-
self the pribrodse path of dalliadce treads ” ; and
how “ t’is id by bebbory locked.”
Luckily, Dampier’s rich, full, satisfying tones
still make up for family deficiencies ; but, con-
sidering Rose’s eccentric enunciation, I think that
Alfred is hardly justified in billing this as “A
Hcicrenlial Production of Hamlet.”
The employes of the Hotel Australia had a
merry dance, last Friday, at Leigh House. At
least, it grew merry after a while, though at first
the dancers seemed to take their steps a trifle
solemnly, as if this was real, this was earnest,
this was. The couples danced looking down, with
their heads close together, and their mouths very
solemn. I sat in the gallery with a friend, and we
had an excellent view of the hop, and learned at
least one profitable lesson—that Society doesn’t
know how to dance. Society can dress. Society
can undress. Society can give a ball. Society
can triumph with lights and decorations, and
supper and war-paint. But dance—oh no. Society
cannot dance. You must go to a ball like
this to see what real dancing is. Pretty house-
maids and chambermaids wore their ball-skirts
just off the ground. Unencumbered by trains
and frills, their feet twinkled and turned?
and tripped and glided, and they whirled
round like feather-weights, never losing an
opportunity to be on the move, as no society
woman, with a ton of jet train dragging round her
feet, can do nowadays. Julia, the comely house-
maid, was belle of the ball in black, and Harry,
the hall-porter, treated us with great kindness,
plied us with oysters, and begged us not to make
ourselves strangers. By the way, the “ Australia ”
won’t know itself presently. The big vestibule
and the sixpenny drinker will be done away with,
a grill-room sweeping them out of the place.
Something novel in the way of frivol will be the
Grand Masked and Advertisement Ball, to come
off in the Town Hall on Sept. li. It is ages since
we had a masked ball here. People seem to think
there’s something loaded about a mask, but this
hop is in aid of the Children’s Hospital, and has
for secretaries Miss End it h Walker and Miss
Martin, so that I can recommend the most timorous
to tak-e tickets.
I have before me an intensely-curious document
headed “Balance Sheet.” Jt sets forth the
takings and leavings, and so on, of a recent
inexpressibly Society Charity, in aid of our sick
and wounded troops.
If you happened to be at the Lyceum on the
night of the Tableaux, and saw the crowded,
‘flowered, and diamonded, and curled, and per-
fumed dress-circle, all from the Points, and the
low-necked stalls, running right back into the
hatted portion near the walls, this document will
give you a sharp and severe shock ; unless, that
is to say, you are well up in the funny little ways
of charitable swells. For, let me break it to you
quickly—Madame L’Eelair’s Society Benefit, of
July 19th, has cleared just £3 14s. Id. By way
of explanation—not mystification—l give you
the whole sheet as it lies before me :
Kkcku’ts. £ s. d. Expenditure. £ s. d.
Box-office takings 144 9 6 Rent of Theatre .. 50 0 0
Theatre .. .. 47 3 0 Rent of Hall for
Discounts .. 2 7 6 Rehearsal .. 13 0 0
Repayments, use Electric and Lime
of wigs.. .. 0 12 0 Lights .. .. 6 17 9
Property, Cauze
Drop, &c. ..23 8 8
Stage Hands,
Ticket-takers .. 6 6 4
Cartage, cab-hire.. 12 12 0
Furnishing and
Decorating the
Vice-Regal Box. 11 3 7
Hire of Wigs, &0.. 5 16 0
Advertising .. 23 17 6
Printing .. ..14 1 6
Bill-Posting .. 4 10 0
R.A.A. Band and
Tram-fares .. 5 18 0
Lighting for Re-
hearsals .. .. 2 17 0
Telegrams, Stamps
and Stationery.. 3 5 4
Pianists .. .. 3 17 6
Dressers and
„ Seamstress .. 2 12 0
Music .. .. 0 14 9
Balance .. .. 3 14 1
£194 12 0 £194 12 0
. A meeting of bewildered Society women was
hastily summoned last Friday by Mrs. O’Kelly
—Madame L’Eclair. Three-fourteen-one was
the text of the discourse. Madame herself, who
undoubtedly worked very hard over the affair,
took the stage, and seemed to be saying that a
Society Committee was an awful frost, and she
only gave away two tickets herself, and that cer-
tain distinguished people who attended sent
never a contribution ; but perhaps I didn’t hear
aright. Afterwards, I asked for definite infor-
mation, and was handed the sheet above. There
was a distressing vagueness about that meeting.
Every now and then a pretty Society girl would
exclaim “ How dreadful! ” and one declared
that it ought to be put in the papers. I believe
“ it” was put in the papers, but what differ-
ence does that make to three-pounds-fourteen-and-
a-penny ?
If the explanation of that munificent benefit is
that Society takes tickets, comes along, and for-
gets to forward its cash, the sooner other people
run these charities the better—for our sick and
wounded sojers. That may be one explanation.
But there is something on the other side that my
feeble pen sticks at, and refuses to pass. Look
across at Expenditure. Who told who to pay
eleven pounds something for decorating the V.R.
box ? Govt. House never assumes that a box at a
charity show is a room in Buckingham Palace.
A few shillingsworth of flowers and ribbons to
tickle the V.R. nose is generally considered
sufficient attention. Cab-hire and cartage at
twelve guineas sounds strong, considering the
thing was being done for Charity. It may be a
novel idea, but I have a theory that taking cabs
never yet helped to swell a Charity balance-sheet.
Evidently the day of the dear good woman who
wore her feet to the ground tramping round to do
things for others is over and done. And then —
but perhaps it would be wiser, and kinder, and
less trouble, to stop right here.
Speaking of charities, His Ex. has delighted the
heart of St. Vincent’s Ball committee with a
cheque for £25, and a friendly letter, assuring
them that he would attend their hop only that he
cannot go to any dances while in mourning for his
brother.
Another V.R. item is that a new secretary has
arrived at Govt. House. It seems a little late in
the day. The Beauchamp regime ends next
January. But, presumably, there is going to be
much extra work at Federation time, when the
Hopetouns arrive as guests of Lord Beauchamp,
and another arm will probably be needed to fight
back the onrush from Woolloomooloo and Darling
Point. The newcomer is Mr. Percival Landon.
He has been out in Africa since the beginning of
the war, and has just got over malaria. An awful
rumor says that he writes for the papers—the
English papers—and that he is very persistent in
saying what he means.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Melba’s attempt to check the rush of Aus-
tralian warblers to Europe is pretty well a protest
against the tax which it imposes on her private
purse, although she doesn't put the case in that
way. The reckless emigrants—mostly girls, and
some of them rather old girls—get stranded in
London, and appeal to the wealthy ‘star’ for aid.
She lias grown rather tired of being a bank who
advances coin on the security of an unmarketable
voice. That fact can be seen sticking out from her
recent letter to the Melbourne dailies, wherein she
give- a nasty jar to a little crowd of ex-Australian
scribblers : ‘ Certain contributors to the Australian
press on this side of the water send glowing ac-
counts of the success of such-and-such a one at a
concert or musical soiree, and so mislead those
wao have a budding singer or a musical prodigy
in their family as to the ease with which the great
musical world is conquered. To my own know-
ledge, such indiscriminate puffery has been ap-
plied to unfortunate aspirants, whose present posi-
tion is all but hopeless, and whose future in
musical art has no possibilities.’
“Poor Melba! She might save money, prob-
ably, by giving a handsome cheque to an Anglo-
Australiau Fund for the re-shipment of some ten
or a dozen hopeless voices. I can mention one
Australian girl who managed to get into Mar-
chesi’s academy and was'none the better for a
course of training. She hadn’t a voice to be
trained. As for the damsels who have left this
country with very little money to spend on the
cultivation of merely second-rate voices, their
name is Numerous, and their chances of getting
taken up on ‘spec’ by a competent teacher are
Nil.
“ By the way, I am assured, on good authority,
that the wife of that popular politician is not a
medium, nor has she been a seanceiste or a
patroness of the spook movement since ever so
long ago. Her husband, too, was a mere sower of
wild spiritualistic oats in his younger days,
though, according to what Mr. Max bomebody
would call the ‘ Conventional Fictions of Modern
Australian Journalism,’he remains just as young
and trustful as ever. The fiction sticks to his
name—even in The Bulletin —because he doesn’t
think he could easily shake it off if he tried, and
so lie doesn’t try. Another politician has been
more lucky. Nobody brings blushes to the expan-
sive cheek of Mr. Trenwith by reminding him
that he first took to oratory at the Spiritualists’
Lyceum, where the brethren and sistern used to
meet together for manifestations on Sunday
nights, like Early Christians in ancient Rome.
“ The recent split-up in a fashionable skating-
club seems to be really serious. Constant friction
led to a break which the Naicest members of
Sassiety failed to rectify, so it has become incum-
bent on one or other of the discordant coteries to
quit the club with all possible dignity and des-
patch.
“The news has just reached a broken-hearted
swain that the girl to whom he had been engaged
for two years, and who went to England to see her
relatives prior to entering the married state, has
been and gone and entered it with an Englishman.
She met and vanquished the other fellow very
soon after her arrival, it seems, and now the poor
deserted one is preparing for his funeral to-
morrow. He wears the willow in the most public
way, and takes sympathy on a tablespoon as often
as it comes along.
“ A notable engagement is that of handsome
brunette Miss May Nunn (E. Melb.), daughter of
one of the Buckley-and-Nunn firm. The happy
man is dark, actor-like Mr. Barton (son of Mr. G.
B. Barton and nephew of Mr. Edmund Barton)
step-father and custodian of little Kathleen
Purves M icpherson, the infant heiress, whose
lucrative guardianship from time to time occupies
the attention of the Courts. Kathleen’s money
came from her father, the late Macpherson, whose
charming widow married Mr. Barton and willed
to him the care of her daughter by her first
marriage. Mrs. Purves (wife of J.L.) and various
other family connections have tried unsuccessfully
to get the thickly-gilt orphan legally transferred
to the keeping of the Macpherson clan, but the
powers-that-be elect to leave her with her little
half-brother Barton and the latter’s father, who,
after all, is the guardian chosen for her by her
dead mother. Miss Nunn’s elder sister is the wife
of one of the landed Wes ern District Johnsons,
whose mother, Mrs. Nicholas, died recently at
Toorak.
“Miss Edwards, the poor girl who died under
chloroform at the dentist’s t’other day, was the
only daughter of the superintendent of the Port
Darwin pearling-fleet. She had just come to
Victoria from the far North for a year’s cool
weather, and had braced herself up to go through
with the prescribed large dental operation and
banish toothache at the very outset of her jaunt.
“The ‘Poster Ball,’ in aid of the Children’s
Hospital is to happen, Aug. 28th, at the Town
Hall under the wings of the Smartest. Janet
Lady Clarke and most other Somebodies are
going as Posters, and the committee wants all
who can to depict group-advertisements. A
squad of firms have arranged that a purchaser
of a ball-ticket may represent any of their pos-
ters, so intending gueits, without reference to
anything but the published lists of advertisers,
may pick their dresses and go ahead.
“ A local artist was appealed to by two
society sisters, one a trifle too slim, t’other a deal
too far around, for an idea for costumes for the
‘poster-ball.’ While the artist was hesitating
two chums of his wrote, suggesting that the
girls should go as an advertisement for So-and-so’s
food, representing before taking and after. The
artist has felt like a consignment of frozen meat
since his last meeting with the indignant spin-
sters.
“ There were no drags, no four-in-hands, no
tandems even at the Findon Barriers’ Meet this
year. S’Rupert Clarke drove the most sparkling
horse, and had for his companion Mr 3. Lawson,
still flourishing the bright blue order sash as a
sling for her damaged forefinger. A fashionable
muster, of course, but a dowdy one. Most of the
women were smothered in furs. The distin-
guished dowager alone stood out ‘in her figure,’
dressed in sober unpretentious style with a touch
of lilac in her headgear.
“The Lieut.-Governor and ‘ness’ have been,
socially-speaking, doing a term of solitary confine-
ment owing to the lamented decease of a Person-
age in Europe, but they are represented at social
junketings by their two spinster daughters, who
appear in funereal black and a half-grieved ex-
E cession of countenance. As for Lord Dick, no-
ody sees him anywhere in public these days. He
is getting his wardrobe and other little things
together for flitting to Adelaide, and is being
entertained in divers ways by Toorak. One hears
also of a movement on foot for a souvenir presen-
tation. Why not a purse of sovereigns ? There
is much charm for the practical mind in ‘ fifty of
the very best.’
“ At Scherek’s ninth concert, stout dark-haired
Francie Adler, wearing bright heliotrope, warbled
rather feebly "for the bust time in Australia.’
The othersoloist, Mr. D. K. Williams, conjured up
the ghost of Rubinstein’s ‘Melody’ with an
English horn. Among the hearers was tall,
upstanding Thistle Anderson (at present of Her
Majesty’s Theatre) wearing a meritorious imita-
tion of the O’Neil facial expression. As usual
the Scherek family rolled up en manse, not for-
getting the baby, a quaint six-year-old ladies’
man, his popular Papa in miniature, except that
his halo is jet instead of silver. An enlivening
orchestral item was Moszkowski’s ‘Spanish
Dance.’
“ At one of the latest ‘ Fedora ’ performances, a
grey-haired pittite let her tearsdoon fa’ as soon as
she heard Nance’s Irish-American hullabaloo at
her lover’s death-bed. Consolotary peanuts and
subsequent stage developments failed to take the
taste of that rampageous lamentation out of the
mourner’s mouth, and going home down Bourke-
street she still sniffled reminiscently. lie the
O’Neil wardrobe ; white muslin sounds anything
but Nancefiod, yet it makes the big American
look more subdued and womanly than any other
wear.
“At the Princess’s, a smart though not huge
crowd saw the “ Man of Forty ” for the first time
on August 11. The Madden girls in white
muslin frocks chastened with mourning touches,
and black crests on their glossy heads, were in a
box with their married sister. The belle of the
family-group posed a pretty gloveless hand on the
edge of the box all evening, which reminds me
that another extremely trim pair of hands in the
d.c. that night were the unobtrusive property of
Mr. Murray Smith. Thick, nicely-brushed silver
hair is another string to the bow of said well-
groomed veteran —whom Hawthorn is to know no
more as its representative. Another theatre party
included Janet Lady Clarke in a chic octoroon
toilette, i.e., seven parts white to one black.
“The ‘Man of Forty’ is a queer little play.
Looks as if the author had contrived small
commonplace incidents, remarks, etc., meant to
lead up to big episodes, and then, after putting in
the asterisks, had forgotten to supply the foot-
notes. That lady-journalist, for instance. She’s
an aimless jabberwock, with no more tinker in the
plot than Mr. Noah Lovell has a double rfile.
As a saint, he might just as well not have been
born, though in the part of his own erring brother
lie earns his vittles. There’s a vacancy for a
sinner, and he fills the bill. One of the many
sayings which end in blind alleys is Lovell’s
announcement of his engagement to ‘a widow
with one son.’ His fiancee never crops up again,
so who cares whether she’s ‘a widow with one
son,’a divorcee with 13 daughters.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOUIL.
A vote of the ratepayers of Brisbane is to
be taken on the 23rd to decide whether the
Municipal Council shall control the electric-light
and power supply of the city, or whether the
splendidly-valuable electric privileges shall be
given away to a syndicate for a long term of
years. Now, it is a well-known fact, based on
British experience, that the electric-lighting
business can be done by . the corporation with
great profit to the city, and at a cheaper rate
than a private co. can do it at, seeing that the
co. wants big dividends for its shareholders and
the corporation doesn’t. That is—provided the
corporation is decently honest and has some
grains of sense. So the only possible reason for
voting against municipal ownership would be
that the Brisbane corporation had neither sense
nor honesty ; and even that wouldn’t be a reason
for throwing away a splendid source of profit. It
would be only a reason for getting a better corpor-
ation.
The heroine in a recent melodrama had to say to the
villain : “ If I were a man I would chastise the scoundrel
who said a word against my husband.” And nobody
laughed.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For tire 8 kin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness. Heals
and Cures Irritation. Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling eyid soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless, j
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE. |
The most perfect Hair Dye. j
Produces a permanent brown or j
black which cannot be removed. \
Ask for Rowland's articles, of j
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Moore and 'Zixttereayk Streets,
Sydney.
CitiZSns’PeHssurance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Kytstl-ig exceed 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves. Annual Bonuses.
JOHN FARRELL,
IigSIDKN’T SeCRKTABV.
HAT.s.i HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons.
Queen Street, BRISBANE
NEURALGIA.
Winter brings with it many anxious
thoughts to sufferers from all kinds of
face-ache and neuralgia. You can obtain
immediate relief by taking a Special
Acurult/ia Cure made by
C. E. NEWMAN,
King Street, Sydney.
Price, 2/- By Post, 2/3.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Melb. Argus, of Aug. 6, killed the “Shah
•f Russia."
They have sent Captain Hixson to Hong-
kong. This should have been attended to long
ago.
Captain E. T. Miles, of Macquarie Harbor
fame, has left Tasmania, and when last heard of
was at Honolulu, wanting to form a building
society !
Ex-Premier Dickson is to be banqueted
on his returned. Whaffoh ! The poor man really
hungers for “K.C.M.G.”—not victuals—on his
family-plate.
“ Anglicanus,” whose articles in Sydney
D.T. have given such offence to Low Churchmen,
is said to be identical with a Sydney High Church
clergyman well-known for his interest in social
reform.
The double of Col. Madley, S.A. Commis-
sioner of Police, can be seen any day in charge of
a cab at Redfern Railway Station, Sydney. From
his stumpy legs right up to his broad, illuminating
smile, he is perfect Madley.
“Mac.” : “ Kiwi ” (8., 2/6/’oo)says M.L.
Premier Seddon never was a digger. An old mate
of Seddon’s, who worked with him on the Whaimea
(5.1.), says that Dick was first digger, then store-
keeper, and lastly publican at Teramakau—only
giving up digging when he took the pub.
The office of Deputy Postmaster-General
of the Commonwealth hangs evenly so far as pre-
sent influences go between the Deputy of Vic. and
him of N.S.W. The N.S.W. Deputy has longer
and wider experience and draws the bigger salary,
but Vic.’s Deputy is the younger and more vigor-
ous man.
Rabbi Davis, whose birthday is this week,
has been 38 years connected with Sydney
Synagogue. He is 72 now and was 31 when he
arrived. He taught Hebrew in London for many
years, and was Jewish pastor in Jamaica ere
setting out for Australia. He is kindly, earnest,
and in the lore of his church profound.
A wayback paper, in the course of an
article in high praise of The O’Sullivan, the other
day spoke of him as “the Minister for Words.”
The editor wrote “Works,” but the typesetter
probably knew his former fellow-craftsman best.
Also, Col.-Secretary See is the N.S.W. Minister
for Offence, and Perry is the Minister for Public
Destruction.
Why doesn’t the N.S.W. Minister for
Offence, who is so fond of public spouting, get a
“ghost” to provide him with something reasonably
attractive to say ? The platitudinous stodgery of
Sir John See (that is to be) is as pitiable as it is
intolerable. When did Mr. John See ever say, in
all his politicil and public life, anything that was
not well worth forgetting inside 2secs. ?
THE SUPERIOR POSSESSION.
SMALL GIRL: “I got a dead rat.”
SMALL BOY : “ That’s miffin’. We got a dead
grandfather ’t ar place.”
Several notabilities who are booked by
public opinion for seats in the House of Repre-
sentatives may decide not to stand for election.
It may, for instance, occur to men in the position
of G. H. Reid that, after all, the bone is better
than the shadow. Mr. Reid’s bar-practice is now
a very substantial bone, his family has been grow-
ing larger, and he is not becoming younger. And
there are others in like case.
Lord Tennyson, Governor of S.A., was
born just one day before Lord Ivintore, a previous
Governor of the same province. The former dates
from 11 Aug. and the latter from 12 Aug., 1852.
Tennyson still dodges speeches whenever he can.
He declined to go and bid formal farewell to the
Protector’s men because the demonstration was
held on the day the Duke of Edinburgh was
buried —and because he would have to talk.
Gov. Gormanston took his last view of
Sydney last week. Not the best or the worst of
Tasmania’s potentates. He retires now on a
£2OOO a year pension, together with the proceeds
of a well-nursed Irish estate. His private
reminiscences are mostly of the army. He was
on terms of personal friendship with most of the
front army men now engaged in S‘Africa, but
betrays very little of fashionable Anti-Boer
rabidness.
Weiss, Australian champion billiardist,
has a brother (popularly known as “The
Colonel ”) in S’Africa, playing devil’s-pool with
the other Roberts against Old Kruger. He
reckons Oom Paul got away with a long lead,
making an effective use of cannon, and potting the
red very neatly ; but Roberts, by good all-round
strokes, is now even, and expects to win by potting
the Boer champion on the right hand top corner
pocket. Kitchener is holding the jigger.
“ Reform Club” writes :
Visited Watson’s Bay t’other day and had a look at
“Glovelly,'” the erstwhile residence of old Premier Jack
Robertson. What a gloomy spectacle ! The place is now
practically fenceless, and the outbuildings are mere
ruins. Had there been a camera at hand I’d have snap-
shotted some of the remains of the fence, and got them
into print as a warning: “Young man, go into politics
and serve your country instead of severely minding j our
own personal business. Then, just after you die, this is
the kind of fence that people will see round your man-
sion.”
S.A. Premier Holder’s great ambition
is to keep his Ministry alive until invited
to join the first Federal Government. If he
lasts until Xmas, Holder will have put up a
record of eight years of office out of 13 years
of Parliamentary service. Originally a State
pedagogue, Holder was editor of the local paper
when Burra elected him top of the poll in ’B7. He
is just over 50 years of age, and never smoked or
drank anything stronger than W.C.T. U. tea in
all his life.
The N.S.W. lunatic Creswell has been
handed over to his advocate, Edward Priestman,
for conveyance to England in Order to prove
his identity as the “lost Sir Roger.” He
has about as much chance of proving his iden-
tity as any other of the thirty-odd claimants
who have turned up since the famous trial; but
be is one lunatic less for N.S.W. taxpayers to
support—which is something. Priestman, who
seems an honest enthusiast, enters into a bond for
his good treatment.
Mr. Richard Jones, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
one of Reid’s appointees, trips to Europe as
“Hon. Richard Jones.” Mr. Jones, who is an
active business man and director of numerous
companies, is son of the only man named J ones
ever invited to form a N.S.W. Govt. The Jones
Ministry did not come into being, however, the
Premier-designate advising His Excellency to
send for John Robertson. That elder Jones was
a printer, who started various papers and won
wealth as part-proprietor of Maitland Mercury.
The present Jones is a Maitland native.
Mainly about one J. Langdon Bonython :
J. L. Bonython, knight by the grace of God and King-
ston, owner of S.A. Advertiser and offshoots, a man with
a little body and a big hat, expects to sit in the Federal
Senate. This perky and careful little man is supposed to
have a fortune of six figures. Joined S.A. Advertiser,
then a struggling sheet, about 1870 as a junior reporter,
and ten years later became a proprietor. Later on
bought out everyone else and is now sole owner of a busi-
ness" worth over <£20,000 a year. The Bonythons are an
old Oornish family with big ideas, and the present J.L.’s
great ambition is to re-purchase the ancient family estate
and spend his old age as Baron Bonj thon of Carclew,
Cornwall. Alleged, by the way, that the Advertiser is a
democratic paper.
Of the participants in the trial and death
of O’Farrell, who wounded the lately-deceased
Duke of Edinburgh at Clontarf in ’OB, Judge
Cheeke, who presided, is dead ; James
Martin, Attorney - General, and R. M.
Isaacs, Solicitor-General, who prosecuted,
are dead ; Aspinall and Dailey, who de-
fended, are dead ; William Manning and
Inspector-General M’Lerie, two chief wit-
nesses, are dead ; Archbishop Polding and
Archdeacon M’Eneroe, who attended
O’Farrell in prison, - are dead ; Parkes,
who made political capital with subsequent
degradation out of the episode, is dead ;
and hangman Bull and his assistant, Elliott,
are dead. And now the Duke is dead
himself. O’Farrell was the last man
hanged on the old step-ladder gallows in
Dariinghurst gaol. John Hay, also dead,
was the means of saving him from being
killed by the mob at Clontarf.
Anglican Archdeacon Hales, who recently
died at Launceston (Tas.), came to Victoria with
Bishop Perry in Jan., ’4B. There were also of the
party Rev. Daniel Newham, Dean Macartney, of
Melbourne, Canon Handheld, of St. Peter’s,
Eastern Hill, and Charles Cock, the barrister
(bishop’s secretary). Mr. Handheld, the last
of the six, has just died, aged 71. Hale's
was 78 when he died ; Bishop Perry 84, and Dean
Macartney 94. Hales was in charge of Hei ielbeig
parish in the middle of the century. Handheld,
Hales, and Macartney were Irish, the other three
English.
“ Melb.” Demise : Canon Hand field, of
St. Peter’s. A grand mossy log rolled on. I have
an unbounded liking for this class of pulpitarian,
the hue old crumbly cheese, such as the epicure
steeps in port wine, and scoops up by the spoon-
ful. Whenever Handheld preached St. Peter’s
would afford that lovely sleepy scene you witness
in “ Phiz’s” picture of little David Copperfield
in church. The sermon p iper would be of a rich
salmouy tinge. Handheld would rumbo-
thrumble on like turning the handle of an 18th
century spinet, or doddering over its keys, if it
was played that way. You felt the dignity of the
Establishment, the Endowment, Emolument, and
all else. For ever so many years past, however,
the Canon seems to have slept through his days,
as well as his nights, in the ivied vicarage, while
fiery Curate Hughes galvanised the shop. The
veteran had been incumbent 45 years. Pax ! We
ANTICLIMAX.
HIS REVERENCE : “Tim Hooley, do I see you
smoking? Gimme a match.”
cannot talk about life’s fitful fever. There might
be a little cosy gout. A good man. lam writing
no evil of him. They are best so.
When Mr. F. Wilkinson, Sydney D.T.’s
S’African war-correspondent, left Sydney, he was
as mild a little man as ever drank weak tea or
caught a butterfly in a net. Now he has got ’em
all on. Just listen :
The Boers retired in a canter. The Lancers picked up a
few stragglers on their sticks ; then, for some reason un-
accountable to us, they calmly wheeled into fours about,
and retired in a solid mass out in the open, to the place
from which they had started.
The Lancers picked up a few Boers on their sticks.
In a word, the Lancers stabbed a few fleeing
farmers in the back and through the stomach.
How soldiering does improve a mild little man !
Judge Tnglis Clark, of Hobart, was
a great friend and admirer of Henry
Parkes in the old statesman’s lifetime.
Once, when dining at Hampden Villa,
a small boy of five or six entered the
drawing-room and looked inquiringly
at the visitor. “ Hullo,” said the
Judge, “whose boy are you?” The
child drew himself up, and, instead
of giving the expected reply of
“Father’s” or “Mother’s,” answered,
proudly, “ I belong to the Federal
Party. Do you ? ” Mr. Clark did.
“0.P.”: Touching The Bul-
LEJJn’s remark that knighthood knocks
at the door of physically-big men in
N.S.W., it is noticeable that big men
occupy most of the front-rank public
positions all over the world. No doubt
the big man’s quiet self-confidence and
comparative immunity from personal
violence has something to do with his
starting on the sea of public strife,
where nerve and avoirdupois amount to
so much and give a constant advantage
over smaller competitors. Physical im-
pregnability seems as necessary in poli-
tics as in the prize-ring, and the man
with large ambitions and small “pre-
sence ” will confine himself, if he be
wise, to a professional or other quiet
walk of life.
Lady Randolph Churchill, who married a
“ mere boy ” t’other day, is said to be almost as
fresh and charming as in the days when she prac-
tised the arts of Primrose Leaguery on her first
husband’s constituents. She used to tell a spicy
story of her visit to the boss “ rebel ” of the elec-
torate — a hairy, scowling blacksmith. He warn’t
going to vote for no bloomin’ lord who didn’t do
no work for his livin’. “But I assure you that
Lord Randolph is the most industrious of men.
Every morning of his life he is up at 7, or earlier,”
said the perfumed vision in the ravishing costume.
“’Ovv do you know what time he gets up?”
growled the blacksmith. “I am his wife,” an-
swered the vision with a killing smile. The
horny-handed elector put down his hammer,
scratched his head, and spoke straight from the
shoulder. “ You’re his wife ! Well, all I can say
is if I was ’im I’d stop in bed' all day. Anyhow,
I’ll vote for your man.”
Some Hiyigmama :
After “Jack” Spooner, the Sydney Evening News war-
correspondent, who lately died of enteric fever in
S’Africa, had “ done ” the Deeming execution, he met
Hangman Jones, by appointment, at the Melb. G.P.O.
steps, at 11 a.m., for an interview. Writer accompanied
Spooner. Jones was that morning as cheerful and
enthusiastic as though lie had come from a matinee
instead of a neck-breaking. “ Where shall we have a
drink, Jones?” asked Spooner. “Oh! just here,” and
the man of hemp pointed to the Elizabeth-street hostelry,
close by. Spooner led towards the private bar. “in
here,” directed Jones, bolting into the 3d. bar. “ What’ll
it be ? ” inquired Spooner. “ A long beer —nothing like a
long beer —a long drop after a short one. Ha ! didn’t I give
him his length to a nicety ? ” and Jones grinned fiendishly.
The long beer disappeared at a gulp, and Jones was gayer
and more enthusiastic than ever. Then he produced
a neat, well-preserved pocket-book almost full of notes
about his executions, and in the open bar he read
them out one after another, giving the names of his vic-
tims, weights, dates, heights, and “ how he died ” —al
written in a careful, distinct style. Having read out the
note in each case, he contributed comments in a quick,
quaint, graphic review, wherein he epitomised the per-
sonality and characteristics of the particular doomed
under discussion. Spooner dexterously pencilled down
the points, and meanwhile the barman' plied Jones with
pints of beer. In an hour-or more the gruesome list was
exhausted. “ Now, if you want any more, 3ee me when
you return to Melbourne Th re’s no knowing when I’m
on the job.” Spooner made the most of the matter in
many columns of gallows-gossip. As for Jones—well, he
declined to hang the woman Thwaites, and, fearing his
occupation was gone, he tlrew a razor across his own
abnormally thick throat..
The Irish - Australian Catholics have
erected a handsome Celtic cross over the grave of
that good old Radical, Francis Longmore, at St.
Kilda (Melb.) cemetery. Longmore, who was net
a Catholic (nor a very ardent Home Ruler, for
that matter), put his name to the famous Grattan
address years ago, and was recognised on that
account particularly as a sterling Irish Nationalist.
Born in the North of Ireland, his tendencies to
Orangeism (if he had any) were nipped in
the bud. As a young boy he felt the iron
hand of the landlord at his heart-strings.
His father and brothers had devoted many
months to draining and filling in a morass,
with the result that when the property
was thus improved the “ rint ” went up, and
father .Longrnore refusing to pay the in-
crease, he and his family were summarily
thrown out, and had to camp in a ditch by
the roadside. This story of his own life
served Francis Longrnore in many platform
speeches on Australian land questions,
speeches which did much to stimulate the
cause of Democracy in Victoria when Graham
Berry was at its head. By the way, David
Syme, of the Age, offered a liberal sub-
scription to the Longrnore memorial, but as
it was a purely Irish Catholic expression of
sentiment, Mr. Symo’s offer was gratefully
declined by the committee.
“G. 8.” : Recently-recorded demise of W.
O. Hodgkinson stirs memories of the time when
he, with others, started Rockhampton News.
Present writer was editor, and had a good time
while it lasted. But Hodgkinson, though cute as
they make ’em, had not learnt the secret of
catering. Went in for literary criticism ; wrote
slashing satirical leaders, but didn’t attend to
paragraphic gossip, and ignored “small-beer”
chronicles. Made the paper good enough for »
small minority, who didn’t advertise, and who
read the News at their pub. or borrowed the
paper from next door. W.O.H. was a smart
man, and as full of energy as a high-pressure
steam-engine. Always had a dozen things on
hand, and was never so weary as when lie rested.
And he had a heart of such broad sympathies and
generous promptings as to render nugatory all his
hard work thereby. He could acquire, but
couldn’t hold. Some other fellow always wanted
—and got it.
BOYCOTTING THE BOXERS.
“ You ain’t been buying Chinese cit .hers, ’ ave
yer? ”
Early Prejudice Against Cricket.
In 1748, it was decided that cricket was not an
illegal game under the well known Statute, 9
Anne, cap. 19, the -Court of the King’s bench
holding “ that it was a very manly game, not bad
in itself, but only in the ill-use of it by betting
more than ten pounds on ; but that was' bad and
against the law.” In these early times even, the
pastime was followed by all classes, and Frederick
Prince of Wales, died in 1751 from internal
injuries caused by a blow from a cricket ball
whilst playing at Cliefden House. Nevertheless,
this commingling of aristocrats and plebeians on
the cricket sward was viewed with apprehension,
and repeatedly discountenanced by writers of the
day. Games were played for large stakes.
Ground proprietors and tavern keepers farmed
and advertised matches, the results whereof were
not always above suspicion. The old artillery
ground at Finsbury appears to have been the
earliest scene of action of this class of matches.
But the true birthplace of the game in its present
state was no cockney enclosure, but the broad
open down of the southern counties of England,
and more especially in the great hop-drinking
districts. The large hop fairs, notably that of
Weyhill, were the rendezvous for all comers
from the southern counties, and it is probable that
the great county matches were arranged on these
occasions. The first record of a match preserved
is between Kent and All England, which, judging
from an advertisement in the General Adver-
tiser of the day, was played on August 4, 1746,
at the Artillery Ground, the score being kept in
the modern fashion.—[From the article on
“Cricket,” by H. F. Wilkinson, in the “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica.”]


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
“Scotty”: These Chinese and niggers
beat us in disregard of death and in numbers, two
great factors in war. I have seen a Hindoo
groom, after being bitten by a snake, refuse to go
to the doctor until he had received his pay, which
was due that morning. He died in front of the
orderly-room. Again, here’s “John’s” estimate
of death. A white man took arsenic, when half-
drunk, in a woolshed, and at the inquest the
Chow-cook deposed : “He tellee me, ‘Me takee
pisen.” Isay, ‘Where you gettem pisen?’ He
say, ‘Along in woolshed.’ ‘Oh !’ me say, ‘in
woolshed —welly good.’ Then me shuttem doah.”
By the coroner, ‘ ‘ Did you see or hear anything
else?” “Oh, yes. Hea’lem yell; hea’lem gloan
—welly bad! an’ kickum doah. Bymebye me
look out. Pooh fella dead ; close up doah.” Such
men are good food for powder. W ounding them
i 3 useless.
* * * *
Aboriginal murderers figure comparatively
lightly in N.S.N. criminal calendar. No case
like the Governors’ appears on the records. An in-
dividual black killed a white for one reason or
another, but rarely killed two. No reference is
made to the early fights, which were in reality
battles to keep the country to themselves. The
worst, most brutal, bloodthirsty and systematic
murderers N.S.W. has seen were whites. Take
the Jew Boy’s gang, or take John Lynch —mad —
who on his own showing murdered eight persons ;
or Nioholls and Lester, or Butler, who was also
no doubt mad, judging by the pauoity of his osten-
sible motives and the severity of his epileptio fits
after arrest—about which nothing was said at the
trial. It is possibly the white blood in
the senior Governor wmch has carried him beyond
the true aboriginal murder-sphere.
* • • *
“ P. A.” on parti-colored Marriage :
Kate Jewell, a young woman of wealth and position in
London, who loved and married a Gape Colony stable-boy
who was masquerading as “Prince” Lo Bengula at an
Earl’s Court show, was quickly disillusioned on the sub-
ject of mixed marriages. Several parsons had refused to
tie the knot, but one of them was eventually compelled
to do so, there being no legal bar. The pair went to
Capetown, and two months later the lady had the
“ prince ” up for biting pieces out of her lily-white neck.
The beautiful Princess Chimay, a millionaire’s daughter,
had a similar experience with her black Tsigane husband,
the renowned “ Jimsy.” Women don’t read the papers,
and may be excused for not knowing these things and
IN PUSH SOCIETY.—THREE OF A KIND.
“’ Struth, Liz, jist fancy a bloke wearin ’ a ’at
like that in the street!"
thus missing the warning; but surely statesmen should
know that if it is right to guard a girl of 10 from
illicit commerce, it is equally necessary to guard
feminine fools of 17 and upwards against legal prosti-
tution with a blackfellow. The moral objection,
that they would live “in sin” if denied the
glorious privilege of legal subjection to a blackfellow,
has no weight. If a girl of 16 becomes a darkey’s mis-
tress, by the time she is 20 she will doubtless find the
situation has its drawbacks, i.e., if she survives his little
attentions. She will then have 50 years left to clear out
and reform, but, if she be legally his slave, it’s a
hundred to one, v> omen of that class being fatalists on
the marriage-question, that she will die in the gunyah
gnawing the refuse ’possum-bones and smoking an old
clay pipe. Therefore, let our black brother have the
white maiden as soon as she is able to give proper con-
sent, but for Heaven’s sake let the poor devil have a
chance to escape if ever God gives her enough sense of
shame to desire it. In N.S.W., the marriage of Jimmy
Governor to a white woman is directly responsible for the
massacre of the Mawbeys. She had the honor of being
his wife, “ all same whi’tefellow.” Therefore, any slight
to her could only be wiped out in blood. Had she been
his mistress only, such severe measures would not have
been obligatorv upon her chivalrous lord, whom Ethel says
was “ very handsome. Lots of girls in Dubbo were in love
with him,’and would have married him.” Poor girls 1 Poor
Dubbo ! Ethel got the prize, and nearly got her own death
by it. If the rising in China kept some of the religious
maniacs at home to teach girls like Ethel Governor the
ways of decency, it might be a blessing in disguise ; but
the worst of it is that some of the lady missionaries
would marry the** 1 Jackys ” themselves, and the poor
Ethels would be no better off than before.
Matabele: The missionaries’ connection
with the present trouble in China recalls one or
two things. At the Cape and in Natal “ Mission
Kaffirs ” are rarely employed as house-boys, be-
cause (as a farmer’s wife once explained to me),
“ while a raw Kaffir may be trusted, at least while
his rawness lasts, a mission boy is always a thief
and a liar.” The one Christian doctrine the
Kaffir convert thoroughly grasps is, “ I’m as good
as the white man ” —which he isn’t; for the rest,
he is a Christian so long as there is anything to be
got by it, as food, blankets, &c., and a pagan
again the moment a little war or rebellion places
Christianity at a discount.
• • • *
The trail of the swashbuckler. Thus does
the “special reporter ” of a N.S.W. country paper
(out after the Breelong blaeks) tootle on his own
little tin-trumpet:—
The “ Guardian ” mount was better behaved. He was
a grand horse, lent to me by Mr. J. P. Carroll, J.P., a fine
upstanding fellow by Grandmaster out of a Maribyrnong
mare. He shows quality from heel to ear, and in horse-
flesh the newspaper man, “ Bango Patterson ” they call
me, was easily boss of the crowd. That morning the
Messrs. Neville left for Rylstone side, the party having
the armed escort of Constable Preston. A little cry
of “ Hallo Guardian” reached my ear from one of three
horsemen who had just ridden up.
This is indeed Fame !
* * * *
Harry Stockdale writes apropos of that
recent bogging of wild horses in the snow near
Kiandra (N.S.vV.): —
It is not often that otherwise almost unyardable horses
are thus caught. Horses, unlike cattle, will not face a
storm and travel out of it. They turn their tails to snow
and wind, and thus at times become hemmed in. Then,
as the drifting snow becomes deeper and deeper, they
keep huddled together, the constant stamping of their
feet beating the snow hard down, leaving a wall of un-
trodden snow all round them, and thus, as it were,
“ oorraling ” themselves. Some of the wild horses pas-
turing in the valleys of the snow-olad hills around Kiandra
are of (very good stamp, being the descendants of two
thoroughbreds that escaped many years ago. The local
young fellows, on their snow-shoes, “located” the self-
corraled steeds, went home for their own horses and a
few quiet “decoys,” and returning to the snow enclosure,
roused the prisoners about until they were well winded -
which, owing to the hunger and exposure they had under-
gone, did not take long. Then the men dug a narrow
path out through the drifted snow, and took in the decoys
to give the others a lead out. Then a couple of riders
went in advance, the decoys followed in Indian file, and
in their tracks came the wild horses without any particu-
lar trouble to their captors, and were safely yarded up.
There were in all about 00 head, about 20 of which were
claimed, and the remaining animals, after a little feeding
and handling, were despatched to Melbourne, where they
fetched an average of between £6 and £7 perhheathsd—ths
total cheque being for over £260.
* * * *
The public library of a N S.W. country
town was much in need of augmentation, but
when the question came before a council meeting
the Mayor could not see the use of buying new
books. “ Why not have the old books rebound,”
he said, “instead of wasting money over fresh
ones ? ”
♦ • * *
“ Yarrum ’’: It’s well enough known that
the “water-iguana” can climb up a
tree, but few are aware that he can’t
:limb down. He goes up as long as
there is anything to go on ; and'
then —flop into the water. I was
once up an oak-tree after a forked
stick for a catapult ; and,
coming down along a limb, I
met a spacious “goanner”on
the up-joumey. Tried to shoo
him back, but he wouldn’t
budge. It was then I learnt
that they can’t climb back.
I was straddled on the
limb, and tried to vault
over him, but came down
on his back, and we both
> fell into the river. When
I got out he was up on
the limb again, looking down
at me.
* •
“Rex” : Be jumping of
’roo and wallabies. On the
Western Ranges, a short time
ago, a wallaby fell into one of
the testing-for-coal pits—
about 12ft. deep ana 6ft.
wide—and was found, dead.
The marks showed how he
had repeatedly sprung and
almost reached the top.
At Port Adelaide freez-
ing-depot alone since the open-
ing of the present season,
697,460 rabbits were treated in 77 days.
* * * •
Out where the rainfall is slightest the
losses through evaporation are heaviest. Broken
Hill Water Supply Co.’s figures show
that, while it supplies about 190,000,000
gal. a year to the mines and other custom-
ers, it loses by evaporation, &c., an average
of 11,000,000,000. Thus it loses between
five and six times more than it sells. Only once
or twice has the co.’s supply been lower, by the
way, than at present, despite the fairly good
season in the Barrier district.
“Gil Guy”: “Scotty” (8., 28/7/’00)
may be right about the horseman being a bad
cavalryman, but he is making a big mistake when
he sets the real bushman—the kangaroo-er, brum-
bv-runner, etc.—below the groom, bullocky, etc.
Has “Scotty” ever camped with a kangarooer,
and tasted emu-egg “flipper,” or tail-soup, or
grilled pigeon ? Has Scotty ever found the groom
or generally-useless who could grill a split wild-
duck on a stirrup-iron ? And the bullocky ! Ye
gods 1 The man of salt cow, sod, and bullocky’s
joy ! The generous, well-educated bullocky !
And “ they don’t read.” Why I never yet met a
dog-trapper who didn’t ask for a bundle of news-
papers along with his rations. Also, “they never
nave anything to say.” Why, half the “ Aborigi-
nalities,” if they were traced to their source,
would be found to come from the camps of drovers,
shooters, musterers, etc. I pass, but ask Will
Ogilvie and “The Banjo” who are the boys to
camp with —the drovers or the bullockys ?
They were perjuring about the fertility of
soils, and a haggard-looking man said from the
corner: “I was once travellm’ through Riverina
in a spring-cart. I had a lot o’ nails with me an’
some o’ them dropped out. When I came back
that way again, d nme if there wasn’t a fine
crop of crowbars.”
APPARENTLY NOT.
WEARY WILLIAM: “Arter ally poverty 'as its
compinsations.”
TIRED THOMAS: “As ’aw?”
WWARY WILLIAM : “ Well, I wot readin' in the
paper, t’other day, ’ow a feller cotched the
fever from ’ andlin' infected bank notes. Now,
that couldn’t ’appen to the likes of us.”
A staggerer from London Express, 26th
June:
HUMAN NESTLINGS.
In the bushmen of Australia we find, perhaps, the
lowest order of men that are known. They are so primi-
tive that they do not know enough to build even the
simplest forms of huts for shelter.
The nearest they could approach to it is to gather a lot
of twigs and grass, and taking them into a thicket or
jungle thev build a nest for a home, much as does a
bird. The' nest is usually built large enough for the
family, and if the latter be very numerous, then the
nests'are of a very large size.
Into this place they all turn and snuggle and curl up
together like kittens. Sometimes the foliage will grow
together and form a sort of natural covering, but there is
never any attempt at constructing a protection from the
rain and storms, and it is a marvel how they endure
them.
Where there is a particularly good piece of jungle for
home sites it will be quickly appropriated for the purpose,
and sometimes hundreds of these nests will be found
together in the bush, as it is called.
• • « »
“Wally”: One hears much about the
caprice of women, but a certain N.S.W. town once
heard a lot about the caprice of a man. He had
led his lady-love to the altar, and at the question,
“Do you take this woman, &c.,” vanished with
the unorthodox response— “No!— l’m d ——if I
do!” Years after, when man and incident were
almost forgotten, he returned and took the lady
to the altar again. This time they got through.
* * * «
“Milky White”: “ N.Y.A.’s” 6ft,
goanna (B. 30/6/’00) doesn’t take much beating.
There is a stuffed one of that length in the bar of
a Bourke-street (Melb.) pub. Also, the 10 or llin.
through thickest part of “N.Y.A.’s” reptile
might have been bolted rabbit. At Pretty Pine
(N.S.W.), during early spring, and
another, as new-chums, were startled* at seeing a
big fellow basking on the side of a ring-barked
box. It disappeared down a hole when we threw
things at it, but we got the tools, chopped it out,
and slew it, with great fear and trembling.
“ Bah 1 ” said the boss, when we told him of the
(to us) strange monster —“only a goanna! Big
one, is it? Well, all the worse for you. There’s
five bob a foot fine for killing them up here. They
keep down the rabbits.” We computed the fine
with a two-foot rule, and found it exactly 31s. 6^d.
Despite its harmless appearance, star
or rolling-grass, as some people call it, can
upset regulated time-tables. On the line
between Cambooya and Wyreema, Q., star-
grass frequently stops trains on the up-grade
where it accumulates in cuttings. When
crushed it gives the rails a smooth, glassy
surface, and sand has to be freely used to get
a fresh grip.
• * • »
“ Look here ! " broke-in an alleged
opal-expert, recently, when the origin of opal
was being discussed, “ It’s simply crystallised
quartz, blown from a volcano in a thunder-
storm, and struck by lightning.”
* * * *
“A.P.R.”: A good bushman rarely
repeats himself either in swearing or slang-
ing ; for instance, .the shearer terms the rouse-
about variously a “loppy,” “bluetongue,”
‘‘ wop-wop,” ‘ ‘ leather-neck, ” ‘ ‘ crocodile, ”
&c. By-the-way—“ when a chock-an-log sniffs
ole pot-an’-pan, he does a carrington ” means
merely that when a dingo scents man he
decamps.
* • * •
“ Bushie ” on turkey-nests :
I much question a recent Bulletin correspondent’s
statement that he got 300 eggs out of a scrub-turkey’s
nest. I have personally examined dozens of nests, and
my biggest haul was 29 eggs from a nest fully 20ft. in
dia. and 4ft. high at apex. The birds almost invariably
build on top of an old nest, though I have seen absolutely
new nests of a fair size. I have also watched the turkeys
building—ls in one party ; tails turned towards centre
nest and debris flying with a vengeance. A sure sign of
newness of nest and almost certainty of eggs being there-
in is warmth to the hand when thrust some distance into
the heap. These birds always build at approach of wet
season so as to have the nest ready for the moisture to set
up the required “ heating ” ; but, if insufficient rain falls,
the turkey will not lay. How she manages to retain or
dispose of her eggs I know not, but it is absolute fact—no
rain, no eggs; good rain, plenty eggs. By the way, I
have seen an aboriginal, scratching out a nest, reject the
fresh eggs, open one with a fair-sized chick inside, take
this by the legs, open his “cavern,” and swallow the
chick iike an oyster 1
• * • •
Rabbit-trappers at M‘Kenzie Creek, Dun-
mera, surprised a doe with 13 young ones. A record
litter ?
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” : I am reading B.
2/6/’00 to Scotty II. and Joe. We have each
traps laid —mine for food, S. II.’s for
cash, and Joe’s to kill the rabbits on
his crop. Their language is frequent and
painful and free. Will
start on ‘ ‘ Petrus. ” We
have seen, when skins
were plentiful and
time precious, a man
kept chopping heads
and /ore-legs off, but,
“ Petrus” dear, no
buyer would look
at skins peeled
and wired without
hind-legs, if buy-
ing by weight or
number. And for
you, “N-d-W. ” :
If they can’t crawl
they will burroiv
under the 6in.-
sunk net. Also,
swaggies catch bunnies
galore without traps,
without broken legs,
without dogs. I caught
two yesterday, between
the road and my camp,
about 300yds.— m logs.
And I have wired, out
on Narandera Common
and Bundigeree, 20 ai d
30 a day. Again, “L S.”
(B. 26/5/’00): Why don’t
you add the “ D.,” to show you know more about
the office than the field ? I’ve seen rabbits run
down on Burntisland Links (Scotland) by a
couple of boys. A rabbit Can’t “ stay,” and, once
out of his own geography, he peaks. Finally, I
have seen a rabbit in the fork of a sapling, Oft.
from the ground ! But that was in the middle of
a drive, and the wretches were swarming pnd
squirming in a pyramid up to 6ft. or 7ft.
“Long-Un” on South Australian bush-
\nedieoes :
Having travelled the whole of the populated districts of
S.A., I believe that fully half the country doctors are dip-
somaniacs—the worst cases being generally pronounced
“ such clever men when they’re sober.” This failing .8
probably due to the sudden change from city life and
genial society to the deadly slowness of the avenge
country town. I know of a case in which a bush youth
whose head had been injured by a throw from horseback,
was taken down by his father to the nearest township,
where the local Sawbones drank neat schnapps. “ Bit
soft in the upper storey, is he ?” said the medicine-man.
“ Stand the young —— on his head—that’ll cure him
quicker’n medicine, and it’ll only cost you five bob and
two drinks 1 ” I once bad occasion to seek edi ice from
one of these pub.-haunting gentry. Here it is. “ Look
(oty) here ole man, alwaysh keep a (hie) hoddle of Jimmy
(shy) Hennessy alongshide you—an' (hie) you’ll never
die 1 ” Quite recently I saw in one of our first country
towns a young squatter and his sister who had driven in
20 miles to bring out the leading medical man to a dying
sister ; but as the medico had had a piece of good fortune
only three months previously, he had not had time to
sober-up. The dying girl wanted him and no other, so
the brother drove him around all day in his tra", vainly
trying to sober him. In the evening a trap dathed past
the hotel followed by another. Someone murmured,
“Thank God, sober at last!” But it was the other
doctor—the first medico was still dead to the world.
* » • *
Re horse'slipping girth, Ac.
(Harry Stockdale, B. 28/7/’00). The bones com-
posing the horse’s withers are at least 3in. higher
than the remainder of the dorsal vertebrae, and
the projecting elbows are in same line with
withers. Taking this into account, in conjunction
with the always semi-circular or upright-keeled
form of the sternum, to which are jointed the true
ribs, it seems impossible for girth to be misplaced
in manner stated. And what has belly to do with
girth? The explanation given by “Bathurst”
(same date) I cannot accept. What has the
“ slipping back ” of saddle and girth to do with
it ? The horse I saw sent rider, &c., fully 3ft.
high and syds. forward —and there was no en-
tanglement of girth in horse’s forelegs, either.
“Mutton B.”: To “R.S.” (B. 9/6/’CO).
Once watched about 40 brush turkeys building a
mound. They worked in circles, scratching the
leaves, sticks and dirt backwards to the centre,
ON THE BALONNE.
ROO: “ Nearly dead here - not a bite. How'a
your side? ”
RABBITS: “Something terrible — don’t know what
the country’s coming to.”
till the nest was finished, and leaving the sur-
rounding ground perfectly bare. This mound I
found full of eggs.
* • • *
“Pelican”: How is this for bees not
stinging aboriginals? Jack Hamley, bringing
cattle from the Gulf to Gladstone, had with him a
Gulf nigger, who knew naught of bees save the
harmless native variety. Spotting an English
bees-nest overhanging the road, Hamley directed
his black retainer’s attention to it. “ That fella
bee belonga my country, Billy.” “Budgeree
fella?” inquired Billy, scrutinising the tree.
THE HIGHWAYMAN.
Never now a pistol pressed is
To your brow for cash or life ;
But the up-to-date request is :
For “ Your matches I ” or “Your knife !”
N.S.W.
W.H.O.


When you treat, a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
RINGS
LADIES’ RINGS
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
DRESS RINGS
Half-Hoop Diamond Ring.
From £5 ss.
Every kind of Gem Ring we make on the premises.
Why do we trouble to do this ? BECAUSE
We save our customers 25 per cent, of middlemen’s profits.
We buy the gems unset in quantities and at the lowest prices.
We have old world ring-makers who do the finest of fine work.
GEM RINGS.
All Diamonds .. from £5 ss.
Diamond and Sapphire ~ £3 3s.
Diamond and Ruby .. „ £3 3s.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors-BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
fg
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking OR
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALU MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
“My word,” said Jack; and when the cattle
camped a little further on Billy sallied forth with
a tomahawk. He had not been gone long, how-
ever, when he was seen coming top-speed back to
camp, and, when he reached it, he asked no ques-
tions but simply sent the tomahawk with a vicious
whiz at Jack, exclaiming, “Wasps, you 1
Wasps! ”
• • • *
The export of frozen rabbits from Maori-
land increases rapidly. From Port Chalmers
alone, during June last, 22,693 crates of rabbits,
representing a money-value of £17,019, were
shipped.
* • • *
“Alia" : “A.E.C.’s" method of briar
eradication (B. 7/28/’00) is all right. Have often
seen it practised in New England, where big
areas, mostly on the fertile alluvial flats and along
water frontages, are covered by this pest. But
the - trouble always is root-recoveries. A local
squatter, however, goes one better. After clear-
ing by the chain-and-bullock method he runs goats
amongst the sheep placed on the land. Sheep or
cattle will not touch the root shoots, but goats eat
them down in preference to grass; and as the
goats are of Angora breed they help to pay the
bill, too.
* * * *
N.S.W. Govt. Brewery in Parramatta, in
1804, sold beer of its own brewing at 4d. per quart,
and instead of cash it willingly took hoop-iron,
casks or grain.
* • * •
Dear Bulletin.— Re natural craving of
animals for salt. Rats will gnaw harness, saddles,
&c. on account of the saline matter of the horse’s
sweat. It has been proved that if salt is left ac-
cessible close at hand, the rats will leave the
harness alone.—Rooster.
• * * *
4> Gobung” Recently stumbled on two
goannas fighting. One was about 9in., t’other
about 6in. long, and the long-’un, getting a grip
on the short-’un’s breast just abaft the fore-leg,
settled him in one act; then oalmly pi’oceeded
to swallow him.
Dear Bulletin.— lie
crow - poisoning at Back
Creek (B. 10/7/ s 00), let me
say that I well know the
man referred to, and can
assure you that those 580
crows were obtained by
shooting, and purchasing
from neighbors, as well as
by poisoning, and that the
time was more like one
year than one day.—T.E.S.
* *
‘ Cecil P. ” : lie car-
nivorous plants (B. 26/5/’00),
in Kew Gardens, London,
is to be seen a South
American plant which is
regularly fed with chopped
meat. The absolute line
between vegetable and
animal cannot be drawn,
and the possession, there-
fore, by certain species of
attributes of both king-
doms is only what might
be expected, and is in strict
accordance with the uni-
versal law of evolution.
There was a stage when
the more highly developed
vegetable began to assume
the functions of simple
animal life, which, in turn
became more and more
complex until the highest
organisation was reached.
Another disgusted N.S.W. pedagogue ex-
patiates :
Dear Bulletin.— “ Bush Teacher ” (B. 2/6 ’00) gives a
few facts as to what a country kid-whacker has to put up
with. Let me supplement: The “ 3A” men are entitled
to a salary of £206 a year, including residence, to get
which, however —besides passing an examination—they
have to get three good reports from the Inspector ; and,
to secure these, they mostly have to get out of the best
bed and let said Inspector have it, and get the Mrs. to
shine his boots and feed him up on prime tucker and
whisky—mostly whisky, and afterwards to brighten his
memory about twice a year by sending him a good fat
present. That’s the way the 3A men—about 2 per cent,
of them !—get what they are entitled to ; the other 93
generally stick at £ll3 to £l5O a year because they can't
afford to do the needful, as above, and because they are
generally placed in charge of schools where the rain comes
down, and the rivers get up, and the kids have to plant
corn and spuds and mind the baby, and keep the pig- out
of the barley—thus keeping the attendance so low tlfat
getting a good report and a rise is hopelessly out of the
question. Then the way they have to live ! I wonder
where the lucky beggar is placed who wrote the par in
The Bulletin about teachers’ games of tennis, &c. Here’s
the kind of spot I struck—and not 100 miles from Sydney
either. I put in 4J y'ears there, and was always sure Of
having at least four yarns in the week- two to the mail-
man and two to a couple of sleeper-getters. I boarded
for 10 months, but found that I was doing too well on
oatmeal-and-water for breakfast, bread and jam for
dinner, and bread and “ salt-horse ” for tea, so I slept on
the ceiling of the school the remainder of my time, and
cooked under a few sheets of iron. Oh, it’s'a splendid
profession, this kid-whacking business.
• * • *
It is alleged that several of the names
given to the N.S.W. Federal electorates denote
indecencies. This is not improbable. Aborigines
name rivers and ridges from fancied resemblances
to parts of their own bodies. Queensland Govt,
adopted aboriginal names for new townships some
years ago, but suddenly halted. There are towns
there now that no one dares translate into English ;
while the Maoriland geography contains more in-
decencies than a standard Slang Dictionary.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No Mtiu m -„ be taken of commumca twns Insufficiently
N and address mus( on MS ,
'. * . , , , ...
No luibiMy vs undertaken m any case recontrvbu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
leBS stam P s oof province) accompany.
m-r. j . .. x . •
The Bulletin does not want to see Chief J ustice
Darley as N.S.W. State Governor while he remains Chief
Justice. The two positions are incompatible. His Honor’s
term of retirement on pension will not be reached for a
long while after the inauguration of the Commonwealth.
R-: Advertisements are being paid for, of course.
But as regards Rupert and the Monkey Brand—better to
wait and see what character he appears in Pringle’s
Pair: Dull, ordinary, decent, well-meaning yarn full of
the best intentions A.J.W. (Tas.): Verses cheap and
tasteless. Alleged story—well, what do you mean by
«< you must dree your dreed,” and does one man talk of
ano ther as “petite” when he means plain “stumpy”?
• • • - Drummond’S Cave: One man dreamt that another
man Bhowed him a rich ree f-and that’s a11....P.R.: A
. . ... .. „ .
nicely-written, smooth-flowing yam of the obstetno
order. If there was only one crag or pinnacle
of real incident sticking up out of it, it would
gSb"' £
«‘ W ild Cat’ f is American—said to be derived from a
burst Michigan bank which printed the device of a wild
cat on its notes. From the worthless notes the term
came to be a PP lied to all worthless concerns— :
Your „ poem „ in Ooleridge . g wordSi tells in astrangeand
awful manner of agonies that have been, and are, and are
still to continue to be Gunyee : What foundation for
that yarn? Who? When? Where? Uloola: “Ar-
raigned” wants interest... .A, E.C.: Apparently composed
‘ n of M th n e „ eartb b * that failed : •
R. OK. (H.R.) : Many thanks. Better for a paper not to
blow its own trumpet. How ridiculous are the prints
which when God sends an earthquake or a thunderblast
exclaim As the Sunday Times predicted in its issue of
—• •• Seah - V ; Yoar is atter G im P? r ssibl e. Must
get your matter t\ r ped... .Sam C. : When The Bulletin
wrote of “ loafs and fishes ” it was strictly grammatical,
it didn’t mean “ loaves and fishes ”—it meant “ loafs and
fishes ” — i.e., sinecure Govt, billets and the attached pay.
....A.P.R. : Why, we’ve had the bell-bird ad nauseam
ETHNOLOGICAL NOTES.—DETERIORATION OF THE
BREED OF KNIGHTS.
and you trot him out as a startling noveltv. The Aus-
tralian bell-bird (myzantha) is a fraud, anyhow, compared
with the South American campanero (eotingida) the crv
of which w often really mistaken for a bell-sound
Roughrider : That “ Drown the ! ” yarn turns-up
regularly about half-a-dozen times a year. And you give
place and persons M.S. : “A horse is better
than a bike, because a horse will carry you
home when you’re drunk, and a bike won’t.”
8.0. J. : If Welfare wins a race at 10 to 1 when the Millers
have another horse going at a shorter price it means that
they were mistaken as to Welfare’s chance. Ikey Mo is
not affected one way or other by newspaper paragraphs.
.... A.R.: You state that the two men had a confidential
chat on the voyage between Adelaide and Colombo. Well
your paragraph was written before there had been time
for anyone in Melbourne to get a letter from Colombo
concerning the passengers by that boat. Clean bowled !
D.F.L. : “ Honey” not force enough D.B. : Only
care for the ballade of O.R W.A. : Yes, the Sydney
police carry revolvers on duty.... .E.G.0.: Will print
0.L.: P.W.L. (Tas.): Handed to Messrs. Angus and
Robertson, who may communicate with you
Many thanks T.W.R. : Very little, we fear,
could be done by writing; you would have to
see the surgeon and be thoroughly examined
0.0. : Remarkable ease of swollen poetry-probably
mumps.....C.A. : “ In the meantime.” Why not “ mean-
while?” Much shorter, and means same thing.
Punter : Why didn’t you state that you had backed Rose-
bud with a tote in which the employes of Rosebud’s
owner were investing their silver? The comparatively
short price under those circumstances was no argument
against the machine. As for the 10 per cent, deduction,
it is much less than the average profit that Ikey Mo de-
rives from his receipts, and you must remember that a
crowd of racing “sharps” get all the cream of Ikey’s
market, and live on the game more or less. The average
small punters loses 50 per cent, of all the money he puts
into Ikey’s bag, and some of that 50 per cent, goes to feed
the “sharps”—the “earlybirds.” T.B.F. : Shortly....
Clias. W. T. : Not point enough.... Algy : Enough'said
on the horse-and-saddle question H. Gar : Not quite
enough in it Croyez : A good idea... .Kelpie :On re-
consideration, not enough in it....Vril: Stocking yarn a
woeful chestnut.. ..E.P. : After all, the O’Sullivan’s day-
labor system in N.S.W. Public Works Dept, is far short of
being general. In connection with building jobs, for
instance, though masons, carpenters, etc., are engaged
by the Dept’s officers, tenders are still called for carting
the supply of bricks, and so 0n....A.D.8. : Unusable:
After Long Years u Lov r e Litany;” i 1 Dungeon of
Flowers;” “Nudge of Fate.”... .M.H. :No thanks—and
no comma after the N 0... .Nemo: Nihil Judes : Bright
—too bold, we fear... .H.A.M. : Mass of triohni®
V.R. : “Seraph” wants interest P.B. (Mt. Lyell):
WHY TALK OF SOUTH AFRICAN FARMS?
“ Will our troops remain in South Africa? —Questions in Parliament.—More invalided Aus-
tralians. —86 on the Persic." —News Headings.
(1) Address Govt. Harbor Dept., M.L. ; (2) Any bookseller
Butcher : Not up... .Bert A. : You’ll find poem some-
where about the South Pole J.B. (W.A.) : Probably
Bullberi: No more tree-climbing Balaam’s A. : In-
clined to be mullocky ; but will concentrate S.C.O.J. :
Subject shelved. Yes ; for anything we use ..J.J.A. :
Thanks ; but not worth while Les. Lee : “ Tramp ”no
good ; “ Sally ” better, but not up... .Kodak : “Wedding”
would need carving; will consider Yarrum : Whale
yarn lacks interest.... Winda : Too fragmentary and con-
fused Morning: Tame and ineffective... .Cecil W. :
Too wordy, but ends well, and may be used N.d.W. :
“ Science,” will try to fix up Will J. : Sorry you don’t
seem able to quite “hit it.” Julian M. : Very weak in
places A. 8.0. : Not a bad little bit, but out of
Bulletin's line... .Quilp N. : Verse too stiff and jerky.
... .Battler : Good in places, but very forced in others....
Deddiok : The presentation silver tea-service came from a
pawn-shop, and was not as new as it looked. But don’t
you wish you had been the man to get it ? Cull (Melb.):
Promising; but you want more skill, and not quite so
much tragedy Louis M. : Considering. But those
sheep were murdered by man’s greed and neglect. You
overstock in the good seasons, and in the bad they perish.
Don’t put the blame on poor old George H.C.G. : Not
good enough Pipe : Declined C.P.Q. : “ Voyager’
weak.... W.M.W.: All flat... .H.G.: Looks too much like
the same old drunk Kodak : Not badly done : a little
slight for us, L.R. (Q.) : Some useful.... .J.J.W. : Not
grit enough Wandering Willie : Dog-item rejected
Bendee : The “D.F. Double” labours heavily, and
flounders out of sight of the winning-post... .Marcel:
Rather tamely handled Lycidias (meaning “Lyci-
das ?”): No skill or interest E.J.W. : Graphic simpli-
city. May use.. .Agnes M. : “Oobbett”—ldea not
amiss, but not well enough handled... .Moorara : Chiro-
graphy too craggy A. Jackson : Story four times too
long for Bull3Tin. Vic. stamps will do for return
E.M‘D. : It is a foolish sneer. Why shouldn’t parson
Walters have as good a choir as he can get ? And how do
you know that God likes Moody and Sankey tunes best ?
Leonidas : One good—other doubtful.... Ben S. : Last
three items show falling-off, instead of improvement.
Ideas forced throughout, and rhymes dragged in right
and left... .C.H.T.K. : Has gracefulness and simplicity,
but is not quite up to mark Joan W. : Too slight
Frank H. : “ Troth ” idea been frequently used. Other
two more sound than sense. You are obviously one of
the poets who never quite know what they mean them-
selves Hugh H. : Touch rather feeble Senex :
Thanks ; but no interest for Bulletin readers.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS,
J.K.W. : Unusable.... Leslie B. : Subject too utterly de-
pendent on humor of artist 0.0.8. : Why not print
vour initials legibly on your drawings? Why such
flourishes ?.,.. J.E.E.. .For re-drawing, perhaps.. .'.Henry
E.H. (L.): Too large and complicated and work too fine
anyhow... .R.F.L. : Old and unprintable... .W.B. : An
impossible subject....Arthur.J.H. : Unusable H.E.S. :
Not in. this paper’s vein, as anybody should know
Fairholm : Old as Mt. Kosciusko L.H. (W.A.) ; Harry
J. (W) ; W.M. ; Judas J.; Wal T. ; Syd. S. ; D.M.W. ;
Grant Her.; A.L.B. ; E.A.A.D. ; J.BAV. : H.E.P. ; L.
Hickey ; Walter M.; A.O.T. ; J.8.L.; V.V.L. (or some-
thing like that) (E. Melb.) : Unavailable.
The gentle Chow. An ex-Sydney scribe
writes from China to Sydney E. News :
Yesterday I saw a man who is being strangled to death
in the Chinese city adjoining the settlement. The fellow
had been tried at the Mixed Court here for cutting two
men’s eyes out with a knife, and he had several murders
against him, as well as other charges. We thought the
Chinese Govt, would behead him ; but they condemned
him to slow strangulation. He stands in a thing like I
have drawn, right in the busiest street of the city.
Europeans give him a couple of dollars to hold up his
head while they photograph him. He only went in yes-
terday, and was eating and talking, smilingly, with the
people around. They reckon he'll be choked on the fifth
day, when all the stones are taken down from under his
feet. These stones are removed one by one, day by day,
so that at last he is hanged, after having been gradually
strangled. He may live for four or five days, but he’s in
the thing night and day. Horrible, isn’t it? But his
crime was horrible, too.
Proposed in Britain to discourage the
despatch of missionaries of either sex to China by
refusing to extend them even nominal protection,
and letting it be quite understood that in the
future any Chow who amuses himself any dull
afternoon by pouring boiling lead over a mission-
ary will not be called to account by an admiral
with a fleet behind him. To refuse armed protec-
tion to missionaries is logical; they go to preach
what is essentially a gospel of peace and non-
resistance and forgiveness of injuries, and to do
that backed up by troops, fleets, and cannon is
pure burlesque.
Patents for Inventions—Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
Writes a Victorian, settled in the
Transvaal:—
The man who first hoisted the Union Jack at Johannes-
berg was a Kaffir. It was this way. A number of
Uitlanders met at the office of one of their number to
privately celebrate Lord Roberts’ occupation of Bloem-
fontein. A big Union Jack was displayed at one end of
the room. After champagne had flowed freely, it was
inanely suggested that the flag ought to have some, too,
so it was forthwith drenched with the expensive tipple.
Next morning the Kaffir “ boy,” who came to put things
straight, noticed the forlorn condition of the bunting, and
prosaically hung it out to dry, over the balcony. Boer
feeling was very bitter just then, and if the proprietor
hadn’t turned up in time to take in the flag there would
have been great trouble.
Wake Up!
You are an energetic man—an ambitious one.
But it is hard to rise in tlie morning. You feel
that you could take just one more nap, and one
more and still more.
Your head is heavy.
You dislike to get up.
Your mouth tastes badly.
Your breakfast does not suit.
You are excitable. When you go to work you
don’t feel like it. You fight the feeling all day,
and a couple of hours before office closing time
you turn in and work like a hero. Next morning
the same thing over again.
That isn’t laziness —it’s illness, real serious ill-
ness. Later it will develop into something even
worse—liver trouble or kidney disease follow in
the wake of just such a condition. There is a
remedy that will put you on your feet, a specific
for kidney and liver troubles, Warner’s Safe Cure.
It will wake up your liver, give you an appetite,
allow you to ensure needed regular rest and sleep
at night, invigorate the system, and dispel all
symptoms of liver disease.
Mr. F. A. Burt, of Bourke, N.S.W., writes:
“ I have much pleasure in informing you that just
about twelve months ago I suffered from a pain in
my right side, and a tired and languid feeling, and
after some time I got a lump in my right side
which caused me to seek advice from a medical
book. There I found the cause was the liver, and
knowing Warner’s Safe Cure to be a good and safe
oure for same, I gave it a fair trial, with great
sueoess. I have much pleasure in saying that I
never felt anything of it sinoe.”
A DREAM OF THE PAST.
SMITH: “Yes, Theosophy is a beautiful creed.
We have many incarnations, and sometimes
we get a shadowy recollection of a previous
existence—just a glimpse , you know—a fleeting
memory of thousands of years ago ”-
ISACS: You don't happen to remember about a
sovereign I lent you in a previous state of
existence, do you? ”


ON HIS MERITS.
BOB BEST (the starter): “You’ve got to come off that and toe the mark.” BOODLE : “Would you deprive me of ray means of conveyance?"
B.B.: “Yes, you must go on your merits.” BOODLE: “Ain’t Money merits?”
“ Mr. Best moved the addition of certain new clauses circulated by him, and
dealing with election expenses. He wished as far as possible to puri y e ec < kh>*»
and limit the expenses of candidates in a most legitimate direction. le lmi a
of election expenses was a leading plank in the principles of liberalism an *
cracv, and in that respect Victoria very seriously lagged behind England, Uana ,
New Zealand, and South Australia. He was aware of too many instances where till
power and influence of wealth had made itself resistlcssly felt in oca e ec 10 •
Clause M provided that the total expense incurred by a candidate should not exce
' XIOO, but in country electorates or in cases where the whole colony was the elector-
ate, the personal expenses of the candidate might be added to that amount.


DE. BOSS’S N.S.W. BOYS’ ANTI-SMOKING BILL.
'—There may be a difficulty in determining
a Quid’s age, because in this country some
children of 16 are very large for their
age. In Committee I will be prepared
to amend the first clause by insert-
ing words to the effect that it
should apply to a child actually
or apparently of a certain
age.
Dr. Roes : I have only one son, and I am proud
to say that although 46 years of age, he has not
smoked tobacco, cigars, or cigarettes, or chewed
tohaoco, or taken snuff.
That boy will have to be watched.
Depend on it he will yet be caught behind
the woodshed taking a sly whiff.
Mr. J. C. L. Fitzpatrick (Rylsfcone): It only provides against persons
under the age of 16 smoking in public streets, public thoroughfares, public
places, and public Those is no provision which will debar
any youth under that age from hiring a boat in Woolloomooloo Bay and
going out on the harbor and smoking there until he is black in the face.
I)*. " Maclc,„ k T VjiyK
| c J> a n e fa bfaijcl
kks
The 3rd clause provides for children who may re
quire medical treatment, for instance, for asthma. I
would not like to pass a provision which would prevent
a child from smoking
a cigar for medicinal
purposes.
Suppose such a boy is caught smoking
a cigarette, and no birth-certificate can
be forthcoming. Suppose the boy, while
looking 13|. years of age, is 17 i years
of age, how is the bench to decide,
such a case ?
Dr. Itoss (Molong) rose to move :
That this Bill bo now read the second time.
7"* .. , Its object is to prohibit, as far as possible,
juveniles under a certain age from- using tobacco, cigars, and cigarettes. It .will be
a disgrace to New South Wales, the mother colony, if this measure does not become
law, but it will be no disgrace to me. T only seek to protect the children who are
igrowing up amongst us, so that they may not go to premature graves.
Mr. G. H. Reid : I never tried to smoke but once
in my life and then I was sick for a week afterwards.
Mr. Sleath : I would suggest to the hon. and learned member
for Molong, that instead of inserting in the Bill an age-limit, he
should insert a size-limit. Let it be
provided, for example, that no
unless he were under the height
of 5 feet 3| inches, should be
allowed to smoke cigar-
ettes. There would
be no difficulty
in the matter.
Mr. W. M. Hughes : How
would the hon. member lor
Molong deal with chewing f
The already overworked police will hare
increased duties thrust upon them !
Mr. Sleath : I am told that
when females are suffering from
toothache and other nervous com-
plaints they sometimes resort to
smoking. -i. J )
Mr. W. M. Hoghes: Now,
imagine a case of this kind: A
boy is walking along the street*
and a- policeman, not knowing
whether he is chewing tobacco or
sucking a bull’s eye, strikes him
on the back, forcing him to
swallow a bull’s eye.
Mr. W. M. HugliEs : Certainly, if we are to have one law here
and another in Victoria; a youth cannot go about with a cigarette in
his mototh, but another boy is permitted to smoke with impunity.


•Wec3L and. Blrtnaay G-lfta Direct from London House
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Hair Brush, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30a.
Monogram Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
liemaire” Wald and Opara Glass, 255, £2, £2 10a, £3, £4
A. SAUNDERS.
Teapots, Pure Silver-plated, Various Style* of
Engraving, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10*. £3.
Send for Pattern Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
8 Jam Spoons, or Butter, in Silk-lined Case,
7s 6d, 10s od, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s, 255, 30s.
Very Neat and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 ©’dock Tea Spoons in Silk-'ined Case, In
Various Patterns, 12s 6d, XSs, 20s, £se.
OenU's “ Companion," or Letter Book, Pure
Silver Mounted, I2s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ears Cruets, Pure Silver-plated,
20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 10s 6d ; ocher
styles, 4/6, 7/6, 15s
A WARM FRIEND,
Silver - plated, l Os,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A Nic« Present.
Biscuit, Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s, 20s, 255.
-7
r
C
cr- v
fj,
STI
V:
'i (.
Child’3 Sets in Silk-lined Cases, 10s, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s.
HANDSOME 8 HIKING CLOCK.
Marble 8-Day Striking Clock, Gilt Mounts, & > ; without Mounts, 355.
Guaranteed :10 Years.
Useful Present.
AUIYOE
A. SAUNDERS.
Roger**" Carver*, in Silk-lined Case, 20s ; Other Styles, 80s, £2, £2 10a.
HBMB
large size oake or fruit
BASKET.
First-clam Pure Silver-plated, 26*.
Extra Ornamented, 30*.
Handsome and Useful Present
A. SACtvDKKS.
Dinner Cruet. 6 Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated,
355, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10*.
4 O’clock Tea Set, with Covers, Pure Silver-plated, Gilt Inside,
First-clue English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Stjrla, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Hair Brushes, Pure
Silver, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
30s. We do up equal to
new Discolored Hair
Brushes, 2s.
Mirrors, Pure Silver,
Velvet Back, 255.
All Silver, £2, £2 10s, £B.
A. SAUNDERS.
Flower Stands, Silver-plated,
Red Glass, 12s 6d pair.
Jams, Pure Silver-plated, Chased, Green or
Bed Glass, as above, IBs 6d ; round, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Knife Rests, Cut Glass, Pure Silver Mounted,
15s Cd, In Silk-lined Case.
Lunch or Dinner Cruet.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 21.
Similar Style, 265, 30s, 355.
2*3®
3
A. S A CINDERS.
Butters, Pure Silver on Hard White
Metal, 16s 6d; large, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugars, Goal Scuttle, 16s 6d, 20s,
255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Gilt Clock, 10s, 12s (id, 15s, 20s.
Neat and Useful Clock.
Butters, Pure Silver-plated, White Glass,
8s 6d ; Bound, 10s.
Toast Back, Pure Silver-plated,
108 6d, 12a 6d, 15s, 18a 6d, 21s.
Call and See Our Silver-plate and Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
OR BEND FOR OUR 1900 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
POST FREE ANYWHERE.^
-A.. s.a.ttitid:ej:r,s,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 GEORGE ST-
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Publications.
SEARCH
THE
WIDE
WORLD
OVER
And you will not find any Musical L’ublications that
compare in variety or value with the
• •
Australian
Music gooks
Price, It-
or . .
Posted, IJ2.
No, 52 (Just Published) contains
10 Pianoforte Solos
of Moderate Difficulty.
No. 51 contains
25 Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
A Perfect Gem. Get it for your Children.
No. 50 THE CRIEC ALBUM, contains
21 Magnificent Pieces
By the Famous Composer, EDVARD GRIEG.
No. 49 contains
49 Little Songs for Tiny Voices
This is another splendid number you should have
for the Children. It is certainly a marvellous
Shilling’s worth.
No. 48 contains
11 Pianoforte Pieces
Moderately Difficult. A splendid Drawing-
room and Teachers’ Number.
No. 47 contains
12 Selected Songs
Including Gounod’s Serenade.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST, which will be sent
Post Free for the asking.
BUT" If either of the above Numbers are not obtainable
at your Musicsellers send direct to
Ilian Co. proprietary [td.
Music Publishers ,
276 & 278 Coffins st., Melbourne
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring 1 Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Bady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each In-
coming' Mailboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING- "
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
T 9:
Thom
ons
THE HOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
HADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“X.A. KTOEjLESSE »»
A New and Elegant Series ol Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OP ALL
' THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London-
NEW
ROCHESTER LODGE
coiiins place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Uost Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Wiihin three minute.’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Modeatre.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND,
Proprietress
Henry Skinner,
Ciarendon-Et., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101*5.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered (or
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
ESTABLISHED 55 YEARS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST STOCKS OF
IRONMONGERY IN AUSTRALIA.
Cheapest Prices.
ROOFING FELT, 75ft.x32in., 8* roll ; 500
i ton 3 Bolts and Nuts up to 3Gin. long; Black,
Galvanised, and Steam Pipe up to Bin. dia. ; Wire
Nails, taking 10cwt. assorted sizes, 10s cwt., as
follows : l£in. x 6-7-8-9-10-11, lfin. x G-7-8-9-10,
2in. x 5-6-7-8, 2| x 5-G-7.-8, 2i x 5-6-7-8 ; Copper
Boilers, 25 gallons, 35s ea. ; Copper Boilers up to
120 gallons ; Octagon Steel, lin., £2O ton ; Good
Quality Fuse, in cases of 500 coils, 4|d coil ;
Tinned Meat “ S ” Hooks, 3in. to Bin., 26s cwt. ;
Governor Brand Horse Shoe Iron, ljxij, 10s cwt.;
Walker’s Horse Nails, 9s. cwt. ; Globe Nails,
slightly touched, 4s box ; Bullock, Drag, Leading,
Back Chains, 2d lb. ; Bullock Bows, Id per lb, ;
Buggy Poles, 2s 6d ea. ; Tyre Bolts, 3-16th Is 6d,
% 2s, 5-16th 3s per 100 ; Varnish, in 4 gallon tins,
20s tin ; Copal, 7s Gd gallon ; French Polish,
4s Gd gallon ; Hay Knives, 3s 6d ea. ; 2-pronged
Hay Forks, 15s doz. ; Hay Rakes, 10s doz. ; Cross-
Cut Saws, Gs ea. ; Pit Saws, 7s 6d ea. ; Military
Rifles, 7s Gd and 10s; Single Barrel Muzzle
Loaders, 15s ; Pinfire Revolvers, Gs ea. ; Snaring
Wire, 3d lb. ; Soft Soap, for Wool-washing, 14s
cwt. ; Steel Wire, slightly touched, 19 to 22 g.,
suitable for Broom-making, 10s cwt. ; Paint
Brushes from 6s doz. ; Mixed Paints, 3£d per lb.;
Plough Shares, 10s doz. •
IMPORTFRQ of Builders’ & Contrac-
llTirun ■ tno torsl> Engineers’, Plum-
bers’ & Gasfitters’, Cabinet-makers’, &
General Ironmongery & Painters’ Material.
John (IHntosh & Sons,
307, 321, 323, 325, 276, 278,
PITT-ST., SYDNEY, K.S.W.
• »
THE WORD
• •
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsts
Coatings,
SergssiTweeJs
on which it is stamped.
fox’s fure 3ndigo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp aie not
genuine.
fox Brothers i Co., £ts.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings,. Vicunas,
Sarass, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to tho English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emylcyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
O
Australian Agents for the Wholesale.
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Ai.D -
422, George Street, Sydney.
TRIO BELT
'ILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVUSORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, IVeak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts ; to
such men Electricity and the Ke-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. ‘ Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
i.-'.
-~ v
Hf - ■
i*<&.
.
.
I
/
■'. • < 'v. *' *'• "'
s*fg|
$S
••->-. t
. '■
'K
'•■■ 1
1
*V,-_-»> ’ S
■
<«
*V»y-
-A
s?g
«r Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s hills. Call if you Can. If not, let
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to he SJtrong.
Call or
Apply :
fg
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep !
TT FILLS the blood with the lire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BOPY BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body applb
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles£l
Cut-Rate Price List Post Free on Application.
C3TTT
RATE.
3
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
geo. Roe $ Co.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
Cfb/Xfyc
G-O TO TISTLiT.-
l(ii)|,ANli for Putty Stamps, tint
if you want real stood stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
71 El:zateth-st.. Svdney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists irratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Sri.K >TKir4
JNJATT ALA&-K and oilier UNSHiIINKAISI.K SlllltTt
are highly recommended.
33J i>er JlalJ-itoziui, f'rre hi/ post thromjhn nt
.1 list rill in.
Pattern* .'ui<lMeujaui-i>ieuLJ'!amigJUj. Applies tioe
B. MOBNTCASTLB & SONS, Brisbane (Hand.
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. IWvrr. ltd.,
Londuo, S. E.
x \
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # EO.,
J'V in it nre and Fine Art A net ion errs,
Auction Room - !, 321 Gteorjp Street, Sylnoy,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sulrx H rid fit fh>‘ A lift ion Jloom
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sal*.
Valuations and fu.ventories carefully prepared.
Waite u .Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
They now call Lyne’s the “ round-robin ”
Ministry. The Premier will risk nothing before a
big majority of members has been openly sounded.
Suggested in print that Edmund Barton
should succeed “Willie Governor” —taking over
the rags of vice-regality, the paper-bag emptied
of its apples.
There is just a chance that the Royal
Commission now enquiring into various smellful
matters of Q. Works department may prove the
“happy despatch ” of the Boodlewraith.
Several highly-placed Q. politicians do not
intend standing for the Federal Parliament. For
the present, at least, you see, the railways will
still be controlled by the local Legislatures.
The Sydney City Railway is likely to cost
B. R. Wise his seat at Ashfield, and will dis-
count his prospects for the Federal Parliament
should Parochialism be a factor in Commonwealth
; politics.
The Q. Govt, uses the old local electoral
names for proposed Federal electorates up North.
No imagination is available, all that commodity
being used to extol the virtues of various syndi-
cate-railways now on the board.
The facts in connection with the resigna-
tion of N.S.W. Govt. Whip Carroll, anti his
sudden return to the Ministerial fold, would
supply material for a political comedy. The press-
inspired “ facts” are leagues from the truth.
The latest attempt of Major Steward,
M.H.R., to enact that Maoriland Ministers shall
be elected by Parliament was only defeated
by 33 votes to 24, though the vast weight of the
Seddon Govt, was thrown against the measure.
The Elective Ministry is coming right enough.
The Holder Ministry (S.A.) is generally
supposed to be only hanging on to office by a
majority of two or three, and at latest the
Solomon-Rounsevell opposition crowd was busy
tempting weak Ministerialists with offers of seats
in a new Govt, as the price of their desertion.
The opinion gaining favor among a certain
section of Federalists is that the State Governors
shall be local men, but shall be nominated by the
Gov.-General. What is gained by this latter
condition ? Why should they not be elected by
the people, as in the IJ.Si, or appointed by the
Executive Council ?
Concerning the Bill drafted for presenta-
tion to Q. Parliament prohibiting the continuance
of trials for capital offences after.fi p.m. (8., July
28), The Bulletin is informed that the Bill is
mainly due to A. H. Barlow, who was greatly
influenced to take the matter up by The Bul-
letin’s remarks on Judge Gibson’s conduct at the
Ensor trial at Broken Hill.
TLEIN-AIR
PAINTERS.
STLASH : “ Going out
painting this afternoon?”
SMUDGE : “ Yes, Pm going to have a smack at
that sunrise I started yesterday.”
Ex-Speaker Abbott, whose health unfits
him for the Chair of N.S.W. Parliament, and,
generally, for ordinary Parliamentary work, an-
nounces his intention to stand for the Federal
Senate.' He is also in favor of a member sitting
in both Commonwealth and State Parliaments,
and will probably hold a seat in each, if allowed.
J. P. Abbott has for years held prominent posts
in N.S.W. politics for some of the reasons which
keep the Sick Man of Europe to the fore, but
the new wave of national life is certain to engulf
many pretentious careers.
The insistence with which the Rhodes-
Chamberlain gang sticks to its plan of getting the
Australian troopers to join the S’African Con-
stabulary emphasises a recent remark here made
that, by t ;e strange whirligig of time, Australia,
originally peopled by convicts, had come to export
policemen. Our Great National Atonement!
Next sensation in N.S.W. politics : A re-
solution imposing ad valorem, duties. In the
Jennings period the Ministry was composed of
fieetradeand Protectionist elements, much as the
present is, but the freetrade members, including
Want, boldly declared ad valorem duties did not
touch the fiscal issue. A convenient gospel now.
The Maoriland M.P’s. who voted for the
right of free speech and against the dismissal of
HANSAitn-chief Grey for daring to protest against
the Boer war are—Atkinson, Collins, Ell, J.
Hutcheson, Lang, Lawry, McLacldan, Pirani,
G. VV. ltussell, W. R. Russell. Some of them are
Jingoes, but they are honest and manly Jingoes.
That a member of the Executive should
be professionally concerned in the defence of a
prisoner arraigned at Criminal Sessions is a
scandal and cannot lie justified an any grounds.
You can’t logically act as Judge of Appeal (at the
Executive table) after having acted as counsel or
attorney for the defence at the court. Executive
and judicial capacities must be remorselessly
divorced.
Is the Australian assimilating himself
rather to the Latin than to the Teuton in his
increasing liability to panic ? Lyne’s Sydney
Harbor Frontages Resumption Bill is still hung
up in N.S.W. Leg. Council, and no one is worry-
ing, but if the plague were still with us that Bill
would have been rushed through all its stages in
one night, and a wild-eyed person would have
roused up Gov. Beauchamp in the small hours for
his sign-manual thereto.
Seven members of N S.W, Assembly,
including John Norton, voted against the proposal
to adjourn because of the death of that German
princeling, the Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
“Anyhow” commented John, “seven’s a respect-
able number. Look at the seven sages, the seven
churches of Asia, the—” “and the Seven Deadly
Sins ” chipped in a voice from the other side. Also,
weren’t seven devils cast out of some gentlemen
in the New Testament ?
Ed. Bulletin, —I ask you, who have
always supported purely secular State education,
to let me invite some of the rev. gentlemen who
are now so loudly advocating Bible-reading in
public schools; to show the justice of their scheme.
Why should Jewish parents (and Catholic ones)
who are taxed to support the State school, be
mulcted for the purpose of subsidising the teaching
of Protestantism—for that is what Bible-reading
amounts to.— A. Collins Woinarski.
What if an Imperial Ministry subsidised
sections of the London daily press by giving
to its war - correspondents semi - sinecures
with substantial pay out of the public Trea-
sury, and providing them with every facility
for doing presswork ? Certainly the Govt, would
fall, in the first instance, and, in the second, the
public would not believe a word such subsidised
scribes would write. If old man Parkes were in
the N.S.W. Parliament now he would pull down
the roof on the heads of the Ministers, and the
very press to whose families and business interests
they now pander at public expense will, when
they have milked them, rend them in pieces.
Something quite new in the way of de-
fence proposals has been put before N.S. W. mili-
tary people. The suggestion is that the
■j way-back stations which can
muster a dozen willing
horseman shall be the
centre of “rifle units,”
Govt, providing rifles
and ammunition on the
same terms as rifle-clubs
get them, the station-
owners or managers being
responsible for the rifles. But
in connection with any such
movement there ought to be
tacked on to the conditions one that
there should be no call for service
other than to repel a foreign in-
vader. ,
The Industrial Arbitration
Bill (N.S.W.) is being fought
almost as unfairly as the
Federal Bill was. Here, for
instance, is one leading em-
ployers’ association’s protest :
We hold that the measure is
inopportune at the present time,
inasmuch as conciliation and arbi-
tration for the pi evention and settle-
ment of industrial disputes are speci-
fically reserved in the Federal Constitu-
tion tor the Federal Parliament.
But, as a matter of fact, the Federal
Parliament is only empowered to legislate with
regard to disputes affecting two or more States ;
so that all the miners or all the carpenters or all
the engine-drivers of N.S.W. might be on strike,
and the law which the Federal Parliament is en-
titled to make couldn’t touch the matter. Besides
there is no specific reservation of power to the
Federal Parliament, anyhow.
The stolidly parochial Brisbane Tele-
graph, probably the most consistently ignorant
and mendacious city paper in Australasia, put up
a record by hinting, in its issue of 2nd Aug., that
the Westralian Federal \ -e must be a wicki d
Federationist swindle, because out of “ 7<>,7oG ma'e
adults,” of whom probably only 51,138 were avail-
able for voting purposes, you couldn't get a vote of
70,000, or so, as shown in the polling returns. The
Get that women have a vote in Westralia is evi-
dently not known to Brisbane Telegraph yet.
That paper is only sufficiently up-to-date to know
that Queen Anne is seriously ill, and fears are
entertained that the old lady is breaking up. The
same Telegraph came out recently with a rather
dull anecdote about the “ King of Venice” —who-
ever he might have been. Probably he was
brother to the Due d’Moses.
Rhodes’ bribe to Australian bushmen to
settle in Rhodesia:
The conditions are— to Australians of good character,
with a knowledge of cattle and sheep—3ooo acres of land
to be purchased at lOd. an acre, payments to extend over
a number of years, with 500 head of cattle, and £25 per
year for keep. In return settlers are to give half the in-
crease of cattle and to attend military drill every quarter.
“ Pukaki ’’ : Almost certain that M.L. will
raise a big loan before long. Ministers keep on
half-heartedly denying it, but the majority of
their followers seem determined to force their
hand. Amusing to note how, whenever the
subject crops up, each mem-
ber rises and deprecates
the idea, and then goes
on to say that, if a loan
is raised, his district
ought to get its whack
of the
boodle.
T h e
shiv-
er be-
fore
the
plunge.
Sur-
ge o n
Treves
has told
Britain some very
interesting things
about the S’African
war, but his latest novelty
is to the effect that portion
of the British Army in
Boerland got mildly drunk
on its own ammunition.
It seems that when Tommy
could get nothing better,
he used to extract the
strings of cordite from his
cartridges and eat them.
Cordite looks like gelatine,
and is made from nitro-
glycerine, and a hungry
man can get up quite a
respectable drunk on a •
couple of cartridges. On
several occasions, it is
alleged, a good part of
the aggregate T. At-
kins had got so tight
on part of his am-
munition th at
he cou Id n’t
shoot to any
good pur-
pose with the
rest. Query.
Did any of those men who
were allegedly killed by ex-
plosive bullets simply fall
down and explode their con-
tents by the shock ?
Westralia leads the way
in some things, and one of them
is the new idea of issuinjg monthly
a Drief, abstract of the province’s statistics.
Half the advantage of statistics consists in
having them constantly kept up to date.
By this method the principal figures relating
to Westralian affairs will never be more than
six weeks in arrear. In the other provinces
they are mostly 12 months behind. This time
W.A. comes pretty close to leading the world.
There is a serious split in the ranks of
Sydney Italians over King Humbert’s death.
The Royalist Italians are comparatively few;
most of the fruit-vendors and ice-cream men (who
form the bulk of the local community) are Social-
ists or Anarchists who are devoid of sympathy
with the Italian Royal house.
The influence of the Sydney dailies upon
the Lyne Govt, seems to be exerted on a “ scratch-
me-scratch-thee ” principle. The fact that two
Telegraph reporters had been transferred to
N.S.W. Agent-General’s office in London was
recently noted ; the son of D.T. manager Wynne,
reporter with the Chinese contingent, was sent
away as salaried paymaster ; and it now tran-
spires that D.T. managing-director Carey was re-
cently appointed a trustee of N.S.W. Govt.
Savings Bank. Also, isn’t “ Major” Carey to be
chairman of the Harbor-Resumption Board ? The
Government organ—yes, by Jingo !
The Bulletin has been tabooed from the
Maoriland M.L. Parliamentary Library. Yet
when Premier Seddon—he ruled then and he
rules now—visited Australia, he called in quite
spontaneously at The Bulletin office to thank
tiiis paper for all it had done in the cause of
democracy, The Bulletin, which never runs
after any politician, took it as a compliment, but
didn't mention the fact. Nor did it men-
tion that more than once it has received
from him enthusiastic cablegrams, thanking
it for the help its leading articles had given to
him at the elections'. It somehow can’t help
mentioning these things now. The Bulletin
will continue to help Premier Seddon all it knows
in his democratic and cosmopolitan capacity. In
his capacity as a Jingo and a bigoted Tyke it will
continue to jump upon him with all its feet.
The new Sydney Freetrade paper, Our
Country, covers nearly a page with a kind of
reply to The Bulletin’s article of 4th August,
“The Foreign-Shoddyists of N.S.W.” And in
all that spacious rejoinder it doesn’t once touch
on the matter which almost wholly occupied the
article it is replyingto. Said matter wasthatduring
the recent freetrade period, 1895-09 (it wasn’t
really freetrade, but still it was the only period
when N.S.W. came reasonably close to freetrade),
N.S.W. exacted from its people £1,529,413 less in
Customs revenue than Victoria did, and made it
up by charging to loans £1,017,237 more of
the ordinary un-reproductive works properly
payable out of revenue than Victoria did.
This is according to the figures of N.S.W.’s
own Statistician Coghlan, who divides the loan
expenditure between “works yielding direct
revenue ” and other works. Therefore, the alleged
“ lifting of the burdens off the people ” was a mere •
shifting them on to posterity in the shape of loans.
And the great Freetrade period in N.S.W., as
compared with the corresponding Protectionist
period in Victoria, was simply one in which Free-
trade appealed to the people by pointing to ita-
own beauties as a policy that could reduce taxa-
tion and yet keep the country solvent—and care-
THE DANGERS OF TEMPERANCE.
CHORLRY : “ But , my deah fellah, at your age
you ought to be working. What’s wrong
with you?”
WRECK: “I had an iron constitution until I
took to drinking water, and that rusted me.”
fully refrained from adding that it only made
the eounti’y look solvent by ever-increasing misap-
propriations of the loan funds.
Tasmania’s House of Assembly, being
invited to again renew the concession of the Great
Western Land Grant Kail way Co.—that unspeak-
ably insolent concern which has been going to
build a railway for Heaven knows how many
years and which never got started—had a sudden
access of common sense and energy, and dropped
the whole swindle overboard by a majority of
two. And after this experience, if Tasmania
listens to any more oily gentlemen in the
land-grant rail way business it deserves the
inevitable consequences. It was the vote of
R. C. Patterson, of Hobart, that settled the ques-
tion. The division was 18 and 16 on Braddon’s
motion that the Bill be shelved. If Patterson
had voted with the syndicate the numbers would
have been even, and Speaker Nick Brown, on the
skirt of whose district (Cumberland) the railway
would run, daren’t vote against the line even if he
were so inclined. A queer thing about the divi-
sion was that Gaffney, a West Coast member,
went against the Bill, but Gaffney owns the
Palace Hotel at Strahan, the port of the West,
and where the harbour works are being begun.
Patterson has apparently ruined his chances of
re-election for Hobart, but he has done a good
thing for Tasmania at large. The night the Bill
was so justly squelched, an indignation meeting
was held at the Town Hall, when R.C.P. was
called “ traitor” and “falsepretender,” and there
were cries of “turn him out!” It was resolved
to send round for signature a requisition calling
on him to resign. Director Rymill went over
from Adelaide to barrack for the Bill, and ad-
dressed a public meeting in Hobart the morning
of the day it was thrown out, and tried to explain
that Patterson was against the impudent land-
grab from motives of personal enmity. The Tas.
Northern members voted in a solid block against
the Bill. They held a caucus and agreed not to
discuss it, and Braddon was the only one of them
that made a speech. When the first syndicate
got its Bill late in ’96, Braddon, who was then
Premier, sat up all night and successfully resisted
the Northern stonewall.


Paling’s
w
ESTABLISHED 1853.
Pianos, Organs, and
Musical Instruments
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
fg
Save Money by Purchasing
a Reliable and Perfect Piano, such as the
following, which are constructed of the
Best-seasoned Materials, and have the
Most Improved Actions, and, further-
more contain
MODERN IMPROVEMENTS
IN CONSTRUCTION.
STEINWAY
BRINSMEAD
LI PP (the Genuine R. Lipp & Sohn)
UEGEL & LECHLEITER
JULIUS FEURICH
CARL ECKE
GORS & KALLMAN
THE VICTOR and
“BELLING.”
W. H. Paling&Co., Ltd.
PALING & CO., Ltd.,
are able to give the Best Value owing to the
immense number they sell. Their present
enormous trade is owing to wonderful
value, also to the fact that the Pianos give
unusual satisfaction, even in most trying
parts of Queensland. Pianos may he
bought for Cash, or are supplied to any
part of the roior,.- on Easy Time Payment,
from 20s. monthly.
PALING & CO.’S
usually immense Stock has lately been
augmented by the arrival of several large
shipments, and is now exceptionally
complete.
LOWEST PRICES
HIGHEST QUALITY
BEST RESULTS
srcT'rv
rir.cn-’
•* \;.y •</ ■ • • • k "**
> * ■ ■> - *, ••
>•
V-Vv; V• ' • ’ <:
.. *•’ . ,
kl > >'».' ■
;.r x
■ /•'
‘r
%
V ■* - ,
. ,1
N •. 4k»- KS.,<~y ' ;V
UPON .. »V •»> »X*v* ■ ’**
; 4'. HONOR . fi'jjfrv.yfr*: -
!N
MMWKII THf lAiOBID (I»IR
338 George Street, Sydney.
Unquestionably
the Cheapest
House for
Pianos, Organs,
and aIL
Musical Goods
SEND
EOB
EBEE
CATALOGUES
PALING’S
SOLE AGENTS for
STEINWAY PIANOS
BRINSMEAD PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
FEURICH PIANOS
UEBEL PIANOS
ECKE PIANOS
VICTOR PIANOS
BELLING PIANOS
ESTEY .... ORGANS
Quality the Best.
Price the Lowest.
BAND AND
ORCHESTRAL
INSTRUMENTS
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
ACCORDEONS
CONCERTINAS
MOUTH ORGANS
Everything and
Anything Musical.
TIME PAYMENTS^
Our prices will prove to you the advantage of
placing your orders with us . . .
w.
H.
PALING * Co. LIS.
338 George Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE AND NEWCASTLE.
Colonel Parrott, in a recent letter from
S’Africa, says that “ there are only 18 left (includ-
ing two officers) out of the 110 members of the
Australian Horse that left N.S.W. in the Surrey.
Killed, wounded, prisoners, sick and missing,
account for the balance.”
Letters from the Ist Australian Bushmen
(Airey’s.lot) give a terrible account of things. The
country a fever-nest —60 per cent, of the men down
with sickness. The whole thing a hideous bungle
—nothing but incompetence and mismanagement.
The bulk of the Imperial officers placed in com-
mand no good whatever ; among them lots of
persons who would make perfect stage-idiots,
like Tweenwayes in “The Amazons.” “Here,
for instance,” writes The Bulletin’s informant,
“are a few local Johnny gems : —One distinguished
officah, travelling on the road, turned to his com-
panion, while cleaning his teeth, and said in a
languid voice, ‘l’ve not half finished cleaning
my teeth, dear boy, and I feel quite exhausted.’
Another actually bawled out at the club, ‘ Haw,
I’ve sent a cable home for toothpicks—l, haw—
cawn’t get any heah that I like.’ Another said to
his servant, referring to a tin of boulli-beef:
‘ Haw, M , just taste that and tell me what
you think; and if it isn’t too beastly I’ll try it.’
Talk about ‘trying it on the dog!’ You can
imagine what the exponents of such idiotic affec-
tations are capable of.”
A solicitor at Grafton (N.S.W.) was,
t’other day, applying for the postponement of a
case owing to certain accidental injuries which
one of the parties had met with. The Bench
asked for a medical certificate. The solicitor had
not. procured that, as no medico was treating the
patient; but, instead, he produced a blood-
stained sock worn by the suitor when the casualty
occurred. Case adjourned !
To Country Ladies Visiting Sydney.
Mrs. H. F. G. BALDRY, 205 Glenmore
1 . Road, Sydney, desires to acquaint the above
Ladies that she has commenced business as a. LADIES’
AGENT, to transact orders for shopping, or assist in
same, secure apartments, <Stc.
Communications will receive prompt attention.
Highest References.
Not a Guessing Competition.
A RECORD. —We
sold 5000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/6 in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/- extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
s
*
\
a JEWELLED,’ FULL-DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. AVe make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The AA T atch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
53 ROYAL ARCADE,
V^SYDNEY.
WEBBER’S
VITADATIO
DOES WORK.
Mr. LENNON BYRNETON, of 88 Oothara-road, Kew,
(Vic.), says :
“ I ani 72 years of age, and for a long time my life was
despaired of. My disease was a complication of troubles,
viz., Liver and Kidney Complaints. Sometimes I was so
ill I could not sleep or take any food, and the pains were
so bad that the doctors said that there was nothing for
me but an ‘operation.’ My friends in Williamstown
heard of the wonderful cures brought about by the Great
Remedy, VITADATIO, and urged me to call upon Mr.
Palmer, Agent for VITADATIO, and get his advice about
my case. I did so, and he assured me that VITADATIO
would cure me, and I am delighted to say, after taking
six large bottles, I am once again restored to good health,
and I feel as if I shall never be able to say enough in favor
of the Great Remedy. Anyone who would like a personal
interview with me can do so at the above address.
“ Yours sincerely, LENNON BYRNETON.”
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s (id; Small Size, ,3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WUBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
*3-ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
TAILORING.
Spring & Summer Suitings.
'V r OUR Hand, my Lad. Write for
X HATTE’S SPRING and SUMMER
TWEEDS and COATINGS.
You will like them. Your Sweetheart
will like them.
Real Good Suits, with extra Pair of
Trousers, Indigo, Twill, Serge, and
Tweeds, £2 2s.
A Real Clinker Hand-Made Suit, Fancy
Worsted. Vicunnas, Serges, and Serge-
rettes, £2 10s.
Best Hand-Made Suit, No Equal in Aus-
tralia, £3 3s.
Our Made to Measure Trousers, Indigo,
Serges, Tweed, and Sergerette, 9s 6d.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
O. Gr. HC A.TT E,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
MARY ANN BARNARD.— Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of Mrs. Mary Ann Tinney (maiden name,
Mary Ann Barnard, born at Barton, St. David, Somer-
setshire, who left England about the year 1857 for
Brisbane, Queensland, kindly write to her brother, JOHN
BARNARD, 18 Linden Street, Toronto, Canada.
WARNING
i
to
Cyclists!
CYCLISTS^-.
should be careful when
purchasing
IMS
to see that they do not
have cheap imitations
foisted upon them as
tyres “on the Dunlop
principle.”
BEWARE OR LVfITATJONa
kri. onl> itenuinc ttlfeft <h
hear, .this Trade
JFIRST IN ISBB. ‘ FOREMOST EVER SINCE;
For
Comfort,
Speed,
and
Reliability
excel all others
fg
The Doniop pneumatic Tyre go. of j|us. [td.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. ,m W
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s.-OT.
fflont depieteD.«|.Co>[t<l-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
>74. CASTLEREAGH ST., >74,
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Managek.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. ...
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of Condon.
I Fidelity Guarantees. I ni|>- Inum.-ty. .
Accidents, Typhoid, l>ipl>Mi«i-ia, ole, j
W. M ‘Mili,an, M.P., A. W. Mekks, J. I’., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H.-'Peaohky, L. A. Jessoiv Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassali, ; Perth, A. W
Farotiiar, __ J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
s-THF,^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
tor
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Fund*, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,0(11- assuring £25,174,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of []orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—-J AMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ' . .£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. ... 250,000 £350,000
Business Announcements.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
LINCOLN, STUART& GO.
1 PROEMETiRY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
o' O
I 1
r i
■
Our Suit to order at 425,
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds. Vi-
cunas. or Serges, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Tn users, very good pat-
terns, 12s. tfd.
Dress Suits, to measure,
£5. Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £;».
Hiding Breeches, 255.
Biding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made
M en's Capital Tweed Suits
215., 255.
Famous Ballarat Serge
\ uits, Indigo dye, 255.
Long Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s. 6d.
Tweed Overcoats. 21s.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs, 2s. (id., 3s. 6d.
4*. 6d.. ss. (id
Heavy Warm Travelling
Bugs. 10s 6d., 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
r>s. Od., I !** 6d. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. 6d., all colors.
Hard Hats,4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
rants Is. 9d.
Neckties, all shapes an*l colors. Is. White shirts to measure
Gents* Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6s. 9d.. 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters, so don’t he afraid to a*k for an>
information. Our book. “The Philosophy of Dress,*’ an.
patterns of all kinds and self-men snr-ment forma posted free
Write for theru. '
T*aiv Oirla a,nd G-ra,y Horses :-
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Gabo, Saturday, Aug. 18, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 25, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Sat,., Aug. 18, 12 Noon.
Bunvah, Tues., Aug. 21, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Aug. 25, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 18, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Sat., Ausr. 25, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT ,
GERALDTON I
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets;Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« TrOstecs, €x€cGtorS,
AND
AgsfKV Con>pai)V Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
£150.000 0
£90,000 0
£150,000 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... ....
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
£6,277,747 11 S
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 CoUins-etreet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. ... 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ;. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough. |
TMJYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff,'apply tb GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,300,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 i ’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishops-/a te Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NtW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - «73 GEOItCJ E ST RIO IST.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aireney at Wrong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
* DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAVINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London offic»-01d Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ve Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest j
on debentures; and invests money Qn their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under- |
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary 1
banking business.
also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable onTJie Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetoivn and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS. O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
GLAND VTA AMERICA
® by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LIN 15).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union S'e: rn Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable buildings, Gen ge Si n et,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities'—Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
Publishers’ Notices.
WAR MUSIC FREE!
Full 2s. Size Copyright Music Given Away.
The following New Popular Marches are given away Free :
Transvaal March, with Portrait of Buller.
Scarlet and Blue „ „ „ Kitchener.
MacDonald ~ ~ „ MacDonald.
Sons cf the Empire „ „ Colonial Heroes.
Pratt’s Chart of Chords Teaches Piano or Organ
Playing in One Day. A Complete Self-Instructor, en-
abling brilliant accompaniments to be played without diffi-
culty to any song. The Simplest and most Comprehensive
Chart Published. Endorsed by teachers and musicians.
FREE
The Price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55.,. but to
introduce it into every home we will send
Free the Giant Album of 1841 Songs, words and music, con-
taining many old and new favourites, together with the Chart
for only 2s. 6d.; posted, 2s. Bd.; stamps, 2d. extra. Add two
extra stamps for extra postage and packing if you want any of
the above Marches Free. Add exchange to postal notes.
Anglo-American Publishing Co., 458 George Street.
Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this paper when writing.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and JOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, KloridyKe Grub (Which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket ami
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can he
changed as you "please, instructions enclosed). Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J.v> and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed- by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
-Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see.ORIGINAL.
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address -MALING REMEDY CO.,
. 38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
August 17.
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Aug. 25
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
August 17.
liest and Cheapest Jloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter*
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUSLL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
'THE I*ol’U LA it PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOYVN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rocklianipton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
l*asse n<je )• I from niodation 9 Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. PI. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and YV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, It) Bridge-
and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
thoes’ Steamers having room. Particulars on' application
to Mr. EDWARD TRELAYVNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia I _Ex£lnmge Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker J |Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, YVEST AUSTRALIA,
NEYV ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
v v.-i-v.wu.v,io » v,» V. opcuiaiij UUIIU lUI LHC -EitlSieril
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37_Pitt-slreet,Sydney.
||]‘|liuraith, fiPEacharng Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From *
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
MUwraith, M’Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Colliris-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBAN Y, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
Steamer
Com- | Sydney,
mander. j Noon, j
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
Sept
3Sept.
6 Sent.
Oct.
1 Oct.
4 Oct.
Oct.
29; Nov.
1 Nov.
India
V.DELACIOTAT Riquier
POLYNESIEN Chevalier
ARMAND BE- Le Cois
HIC I pellier
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India Chin
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLIS
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English Interpreters me
the passengers for London and give them every assistant
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inte
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and i
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Other
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES. HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Kervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy, is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind. Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion.
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, a n d
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVICC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Han S RaSSimiSSeil.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
'out most effectual remedy for transforming the stoniest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most peif ‘Ct,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder -Bui Ids up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6<. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable P-amphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxu. iant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-*.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in G lildren and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Al aline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— BoxA, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head 0 I!®! 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Bit IS BA NE : 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
3IELBOUBNE : 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel),
~nVz7, WELLIN GTON: 1)1 Lambton Quay.
FEItTJI ; Hai/street (opposite Wiedenbuch's).
ICALGOORLIE : Hanuan-street (next LintleU's).
BOULDEIt CITY : Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE ; Henry-street.
A Melbourne weekly announced in a re-
cent issue that a much-advertised local poster-
artist had completed a carved door subject—a
nude female figure with graceful sweeping draperies.
The draped nude is good.
An application by the Dental Board of
Victoria for recognition of its diplomas in Great
Britain has been refused by the General Medical
Council of “down under” [vide Lancet, June 2).
The British Dental Education and Exam. Com-
mittee explained to the learned Council that the
present regulations for exams., by Vic. Dental
Board were not quite O.K. At same meeting the
Council decided to enter the name of E. L. Old-
field on their Colonial Dentists’ Register, in
special consideration of his services to Dental
Surgery in Vic. where he has been giving fits to
aforesaid Dental Board for many years. So the
indefatigable Oldfield scores again—a remarkable
instance of; how a popular amateur tenor can
manage to stick to his professional last. The
Dental College and Hospital of Vic., founded by
him in 1895, promises to outlive its toughest
opponents.
Queensland Govt, also does a little in the
way of repurchasing large estates for closer settle-
ment, and its wonderful Q.N. Bank is generally
moaning op the Treasury door -mat for the
State to take over for subdivision some of
the big properties with which it was struck
in the boom-time. The latest trouble is over a
great southern squatting estate, which Govt, can’t
see it's way to buy at the bank’s price, and which
the bank can’t sell for less without loss. In
view of the fact that there is a. constant and
genuine demand for small farms in Queensland,
N.S.W., and Victoria, it is really remarkable that
the reconswindled banks which have been stuck
with huge properties don’t go in themselves for
subdividing the more suitable of them, making
roads through them, and selling them as small
farms on easy terms, with, possibly, a township
and public-house in the centre. Maoriland’s ex-
perience shows that the business can be done pro-
fitably.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre*s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ! If so, under the skin you have poison. that defies all
tne remedies you have tried, which, if not. extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
'f u ' Perhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
!? a J: be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
U allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
* a .. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical adviee, and been told your case is hopeless, or
f>TTn?L'■to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKh, YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but X WILL. Because
Sendatoncfff ' s n 0 reason for not now being cured.
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
wands, lumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
uuniong, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ai'n™??* Britain, l/l§d. per box. Prepared by
/o, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents s ELLIOTT? BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
Z"* tor the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOrt.
fg
ATAJRRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and Jungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The put rid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,.
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, 'free* or
send order direct to
Nonpe Catarrb C6rc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CAI. VERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMA'ILT’S
inDIAn CICARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New# Untried Sources
but of the-Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Free...^
EOCRRSY
Address or call on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Colllns-street, Melbourne, Vio.
Medical.
DO. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLO?OPyNE,
Caution. — t. inuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHOHITIS,
DIABEHGhA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely te be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days' Trial.
fg
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which" is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we wilt
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era. and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Cures all EYE
. Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist. '
Proprietor:—STEPHEN GREEN,
x 2lO Lambeth 80., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
o>
*
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering' QICRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
I Cure Fits
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’Dance,
&c. AH you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
approved by the medicax profession.
H.G. ROOT,*B, Endsleigh Gdns., LONDON.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value,
G. L. ROBERTS, M-D.
.V | j
Born 1766, Died 1834.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c. _ , '
tsb Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
Fpr all impurities of the blood.. .Invaluable, for .Skin
Diseases. Prices is. iAd. and 2s. od. each of all Drue
Stores. y
Sole Makers. BEACH & BAENICOTT, Ltd,
BRIDPORT, England.
gm
DEAF
fg
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICom; letely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
rto theJears.as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


THE MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
“ Runs easy, and keeps running easy.”
Kactories-Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters-Sydney
Branches—Melbourne. Sydney. Dunedin. Brisbane. Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
Important Notice.—Piles.— Mr. Frank
Buckhurst, Chemist, of Mutual Store Buildings,
Flinders-street, Melbourne, has now a stock of the
famous “Cannalia” remedies for Piles. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, “Piles and
How to Cure them,” sent free on application, or
from the head depot, 257 Georse-street. SSvdnev.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY,
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories.
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
A A
A
*
AAA
£
A A
-A
* -A- BIRD’S KTOTE.
This is the season the birds tune up their little flutes and prepare those wonderful
melodies that soon, through dale and leafy bower, proclaim the dawn of Spring.
Australia boasts a wonderful variety of birds. They are mostly found in the bush,
but still there are lots in the towns. In the streets we meet black birds and red
birds, while one does not always have to go that far to strike lyres and jackasses.
These latter amuse us. They are such splendid imitators. They will imitate any-
thing from an opera to a bicycle advt. Still, we like them, because they make us
laugh, and that does us good. Then we remember that the RED BIRDS are the
pride of Australia, and get our bicycle out and have a run through the forest
glades. THE WOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD., 64 Kingr Street, Sydney. Tel. 3160.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Twas only fitting that Mo. should have a good
time at Tatts. meeting (Kandwick) on Saturday, but
results were better than good from his stand-point. He
got away with a huge haul and hasn’t felt so contented
with things in general for a long time. Tramway Handi-
cap (6 fur.) opened the ball and looked a moral for
Haulette, Gunnedah or Reviver, but Bange(ls and 20 to l
against) got home easily a length and a half ahead of
Dozen in 1.14 J. Same nag, over same distance previous
Monday (starting at 7 to 4 on) was donkey-licked by
Gallinain 1.16 J ; she carried 141bs. less (7.8) then. Daring
(name your own price) scored in Aug. Stakes and Mo.
didn’t have to pay out a cent. Dandy (even money) got
home in Hampden Stakes like the great racehorse he is ;
but well-backed The Chief, Hautboy and Schimmel
(last two promising Derby colts) saved Ikey’s book
and left him with a margin on the right
side. Triem, who would have annexed Aug. Stakes but
for being badly blocked- thrice, lined up 2nd favorite (5
to 1 against) in Welter Handicap, and just pipped abso-
lutely friendless Underhand by a short head. Last event
(Spring Handicap) was the biggest staggerer of all for
punters. Fielder’s St. Clare and Brown’s Alix divided
first favoritism (3 to 1), Johansen was next (6 to 1), and
a heap of money went on each. Promise and Carberra
(atlo’s) all carried big commissions, but not one of them
finished among first four. Winner turned up in Metal —
Edna aged gelding Blue Metal, with 20 to 1 chances (Tur-
bine and Little Joe) second and third. Writer watched
on course and made enquiries at Sydney Tatt.’s rooms
that night, but couldn’t see or hear of a Mo. who had
written Blue Metal’s name. Blue Metal only recently re-
sumed work after a long spell, hence his being totally
neglected. Marvellous how a slice of the sweep makes
’em all “ cut.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—More “tote” statistics. On
the recognised Sydney “ tote ” (it is generally recognised,
as proved by the fact that more than £650 worth of
tickets were issued), the following dividends were paid
for ss. (paying first, second and third):
Tote odds. Quoted start-
_ mg price.
Bange .. £1 19 2 = 15 to 1 .. 14 to 1
Daring .. 718 8 = 70 to 1 .. 14 to 1
Triem.. .. 7 5 2 = 61 to 1 .. sto 1
Blue Metal .. 40 15 0 = 825 to 1 .. 20 to 1
Chelsea .. 2 310 = 18 to 1 .. 9to 1
—G. F. Barrie.
• * * *
That most respectable grey horse, Chelsea,
owned by Col. Campbell (the gentleman who stands be-
hind Waxellency Madden’s chair at “functions” and
otherwise swells the triumph of the vice-regal train) won
the four-mile Steeplechase at Caulfield, the price—10 to 1
—being as respectable as all the other surroundings of
the victory. Chelsea didn’t “ land a coup for the gallant
OoloneV’or anything of that sort. He just carried the
modest top-weight of 11.10 which had been earned by
good honest performances in public, and he won because
the others, bar Mysore, were commoners. Mysore “ ran
off ” once agajp. A few weeks ago, when he happened to
run straight, friend Mysore beat Chelsea at Caulfield, and
one of these days he may repeat the offence, but mean-
while the good grey ranks as Australia’s champion ’chaser.
He is quite a young one (5 years) at the game, and a safe
jumper (although he fell in Flemington Grand National),
and the public hope he will not get too hardly treated by
the handicapper in future.
♦ * • •
Two years in succession Caulfield G.N. Steeple-
chase has gone to a grey, with top weight on its back,
Domino last year and Chelsea this. Again the question :
why is it that the colour rarely comes to the front on the
flat, but gets more than an average proportion of success
in jumping races? Because, with the exceptions that
prove the rule, it is slow but sure. One of the exceptions,
Reaper, won a 7-furlong race at Caulfield on Saturday
and may be heard of in the Cups anon.
* • * •
Although at a very outside price, it is quite
possible that the smart mare Felicity (7.4) will beat many
of the cracks in the approaching Epsom.
* * * •
The much-talked-of Melb. Cup candidate
Lancaster is to cross the border and go for either Epsom
or Metrop., in which he is handicapped respectively at
7.12 and 7.9. If he has any Cup pretensions he should
surely account for either of these events.
* • • *
Sodawater has been scratched for the Melbourne
and Caulfield Cups. But not Whisky, Brandy, Champagne
or Beer. All of those old favorites are left in the rate.
* * • *
Our photo, of jockey Steve Callinan, which
appeared in The Bulletin last week, was specially taken
by Brand, Park-street, Sydney,
• • • *
Sale of famous St. Albans’ stud in Melb. on
Friday drew a big crowd ; 21 of 25 catalogued were sub-
mitted and all sold. Brilliant little Carbine-Oratava,
(imp.) mare, La Carabine drew most attention. Bidding
started at £5OO, but S’Rupert Clarke at once bid 800 gs.
and finally got her at 1200 gs. Bobadil brought 500 gs—
. half what was expected. Kinglike (with the en-
dorsement of recent good performances at Randwiek)
went for 900 gs. Barragunda (half-brother to Bill of Port-
land) fetched 6)ogs. from Sydney trainer Earnshaw. Mo.
Murray’s bid (575g5.) secured Debenture, but writer has
ah idea it was for “ Teddy ’’ Knight, owner of sensational
Mora, in-and-out Blue Cap and others. Purchaser
(Scobie) of Kinglike also got the Trenton-VVater Lily geld-
ing Revenue for 725g5.
• * * *
The dispersal of the late W. R. Wilson’s horses
in training promises to make the Spring handicaps more
interesting than if La Carabine and Co. had all remained
in one stable. Leslie Macdonald (Wilson’s manager)
bought some of the expensive lots, but it doesn’t follow
that he got the pick of the basket, considering that the
Sf. Albans people were very apt to make mistakes.
Rumor fell to Phil. Heywood, Headland was a bargain
to H. Bellamy, and Ike Earnshaw bought the promising
half-brother to Wallace. And nobody knows how much
these horses may be improved, or otherwise, by a change
cf air.
* » • •
The V.R.C. did only a fair thing in cancelling,
after a lapse of years, the disqualification of S’Rupert
Clarke “asif it had never been incurred.” There was
little excuse for the Club’s hasty sentence. As a shipper
of horses to India, the guileleis Rupert Clarke bought
through his agent a racing pony for export. Previously
it had been entered for races at unregistered meetings,
and the vendor, who retained the animal in his charge
after the sale had been made, ran it out for one of its
engagements. The V.R.C. committee disqualified the
new owner without asking him for an explanation of his
offence against Club law. S’Rupert felt aggrieved, as any
straight-going sport would have felt under the circs., and
the mere official removal of the disqualification didn’t
quite satisfy him. So he cut off his nose to spite his face,
as it were, by withdrawing his colors from the turf in
Victoria until the V.R.C. practically asked him for “ the
favor of his continued support.” And inasmuch as any
decent sort of horse-owner is worth running after nowa-
days, the recapture of this well-gilded specimen was a
solemn duty.
* * • •
Ed. Bulletin.—fie a recent paragraph. The
Prince of Wales’ brood-mare, Perdita, is not now a “ little
gold-mine,” as she died last year. Sandringham was
under offer to me—and, I suppose, other breeders in Aus-
tralia -a few months ago for 2000 gs. (reply by cable) ! The
Derby, falling again to a brother, put his price up to the
hisrh sum (t'l 0,000) he fetched. Sandringham was not in-
capacitated from racing “by an accident,” but being
“touched in the wind ” could never be raced.”—P. h!
Morton, Russley stud.
* * • B
W. P. Crick, who is a candidate for A.J.C.
committee, issues a circular to the members stating the
reforms he intends to advocate 1. That all enquiries be
open to the public, so that no man may be condemned in
Star Chamber fashion. 2. Better representation on the
committee of the large racing centres in the country. 3.
That the tramway be carried on to the course. 4. The
abolition of the shilling turnstile for members. 6. The
appointment of a refreshment committee to approve of
the caterer’s supplies. 6. The right of the committee to
enquire into any case of late scratching which is attended
with suspicious surroundings. Mr. Crick adds that the
supremacy of the parent club can only be maintained by
keeping pace with the times. Also he promises that if
elected to the committee many palpable cases of pulling
now “ not seen ” will be seen by him.
• • • •
Racing flourished once in Broken Hill, thanks
to the good start given it by the brothers Wilson, W. R.
and S. R._; but it has been sick for years. Now it has
livened again, and a couple of meetings held in July were
the most successful for ten years or so. There are two
clubs, which work together, and each holds a meeting, the
one a week after the other; but most likely for the
future the two will be crowded into one week. The
Broken Hill boxing boom is, by the way, dead ; the pace
was made too warm, and too many flew to live on the
game.
• * • *
In a 13.2 race at a Sydney pony-course, recently,
Wray, the winner, carried 8.8, and The Weed 8.13.
The next time these two ponies came together
Wray carried 9st. and The Weed Bst., the two dif-
ferences—totalling 191 b.—being a stupendous drop in
favor of The Weed, who, of course, won. Writer, with a
host of other hungry punters, despite funny rumors,
rushed Ikey, heedless whether the thing was “ dead or
alive."
* * * *
Consider the profits of Ikey Mo ! In a dispute
between two of the bejewelled odds-yellers ventilated at
North Melb. court the other day, it was shown that each
put £3O into the bag, and that the profits on the day (G.N.
Hurdle day) were £5B Bs. 1 And the tote, which never
“ does a get” with the bag, or overlays its book, docks a
poor little 10 per cent.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: Dooley-Doherty farce for Aus-
tralian heavy weight pug. premiership ended Saturday
night, and won’t be forgotten soon. Writer didn’t like it
from the beginning. The thing was conducted too loosely
to take. No articles were signed, no money up—nothing
that usually gives a big match proper endorsement. It
smacked of “gate ” all through. Date originall v fixed (Mon-
day last week) saw only a £4ohouse, which didri’tsuit. Post-
ponement till Friday was extended a day, and on Satur-
day night about 600 people and a big array of empty
benches greeted the champ. (Doherty) and his challenger.
Both kicked at the “ gate ” again, but the generous offer
of Manager Matthews to forego his share (25 per cent.)—
though already £3O out of pocket—ultimately brought
matters to a head, and the thing came on. Dooley was
nervously anxious from the jump and seemed afraid to
do anything. Both stood up as if engaged in a spar pure
and simple. Doherty took a lot of liberties and left him-
self open time and again, hut the erstwhile clever Dooley
seemed blind and oblivious to every one of these chances.
Writer sized-up the situation, and from indications in the
third round remarked to a friend that there wouldn’t be
a fourth—and there wasn’t. By-and-bye Dooley came
over to a baulk, and, as he did, Doherty crossed with the
right, and while Dooley wobbled, gave him another—both
high up and not over-heavy. The old’un hesitated
momentarily—as if looking for a soft patch in the boards
—then fell and remained listless till the referee counted
* 1 9—l0 —out I**
* • • •
Atkinson seemed to try hard to lose his
fight with Jack M’Gowan at Melb. Vic. Hall on Saturday
by a foul. Though a stone the heavier, he was completely
outclassed by the little actor pug, who held his own in
14 rounds of rough and tumble and finally left Atkinson’s
seconds to sky the towel. For a man of his weight 9.4
M’Gowan is a very powerful hitter and in the third
round fairly lifted his opponent off his feet with a knock-
down swing on the jaw. The incessant clinching, how-
ever, spoiled the fight, as it does so many, and in this
respect Mick Dunn is a model of pugilistic virtue. As
soon as he closes with a man, his arms are out and any
hostile movement of his adversary would mean a manifest
foul. Why can’t the rest do likewise ? Nine-tenths
of the Australian fights would be impossible under the
English fashion of the standing outside the ring.
“ X.”: Despite all the talk Tim Hegarty
wasn’t “ on ” for a match with Australian light-weight
pug champion Peter Murphy, when they met at Melb.
Sportsman office last week. Hegarty wanted Murphy to
come to 9.7 (which was impossible), for £lOO a-side, or
would take 100 to 50 and give Peter a margin of 7 lbs,
more. As Murphy didn’t fancv laying 2 to lon himself
there was no deal, but Jack M’Gowan filled the breach
and arranged preliminaries with Murphy fora “go” at
the light weight limit (10st.). Jack is good and game,
but he has a big contract on, for Peter’s a lot taller,
longer in the reach, quicker, and more skilful. Still, the
S. Melbourne miniature giant may wear his man .down or
get the opening for that knock-out punch he keeps handy
right through a fight. If M’Gowan comes out atop a
match ’tween him and Oribb would be a “ cert,” and what
a house ’twould draw!
* • • ' ■ *
“Old Timer”: Monday’s cables told that red-
headed Maoriland blacksmith, Bob Fitzsimmons knocked
“ Akron Giant ” Gus Ruhlin,(6ft. 3in. high and over 16st.)
out in 6 rounds at New York previous Friday. In view
of Ruhlin’s decisive smashing up of Sailor Sharkey
recently this must have staggered Yankeedom, especially
as the giant was heralded a sure thing against world’s
champion Jeffries. Fitz. and Ruhlin had a match
arranged before, but a severe bite from his pet lion com-
pelled Fitz. to forfeit close on 3000 dols. Sharkey filled
the breach. Yankee writers wrote columns on the
Australian’s “luck in dodging the big fellow.” ’Twas
certainly luck, but not in the sense they meant. Whipping
Sharkey brought Ruhlin to the same plane as Jeffries and
consequently made him a much bigger “ gate ” attraction
than he would have been otherwise, and perhaps an
“ odds-on ” favorite. Same day as this engagement was
fixed, Fitz. signed to meet Sharkey Aug. 25. Though the
verdict went against him, as the result of a palpable
swindle, Bob whipped Sharkey convincingly at ’Frisco a
while back, and there’s no reason to imagine that he
cannot repeat the dose this time—particularly when it’s
remembered that Ruhlin never gave Sharkey a hope from
the word go in their battle last June. Jeffries will now
have to meet the man from these parts again and writer’s
tip is that latter will surely win.
* » * *
Latest U.S. accounts indicate that at long last
the erstwhile Sydney Rocks phenomenon “Griffo” has
reached the end of his tether. On July 10 he met Negro
Gans (a third-rater) at Baltimore. He punched freely and
seemed his old self awhile, but broken-up nature wouldn’t
stand the racket despite the fact (so ’tis said) of his
having trained strictly. The black bided his time and
when Griffo began to fail knocked him out—in the Bth
round.
* • * *
“Old-Timer”: Death, at Wagga recently, of
Mr. John Dougharty, formerly of the big Vic. firm of
Messrs. J. G. Dougharty, Son and Parker, recalls the hal-
cyon days of Australian boxing, when Melbourne A.O. and
Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club boomed. “ Jack ”
Dougharty was the life, soul and substance of the Vic.
body, and assisted it to the extent of hundreds. He stood
to most of the big pug. guns of his time, and dozens of
others who were not in the bruising game but lived by it
in different ways. When Melbourne A.C. offered £3OOO
for Jackson and Slavin ’twas understood that “ Jack ”
Dougharty had promised the best part (if not all) of it.
He was to have backed Slavin against J. L. Sullivan, but
something went wrong when thfe proper moment arrived,
and the match never materialised. At the time
grizzly Joe Goddard signed to fight Peter Jackson
in Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club for a purse
of £ll5O, and Goddard backed down, latter stated
that Mr. Dougharty gave him £350 (value of loser’s end of
aforementioned sum) not to come over; this owing to
jealousy between the two clubs. Dougharty afterwards
contradicted the statement, and writer believed him,
because wild horses wouldn’t have dragged Joe into the
ring with Peter then. It was “Jack” Dougharty who,
as timekeeper, saved Goddard from being counted out in
the fourth round of his fight in Melbourne with Mick
Dooley. Joe was on the floor nearly 20sec., and the man
with the watch, instead of telling off the allotted lOsec.,
rushed over to Dooley’s corner ostensibly intent upon
cautioning him for an imaginary infraction of the rules (a
matter that didn’t come within the timekeeper’s scope),
while intense excitement prevailed. Meanwhile Goddard
pulled himself together and got up and won.
* * * *
Australian billiard-premier Fred Weiss has
challenged Roberts for £lOOO a side if latter will concede
7000 in 21,000 (bonzoline balls) or 6100 (ivories). Roberts
isn’t “ taking any ” till he cables “ down under.” Weiss
probably sizes up his chance by the fact that a few years
back, when he (Weiss) was at ’Ome, Roberts gave' him
6500 in 21,000 and match ended in a draw that favored
neither. Roberts (during present visit) has already met
Weiss twice in games of 14,001 and 7000 up and given him
4000 and 2000 or a total of 6000 in 21,000, which is 1000
less than Weiss wants now.
• • « ■
Cabled that Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) Jim Wray
and Hunter River (N.S.W.) Geo. Towns have at last
signed to scull for the English premiership on the
Thames, September 10. As much ink, gas, and news
space has been wasted over this affair as over any six
matches ever previously made. Wrangle as to which
course (Thames or Tyne) lasted years (three nearly); then
came the barney whether boats should be moored stem
or stern. Up to date of last mail leaving each refused to
budge—though at most the advantage wouldn’t have
meant 6 ft. One affects the stump and t’other the old
style of shell. Towns looks to have the better chance,
but there’s not much to choose between them on Aus-
tralian form. In ’95, at Clyde (N.S.W.) regatta, Wray
was only just beaten by Neilson in a severe tussle over
two miles. A year later Towns—-at Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.) —beat Neilsen after they’d had it all up for two
miles, at which point Neilsen led. Towns and Wray (com-
paratively new at he game then) met on the Parramatta
eightyears ago. Wray conceded 6 sec. over the champion
course, and Towns won so easily as to make it appear
that he might have done so had both started together.
» » * »
Big crowds and splendid weather for Saturday’s
Sydney football. Most notable occurrence in first grade
competition was South’s defeat of North at Sydney Cricket
Ground by 11 to 9 ; majority was obtained in last 2min.
of an exciting finish per medium of a “ try.” Worth men-
tioning that Evers (for South), within lOmin. of time,
dropped a goal from right in front of posts, and imme-
diately afterwards dropped another from the extreme
wing—outside 25. Though Glebe scored 14 points to
Eastern Suburbs’ 8, the defeated side played the sounder
game from end to end, and only succumbed through a
coupleof mistakes by one of their backs, which errors Glebe
were quick to make the most of. Newtown and Western
Suburbs put up a ragged, unattractive contest, which,
beyond being even, had no merit. Westerns won bv sto
nil. 4000 people saw ’Varsity account for Balmain by 17
to 10, thanks to former’s brilliant back play.
* * * *
Port Melbourne F.C., on the initiative of its
secretary, Julius Sinn, has “ dispensed with the services ”
of two of its leading players, suspected of not doing their
utmost in the recent match against W’mstown. Sinn
further proposes to press the charges before the Associa-
tion. The men claim that they have been more sinned
against than sinning.
* • «
“Jim Crow”: In the recent inter-State la-
crosse match 18-st. goal-keeper Ayres of S.A. was a
tower of strength to his side. As he stood between
the posts the goal appeared to his opponents almost as in-
accessible as the blind pocket in billiards, the ball
often cannoning off his adamantine rotundity as if he
were pneumatically inflated, and thus completing the rout
of the Vic. forwards. Victoria should take the hint, and
get a goal-keeper of heroic girth, like—say, George
Robertson, of Carlton.
* * * *
In the Grand Prix du Centenaire (Paris),
pigeon -contest recently 14 survived (he 9th round, and 3
the 15th—a Spanish marquis, Donald Mackintosh, and
Murphy (N.Y.). All killed up to and including 20th bird.
Yankee missed his 21st. Now- ’twas a match ’tween
Don and Donald. Nines were laid on the gun-every time
Mackintosh shot. Soon a beauty beat the marquis badly,
and left Mac. to kill, which he did with first barrel.
Winner’s prize was 5000 fr. The Australian had a high
time in the series of matches ; he won £5OO (prize-money
alone) in two weeks, and yvhacked the Grand Prix du
L'Exposition (30,000 fr.) with a Yankee, a Belgian, and a
Frenchman.
* * * •
The cabled knocking-out of huge Yankee Gus.
Ruhlin by comparatively little Bob Fitzsimmons—who
might not have scaled 12st. —recalls the deeds of Tom
Sayers, and sets one thinking whether men of his day
were really not as good as those of present period, as is
often asserted. Writer is sweet on old-timers, and could
adduce cogent argument in favor of their end, as the
result of extensive reading, but the thing is too big for
Bulletin space. In view of happenings abroad, present
position of Peter Jackson (a younger man than Fitz-
simmons) is sad. Nobody who knows much of the two
will derfy that the famous black, anything like well, would
account for Bob. When Jackson was in his heyday, Fitz.,
though challenging the world, always barred Peter.
Once, in the States, when chatting about their successes
over a social bottle, the Maorilander remarked that there
wasn’t another man in America who used his right hand
as well as did the white and black Australians—which is
probably the secret of those long lists of triumphs credited
to both, and accounts for Fitz. settling Ruhlin so sum-
marily.
* * * *
Cyclists should note that the Dunlop Tyre
guarantee of twelve months on roadster Dunlop tyres
applies only to Australian-made tyres. Cyclists can
easily distinguish the tyre, as it is embossed on the out-
side “ Australian Hand-made.” Publicity is given to the
matter owing to several cyclists having purchased cycles
fitted with foreign-made Dunlops, and then finding, to
their chagrin, that the tyres were not covered by the
Australasian Dunlop Co.’s liberal guarantee.*
• ■» » »
Champion Roberts bit off more than he could
chew at Sydney Tatts. on Saturday night. He gave
“ Billy ” Lyons (runner-up to “ Paddy ” Bourke in recent
Tatts. tourney), 350 in 500. Game went to Lyons by 58.
Subsequently, same start was again conceded another
Tatts. crack (Ross), and latter won with 119 in hand.
Lyons tackled the big fellow again on same conditions,
but went under, 37 to the bad. Roberts ran up a 284
break this time. Lyons’ best break was 42, and Ross’ 51
(unfinished). Against Ross, Roberts’ highest compilations
were 162 and 95.
• • * *
Harry Stockdale writes : —“ The Federated
Australian Grand National Steeplechase Handicap of
1500 sovs ; Ist horse, 1000 sovs. ; 2nd, 300 ; 3rd, 125 ; 4th,
75. Distance, 3 times round the (new) course—about 4
miles. A Gold uup of the value of 100 sovs. to be pre-
sented to the winner by .” Such a race would be
worthy of the mother-province, and of the splendid new
Randwick course, and would “fetch” both the public
and horse-owners from all parts. Let N.S. Wales rise to
the occasion and take her proper position in the racing
world. Hitherto her biggest steeple-prizes have not
even reached the value of second-class events.
* * * *
Electorate football, adopted in Adelaide this
season, has increased gate-receipts 50 per cent., besides
producing 1 six strong teams instead of three. The minor
premiership was won by N. Adelaide, which was bottom
last season, and Port Adelaide, one of the old-time strong
Clubs, was absolutely last. Apparently, the district
system, in every sport, has always proved the best. In
Adelaide electorate cricket has produced three new
grounds in three years.
* • • •
May not be generally known that champion
heavyweight thumper Bill Doherty comes from a fighting
family. He has five brothers, all in the game. Bill is the
eldest (32); then come Austin (30), “Joe” (28), “Ned”
(26), “Charlie” (24), and “Josh” (18). Latter promises
to be bigger and better than any of the others when he
matures. The family lived at Footscray (Vic.), and Bill
for long was one of the “ Footscray eight ’’—t hose worthy
successors of the whilom doughty “ Footscray mud-pun-
ters” who used to take their seats in a calm matter-of-
fact sort of way, lay their pipes alongside of them, and,
without any preparation at all, settle the best that could
be brought in opposition.
Wake up! You are an energetic man —an
ambitious one. But it is hard to get up in the
morning. You feel that you could just take one
more nap, and still more.
Your head is heavy. You
hate to get up. Your
mouth tastes bad. Your
breakfast does not suit,
and you
are irri-
table.
When
you go to
work you
don’t feel
like it.
You fight
the feeling
all day,
and a
couple of
hours be-
fore clos-
ing time you turn in and work like a good fellow.
When it is time to stop you are just warmed up
for a good day’s work. But it is too late, and the
next morning it is the same thing over again.
That is not laziness, it is sickness —real, serious
sickness—and later will develop into something
worse—liver trouble, blood disease or nervous
prostration. There is a remedy that will put
you on your feet —Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They will wake up your stomach, give
you an appetite, put life in your liver, a move
to your bowels, and give you bloocftbat is pure,
rich and red. “For the past twelve months I
have suffered from impurities in the blood,”
writes Mr. _ T. J. Cummins, of Wangarratta,
Vic., “ which manifested itself in blotchy
pimples, causing me great inconvenience, and at
times pain. About five weeks ago I commenced
to use Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and am
pleased to say that the pimples have quite disap-
peared, and my general health has much im-
p>.oved. I attribute this to their blood purifying
qualities, and would advise all so affected to give
them a trial.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
stand alone as a perfect blood purifier, and posi-
tively cure biliousness, indigestion, dyspepsia,
headache, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, blotches. Price, Is. l|d.
per bottle, or six bottles, (is. (id. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Dep6t, 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
Messrs. David Blyth and Co., of Sydney
and Melbourne, agents for the Vinolia Co., Ltd.,
inform us that their principals have given £10,000
to the Transvaal war fund for widows and
orphans. This sum represents a half-penny on
every tablet of Vinolia soap sold during the first
six months of the war.
“ Malle ” on a phase of Chow commerce :
Went from Swatow, China, to Singapore, once, with
800 coolies. The method of the trade is : Ship is char-
tered by Chinese, and, beyond navigating, the crew have
nothing to do with her; she is filled with coolies, who
have been induced by promises of much gold, and, on
arrival at destination, they are sold to the highest bidders
for two years, which they have to serve for food only, to
repay the philanthropists who provided their passage. Of
course, there is no slavery in the British Empire, and this
is only a fair deal for the risk the charterers run, as it
costs them fully ftdol. per head to land coolies, and they
seldom realise more than 150dol. per nob in the market.
On one occasion, owing to a typhoon and battened
hatches, out of a cargo of 800, only 270 pigtails survived the
seven-days’ voyage. The coolies were counted-in like bags
of rice by an oleaginous Chow at the hatchway, who banged
every tenth on the back and yelled “ Tal-lee ! ” When we
reached Singapore we were at once surrounded by sam-
pans, and a couple of clipping skiffs, manned by gigantic
Arabs, lay by to prevent escapes. One “ passenger ”
almost reached shore ere the watchers caught him, and
when brought back he was tortured in certain subtle un-
mentionable ways, but not seriously injured—he was
property. The unfortunate sampan John, his accomplice,
fared differently. The gratings, thwarts and oars were
thrown out of his boat, and its planks started from the
ribs. Then he was secured by the pigtail to a
stanchion, stripped and welted enthusiastically with
a hunk of firewood. The charterers, who had been
so soft and oily, became now perfect fiends, and
they were about to tear off the poor wretch’s nails
when a couple of us interfered with revolvers. They
maintained that as he’d tried to “stealee their man,”
they could deal with him as they choose, but a Smith-
and-Wesson is not a good thing' to argue with, so they
shoved him into his wrecked boat and let him rip. Since
then I have known that every Chinkey’s childlike gentle-
ness covers a devil incarnate.


—ig®,— '®W~ ——•'##' —-#®- —-n
WORTH ITS WEIGHT
IN GOLD.
=4
cP
Jos
-to
—^nj
EVERY CAKE
A NUGGET
The Modern Art Jewellery Co
187 Pitt St., Sydney.
Telephone 3490.
%
fc=3
OH ACTIVE SERVICE.
“Our Gun Metal Collegian”
Keyless Lever Watches.
f-plate, Jewelled, Compensa-
tion Balance, Lever Escape-
ment, Adjusted Hair Spring,
Open-faced Crystal Glass.
Price, 21s.
LATEBT FABHION3
IN
JEWELLERY
always arriving from
LONDON.
p-Z
GUN METAL WATCH BRACELET.
Price, 325. 6d.
GOLD WATCH BRACELET. Price, £4.
15ct. GOLD EXPANSION WATCH BRACELET.
Price, £8 15s.
PROSPECTUS
OF THE
Demon Greek Gold Dredging Company,
NO LIABILITY.
(To be registered under Part 11. of the Companies Act, 1899.
CAPITAL—£24,OOO in 48,000 Shares of 10s. each,
of which
16,000 fully paid Shares will be allotted to the Vendors in full payment for the property.
16,000 Contributing- Shares are now offered for subscription, payable 2s. on application, 2s. on allotment,
and the balance in calls not exceeding Is. per Share, at intervals of not less than one month. The
whole of the subscribed capital will be - paid to the credit of the Company, less only brokerage and
flotation expenses.
16,000 Contributing Shares are reserved for future issue at the discretion of the Directors ; but in the first
instance are to be offered, pro rata and at par, for subscription to existing Shareholders.
Total 48,000 Shares.
Allotment will take place, and the Company will be registered, when 12,000 Contributing Shares are applied for.
The Vendors, being so satisfied with the prospects of this property, TAKE THE WHOLE OP THEIR INTEREST
IN SHARES AND RECEIVE NO CASH.
Provisional Directors :
Hon. A. J. Goitld, M.L.C., 121 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Alderman G. J. Waterhouse, 38 Pitt-street, Sydney.
William Arnott, Solicitor, Scott-chambers, 94 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
William Sands, Solicitor. Hunter-street, Sydney.
Bankers :
The Bank of Australasia, Martin Place, Sydney.
Solicitor :
E. O. Litchfield, Vickery’s-cbambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Brokers :
Randle and Willis, Mutual Life Building, Martin-place,
Sydney.
Secretary and Legal Manager :
R. N. Kirk, 16 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
GBMERA.L DESCRIPTIOKT.
This Company is being formed to work by means of modern Gold Dredges 80 acres of the banks and bed of
Demon Creek, and two adjoining fiats of 12 acres each; which have been taken up by the Vendors. The Minister
for Mines has approved of the issue of Lease for the 80 acres. Leases of the two 12 acre blocks have been
applied for.
Demon Creek is situated in the Parishes of Maclean and Wunglebong, County of Clive, and is distant from
Tenterfield 21 miles. It flows into the Titnbarra River, a tributary of the Clarence River. It has an extensive
watershed ; and Messrs. Richardson and Baker report that there will always he an unfailing supply of water for
dredging purposes.
It is estimated by the three gentlemen who have reported upon this property (and whose reports are hereto
attached) that the wash is from 12 to 25 feet deep, being on a soft granite bottom. The flats secured are about 12
feet above the bed of the River, and the Experts believe they contain the old River bed. The bed of the Creek is
practically virgin ground, alluvial miners being unable to reach the wash owing to the strong' flow of water. That
portion of the Creek which has been worked has yielded excellent returns. The Vendors of this property obtained
when prospecting it three pennyweights of gold from 120 dishes taken from different parts. This was at the rate of
8) dwts. to the load or ton. The gold is of a coarse and shotty nature, and of excellent quality, and samples of it
may be inspected at the office of the Company’s Brokers. Mr. S. R. Baker, when prospecting for the purpose of
making his report, got an average of 1 dwt. to the load. The average obtained by Mr. C. E. Richardson, when
prospecting for his report, was 9) grs. per load.
It is intended immediately after the formation of the Company to make arrangements for the construction of a
Dredge to cost about £6OOO, capable of treating, in two shifts of 10 hours each, 12,000 loads per week.
The lowest return obtained by any of the Experts was 9.V grs. per load or ton, and was obtained from a depth
not exceeding 4J feet. The following will, on the basis of half that amount, viz., 4f grs. per ton, show the highly
remunerative character of the property. Four and three-quarter (4f) grains of gold are worth 9d. Thus each load
treated yields a return of 9d.—12,000 loads per week will, on this basis, return £450 per week. Deduct £lOO-for
Dredge and other expenses, the nett return will be £350 per week. Allowing for the unforseen expenses the time
the Dredge may have to be laid up for overhaul and repairs, expenses of management, &c., large and regular divi-
dends may be confidently anticipated on the proposed capital; while deeper workings may reasonably be expected
to yield higher returns.
Mr. Richardson, Mining and Dredging Engineer, has already chosen a site for the erection of the pontoon.
There is an abundance of suitable timber in the neighborhood for the construction of a pontoon, and for all other
purposes. v
It may be mentioned that the three Experts, whose Reports are hereto attached, hold no interest whatever in
this property, and, as far as the Vendors know, are not known to each other.
Agreements.
The following agreements have been entered into, and may be inspected at the office of the Company’s Solicitor :
19,i0, June 25.—Agreement between Robert Newton Elliot of the one part and William Fitzpatrick (as trus-
tee of the propsed Company) of the other part.
1900, June 25.—Declaration of Trust by the said Robert Newton Elliot.
1899, September 9.—Syndicate Agreement.
There may be other contracts which technically come within Section 195, but applicants for Shares will
be held to have had notice thereof, and to have waived their right to be supplied with particulars thereof and to the
benefit of the said Section.
REPORTS.
Report by Mr. C. E. Richardson,
Consulting Dre dging Engineer ; late Manager Mataktaki and Manorburn Gold Dredging Companies, New Zealand
11 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt-street, Sydney,
November 30th, 1899.
The Secretary, Demon Creek Gold Dredging Syndicate, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I have the honor to report having inspected your property on Demon Creek on November 23rd, 24thi
and 25th.
The claim is situated in the Parishes of Maclean and Wunglebong, about 20 miles from.Tenterfield, and comprises
the banks and bed of Demon Creek for about 2J miles, starting from a point about one mile above its junction with
the Timbarra or Rocky River.
Demon Creek and its feeders traverse the rich alluvial diggings of Timbarra and Poverty Point, Timbarra forming
the northern watershed, and the almost precipitous range on which is situated the Poverty Point diggings forming
the eastern watershed for about 16 miles.
The numerous feeders to Demon Creek and the bed of the Qreek, above your top pegs, have been worked exten-
sively, and must have been very rich in gold.
During tny inspection I saw a great amount of old workings immediately above your claim, and also on Mundy’s
Lookout Creek, at its junction with Demon Creek, and also immediately below your bottom pegs on the rocky bar
where the ground is shallow. Within your pegs l could see no signs of old workings, and it is said by the oldest in-
habitants of the neighborhood and also by the blacks that the ground proved too wet to work.
Your Claim may safely be looked 'upon as virgin ground. . ...
The Claim throughout its length is free from bars, and is in every way suitable dredging country.
The wash is extremely free and will wash well in a dredge screen, there being no clay.
Owing to the fact of your claim being virgin ground I was not able to get any evidence as to depth of wash. ,
After carefully observing the nature of the surrounding country, I estimate the depth will run from about 15 to
25 feet below water level, with a soft granite bottom.
The Demon Creek, though subject to occasional freshes, does not flood badly ._ In fact, a rise of 4 feet is of rare
occurrence. There will therefore be very little risk to a dredge working your claim. .
Although there is standing timber along the banks of the Creek in places, there are very few snags visible ; do
difficulties need be anticipated on that account.
There is a suitable site for building about i mile above the lower pegs of your claim. . , ,
There is abundance of water all the year round. At the time of my inspection there were fully 40 sluice neaas
running in the Creek. ......
At the present time the original gravel in the bed of the Creek is covered to a depth of from 2 to 6 feet of hgnt
drift gravel and sand, evidently due to the denudation of the softer granite formation of the higher ground, wmcn
has been extensively sluiced into the Creeks from the Timbarra and Poverty Point diggings during the past 30 .years.
It is said that the old blacks remember Demon Creek when it was a succession of gravelly beaches and waternoies,
with practically no drift sand. . , . , . . ...
The presence of this sand will not materially affect the dredging of your claim, but I found it an obstacle in tne
way of prospecting in the bed of the Creek, except where the rough gravel deposit could be reached near the surface.
A great number of dish prospects were washed throughout the length of your claim and in nearly every instance
gold was found. Prospects taken from the travelling drift sand also showed fine colors. • .
At a point about one mile from the lower pegs I was able to get down to the wash and to a depth of 4it. oin.
below the water. . , ... , _ , .
From two holes about 30ft. apart 1 and 1-12 cubic yards of wash-dirt and drift-gravel was put through a banjo.
After each lot of j-yard had been put through, the tailings were prospected. The loss in treatment proved to e
practically nil.
Total .. 11-12 cubic yards ..
10J grains.
The average of the four prospects taken is therefore 9'69 grains per cubic yard, which I consider extremely satis-
f&ctory.
As, with few exceptions, alluvial ground proves to be richer nearer the bottom than on the surface, there is every
reason to expect that m uch higher prospects could have been obtained had 1 been able to get down.
Owing to the favorable class of country, most of the claim could be worked without an elevator, but I would re-
commend that in putting on a machine, provision should be made for fitting an elevator when required.
I estimate that a suitable dredge with a nominal capacity of 100 cubic yards per hour could be put on your claim
at a total cost of under £6,000. -
Suitable timber for construction of pontoons can be had close at hand at, I understand, 10s. per 100 feet.
The cartage from Tenterfield to the claim, a d.stance of 38 miles by a fair country road, can, I understand, be
done for £2 per ton. ...... 4 _ _ ,
In conclusion, I have much pleasure in being able to express the opinion that your area on Demon Creek will
prove a highly payable dredging proposition. a E RICHARDSON.
Report by Mr. Harold D. A. Preston, New Zealand Dredging Miner.
Demon Creek, October 17th, 1899.
Tiib Secretary, Demon Creek Gold Dredging Syndicate, Sydney.
Dear Sir,— I have been employed in prospecting Demon Creek for dredging purposes for the last four weeks, and
have been requested by Mr. Wall to report to you. Although 1 have no desire to pose as a dreging expert, I may
claim to know some little about it, as I have spent the last eight years in Otago, N.Z., right in the midst of the dredg-
ing operations on the Molyneux River, Tuapeka, Waitahuna, and districts surrounding. In these places dredging, as
is well known, has been a most decided success, and reduced to a science. The Molyneux, of course, affords unusual
facilities for dredging, but at the same time presents such obstacles as high flats and rocky bottoms, which are not to
be met with on your property at Demon Creek, and which detract so much from successful dredging. On the other
hand, such districts as Tuapeka Flats, Waitahuna, and Glenore do not present the same difficulties in so marked a
degree ; in fact, they resemble in many details the Demon Creek property, and I am acquainted with several dredging
companies and parties in the abovementioned districts, which are obtaining excellent results, where the prospects per
dish and general facilities are far inferior to those of Demon Creek. In prospecting Demon Creek I have the honor to
report as follows_
I found the gold very regularly distributed throughout the property, and wherever any depth at all could be
reached, prospects were exceedingly good, improving with depth. .* •
At the bend of the Creek at No. 3 Flat I would estimate the dish prospects at not less than 5 dwts. per cubic yard,
and in the prospecting trenches of No. 1 flat (about 35 chains further down the Creek) the prospects are similar.
On the edge of No. 2 Flat we put down a paddock, and obtained equally good prospects, no dish being washed
which failed to show'in payable quantities. At the lower pegs near the Bar 1 washed prospects quite equal to J oz.
per ton, and should say that there is an immense quantity of gold all along the bottom of the main channel, which
has in no instance hitherto been touched. In most places I should estimate the wash to be fully 30 feet thick,
judging from the surrounding country. For J of a mile above No. 3 flat, I prospected the tributary gullies on the
right bank, in every instance obtaining satisfactory results, there still remaining the upper portion of the Creek and
tributaries to be examined. The presence of gold in payable quantities even in the upper wash, however, proves the
main creek to have both rich and constant feeders from the auriferous ground above.
The alluvial flats 1,2, 3 and others have formed the old bed of the Creek, and vary in height from 6to 18 feet
above water level; they are covered with a stripping of soft loam, and underneath a gravelly wash carrying gold in
payable quantities is met with.
The bed of the main Creek consists of fine gravel, and presents no obstacles to successful dredging with ordinary
bucket dredge, there being no boulders or sunken timber.
The gold is of a fine but shott.v nature, and appears to be of excellent quality.
Mr. Wall and I thought out the prospect of bottoming the deeper channels, &c., and, with him, I fear that-it is
an impossibility by any ordinary methods, owing to the constant flow.of water, which is a difficulty not to be over-
come under the circumstances, though its presence is, of course, an additional desideratum for dredging purposes, an
advantage it is scarcely necessary to refer to.
There is an abundant supply of water throughout all seasons of the year, and an unlimited supply of timber, suit-
able both for dredge building and working fuel.
In conclusion, I may state I feel confident that you have acquired a most suitable property, and one that affords
every facility for successful dredging operations.
I am, Sir, yours faithfully, HAROLD D. A. PRESTON.
Copies of the Prospectus, containing full reports and plan, can be obtained from the Brokers, RANDLE and
WILLIS, Martin Place, Sydney.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that the wheat market drifts along to a very slow tune.
No change in prices has taken place and although fair clear-
ances have been effected to millers, those gentlemen are
now beginning to look sideways at the current prices.
London cables that no material' improvement' is likely in
the near future, and shippers decline to invest at figures
which would probably leave them with a loss. Present
quotations are : Prime milling, 2s. 9d. to 2s. lOd. ; good,
2s. Bd. to 2s. BJ,d. ; pinched, 2s. 6d. to 2s. 7d. ; chickwheat
(little offering), 2s. 3d. to 2s. sd. per bushel.
ITIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
1 ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor ■ - GEO. W. ELLIS.
rpO CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
X gJT YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rhus and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fitting's.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
VVrite for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. COOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches —particulars and designs. A
post card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
At Poverty Point.
Signor Steffani, the musical tutor of Florence Schmidt
interviewed on hisretum toSydney.said he “did not know,
whether Miss Schmidt was likely to persevere in her
musical ambition. For reasons which, have more relation
to morals than to music Miss Schmidt, as a high-prin-
cipled Australian girl, may find the surroundings of the
Continental operatic stage more repellant than attractive.
It is a test demanding great virtue as the support of
honest merit and high ideals. To phrase the matter less
bluntly would be affectation. The concert platform, par-
ticularly in England, is clean and wholesome. That is
why I think that Miss Schmidt will make it her choice.
Do not for a moment imagine that I am making a sweep-
ing charge against the operatic stage. Nothing of the
kind is in my thoughts. What I said just now with
respect to the dangers which, as a rule, beset the path of
a young woman, who, without rich or powerful friends,
seeks to succeed in the field of opera on the Continent,
was a passing reference to a condition of things the exist-
ence of which is unfortunately too well known, both inside
and outside the profession.” To put the matter
“ straight: ” a clever Australian girl, who went to Europe
to study, and has succeeded well, wrote to Tiie Bulletin long
ago that even if a woman was beautiful and sang like a
bird it was next to impossible for her to get a really good
show on the lyric stage unless she consented to become
the mistress of an entrepreneur.
The piquant Emily Soldene only returned from Sydney
to London in time to attend the death-bed of her .mother,
aged 89.
“ S.S.” : Surely the most extravagantly-eomie situation
ever devised by a playwright with serious intentions is
the last scene in “ The Orphan Heiress,” now running at
Melb. Royal. The heroine is to be destroyed. The
villain pays the owner of a vagrant menagerie to bear her
off, and hand her over to the mercies ora famished tiger.
The dreadful deed is perpetrated in a most casual manner
in the presence of disinterested spectators, but ere the
lady goes to the tiger Heaven opens behind the circus
cages, and gives the audience a glimpse of a feathered
angel dangling on a wire. This spectacle so encourages
the heroine that she goes gladly to the mock tiger (full
brother to the panto, donkey) but is rescued, just as the
stuffed monster is about to devour her, by the brown bear
of the next cage, said bear being the red-headed comic
man in disguise. How the comic man disposed of the real
bear and appropriated its hide is left to the imagination of
the audience. When a very small boy I saw sundry
Richardson-Shows at the old Eastern Fairs in Bendigo.
They were monuments of art and jewels of coherency
compared with this appalling fakement.
“Skull” : Are the legs of Man degenerating? A re-
view of the shanks of the male members of the Nance
O’Neil co. would lead impartial students to lose respect
for the human understanding. There is not a decent leg
in the regiment. Kingston’s have"a tendency to wobble,
and in certain attitudes they bend backwards in a de-
cided curve right up the shin-bone to the body, a charac-
teristic I once thought peculiar to John Leech’s footmen.
Plimmer’s legs markedly jerk outwards at the knee as he
walks, and stage-manager Barnard’s come together there
with a suddenness that suggests a danger of interlocking.
The smaller members of the co. display an amazing packet
of mixed pins, aud suggest the idea that the party respon-
sible for the selecting of the co. has a peculiar weakness
for bizarre legs.
Two scenic artists are hard at work for George
Musgrove. Phil Goatcher began operations a month ago
in Rickards’ dismantled Opera House, where there is
plenty of space but not much comfort now that the re-
build'ers are about. Coleman, the artist engaged by
Musgrove in London, arrived lately, and was granted
the use of half the painting-room at Melbourne Princess’s
until the retirement of Brough and Co., when the theatre
will come under Musgroveian management, brother Harry
taking charge of the commercial dept Seems that the
Princess’s is to have a month’s re-furnishing and “ doing
up ” before the new season starts.
Touching a par in last week’s “ Poverty Point,” The
Bulletin may as well mention that although the first
production of George Musgrove’s season at Melbourne
Princess’s is still a matter of mystery, more or less, it will
certainly not be “ The Scarlet Feather.”
At Melb. Philharmonic’s recent “ Damnation of Faust ”
an effect was produced which quite interfered with the
music. Just as Marguerite was _ overwhelmed with the
intense pathos of the “ King of Thule ” ballad, a number
of stout male choristers —the basses who sang the Devil’s
music—entered the choir smacking their lips and looking
happier. They had been out for a drink. Some were
still chewing coffee-beans, and one elderly chanter wiped
his lips quite frankly.
Little Fanny Powers appears to have lost some of her
vivacity and sweet young voice through stopping up too
late o’ nights. The only way of keeping a stage kiddie
fresh and natural, is to put her (or him) early to bed.
When are we going to have the advertising drama ?
The particular brand of champagne used in “Camille”
is puffed in the programmes, and pantomime comedians
have often made large sums by advertising gags. But
there is a fortune for the scene of, say, two women dis-
cussing their favorite shops—with real local names instead
of fictions.
Laura Roberts and her husband, young Charley Tay-
lor, have been with a prosperous little musical-comedy co.
through India, and hope to make more money on their
roundabout way back to Australia. Laura Roberts, it
seems, is “ the popular Australian Prima-Donna ” when
she gets to the East,
Dear Bulletin. lie the allegation by “ Edson ” that
Nance O’Neil has not been specially boomed in Melbourne
I will quote three instances of abnormal booming.
Previous to Nance’s arrival, each of the three Melbourne,
dailies published a long interview with J. C. Williamson,
and in each interview J.C.W. mentioned that his
immediate reason for taking Her Majesty’s Theatre, was
to introduce Nance to Melbourne.—Fax.


“ Bush Pedagogue ” writes :
The unwisdom and want of common sense characterise
tic of the parson in the mass is evidently responsible for
the brilliant plan evolved by the president (Archdeacon
Langley) of the Religious Education Commission. He
proposes the simultaneous instilling of religious truth
into the godly of the scholars, and military drill (as a
punishment, seemingly) for the infidel remainder, by pne
teacher (vide Age, 30/6/’00). He considers it quite prac-
ticable that while those willing are being religiously
instructed, those unwilling can be receiving military
drill. This, in one-roomed and one-teachered bush
schools, involves a queer combine. Just consider this
picture : Interior of bush school with nine children seated
in desks ; Outside, five ditto struggling with the intri-
cacies of “Right form.” Teacher standing in doorway
with service book in right hand. Teacher reads : “ Dearly
beloved brethren, the Scripture moveth us in sundry
places that we should confess ” “Squad—’shun! By
the right—Quick—march” “and acknowledge our
manifold sins. We have erred ”.. . “ Right form-
look alive, No. 2!” “ and strayed like lost sheep,” &c.
Book S 3. Booka Bookal
pOI’ULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for tl. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12.155. Webster’s Large Dictionary, lt9J edition,
£3 10s. for Rl. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, fs. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND HAND BOOK ARCADE,
lO5 Castlereagh street, Sydney.
FOR.EXGr3XT STAMPS.
pmisfcm
POSTACE
>v=
ffi
m
fg
fg
pHEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
40 Japan, lsf 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchase! I.'
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis.
B. 3!6. Lit JeOollLns:Slreet, MELBOURNE.
fg
ILLUSTRATES
BOOKLET ■Uag
Post Pree for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ITT.XJSTTIA.TED
fg
"yrrlTH numerous anatomical
’ ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the errand truths, the nlaiu
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
heiny imposed upon by ivnorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, g!P.0.,“ SYDNEY.
LOOK UNDER YOUR NOSE B One Shilling.
A Realistic Story just published by Dr. Hodgson, of
Sydney (author of The Secret Society in Hodgson’s Tales
of Medical Students). All Bookstalls and Booksellers.
Wholesale— Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney
GENTS.
Address-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
-LiDili, 300 Collins Sti) Melbourne.
D.S .MAI R
S p
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
REST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
1 wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED, .-W*" Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrpbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ii. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU CET
Row’s Cf^brocatiof).
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, bruin & blood,
quickly & permanently restor-
ing to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Pric. posted, 7/6. Kocke,
Toinnsil t & Co., Druggi ts, 292
i'linders-street W„ Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
( Registered.)
r PHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. 6d. per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co.,
Druggists, 272 Fiin lers-street, Melbourne.
• • COMM ON S ENS E EA It 1) It CM. ”
THE
DEAF
sEAB
("tOMPLETELY restore the
. Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from ail the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHAh.YIERS,
229. Collins Street, Melbourne
LADIES..
Addres.s-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
-L.D.1., 300 Collins SL, Melbourne.
»
i
i
>
>
►
i
)
)
)
>
i
>
i
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
'iU u* 1 '*f*
'tow ' UA
4\C^i } u
ten/t 01/umaa-w
Jfawvvw'Uo
£^/vw-CaaA^
MjICJU** C
KOKO’
| Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling-, Promo es Growth, and is the (
> Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfec'ly {
I Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating.
nd its unique testimonials piove it to bed
' undoubtedly the Best Preparation for thei
I Hair, i-, 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists, ’
Hairdressers, Stores. &c. (
1 THE KOKO MARIOOPAS GO., LTD,, <
*l6 B?vis Marks, London, England. J
fg
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 mA
PLAITS and TAILS,
StHn. long, fi/o. all real hala,
CUTTINGS & COMBING*
worked up, ‘2J(i per 02.
We are the eheapeStin
(rolls for all IJsir Wort
Send Color of Il&lr.
W. H.'wigzell,
110 William Street,
•oroer of Palmer-street,
SVDNKY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
fg
Send stamps for full. Price List. ’
nwpt •iteotion'given to Country Orders
TMCOIM
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and llendi rson, S¥T)N /J.
TAKE ONLY
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE.
MOST DELICIOUS AND
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY,
PALATABLE.
Vi : * f' i! . T 1 h' ' \ «
. .. . ■■ r ■ . -'£.*** . . ’
■ ■
•- a -
~ * r.; ? *%] :
4, .
-; '*■*- •
The COOLALTA VINEYARDS, from a Photograph.
Lightest Wines, in Australia
J. A. WILKINSON
Offices'.
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)
JUlcnburgs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “Allenburys” Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
The “ Allenburys ” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of Uie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use bv the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
Notice outside a Sydney suburban den-
tist’s :
Teeth carefully extracted, Is.
Teeth painlessly extracted, 2s. 6d.
The total cost of Federation to N.S.W. —
fees to delegates, travelling expenses, referen-
dums, printing, &c.—from 1891 to Aug., 1899 was
£73,481.
Millionaire Tyson’s money has begun to
travel. Mrs. Dymock, a next of kin, has given
£lB,OOO for Rockview station, near Junee. She
has also purchased Paling’s warehouse, Sydney.
From Buenos Ayres comes the account of
a new meat-preserving process, said to supersede
both the freezing and “ preparation” methods. It
is the invention of a German, and a trial shipment
is about to be made to England, in which country
the patent rights have been bought up.
London Sphere obituarises Stephen Crane
and refers to him as being a great admirer of
Mark Twain’s works, “especially Bob Sawyer.”
Which is reminiscent of a Melb. professor who
publicly advised school-boys to read “Tom Jones”
and had to hurriedly rush letters into the papers
to explain that he meant “ Tom Brown.”
“S.” : I know of a case in which a man
who was travelling the bush and found the body
of a murdered man was detained by the local
police during the seven months which elapsed
before the murderer was traced and captured.
Yet, for the loss of all this time, as well as of a
billet he had been going to,‘he never received any
compensation. [Quite illegal, of course, but the
police may have “ bluffed ” an ignorant man.]
The time-limit on speeches in M.L. Par-
liament produces interesting results. “If I had
my way,” shouted George Fisher the other night,
banging his fist on something hard as he worked
himself up to fury and a great peroration over the
Libel Bill—“ if 1 had my way I ” “Time ! ”
said the Speaker. And now people are wondering
whether Fisher wanted to hang all editors or to
double their salaries out of the Consolidated
Revenue and give them each a free railway-pass
for life.
The amenities of N.S.W. railway system.
Writer lately travelled from Sydney to Mudgee
on a cold July night, a perfect “perisher.” At
Penrith he asked for a foot-warmer and was told
that none were to be had. At Mt. Victoria re-
peated ; again in vain. At Wallerawang, after 10
minutes interviewing of different officials he
obtained a promise from the station-master that
he should have one, and just before the train left
a porter thrust one into the carriage. It was stone-
cold. Two a.m., and the worst part of the journey
just commencing.
The Adelaide Labor paper—the Herald—
although it bitterly denounces sweating in fac-
tories, is trying to fill its columns by means of a
literary competition, under which weekly articles
500 words long are to be contributed regularly for
six months on the off-chance of winning a bicycle
(valued by the giver at £2O) at the end of the
I term. The best man will therefore be paid at the
rate of 15s. weekly, and the other poor devils will
I £ et nothing, although all will have to help in
setting the Labor policy before the country.
Far-Out (N.S.W.) selectors are trying to
arrange a plan to put before the Pastoral Commis-
sion. Many of them have agreed to urge that,
instead of the present maximum area of 10,240
acres open to a homestead lessee, the selector
should be entitled to take enough country to run
a given number of sheep—some suggest 6000, some
3000. And almost as a necessary consequence of
that they have agreed to urge further that one
selection should follow on after another—that is
to say, the selector should not be entitled to put
in his pegs in order to take in picked country,
leaving awkward slices of poor land between him
and his nearest neighbour.
The indecent small female—with the con-
nivance and under the protection of the Crown
has been at it again. Despite the evidence of
several witnesses to the effect that they had seen
her and accused “courting” in sundry places and
manifold ways, she still stuck to her simple little
tale that he had met her suddenly and taken
advantage of her in an open paddock in the town-
ship of Yarram (Gippsland), said paddock being
within coo-ee of the whole village. Judge
Holroyd told the jury that one side or the other
had undoubtedly committed perjury, and the
twelve promptly decided against the “ Crown.”
The perjured small girl went free, as the Crown’s
perjurer always does in Victoria. And so long as
the Crown protects its licensed perjurers it cannot
expect them to get the same credence as the
accused and his friends, who always risk a prose-
cution for false-swearing if the case goes against
them.
A story of Melbourne's great Mafeking
drunk. It was a promiscuous drunk, as every
student of ancient history knows. People drank
wildly with complete strangers, shook hands with
complete strangers, slapped them on the back, ex-
changed cards with them, and implored them to
call and dine four times a week, and be introduced
to their sister, and to regard themselves as belong-
|mg to the family. Some of them even offered to
I lend money to complete strangers. Afterwards in
I |he dim grey dawn, when Melbourne streets were
1 ttered with broken hats and umbrellas and cigar-
ash, and the city smelled like a cubic mile of
, tobacco-smoke and decayed mackintosh, the police
tore the more respectable-looking drunks off the
lamp-posts to which they were adhering, explored
their pockets for a card, gave it and the
drunk to a cabman, and bade him take
the wreck home and fight his relations
for the fare if he couldn’t get it otherwise.
Almost every wreck had a dozen cards in his
pocket—the cards of persons he had embraced
and foregathered with during the night—but the
policeman couldn’t know that. His business was to
clear the streets somehow. So it came about that
a young lady at Toorak, sitting up in the dim
morning for her lost and loyal brother, heard a
n ??> and when she opened the door saw a Form
with the rums of a bell-topper driven down over
its ears charge headlong into the hall and then
drop. She paid the fare, which was 10s. 6d and
remonstrated kindly with the ruin, and it ’said
Gr-r-r-r-rwong.” Then she forgave it, on the
ground of its loyalty, dragged it into a bedroom
and urged it to go to bed and rest. And the
iorm said Gr-r-r-r-rwing.” It was late in
the afternoon when another cab drove up, and
bometning with a black eye and a swelled head
crept out. This was the real brother He had
also been delivered at the wrong place, only he
had been less courteously received, and had done his
recovery on the doorstep The bedroom was
investigated, and the person of whom delivery had
been accepted in the early morning proved to be
1a Tk 011 ?, P ers ° n - • his fearfully muddy state
V l6 oc oul ' f )f drink that arose from him proved
that he was at least a fellow-adherent of the Good
, use, so they treated him kindly. The brother
when delivered at the wrong house, hadn’t been
treated kindly, but he had probably been left on a
German s premises, which would account for it.


A Great
at a
Price
iil&HKwiflfiCSWrS
mm:
The London “TIMES” Reprint of the Encyclopaedia Britannica
A. 1 ! 1 A. BA.iR.GrA.I3NT !
The popularity of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNIC A” is sufficiently shown by the fact
that in less than twenty months more than 20,000 copies of the “Times” Reprint of the “Encyclo-
fisedia have been sold in the United Kingdom alone, in addition to copies supplied by the “Times ” in
ndia, South Africa, and New Zealand, as well as to the United States, where this complete and
authentic Reprint of the great library is eagerly welcomed, notwithstanding that the country has,
owing to the faulty condition of the copyright laws, been flooded with thousands of copies of piratical
and mutilated editions.
The aggregate sale of the “Times” Reprint of the “Encyclopaedia” has been, at home and
abroad, over twenty-five thousand sets of twenty-five volumes each, a total of six hundred and twenty-
five thousand volumes. The figures in each case are of interest, not only because they show that the
“ Encyclopaedia ” is a general favorite, but also because they describe an unprecedented success in the
dissemination of really good literature, and go far to prove that the public taste is by no means so
debased as some alarmists believe it to be.
They are figures, too, so astonishing that they cannot readily be grasped.
Every copy of the “ Encyclopaedia ” contains twenty-two thousand pages, and this means that
over five hundred and fifty million pages have been printed and sold. Large figures of this sort pro-
duce upon the mind an effect which a contemporary foreign writer has aptly described as a “brain-
blur.” One cannot easily picture printed pages floating through the air and lying like snow upon the
ground, but a simple comparison will assist the imagination. Each of these pages is Uin. in depth by
Bfin. in width. Their aggregate superficies would therefore be, if the front and back of each leaf could
be split apart and all the pages spread out, no less than fifty-two .thousand nine hundred and thirty-
seven millions five hundred thousand square inches, or 367,621,527 square feet, or 8439 acres, or nearly
14 square miles. Conceived as one gigantic sheet of printed words, having its centre at a given point,
the whole would extend nearly two miles north, nearly two miles south, nearly two miles east, and
nearly two miles west. On this enormous sheet there would appear no less than 750,000,000 words,
for there are more than 30,000,000 words in each copy of the “Encyclopaedia.” Using another
familiar illustration, 550,000,000 pages, each llin. in depth, would, laid end to end, make a ribbon
more than 95,486 miles in length, reaching nearly four times round the earth.
Each copy of the “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA, BRITANNIC A,” packed in a box for delivery, weighs
about one hundred and ninety-six pounds. The whole would therefore weigh over two thousand tons,
as much as can be carried by a dozen ordinary goods trains.
No other book devised by human ingenuity has ever had a sale which can be compared to this, and
after the recapitulation of these figures the acceptability of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITAN-
NICA ” as a timely investment can hardly be questioned.
The One Work of its Kind in the World.
It is a unique characteristic of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA” that while it is
authoritative in the highest degree—a standard in every field —it has so little of the typical encyclo-
paedia atmosphere. That is to say, its articles are not mere compilations—they do not form a huge
structure of facts unsculptured and unadorned ; they are, the longer ones at least, rather a series of
concise and rapid monographs. They are the work of masters in every province, yet not mere masters
of uncouth details, but of form and exposition as well. Many of them, indeed, are among the finest
contributions to present-day literature.
These articles are delightful reading—they are more—they are a liberal education. This is not
saying that anyone can master so vast a story of fact—there is no one living who could do that. Nor
does the mere acquisition of facts constitute a liberal education. Something more is needed, and this
is why no dry-as-dust compilation will suffice. A fine appreciation of form, the habit of detecting
relations between widely-separated subjects, a mastery of broad outlines, the ability to seize the
central truth, come rather from a long association and familiarity with minds of the highest reach and
training.
It is precisely minds of this type to whom the present character of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA ”is due. “ Those who have proved themselves to be at the summit in their particu-
lar departments ” were everywhere selected to expose and interpret for intelligent and educated people
their special spheres of knowledge. The result has been a degree of excellence which has never before
been attained in a work of scope so immense. Notwithstanding its high scholarly standard, the
“ Encyclopaedia ”is still literature in the strictest sense of the word. It may be taken volume by
volume, treatise by treatise, article by article, and read for the individual interest which each affords.
Because it embraces all departments of human learning, and evenly and impartially presents the
best results obtainable from each, the “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA” constitutes within
itself, an ideal popular library. Certainly it is the foundation, the true beginning, of any extensive
collection of books. Not a thousand volumes, each chosen with an understanding of books which
perhaps not a dozen living men possess would it be possible to obtain anything like so admirable a
resume of all that a nineteenth century man or woman wishes to know.
An Admirable Investment.
The “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA” is an admirable investment for three excellent
reasons. The three excellent reasons which combine to recommend the “ Encyclopaedia ” are these :
In the first place, it is the very best thing of its sort to purchase. The “ENCYCLOPEDIA
BPITANNICA ” has been recognised, ever since the first edition was published in 1771, as the very
best work of reference in the world. It is easy enough to find more costly books, to purchase a thou-
sand volumes instead of only twenty-five, but that thousand would be ill-chosen if the twenty-five
volumes of the “ ENCYCLOPEDIA BPITANNICA ” were not among them. It is not, indeed, too
much to say that no thousand other volumes contain so great a proportion of the whole sum of human
knowledge as do these five-and-twenty. Here, then, is one excellent reason why the “ Encyclopaedia”
is the very best thing of its sort.
In the second place, the “ ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNIC A” may, at the moment, be pur-
chased upon remarkably advantageous terms. The established publisher’s price for twenty-five volumes
in cloth binding is £37. The “ Times ” offers precisely the same work, unaltered and unabridged, for
seventeen monthly payments of one guinea each, or for £l7 in cash—less than half-price. This is an-
other excellent reason, for every one must wish that the pounds aud shillings one spends should do
their utmost in adding to the accumulated wealth of the investor.
In the third place, the purchase of the “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA ” does not involve,
on the one hand, ready-money, nor yet, on the other hand, the incurring of a vague debt which the
debtor may be called upon to pay when it is least convenient for him to do so.
A preliminary payment of only one guinea in cash will secure the delivery of the volumes.
After the delivery has been made other payments of one guinea each become due at monthly intervals.
The purchaser of the “ Encyclopaedia ” who adopts this novel and convenient system of paying for
books knows precisely when his payments should be made, and knows, too, that each one of them is
so inconsiderable as to make hardly any strain upon a month’s income.
The Choice of a Binding'.
The Times Reprint of the “ ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA ” is offered to residents of New
South Wales in three different styles of binding. The cheapest is in a neat and useful green cloth—
the same in every respect as that which has been sold at the higher price. With care it will last for
years, and it is to be commended to any purchaser who has to choose between buying the
“ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA ”in cloth and not buying it at all; but, in the nature of
things, it is not the best possible form in which to clothe such massive volumes as those of the
“ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA.”
Such a book deserves a leather binding, and the pleasure of using the volumes and of seeing them
upon one’s bookshelves is greatly enhanced when they are worthily attired. The intrinsic utility of a
book depends.in sdfme measure upon its comeliness, and the half morocco and full morocco bindings are
each in its degree so handsome and so inexpensive in proportion to their durability and beauty, that
no one who can afford to dress the best of books in the best of bindings will hesitate to select the richer
form of the “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA.”
The leather employed in the full morocco and half morocco binding is genuine goatskin, sumach
tanned. This leather, clear in colour, elastic and soft, yet firm and fine in grain and texture, “resists
wear and tear and the action of gas and heated air better than any other leather.”—“ Ency. Brit., vol.
xiv., p. 538.)
The full morocco binding is, technically considered, an exquisite production. The backs are
double-sewn on four bands, and the quires are hand-folded. The cover boards are pressed and lined
to make the binding solid, and are squared and hand-cut by guillotine. The books are entirely for-
warded by hand with hollow backs and fine silk headbands set solid.
For purchasers who elect to make serial payments for the work, the better bindings make no more
urgent a call upon the purse than do the cloth binding. The monthly payments are in any case the
same, and only a little more perseverance is called for in the case of the leather bindings than in the
case of the cloth binding.
Unabridged and Unaltered.
The Ninth Edition of the. “ ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA,” completed in 1889, which the
Times has reprinted, is universally recognised as the most complete and perfect of works of re-
ference. The limes ” Reprint is in every respect the same as the copies already sold at the higher
price ;it is what booksellers call a new impression, not a changed edition. There has been no con-
densation, no abridgment, no omission. Every word, every illustration, every map, every element of
value is preserved intact; there is not the most minute cheapening of the product to offset against the
remarkable diminution of the price.
Temporary Prices for the 25 Volumes .
ID*“ Sufficient provision has been
made for the filling' of orders
promptly posted, but applicants
who hesitate may find that the
number of sets reserved for New
South Wales has been exhausted,
and that the offer has been with-
drawn, without further notice.
CLOTH
BINDING
17 Monthly Payments of One Guinea, each
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £37]
£l7
HALF
MOROCCO
(Which we
recommend)
22 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cask in full accompanies the order ,
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £4s]
£22
FULL
MOROCCO
29 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £6s]
£29
The Sets will be Delivered to Subscribers Carefully Sealed in Tin-lined Cases.
The first 1000 Subscribers in New South Wales will receive their Sets Delivered
Free of Cost as far as Sydney, where stock is carried temporarily.
OREER FORM-CASH PAYMENT .
Subscribers who elect to send Cheque
in full with the order have the advan-
tage of an additional saving of one shilling in the guinea, as shown above, and no order form is required. Cheques
should be drawn to the order of the Bank of New South Wales, Sydney, and sent to The Times (London),
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
ORDER FORM—MONTHLY PAYMENT.
(Date)
To the Manager, “The Times” (London), New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose One Guinea. Please send me “ The Times ” Reprint of the Encyclopedia Britannica (9th Ed.)
BOUND
IN
(a) CLOTH, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you njay ap-
point, 16 additional monthly payments of one guinea each. I
(b) HALF MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you I
may appoint, 21 additional monthly payments of one guinea each, f
(c) FULL MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you I
may appoint, 28 additional monthly payments of one guinea each, j
[Strike out two of the
paragraphs marked A,
b, and c respectively,
leaving the one which
names the style of
binding desired.]
my next payment upon delivery of the complete volumes, and my succeeding payments on the corresponding day of
each month following. Until such payments are complete, I engage that the volumes remain your property, and
shall not be disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforseen circumstances, of which you
shall l>e the judge, the volumes cannot be delivered, the return of this deposit of one guinea to me shall cancel the
Please also send a Revolving Bookcase, for which I agree to make three further monthly )
J payments of one guinea each, after the payments for the books are complete. /
Strike out if Bookcase
is not desired
Signed
[Syd. But. IQ. 44]
Address
IgsF” If books are to be delivered elsewhere than in ■ Sydney, the purchaser shall add here the name of the
carrier (rail or boat) m Sydney to whom delivery is to be made for forwarding.


I*' any private employer or corporation of
employers invited candidates for a billet
on the terms whereupon Sydney Council
invites candidates for proposed sanitary in-
spectorships the police would be urged to
suppress a new oonfidence-trick. The 410 can-
didates for the proposed 10 inspectorships have
been called on to pay half-a-guinea each as a sort
of entrance fee. Certain preliminary lectures
will, it is true, be open to them, but as finally only
10 can succeed, 400 half-guineas will be confiscated
by the Council for the ambition to serve it as a
sanitary officer. N.S.W. Public Service Board
has done some stiff things in this line, but the
Council’s impudence is flagrant. With Govt.,
central and municipal, showing the way to this
tricky grab at would-be employees’ pockets, the
time is near when newspapers will teem with
-ds. of the following pattern:—
Wanted, —Five young’ men for clerkships; easy busi-
ness, opulent salary ; slight preliminary instruction given.
Candidates must enclose ss.
Or :
Ten vacancies for ladies, any age, high salaries, short
hours. Apply in writing, enclosing 2s. 6d.
The 400 municipal candidates for the Council’s
inspectorships should demand their half-guineas
back, and would get them too unless the Council is
a more-evil smelling institution than is supposed
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lcrckyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Ex-Premier George Reid, having been
utterly damned by the N.S.W. Finance Commit-
tee as a man whose alleged surpluses were deficits,
and whose figures were bogus and faked, and
having been exposed generally as no Australian
Treasurer was ever exposed before, remarks
brightly that the awful report has “triumphantly
vindicated ” him. This is the second time George
has been vindicated. When he had his first historic
“surplus” he appointed a committee of three
bank managers to investigate it and guarantee its
genuineness, and they’reported, after careful in-
spection, that they weren’t prepared to guarantee
anything of the kind.- And the Unspeakable
George laid this painful document on the Assem
bly table, and said with a yell of triumph that lie
was “completely vindicated.”
Most of the anti-Federalists are now con-
centrating their crocodile grief on the theory that,
as the Federal constituencies will necessarily be
large, somewhat like the Vic. Leg. Council con-
stituencies, they will therefore become, like the
Vic. Leg. Council constituencies, a preserve for
rich Tories only. Which is just as sober reason-
ing as if it was alleged that because the man who
represents one large constituency has gout, there-
fore all men who represent large constituencies
will have gout—in fact that large electorates cause
gout. Vic. Council is Tory because it is elected
by property-owners, it is unpaid, only rich land-
lords are eligible, and it can’t be dissolved. And,
seeing that the Federal Parliament will be free
from every one of these drawbacks there is prac-
tically no more resemblance than between Chim-
borazo and Reid’s deficit, both of which are large
but not otherwise similar.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Only Dacey, Meagher, Miller, Norton.
Thomson, Griffith, and Thomas opposed the pro-
posal to adjourn N.S.W. Parliament as a mark of
respect'(!) to that deceased German citizen, the
Duke of Edinburgh. Almost the whole of the
Labor party backed up the Govt, in the servile
waste of public time. And it was pointed out
that on the death of ex-Governor Hercules .Robin-
son—whom all Australia did respect —no official
notice was taken by the Assembly.
Dr. Boxwell’s PILLS.
T^U.N-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEO-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
ROCKE, TOIWIPSITT & CO., Druggists,
292 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Amusements.
qpOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, August 18, at 3 O’Clock
Orchestra.
(50 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR .. HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
TO MAKE MONEY EASY
Give public exhibitions with the wonderful
MOTION PICTURES, a recent invention,
which illustrates interesting scenes with all the
motions of life, and a Panoramic Stereopticon
Outfit illustrating any of the following interest-
ing subjects: “ Around the World in Eighty
Minutes,” “ The Sights of Paris and the Ex-
position,” “The Shadows of a Great City,”
“ Boer War in the Transvaal,” “ Spanish Ameri-
can War,” “ Religious Sets,” &c. Also the
GRAPHO-AMPLIPHONE Talking and
Musical Combination, which talks as natural as
life and reproduces the music of any instrument.
By giving entertainments in Public Halls,
Churches, Opera Houses, &c., many are making
£OO to £l2O per month, and some exhibitors
much more. We furnish large Illustrated
Advertising Posters (14 x 2 feet) with outfits,
complete and ready for "business as soon as re-
ceived, at £8 and up. Write for catalogue and
copies of letters from those who are MAKIN G
BIG MONEY with our outfits. Cur Motion
Picture and Talking Machines are positively the
best made.
The Enterprise Optical Mfg. Co.
(incorporated.)
56 Fifth Ave. CHICAGO, U.B.A.
Our Cash Capital is £5OOO full paid in.
Reference : Graham & Sons’ Bank, Chicago,
or any large business house in the United
States.
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Leasees Messrs. Wyld and Friedman.
LAST PERFORMANCES.
AFTERNOON, at 3. EVENING, at 8.
IN SOUTH AFRICA WITH THE TROOPS.
Only Genuine Biograph
in Australasia, direct from Palace Theatre, London, with
GENUINE BOER WAR FILMS.
THE FAMOUS VATICAN PICTURES,
Depicting- the Daily Life of His Holiness the Pope, in
addition to the War and other interesting Films.
Prices of Admission—3s., 25., Is. Children Half-price
to Matinees Only. Box Plan at Paling’s.
J. A. MILLER, Representative.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
ANOTHER ANDERSON TRIUMPH.
THIRD WEEK. EVERY EVENING,
THE ORPHAN HEIRESS.
The Great Sensational Surrey Drama.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST SIX NIGHTS of the BROUGH COMEDY 00.
EVERY EVENING, THE MAN OF FORTY,
an entirely new and original modern play,
by Walter Frith.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and
the Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of NANCE O’NEIL.
LAST 6 NIGHTS in Melbourne of the Brilliant Young
American Tragedienne. First Production of
TESS OF THE D’U RBE RVI LLES.
MISS NANCE O’NEIL as TESS.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls. 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THE POSTER ADVERTISEMENT BALL.
THE LATEST LONDON NOVELTY.
In Aid of the Children’s Hospital.
Under the patronage of His Excellency, Sir John
Madden and Lady Madden.
The merit of the Poster Ball is that it combines un-
rivalled opportunities for charming and effective dress-
ing, with an absolutely unique means of bringing an
advertiser’s interests under the notice of the public.
Each participant in the ball is, so to speak, a living poster,
and the effectiveness of such an advertisement may be
easily imagined. Prizes are to be awarded.
Mr. Chas. M‘Mahon, the committee’s representative, is
authorised to arrange terms, fee., with advertisers.
JANET LADY CLARKE, President.
11. BYRON MOORE, Hon. Treas.
COLIN' TEMPLETON, Hon. Sec.
Business Announcements.
ANY GENTLEMAN
can, by sending his address on aid. Post
Card, have
A LOVELY ALBUM
sent to him Free, gratis, for nothing.
Our Album of the NEW FASHIONS IN GENTLE-
MEN’S WEAR for the Spring.
You can then see what is going to be worn, and
most likely will favor us with an order.
PT" Send for one, Please !
HORDERN - BROTS -ERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS and
ART TAILORS.
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternbon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
4th WEEK and CONTINUED BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of the WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY in
The liose of Persia.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35.. 2a., and la.
-|- H EATRE ROYA L, SY DNE Y.
BLAND HOLT’S
Melodramatic Spectacular Masterpiece,
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
STILL VICTORIOUS. STILL VICTORIOUS.
TIIE POSITION HELD WITH HONOR.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
The Green Lanes of England.
SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, HAMLET.
Wednesday, Aug. 22, Grand Special Matinee of
MERCHANT OF VENICE,
in aid of . PRINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL.
ICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDN EY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
A Brilliant Success. Gigantic Reception of America’s
Greatest Horizontal-bar Experts, THE PATTERSON BROS.
Unqualified Success of England’s Burlesque tjueen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
Splendid Success of OLAF SCHRADER, PAUL’S’ICO9
CENTURY ANIMATOGRAPHE, Billy M'Clain, M. Cor-
delia, Walker and May, and all our Great Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of the World’s Greatest Pantomimists,
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in their
Latest Grand Production,
A TERRIBLE NIGHT.
Splendid Success of DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, Roy
Cashin, Alma Gray, Will Whitburn, Dora Taylor, Eva Lee,
E. Brinkman, Alf. Lawton, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
RING MANUFACTURERS
&
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
ART JEWELLERS, &c.
Our Rings are Unapproachable for Value in the Southern Hemisphere.
Send for our Illustrated Sheets of Illustrated Novelties.
6 Lovely Diamonds,
from
£lO to £4O each.
Smaller Stones,
from
£3, £4, £5, £7 10s.
6553
Solid Gold,
set with 5 Lovely
Opals,
Special Value, 15s.
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire,
Ruby, Opal, or Pearl,
£3 15s.
2 Diamonds
and
8 Rubies or Sapphires
from
Our QUERY RING
(Note of Interrogation)
18c. set with 11
First-Water Diamonds
£8 and £1) 10s.
14 Diamonds
and
Ruby or Sapphire,
18c. Gold
£7 10s.
18c. MARQUISE.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and lfltuby, or
Sapphire, Emerald, or
Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
18c. TWO HEART.
1 Fine Diamond,
with 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, 355.
2 Diamonds, 455.
18c. LA PARISIENNE.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl, £4.
Ibe.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£2 ss, £3, £4, to £lO.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals or Pearls,
£llss, £2 ss, £3.
5 LOVELY OPALS.
10c., 42s ; small size, 35s
15c., 50s ; small size, 45s
18c., 55s ; small size, 60s
(3D
18c., J. i/u.mUUil
and
2 Rubies, or 1 Diamond
and 2 Sapphires, 455.
Smaller size, 30s.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds,
£7 10s ; smaller
stones, £4, £5, £O.
18c. BAND RING.
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s to 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
80s, 455, 60s.
Opai or Pearl,
255, 40s, 50s.
18c. Novelty CROSS
RING, 21s ; with
7 Lovely Diamonds,
£5 ss.
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
ISc., 21s, 255, 30s.
With
Any Name or Motto,
Is extra.
18c. TABLET.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
27 s (id.
3 Fine Diamonds, 50s.
Any Name or Motto.
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
5s extra.
X
BROOCHES
/=>//VS
fg
'Sri/os
/ SG4/?f P//VS
j9/?JC£l£rS
/9/S/GS
wr/Vd-M <6w/S.
Solid Gold and
Lovely Opal, 15s.
Solid Gold Signet
Bing, set with Blood-
stone or Sardonyx,
9c., 25s ; 15c., 37s 6d ;
Solid Gold, set with
5 Turquoises, 10s Cd,
or Pearl and
Turquoise, 12s 6d.
6 Opals, 15s and 21s.
Curb ( hain Ring.
9c., los. 21 s.
15c., 22s 6d, 21s 6d.
18c., 27s 6d, 355.
Solid Gold and 3
Opals, 255; Solid Gold
and 1 Opal, 15s.
ALL WIDTHS IN
STOCK.
tar POST FREE. *»
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 10s.
Fine Diamond,
18c. Gold, £4;
15c., Ruby or Sap-
phire or Opal
21s.
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
from 55s to £lO.
6 Patterns.
18c., set with 1 fine
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £O.
Our Wedding Rings and Keepers. 100 patens in stock.
ARE ADMITTED TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
ALL RINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH HALLMARK.
9c. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths, 5s (id. 7s (id, 10s (id, 12s 6d each.
15c. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths, 12s (id, 17s (id, 22s 6d, 27s 6d each.
18C. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths, 15s, 20s, 255, 32s (id each.
18c. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £l9.
Smaller Stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 10*.
Ij
Lovely Opal.
9c. Gold .. 255.
15c. ~ .. 30s.
18c. ~ .. 355.
£ olid Gold, 10s, with
AinettaySx Cendant.
o
Any Initial, 9s ;
without ditto, 7s 6d
For Size of Finger send a Piece of Wire, or Hole in a Piece of Thick Cardboard.
' mrrr*- ■ -TriTH. MBLIffICMEKMMMMH——BEOB——BM———r««^
We can make any Style of Ring. Estimates and Designs given.


A Nervous System out of
Balance.
ST. VITUS* DANCE.
A Final and Decisive Cure.
The Case of
MISS FRANCES M. E. RALPH.
A Long Tale of Suffering and Succour.
Men folk may be divided in opinion as to
the wisdom of “Our Boys” having been
sent to the Boer war, but amongst the fair
sex enthusiasm has no limit. The ladies,
full of heartfelt emotion, crowd the piers
and wharves to hid farewell to our depart-
ing sons and wave a last goodbye. When
our reporter called on Miss Frances M. E.
Ralph, of IS Prentice-street, Inkeiman-
street, St. Kilda, at her pretty cottage resi-
dence, she was hurrying to be off and say a
last adieu to the Victorian contingent, yet
she was pleased to relate the details of her
exceptional experience :
“ As a young girl,” said Miss Ralph, “ I
had a great deal of worry and anxiety—far
too much for one of my age ; and when,
after her illness, my mother died, the grief
caused by that event entirely upset me,
seeming to throw my nervous system quite
out of balance, and so causing me an amount
of suffering awful to experience or to con-
template. I was treated by two doctors.
They said my complaint was melancholia.
I always wanted to shut myself up—away
from everybody—in some dark room, where
I could brood over my sorrows in a half
dazed, morbid way. It seemed that in
some way my mind and brain was partly
benumbed and not moving or thinking with
my own will at all. There was a dull,
heavy pain across my scalp; my heart
would flutter as though it were bursting,
and feel as heavy in my chest as a stone.
My digestion was all awry, and when I ate
there would he a feeling of fulness all over
me. But often I did not eat at all—my
appetite was so capricious; also, I was
troubled with chronic constipation. My
desire to eat was so erratic that for days
together I would not touch a bite ; then, a
sudden hunger coming on, I would eat too
much, and suffer for it. My nervous system
was quite disorganised ; I trembled and
started at the least thing, jmy thoughts
wandering, and fancying all kinds of gloomy
impossibilities. I thought and said things
ihat were not quite sane, and I could not be
held accountable for all my actions at that
time. A peculiarity of my condition was
that I thought everyone about me as foolish
as myself. A pain used to take me right
across the chest, and at times it would settle
in the left side. My teeth decayed and in-
creased the symptoms of my indigestion,
for I could not properly masticate my food.
This induced me to have them extracted by
a dentist. One of my nervous fears was
that someone was to Beize hold
of me. My sleep at night was hideous ; I
was less rested than when awake, for, while
I never entirely lost consciousness, my mind
was a prey to the most fearful illusions.
Misery seemed to be in front of me, and I
to be hurried there without hope of repreive,
and driven by indomitable fate. In the
morning I would be seized with a kind of
fit—a sort of St. Vitus’ dance ;my body
would break into a nervous, twitching mo-
tion from head to foot, a trembling and
spasmodic action of the muscles that I was
quite unable to control. I got very yellow
in appearance, like one suffering from jaun-
dice, and my skin had a shining look. Far
from getting thin, my face had a puffed out,
bloated appearance. My eyesight got quite
misty, and when I stooped down would be
blurred, and standing up again I would feel
quite dizzy. My memory quite deserted
me. I could hardly call a thing to mind
that I wanted to remember—my past was a
blank. Wind collected in my stomach,
forming into a ball, and rising in my chest
with a stifling oppression, till it; finally
burst, the wind escaping, and for the mo
ment I was relieved. My mouth was never
clean tasted ; my tongue was dry and
furred. My ears used to hear a constant
singing sound that appeared to buzz in my
brain. I had pains in the back, between
the shoulders ; but the most terrible was
that across the loins. Often it would quite
cripple me, forcing me to keep in a bent
position, for it was impossible for me to
stand or sit straight, Black rings formed
round my eyes, and incurable pimples and
blotches broke out over my skin, so that
altogether I was a pitiable object, Miser-
able when alone, yet not wanting company;
my right mind paralysed, and with the con*
stant fear for myself, and others for me*
that I should have to end my short remain-
ing days in some asylum, under forcible
restraint. I was treated for my disorder in
all kinds of ways. One doctor ordered me
spinal baths —a cold, douche that ran fiom
my head all down my back. Another, after
vainly trying to do me good at home,
ordered me to the hospital. fieie, because
my complaint was so largely mental, they
did not confine me to bed, but sought to
keep me busily employed, which seemed at
the time a strange thing to me, for 1 was a
paying patient. Yet there was no doubt
good leason in what they did. But I was
so fractious, so discontented, always beg-
ging to go home, that finally they let me
go, for I think 1 fairly weaiied them out.
I came home no better in any way, and with
the most hopeless prosptct ahead. I re-
member that I was always worse at the
change in the seasons. Though lam natu-
rally active, and glad to he busy about my
household duties, I had now to let them all
go. Things were anyhow. I had neither
heart nor strength nor will to do anything.
I was at this pass when I came across a
little pamphlet about a medicine called
Clements Tonic ; and, reading it through
with the curiosity of a sick person hoping
for relief from her trouble, I came to have a
faint hope that Clements Tonic might do me
good. I purchased a bottle, but the first
apparent effect was to make me worse ; it
was as though a combat was going on
throughout my system of two opp< sing
elements. But later on, when I had taken
more Clements Tonic, my improvement was
marked. The blood seemed to be actually
jumping through my veins, electric with
’ revivifying life. Combined with Clements
Tonic I took Dr. Fletcher’s pills, and the
two acting together worked a marvellous
change. My digestive functions were first
soon quite restored, I lost the back pains
and chest pains, the fearful nervousness and
the accompanying melancholia. My face
cleared, my mind cleared, and all the hor-
rible cobwebs of my diseased imagination
were in time swept away. The morning
fits of trembling and nervous twitchings in
a very short time no longer troubled me,
and alter a full course of Clements Tonic I
regained perfectly sound health, aDd was
able to eat, sleep and work in a normal and
natural way. And I may add further, that
though this took place some years ago, I
have had no return of my old symptoms, so
that my cure was no temporary easement,
but final and decisive. A friend of mine has
derived almost equal benefit from Clements
Tonic ; and a near and dear relative, who
suffered from great mental strain, has foui d
in this remedy the only effectual relief. Bis
grief is that he did not know of the virtues
of Clements Tonic years ago, so that he
might have saved the heavy and fruitless
doctor’s hills.”
“lama reporter,” said the man with the
note-book, “ and live by my ‘ copy.’ I hope
you have no objection, Miss Ralph.”
“Nob the least in the w’orld ! More than
once it has been in my mind to write an
account of my case myself. Print and pub-
lish what I say, by all means; and if any
reader should doubt let them call or send to
me, and I shall be pleased to Confirm all I
have said and to answer any pertinent ques-
tions, I am that grateful for the benefits
derived.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Frances M. E. Ralph, ofiB Prentice-st., Inkerman-
St., St. Kilda, in the Colony of Victoria, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios, and con-
secutively numbered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any manner my
statements—which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the
Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a
False Declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt
perjury.
Declared at St. Kilda, in the Colony of Victoria,
his 30th day of January, one thousand nine hundred,
before me,
J. GARDINER, J.P.,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the Central Baili-
wick of the Colony of Victoria,
2 <ys
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE,
LONDON. S.W
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
fg
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE,
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
This is the Latest Type I
gramophone
or
ZONOPHONE
Price, £7.
fg
TALES! SINGS!
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action
Records, 2s 6d ; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
/tsr Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones;
2Corbett Fight Machines ,£5O-a fortune or a smart
man ; 2 Edison Ki otoscopes, £lO each—Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company*
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DE3?*Y COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES The Bed Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SITDNSSY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
fg
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware oe substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOOD ALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours : —Jemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors -.-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&68, King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
FALSE
ECONOMY.
Every housekeeper worthy of the
name knows what ‘ ‘ false economy is.
There is no need for us to go into
details.
But why ladies, whose management
of their domestic affairs is so skilful as
to call forth the admiration of their
friends, can be so careless -there is no
other word for it—in the purchase of
foot-wear is beyond explanation.
Your shoemaker may offer you an
article which he declares to be of the
highest grade, and which may only be
of poor leather, finished in good style ;
in short, an expensive shoe which will
be worn out in “no time.” False
Economy !
Tie “ HERZ ” Shoe
Has a reputation for Quality and
Durability which the makers are
jealous to maintain.
Call and see
them at
HUNTER’S.
USB
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
V
*
*
IMTINT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED AIOSM
m
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning 1 and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
SLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Et«.. Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers.
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
m
j@»i
of
of
lii&*
b
4
of all Chemists
THROUGHOUT (/REAT B RITA I N A THE COLONI ES
’LinumCatharticum Pills Purc!/%robtc,
05 COACULINE •
Transparent Cement, for ail Broken Articles
GOUT
PILLS.,
F °R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence,
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
eliemisfcs and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


Hearae’s Bronchitis Core.
tbcb famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUCHS!
A Lady in London. j
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND RRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED RY ONE BOTTLE OF lIEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR so INTERESTED THAI HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“ Orange, N.S. W.
“Mr. Hearnc. —
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own pri\ate perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
he mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself y. hat an immense success
it was. —Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately Hew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making knowm the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; hut I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No.- 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
0
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
0
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
0
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
0
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect,. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
0
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
0
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
0
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Hey wood, Victoria.”
O
“I have tried lots of m. dicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
0
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —11. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
0
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
0
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a lone and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
0
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
% Gratitude and Appreciation.
i 1 HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ins: for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronehiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took yohr medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’'—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S. W.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
‘DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
IViinerva Tonic is a phorpho]eiised iron syrup.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
]re you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALING REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-9treet, Sydney.
Smelting Go of Australia
(M M ITKD),
DAPTO (Lake Illawarrat, near SYDKTEY,
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
■i
■
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BITI.T rnN
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS. ELION
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
9
BENOER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
the aged.


THE AUSTRALIAN HEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find id
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
tgoBp*~~’
Sttch symptoms as boils, pim-
ples, blotches, sores, eruptions,
rashes, tetter, and nearly all skin
diseases are proof that the blood is
impure, and if not cleansed these
troubles may be followed by
severer symptoms, such as UL-
CERS,TUMOURS, ABSCESSES,
OLD SORES, SCROFULA, and
CANCEROUS Affections. In
Bile Beans for Biliousness we
have a remedy that has cured the
severest forms of bad blood—from
a common pimple to the worst
scrofulous sore—and that is purely
vegetable, so that the user, while
certain of benefit, has no fear of
| any harm resulting through the
presence of any deleterious sub-
stances in their composition,
which, unfortunately, are only too
frequently found in many other
so-called blood purifiers.
m
fg
fg
APPEARANCE OF ONLY GENUINE.
/4£
/EAMS
YimUSMES.
Head
Ind
pat
Affect
plex
1/1
ICE
Per
Box
%
DOSE
Pills
Bedtirn
* A
tiA'
of
mi
OR,
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
m m
fRAHCAI
m
& F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
SOAP MAKERS,
by
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
A “Bulletin” Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a true Bulletin story, and as the'moral is
somewhat derogatory, I have hope of its seeing
print. The moral comes first, for a change, and
it strenuously advises you not to keep your back-
numbers about the house.
The stranger struck Abe’s selection when the
sun was straddling Bald Head. He dropped
his bundle by the front-door, sank down in the
shade, gasping, and lay still whilst the hens pro-
spected inquisitively amongst his rags, and Tige,
the cattle-dog, sniffed him over resentfully, and
the red calf chewed his boot.
Abe found him in this condition, and helped
him into the kitchen. He had tea with the family
that evening, and ate a great deal, and drank fou
pints. The feed made a new man of the wanderer,
and developed in him a vein of cheery optimism.
He talked right along till midnight. He knew
Abe’s family in Lancashire, and iiad heard of Mrs.
Abe’s people in London. He had been every-
where and everything, from university professor to
cook’s understudy on a guano-boat, and he knew
of all things on the earth, in the waters below,
and the heavens above. He smoked Abe’s tobacco
with beatific disregard of cost, and beguiled Mrs.
Abe, mysteriously, and much to her own after-
amazement, into bringing forth the precious
brandy from the medicine-chest—a kerosene-box
behind the bedroom door. He said his name had
been Andy Johns for this last month or so,- and
before the brandy was finished he distinctly
remembered meeting Mrs. Abe’s brother Tom at
Kimberley, and believed he had been mates with
a cousin of Abe’s in the West.
Abe made up a bed for the guest in the spare
room. When he returned to the kitchen after
bidding Mr. Johns good-night, he looked sheep-
ishly over at Mrs. Abe. Mrs. Abe made a
heroic effort to look as if she had no such thing as
a suspicion about her, and the two retired in an
unusually thoughtful mood.
Andy Johns was up bright and early in the
morning, and ate a big breakfast, and when Abe
was shuffling about preparatory to moving off to
his job at Oldham’s Johns said :
“So long, old man. Don’t you mind me; I’ll
be all right. I see you’ve got a big pile of old
Bulletins in my room. I’ll just go over them, if
you don’t mind.”
Abe gasped and walked away dubiously, pausing
once or twice before reaching the track as if to
turn back and move Mr. Johns out; but Abe was
a soft and rather diffident man, and nothing was
done that day to incommode the stranger within
their gate.
Mr. Johns spent the day amongst The Bulle-
tins, and in the evening was full of gay prattle
about The Bulletin and Bulletin writers, one of
the most conspicuous and gifted amongst whom, it
was hinted, was the speaker himself, who wrote over
an alias. The stranger declared that he ha d earned
a great deal as an author at one time, and was cer-
tain he could do as much again under the stimu-
lating influence of three meals a day, and in the
calm of those peaceful surroundings. Complete
quiet and generous feeling, he said, he had always
found absolutely essential to sustained intellectual
effort. He would begin contributing again pre-
sently, and the first cheque that came along—well,
he was not an ungrateful man. Did it occur to
either of them that he was the kind of man that
would be likely to forget a kindness? No, no ; those
who had shared their little with him would be
his chosen companions in prosperity. Meanwhile
it was necessary for him to familiarise himself
again with The Bulletin style, and he intended
continuing his study of those back-numbers next
day.
Mr. Johns spent the second day and the third day
over the back-numbers, and Abe, who had made
up his mind a dozen times to clear him out, and
had failed miserably in the face of the sunny smile
and bland manner of his guest, was developing a
morbid condition of self-contempt, and would sit
out between the chimneys brooding, whilst Johns
lolled comfortably indoors, poring over those old
Bulletins. On the fourth night Abe conceived a
plan. He stole into the spare room, seized
about a hundred papers from the bottom
of the pile, dropped them out of the
window, climbed out after them, and then
carried them away and hid them in a hollow tree,
returning to the kitchen with the air of a con-
victed thief. Before Sunday came, Abe made two
more shameful, surreptitious visits to the spare
room, and got away with nearly the whole of The
Bulletins, leaving only those Mr. Johns had
read. The visitor made no comment on the dis-
appearance of the papers, but devoted Sunday to
the composition of a poem, for which, he said, he
would receive ten pounds by return of post, and
Abe wasted his day of rest mooning about fret-
fully, trying to make up his mind to eject the
poet, and failing pitifully.
That evening Mr. Johns gave Abe an envelope
addressed to the editor of The Bulletin. The
envelope was supposed to contain the .ten-pound
poem, and Abe was expected to post it m the
township next morning.
“ We’ll have the cheque along in less’n a week,”
said Mr. Johns.
When the unwelcome stranger had retired for
the night, Abe took up the envelope, and glanced
dubiously over at Mrs. Abe. Mrs. Abe nodded
her head, and a large, hard thumb went through
the wrapper. There was no poem—nothing, in
fact, but a few sheets of old print.
That was the last straw. Abe rose to the occa-
sion, morally and physically. Quietly, but with a
steely glare in his eye and an ominous rigidity of
the jaw, he stole to the tool-box, armed him-
self with hammer and nails, and, going to the door
of the spare-room, began to nail it up. He drove
in about a pound of nails before he was satisfied,
and then paused for the remonstrance; but Mr.
Johns spoke never a word.
“You can leave by the window, mate—or stay
where you are, and be damned to you ! ” said Abe
through the keyhole ; after which he went to bed.
Next morning, the poet appeared at the kitchen
door, carrying his swag.
“I’m thinlcin’ about going,” he said. “No,
Mrs. Abe, I will not stop to breakfast. No, no—
thanks very much, all the same.”
He moved away, but returned presently, and
addressed them through the open window.
“ About our little account. You can take what
I owe you out of that Bulletin cheque, when it
comes, and send the rest on to me. Address
Menzies, Melbourne.”
al hat was the last they saw of hi nr.
SILAS SNELL.
When Li Hung Chang was in Glasgow, a
few years back, he asked one of the members of
the “Clyde Trust” (honorary position) what
salary he got, and was told none. ‘‘Then,’ asked
Li, pointing to a diamond ring and a gold watch-
chain, “ how did you get these'/ ”
Lizzie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw Lizzie yesterday. I have been helping to
clean-up dirty Sydney, and in a Chinaman’s back-
yard in Wexford-street—l saw Lizzie! God !
how she has altered ! When she was my wife (I
suppose she is my wife still) she had laughing blue
eyes, and was as fair as a lily, and clean and tidy
always. Now, eyes like big black saucers ; yellow
as a sovereign ; dirty, stupid-looking, and her hair
about her face like the shredding stringy-bark.
And while I was there the pig-tailed Chow came
out and said to her: “ Wha’ fo’ you come heah ?
Go in ! ”
Ordered about by a Chinkee !
It was not long after I married Lizzie and took
her to my little farm that she cleared out and left
me. And—it all came of living in a gully.
There was no one for Lizzie to talk to; the
floods carried away my crops, and I was cranky
(everybody who lives in a gully gets cranky), and
so Lizzie left me. I sold-out and tried to find her,
but I couldn’t, and my money went, and I’ve been
humping my swag nearly ever since.
I wonder how Lizzie has spent her time ! I
wonder if she knew me ! I looked at her long
enough—but then she seemed stupid-like.
Well, now I’m revenged, and I should howl
with delight. And yet—and yet!—there’s some-
thing in my throat that—curse me if my eyes are
not wet !
Never mind—there’s a pub. near where they
sell o.p. rum—fierce, fiery o.p. rum—that’s the
thing to drive away thought!
Poor Lizzie !
WAT. TELL.
According to a recent Sydney advt. the
hardest Pyrmont freestone comes from “Purga-
tory ” quarry, next to “Hell Hole.”
Few men (even on the bench) can resist a
really human plea. Brisbane drunk, apologetic-
ally, to P.M. : “ Look ’ere, old man, I haven’t had
a drunk for a long, long time ! ” Discharged with
a caution !
Ex-Mayor Tucker, M.P., in S.A. Assem-
bly:—“l don’t believe in fixed destinies. If a
man knew he was destined to die in five years, he
would upset His destiny by fretting himself to
death in two.”
A Braidwood (N.S. W.) railway deputation
explained, _ t’other day, that, in that thinly-popu-
lated district, there were over 50 residents whose
ages were 80 and upwards ; that a Braidwood boy
of 90 had ridden 30 miles a day with ease ; and
that an enthusiast of over 80 had walked 10 miles
to a railway meeting, and back, without incon-
venience. Braidwood is the sort of place where
doctors sW've and undertakers despair.
“ Alpar ” : A man police - courted in
N.S. W. for shooting a retriever dog, “in mistake
for a dingo,” called two men, one of whom valued
the dog at 55., and the other at 7s. 6d. Owner
stated that he would not have taken £5. He wis
allowed 6s. Now, I contend that an animal is
worth—not what somebody would give for him—
but what the owner will take. For instance, a
lady of my acquaintance drives a quiet old horse
she wouldn’t take £5 for, though a horse-expert
would probably value him at about ss. Now, if I
shot that horse “in mistake for a kangaroo,”
would it be just for me to part up only a crown ?
[The principle wouldn’t work. A. may possess—
say, a lock of hair —for which, though of abso-
lutely no intrinsic value, he would not take hun-
dreds of pounds ; but it is not to be supposed that
8., should he accidentally destroy this, is to be
therefore held liable for hundreds of pounds.
Besides, the man who swears when his dog has been
killed that “he wouldn’t have taken £5 for him”
is often the same man’who would have rushed at
an offer of 20s.]
When Paul Marfcinetti was at Sydney
Tivoli he created amusement by leading his valet
about the stage by the ear. The thing is as old as
the hills, but it always raises a roar. To appre-
ciate the real humour of the action it requires to
be seen in actual life. Writer saw it thus
for the first time last week. It was on William-
street (Sydney) tram, and the big, blue-faced,
testy gentleman with the aggressive jaw and pug.
shave had been compelled to draw the attention
of no less than four apparent gentlemen to the fact
that, after entering, they had left the front door
open, and that a bitterly cold draught was blowing
in on a young woman with an infant in her arms.
When the fifth men entered, left the door open,
and got into a corner whei;>the draught would not
reach him, the blue-faced man lost his temper.
He cursed loudly, seized the offender by the ear,
jerked him across the car and hissed at him :
“ Shut that door, you mangy whelp ; don’t yer see
the lydy’s in ther draught, you hog ! ” The
offender shut the door, and the blue-faced man sat
down. The offending passenger fell down. After
all, despite his prize-fighter’s shave and his lan-
guage tne blue-faced man was the one real gentle-
man in the car.
Private Inglis in a letter from the front
(published in Melbourne Age) :
My leg was broken and I lay in great pain for some
time. By-and-bye, a Boer, whose left hand had been
amputated, approached me and asked me if I wanted
anything. I asked for water. In response the man drew
from his pouch a cake, which, with water, he offered me.
I took both eagerly, and he then inquired whether I
would like some peaches, so I had a feed of peaches. The
sun was beating down fiercely upon me, and the Boer
essayed to move me to the shade of a clump of bush. I
had to request him to leave me where I was for fear my
injured leg might be irreparably damaged. He im-
mediately desisted, and walked some yards away to where
a heavy boulder lay. He managed to roll it up by my head,
and then for a solid three-quarters of an hour he sat on it
to keep the rays of the sun from me. Towards dusk the
British ambulance came along, and I stood a big chance
of being missed by them, so I showed my Boer friend how
to coo-ee. His effort was anything but a perfect imitation
but it had the desired effect, and I was lifted into the
waggon.
As a beautiful contrast to this read the sentiments
of the flippant Private Daly, of Queensland, who
describes how he found a wounded Boer on the
veldt and gave him a drink. “He,” continues
Daly,
implored us to take him to some farmhouse, which was
impossible for us, but we told him that if we could get
him help on the way we would send it. But, alas ! we
could get none. I felt sorry for poor old Dutchy. I often
wonder what became of him. Probably if some of those
vultures which hover over the veldt could speak they
might tell a doleful tale of his last hours of life.
Women and Marriage.
HINTS FOR CHOOSING A WIFE.
It is not always the prettiest women that are the most
popular with the sterner sex. You will often find that
one of the plainest girls, if she be good-natured, light-
hearted, and witty, will be most sought after by the men.
\\ hen it comes to marriage, a careful man takes pains
that the women of his choice are healthy and robust; he
considers it a duty he owes to himself and to posterity
that his companion in life should be as nearly perfect,
from a physical standpoint, as possible. Many a man’s
life has been ruined by marriage with a frail and delicate
woman. It is these sort of matches that find
marriage a failure. . Not that the woman is so
much to blame, as in many cases she does not
know of a remedy for her ills. A woman who is
run-down, nervous or irritable, is not a helpmeet to a
man in any way. If she suffers in this way, sooner or
later she will be taken with fainting-spells, dizziness, and
backaches, accompanied by a heavy’, crowded feeling in
the abdomen. There is no need to suffer from any of
these ailments when Bile Beans are close at hand. They
act gently (as all medicines for women should), and are,
therefore, to be recommended. Bile Beans put the liver
in a perfect condition, and prevent the ducts con-
necting the various digestive organs from becoming
stopped up. In this way they prevent biliousness.
When a cure, however, is required, they cause the
liver to secrete increased quantities of this fluid,
and thus flush the whole digestive organs and carry
off all waste matter from the system, clearing off at the
same time all surplus bile. Once tried (they are only
13Jd. per large box), they will be found beneficial, and
their use continued the system will be toned up, the
appetite returned, the circulation improved, and general
health restored. A healthy woman is always interesting;
she is happy, and her spirits are contagious. Good
health and good nature are inseparable ; secure the first
by’ using Bile Beans for Biliousness and the latter will take
care of itself.
Not a Lily Langtree.
If there is one thing more than another that Lily Lang-
tree is noticed for it is her complexion. Unfortunately
we see in the streets every day young ladies who are not
Lily Langtrees, who, in other words, have pimples on the
face and an unhealthy, pasty look. The dark look under
the eyes which accompanies this paleness is a sure sign of
an unhealthy body with amende conditions in the system.
The healthy girl has a fresh, rosy complexion which is
admired. Let us inquire into the reason of these very
opposite conditions. Healthy blood is absolutely essential
to a good complexion. Many girls with almost perfect
features are annoyed at finding that they are neither
pretty or attractive. They think their trouble is their
face, when it is really their liver. To have good blood
the liver must be in working order, the stomach able to
perform its part of the contract, and the person must be
free from all digestive trouble. Bile Beans are com-
pounded expressly to bring about these conditions, and
girls with a pasty white skin cannot do better
than try them. Once the organs of the body are
in good order and the functions of the body carried out
regularly, the skin will assume a beautiful color without
the aid of cosmetics. Bile Beans will have made the blood
pure, and the result will be shown on the surface. Their
action is gentle, there is no griping, purging, and no evil
after effects. Their formula is purely vegetable, and
su’h drastic ingredients as aloes, calomel, and mercury,
found in most purgatives,are emphatically and positively
not employed even in the smallest degree. Occasion may
come when you wish a medicine to thoroughly search out
and get to the root of a digestive ailment. If it does, re-
member Bile Beans are the people’s popular-priced pre-
paration, and they cure when all other remedies fail.
Those who are troubled with pimples should try’ a course
of Bile Beans, and the young lady taking them may be
assured that her complexion will at least be improved,
if not as fascinating as Lily Langtree.


BETTER THAN
COD-LIVER OIL.
can take Cod-Liver Oil for any length of time without seriously disturb-
i ing the digestive functions. Angier’s Petroleum Emulsion, on the other
- hand, is pleasant to take, does not repeat or cause nausea, and agrees with
the most delicate stomach, aiding digestion instead of disturbing it. The gain in
weight from its use is fully equal to that from Cod-Liver Oil, while at the same time
it has healing and curative virtues which Cod-Liver does not possess, and which
particularly adapt it to the treatment of Con-
sumption and other chronic lung affections
and wasting diseases. It relieves the most
obstinate cough and heals soreness arid
inflammation of throat and lungs. It
soothes and disinfects the digestive
track, checking fermentation, and
greatly improving digestion, assim-
ilation, and nutrition. It also
gives vigor to the nervous
system and builds up the
health and strength gener
ally. It has positively no
equal in Bronchitis,
Consumption, W eak
Lungs, Chronic
Cough, and all
Wasting Diseases.
stm>
o*>
m
HVP
sS?
!»’°
«<•
■QjjP
v«
sA
o.'S®*
«0*
\SP'
<**
rf®
«o*
o ,e
MC
fI&P
e^.
SY6
v*
***
O.V
§6*
6?
\tt<
A***
<v%
X>*
&V
«v*
ts.
«<rt 6
0
o e
■a** -
CQ#
Cs>
w*!
o
<*,o^
Children.
Angier’s Petro-
leum Emulsion is
bland, soothing,
creamy. Children
like it, and take it
readily when they can-
not be induced to take
Cod-Liver Oil. For those
who suffer from lack of
nutrition, who are pinched
in appearance and puny in
development, it is just what
is needed. Their food agrees with them better, and is perfectly digested. They
eat better, digest better, sleep better, and gain in weight, color, and general health.
Give it to the children when they cough, are scrofulous or losing flesh, when their
food does not digest, or when their bowels are out of order. The Medical Profession
prescribe it largely in such cases, and it is used in Children’s Hospitals.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession
In United States since 1881.
In Great Britain since 1892.
In Australasia since 1898.
ENGLISH TESTIMONIALS.
Instead of Cod-Liver Oil.
Franche-road, Glenfield-road, Leicester.
Dear Sirs,—l am writing to thank you for the
sample bottle of your Emulsion. My doctor
wished me to take it for a time instead of cod-liver
oil, and X cannot help writing'to tell you how
much better I feel in every way. lam now on the
second bottle, and am gradually gaming weight.
My appetite is much better, and I have no indi-
gestion pains and no pains between the shoulders.
It has also done my rheumatism good. I have
recommended it to many others, and they also say
how much better they are feeling since taking it.
(Signed) 0. GODDARD.
Delicate Baby.
■ 41 Faith-street, South Kirkby, Wakefield.
Dear Sirs,—l have a little daughter one year
and nine months old, who has been very ill for
over twelve months. Everything she had to ert
used to come back as soon as she had taken it, and
the doctors here had given her up, but before she
had finished the second bottle of Emulsion she
was that fat that nobody would know her as the
same child. I shall always recommend it to my
friends, and you can use our name as much as you
(Signed) JOSEPH MILLARD.
After Pneumonia.
47 Adelaide-street, South Shields.
Dear Sirs, —This time last year my son, aged
nine, had a serious attack of pneumonia and heavy
loss of blood, and the doctor told me that there
was no hope for his life. No one who saw him at
the time thought he could possibly recover, but
he is better now than he ever was in his life, and
is putting on flesh every day. Three large bottles
of your Emulsion have made this change, and I
think it is little short of a miracle.
(Signed) E. GUNN.
Delicate Child with Cough.
71 Llewellyn-street, Pontygwaith, Glam.
Dear Sirs,—My little boy, aged years, has
derived great benefit from the use of Arigier’s
Petroleum Emulsion. He could neither eat nor
sleep, and used to get up in the morning more
tired than when he went to bed at night. He used
to cough nearly the whole night through, and had
been in this state for nearly 12 months. He has
taken no end of medicines, including emulsions of
cod-liver oil, but derived no benefit from their use.
After taking oidy one large bottle of your Petro-
leum Emulsion he is now completely cured, and I
shall never be without a bottle of it in the house.
(Signed) B. RICKARD.
A FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE
on receipt of 4d. for Postage. Mention “ The Bulletin.”
Caution.
Ours is the Original Petroleum Emulsion. It is made with a special oil obtained
from particular wells, and carefully purified by our own process. Imitations made
with ordinary Pretroleum do not have the same effect. Simply asking for Petro-
leum Emulsion will not do. You should ask for
Ang-ier’s Petroleum Emulsion
And be Sure that You Get It.
Of All Chemists and Drug Stores, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Head Office: 32 Snow Hill, London, England.
The Correction.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a rumpus, sweet and pretty,
Such a rare old row !
For the Mongol’s getting gritty
* In the North just now ;
And he says the frantic fellow,
In a crazy battle-bellow,
That his Land is for the Yellow,
For the pure-bred Chow !
And the Briton and the Prussian
Stand in blank amaze ;
And the Frenchman and the Russian
How they gasp and gaze !
And says Bull: “By all that’s clever,
Kaiser Billy—did you ever ? ”
And says Billy : No—l never !
Not in all my days ! ”
“ We must bring the Chow to reason,”
So the whole gang swear ;
“We mu t whale him for a season,
But we won’t say where ;
We must show him that our mission
Is to clarify his vision,
Or he'll go to pure perdition,
If he don’t take care.
“ We must clothe his pagan body
In our own sweet style ;
We must waste our lovely shoddy
On his carcase vile ;
And when war has made its exit
From his country—we’ll annex it,
That the rebel may not vex it
With his grievous guile.
“ For the Mongol in his blindness
Is a heathen blear ;
And he pays us for our kindness
In a way most queer;
In return for all our mercies,
Opium-wars and such reverses,
Why, he plugs us with his curses
And his Maxims dear !
“ So there’ll be a little friction
In the North just now ;
But we hope to bring conviction
To the rampant Chow ;
And, by blowing him asunder,
And dsliv’ring him to plunder,
We'll correct the blazing blunder
Of his pig-tailed fow ! ”
Q.
P.L.
Shimmy’s Ghost.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We had the ballast in and everything snug, and at
about 7 o’clock were lopping down Sydney harbor.
There was just a suspicion of a land breeze, and
as we got abreast of Dawes Point the sails and
gear yawed and yapped in the wash of the ferry-
boats. The skipper—a sallow, hidebound ’Water
man— was at the wheel, while the crew—mate,
cook, and two A.B’s., all Russian I'inns sat play-
ing knifey on the hatch.
One ot the crew lounged across to the star-
board rail and hastily darted back exclaiming,
“Dere is Shimmy—he’s dere sitting by hitnselef
on der buoy.” Then he hastily swung himself
below and the rest of the men tumbled after him.
• • * *
I asked the skipper what was up.
“Oh, it’s nothing,” he replied in an uncon-
cerned sort of way, and all the time he peered
across at the buoy and fumbled among the spokes.
“These —*- flatheads gets up to all sorts of
ideas, and they’re all —— scared of Jimmy.
What, did you never hear tell about Jimmy the
Dane? The most curious things about Jimmy
was his hands—like noo claws on a growed-up
crab. But he was a rummy, natty sort of a chap,
and was a real terror for their doodl’em sweeps.
He used to go and fool round with them clair-
voyantes, and get advice about sweeps. Never got
nothing for years. But one day he comes scooting
acrost to where we lay at Pyrmont, and took all
the chaps out of every craft he could find above
water in the bay, and kep’ them blind drunk for a
week almost. Then he brings up with a rush, and
turns sober’s a judge and swears off everything—
says he has £9OO left and is going to buy a
cutter for pearling up in the North.
* * * *
“He used to go round in cabs all day with
these ’ere broker chaps, a probing and poking in
all the crafts in the harbor. Terrible feller to
pick about garboard-strakes with a penknife, was
limmy When he wasn’t looking for a vessel he
was getting shaved. ’Struth ! he used to reg’lar
haunt a little barber’s up there in the Rocks.
The barber, yer see, was a knowing chap
with horses, and Jimmy used to sit there
and get shaved two or three times a day. Ot
course, if a chap has a bit of ready and wants to get
scraped right bare to the frames, I s’pose it don t
matter, but this’ere barber had a wife, and she had
a sister—a big, tall, horse-faced sorter piece ; and
of course, knowing as Jimmy had a bit, what’s she
do but makes a shy at him ! I expect Jimmy
thought to himself how he’d be going away and
all that, and how he’d get lonesome and all that,
so damn me, if he don’t up and marry her !
There was a devil of a row at the church because
Jimmy didn’t believe in nothing, and got a-testing
of the joints of the altar with his penknife to see
if cobra was in ’em.
m * * *
‘The day after he got spliced Jimmy made up
his mind very sudden about a craft. A long,
narrow-gutted old hooker she was. He got a
chap—a reglar quiverin’ sort of old cove—l never
did see any cove quiver like he uster—to fix up
the cabin a bit and make everything snug. But
when Jimmy brings his missus down to see the
ship she turns up her nose and says she wouldn't
trust her life in a thing like that to go to Port
Darwin. So it was fixed up that the ole woman
she was to go north in the A.U.S.N., and Jimmy
was to follow with the hooker.
“Jimmy books her passage and takes all her
fixin’s aboard the steamer. Then he hurries away
to get his own clearance-papers. You know how
a cove feels when his wife has left him on his
own ? Well, Jimmy had been going unilaterally
straight, so he reckons jist to have one more
shave. The barber cove gets talking and talking,
and Jimmy gets making arrangements about
sweeps and y so g on till the Customs closing-time
slips by; and, it being Saturday, o£ c°ui« e Jimmy
was tied-up till'Monday. Them all ™To
what’s Jimmy do but invite the barber chap to
comedown aboard the craft and keep
panv over Sunday. ‘ There’s plenty of grub and
so on,’ says Jimmy. ’Tanyrate, s° o ’ i s cl c
time, down comes the barber. Jimmy got out the
whisky and they had a good time.
“In the morning it was low-tide, and about
half-a-dozen of them ’ere drownded dogs 3 was
a-sticking up their legs right alongside. Of
course, the barber chap, lie had a nnssu > ‘ .
wasn’t use to this ’ere ships bender busmess
Hadn’t no stummick, you see. He f r °™v
about the smell. The crew were aHaway s me-
where, so Jimmy says, “ If you can gimme a hand
to get a rag or two on her we 11 lop down the 1 ar-
bour a bit. They had an awful job, but at last
brings up in Rose Bay. .
“ They got in on the whisky again. The barber
chap gets worser all the time, and about o
in the afternoon begins to rave terrible. Jimmy
ups and tackles him, and at last gets him snooze
down in his bunk. Then he thought it good
enough to have a bit of a doze himself f eck - ,
“Something fumbling round his , chln Jl? k ®
Jimmy, and there was the barber chap wyth a
razor' trying to shave him. I think .l
tole yer how partial Jimmy was to have
a shave; but, as he afterwards tole me,
when you see a cove with eyes like two port-lig it.
and all afoaming at the mouth, it kind of klUs ? J
any hankerings after titivation. Jimmy . >
and as scared as a whale with a thresher insight,
trying to think what he could do. All the time
tlie barber chap was darting and diving and
dancing and prancing round, swooping the razor
about terrible. At last Jimmy thinks about
sweeps, and gets talking about era, and after a
while the barber starts babbling about somestift
’un, and how he’d lay 100 to 22-you know the
yabber. Jimmy wanted a drink terrible, sa at
last lie ventures to get up and reach for t •
But soon’s he turned the barber starts a-stroppmg
the razor on the standing-gear, and makes for hu
again worse than ever.
“Well, to make a long story short, Jimmy
spent two days there without a bite of food or a
wink of sleep, dodging the barber around the
galley and deck-fittings, and every time this ere
barber chap passes a bit of gear he stropped the
razor on it and started every strand.
“ One of the tug coves tells the quivering chap
that the ship was in Rose Bay. It seems Jimmy
hadn’t paid the quiverin’ cove for the nggin and
soon, and naturally the old feller wanted to see
Jimmy terrible bad. ’Tanyrate, he goes down m
a boat and rescues Jimmy. The quiyenn chap
cried like a infant when he saw how the barber
had ruined all the gear, and he rushed at the
barber and tied him tip —razor and all—in sucn a
—complicated knot that it’s a miracle
he ever got out of it.
. * * * *
“ Jimmy never seemed the same after that. He
loafed round for a couple of weeks. ihen he
seemed to make up his mind sudden like, and he
got me and the chaps together for a start.
“It was one of these ’ere dull, dirty sort of
mornin’s, with a scowlin’ sky and just a show ot
feather in the sou’-easter. Jimmy came aboard
looking awful—tole the mate his wife had bucked
on the trip at Brisbane some passenger had tole
her about women up in the Straits. He seemed
short and hasty-tempered. The hooker slipped
into irons right in the fairway. The cook—a big
six-foot-six fiathead—didn’t hear him callin for a
haul, or was sulky or .something.. 1 any rate,
Jimrnv rushed into the galley and tried to haul
the cook out. The galley was one of these little
deck cabooses about three-foot-six square, with
a red-hot stove in it. Somehow m the scuttle
the door gets closed ; and I promise yer the row
in that galley when first one and then the other
bumped against the stove, and spilled the boiling
water around, was like hell let loose, but all ot a
sudden the side gives way, and out both of them
rolls clutching each other’s throats and bleeding
and smoking •all over. Before we could tear em
apart, flop over the rail they goes, jabbing and tear-
ing at each other. We run into the wind again and
gets the dingy out. After a' long time, just in a
whirlpool of blood and bubbles, up comes Pete,
looking awful. Jimmy didn’t come up at all.
The police they picked him up with the drags three
days afterwards —hooked his hand and he comes
up with one arm raised like a parson.
• * * *
“ Jimmy—oh ! he sits there cos he likes to
watch the traffic, I suppose. Pete sailed in the
Bandicoot, come a mucker on the Buccra bar
rolled the masts out of her—came ashore as
flat’s a pancake.”
N.S.W.
W.H.C.
The red-tapey Hopson T. Walker, barris-
ter, who is retiring from the office of Chief Clerk
of Yic. Supreme Court, was the first person who
held that office, which was created by the Judica-
ture Act of ’B3. During his brief career as prac-
tising barrister Walker had one remarkable case.
Before trying his luck in Victoria he went
to Vancouver, and there became acquainted
with a member of the local Parliament named
Green. Years after Green and Walker met in
Melbourne, where Green got into an awful
mess, and had to seek the aid of his old Vancouver
chum. It was like this : One morning in the early
seventies an engineer, named Reynolds, who had
an office in chambers in Queen-street, found, on
his arrival, a parcel addressed to him lying on the
window-sill, close to his office door. He took it
up and proceeded to open it, when it exploded
and killed him. It was a box, and the fragments
were picked up and a portion of the superscrip-
tion found intact—one or two words. It became
known that Green had business relations with
Reynolds, and that the latter held some “ paper ”
of his. The late Supt. Winch had Green
arrested, and tried to prove that his hand-
writing was on the box by which Reynolds met his
death. Green was tried for murder. Walker
defended him, and became advocate and witness.
When the Crown case was closed and the defence
opened, Walker went from the bar into the box
and told the jury how he had known Green in
Vancouver, and that he was a respectable man
and'no murderer. The jury disagreed. Green
was tried again, and the jury disagreed again.
He was tried a third time and the jury acquitted
him. Walker has distinguished himself in another
way. Although an Anglican of most “Evan-
gelical” type, he was instrumental in making
legal in Vic. bequests for masses for their souls by
R. C. testators. A case of this sort came, before
Walker as chief clerk, and he refused to pass the
money, and referred the matter to the Court.
Queerly enough it came before Justice Hodges,
who is Chancellor of the local Anglican Diocese,
and Hodges held that the old English act against
such bequests was not in force in Victoria.


A Living Skeiete
Changed into a Healthy and Robust ChsSd.
The trying weather of summer makes ohildren drowsy, lifeless, and with-
out energy. They lose appetite, their blood becomes impui'B, and they break
out in sores.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
&
:■
m
r
w.
If
A
Mrs. Emily Air, of Murray Parle, Adelaide, So. Australia, very kindly sends
us a photograph of herself and family, which we reproduce abo*c, accompanying
the same with the following testimonial:
“The trying hot weather of our summer has a very debilitating effect upon
children. They run down in health, become drowsy, lose appetite, and break
out in sores on the face and head.
“I have invariably found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a perfect remedy for this condi-
tion. It purifies the blood, restores the appetite, and tones up the whole system.
“One of my children only twelve month old was transformed from almost a
skeleton into a healthy and robust child simply by giving it small doses of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
Do you wonder, then, that people call it
u The World’s Greatest Family 'lWSedidne ”?
It is the greatest family medicine the world ever knew, good for all ages and
all conditions. When you take it you get more benefit from your foo'd. your
blood becomes richer, your nerves are made stronger, and the whole system be-
comes filled with new life and vigor.
AYER’S i arsapari! !a
A Great Medicine for Weak Children.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
24 Years
Owbridge’s lung Tonic
has been curing"
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASIC EOR
«
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many livrs.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bottles, at Is. l§d., 2s. M., 4s. 6rf,,
and 11s, by all Colonial Chemists, ’
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
P&lftLFs
Jj'Oß Bilious .and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos ivenoss, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORIH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A,M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
"Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health Hie WHOpK Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that l’eccham s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he xvond. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold JOvery where, in Boxes, ls and 3s 9d each.
fg
PLAIN HOME TALK.
KM BRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting: their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting: subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out' of marriage, No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts read v-ruade for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d posl
Pit actical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Du. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; posl, Is 3d.
Bbavty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art ok Wrestling, post, is.
Love and Parentage, 8(1 posted.
Modern EtiqitottK-Pari iex,Love, Drees,etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6<l.
Mahomets Fortune Telling Hook of Patio, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic.' Is6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W RITBR-, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history!
Is 6d posted.
EditipO’Gorman’s Convert Life Unveiled, ls.6d post.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is'fid posted.
CirevASSE’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sonars,
lls 3d post free. »
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy,; is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 1 fid posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. STB ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning’ any in particu-
, hundreds of SPEC/AL Books--inost of which can only be obtained from him-ara
advertised m his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
fg
fg
SS5*
m
Pe/truME
Sjs S
m
3m
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
Sen-Sen (j; \
farringdonavenue\
LONDON. 1
cP
tt
ife
IRISH MOSS
tZ^LSSS
GE OBOE" BONN t NOTON
' " ■Sr
v\
fg
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
fg
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
...F08...
Cycle Tyres
£ s. d.
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Tube 16 6
Outer Tyre, Canvas and Rubber,, 15s. and 0 18 6
Outer Rubber Covers ' ... 0 8 6
Inner Tube, complete, with Valve ...0 7 0
Inner Tube, not joined, without Valve... 0 5 0
Re-rubbering Old Canvas ... 12s 6d and 015 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wearing Strips, Regular, wide ...030
Wearing Strips, Regular, attached ... 0 5 6
Dunlop Valve 0 16
Victor Rims ... 0 6 6
Palmer Tyre, Single Tube Fabric ...150
Rubber Solution and Patching Rubber.
BEST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
Lists Sent on Application.
We do Repairs.
PERDRSAU & CO.
268 and 270 GEORGE ST.,
fg
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
, MANUFACTURERS
AND . •
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
"'- • ■
.
%m
is*
m
'
' '
- r'.Y"' : f
&*£
....IS THE ORIGINAL
PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Austr
n Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and
v . • V
rence
■v •-v*
Sydney, N.S.W.
fg
SPOONS & PORKS
fg
IWia
<pHB
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PKOPKB., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at •
“ THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
fg
fg
W- O. &c CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,.
40 YOJSK sTitfci'H’, SYON 10 V
(Opp. Centenary Hail).
Country Orders by post nom all the colonies pro mptly
aU.anded to *
\' M
reorge and
[arket-t
OTEL
fg
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P P S VS
GRATEFUI*—COMFORTING.
COG O A
BREAKFAST - SUPPER.
Mi
■
Mfe*
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
©r©£t»lH consequently the butter has a hue aroma that onl_y 1 asteut isation can give. .Lheie are a lew, we aie
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are «-ettin& less daily. The difference, in price between Pasteuiised, IbeSl/lltilfnlXy-ilcljVOrecl, X)Tltt©r and the
Ordinary make is or- 'd pelflb It would pay consumers well to g-ive six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US. and we will deliver it at your doors.
Grood butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at. afternoon teas 01 foi oidinaiy use uSLCi plll'fc’fjer IS Cle«l»r
cliii q.fiy price. The famous “Berry” brand Basteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-fctreet, Sydney.
&
Calvin’s Automatic Cupel
Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size and
density in an hour.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ining machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
SOLE AGENTS for
F. W. BRAUN & GO.,
Los Angeles, Cal., U S A.
MAKERS of
ASSAYERS’ and CHEMISTS’ CUPEL MACHINES.
Hydrocarbon Burners,, Blow-pipe Outfits and Furuaces.
All Styles of Cunel Moulds carried in Stock in Sydney.
Write for Descriptive Catalogues.
Blake Steam
Pumps
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN - SONS LJiWEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIA I.TIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
fg
POWDER.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
gagr* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these m aud medicines have not been
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. I-sV' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
Tl Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
.’ requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME «f best
' ."it fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged eke-
Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geor{re-st. (3 doors past Huncer-st.), .sif Bi't HT.
Telephone 1023.
