

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S BUM.
Abs'iastsfy
Purs,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
K. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, TWi™*™ g Requisites,
ESP! OSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
rgh
f
Roller, Steel awl Special CHAINS
A A finif r-4
TTTrtf
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WIINEA&>
"SJAIN AUSTRALIA.
S3S" Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° w wtt stmt, SYDNEY.
ole -^‘ glf ° r The Jeffrey Manufacturing’ Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States* America.
Elevating anca. Conveying Machinery . . .
Detachable Chai* Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
Gram Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Goal Washing and Mining Machinery.
THORNFS
Established 1831.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEHAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
c*V*
RACKAROCK
ghf
kobart.
— ?tm, —
Hadley’s Orient Jjotel.
jyjOTICK TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLEVS QEOFfGJE HOTEL , opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams, Dankest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, S)s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
CO
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
gh
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The jueaamg Beit of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Dtrrahilit'r and Cheapness.
Used exclusively b'y the X.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUQOWICF& SON, LTD.,
XHLV ’X'csir.TaE. Sferee-fc,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, VT. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
FRIGE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S
BOOMERANGBRANDY
THE LATEST TESTIMONY OF APPRECIATION.
AGAIN TO THE FRONT!
Bv mail from London Messrs. JOSHUA BROS, have been informed that
the Army Contracts’ Director has taken a supply of their Brandy
Fortl)E Use oftbe Imperial Troops ii> S. Africa.
in Flasks, Half-Flasks and Bottles.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
IS diswan - Lamp.
WMK
si
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
Complete relia-
bility.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THS EDISON •& SWAN
United-Ehctric Light
Co., Ltd.
Branch : 16 Carrington-street
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nslandDepot—Central Buildin s, Edward-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
Vo.i 21. --No. id 62
[Saturday, June 23, 1900.
Tr s+<r 1 at the (renera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transnrfwon by Pos f as a Newsoauer.


hf
ghf
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitisl
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
gh
A. The Laeysi, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drurj . . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland —post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
Anti-Climax.
Klimax is Greek for a staircase. Anti-climax
oomes when you go up a staircase and think
there’s another step—or when you go down a
staircase and think there is n’t another step. Then
you poise a ludicrous foot in air, or jar a painful
foot aground; and a ludicrous jarring is usually
the essence of anti-climax.
“ Climax is a rhetorical figure in which the
sentence or series of sentences rises, as it were,
step by step; the successive members gaining in
force, importance, or dignity until the close. It
is a method of composition which passes from the
oommon to the rare, from the ordinary to the
wonderful, from the simple to the complex, from
the known to the previously unimagined.” One
of Salvator Rosa’s grammarians says so—Rosa
Salvator Grammaticae Civitatis. Example; Mr.
W. S. his “Tempest”—
The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces,
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve . . .
and he leaves you on the Himalayan height of
climax. Anti-climax might add—
But never, while paid members may prevent,
Will Parliament dissolve . . .
and topple you over the height. When, in the
Bible story, Satan set Jesus on a pinnacle of the
temple, and invited him, on the warrant of
Scripture, to cast himself down, Satan invented
a fair argumentative climax. But Jesus knew
the fall would be an anti-climax, and showed his
sense by preferring a side-issue on the same level.
Literary anti-climax depends on inconsistency,
incongruity something more than outright
opposition of phrases or ideas, v Such an opposi-
tion is classed as antithesis ; and anti climax is a
kind of exaggerated antithesis. Antithesis comes
when two tilings are contrasted: sharpen the
contrast a little, and you get an epigram : push it
farther still, and the result is anti-climax. The
boundary-line between these figures of speech is
imperceptible, and writers often aim at one mark
and hit another.
But we must differentiate. Not all anti-olimax
is ludicrous. There is a serious anti-climax ; and
a very handy figure it is. Serious anti-climax is
nothing but a rather lengthy epigram, or a keen
and extended antithesis. Solvitur Rosa’s gram-
marian—Judex Damnatur Cum Nocens AbSol vitur
Rosa—will quote you Mr W. S. his “Hamlet” —
What a piece of work is a Constitution ! How noble in
reason ! how infinite in faculty! in form, in moving,
how express and admirable 1 in action, how like an angel!
in apprehension, how like a god ! the beauty of the world !
the paragon of statutes ! And yet, to me, what is this
quintessence I bust V
The anti-climax here lies in the discord between
the nominal value of these splendid attributes of a
Constitution, and the worth at which a writer
appraises them by the standard of eighteen gram-
marians, from Churchill downwards.
A second kind of anti-climax is false climax, or
unintentional burlesque. “ There is but one step
from the sublime to the ridiculous, ” said Napoleon.
Gently does it. “Now, all I want ’—said
Edmund Gerald Fitzgibbon, silencing two dis-
putants with an inimitable wave of his imperious
hand in the old days when he town-clerked.to Melb.
Mayor Butters—“all I want is common sense.”
“ Precisely ! ” said one of the debaters. And the
person who was put down was not the person
whom Edmund Gerald Fitzgibbon intended should
be put down—thanks to anti-climax’ artful aid.
But you need not have two persons—or the
sublime —or the ridiculous —to make an anti-
climax. Simple incongruity suffices. In 1889 a
Melb. sharebroker committed suicide. He left
this brief letter —
Too much pain and too much mental worry caused me
to do this. I leave my wife and children to the protec*
tion of God and the care of Mrs. M. H. Davies.
Arid here is the treasured last verse of a serious
poem by a domestio bard in praise of Lady Boun-
tiful—
Then there are churchyard examples like —
Sacred to the memory of Robert Boyle, the father of
Chemistry and brother of the Earl of Cork.
In loving memory of Henry W. Hanson, died April 22,
1846. He was a devoted husband, an exemplary parent,
an honest man, and a first-rate shot.
The other notable kind of anti-climax is inten-
tional burlesque—the staple of all your professed
humorists from Hood to Bret Harte. Artemus
Ward made anti-climax visible on his posters,
thus —
evil new. His work has interest for all Aus-
tralians, but especially for the remnant of those
squatters who lived “like a little king, monarch
of all as far as the eye could reach.”
Incidentally one learns that shark-flesh tastes
“verymuch like india-rubber and bad anchovy
paste,” and that a fishy odour lingers with the
shark-eater for a week. Once Major was nearly
murdered by a Chinaman who crept behind him
with a bright new tomahawk. Just at that
moment the sun rose, and the tomahawk reflected
a beam of light which made Major turn round, so
that he received the blow on his shoulder—and
escaped.
Another of Major’s Chinamen was a cook who
made excellent minced mutton for the station
mess of three ; but grumbled when asked to
prepare the dish for a dozen visitors. Major was
firm against grumbles, and presently went into
the kitchen to see how dinner was getting on.
As I entered, Sam’s hack was towards me, and very
busily engaged he appeared to be. Holding a leg of cold
roast mutton, he cut off a slice, and transferred it to his
mouth, masticating it at a furious rate. Before him on
the table lay a dish, almost filled with something I could
not well make out. However, I was soon enlightened,
for presently he discharged the contents of his mouth
into the dish.
“ What the devil are you up to ? ” I exclaimed.
The sound of my voice caused him to start and almost
choke himself as he answered : “ Me makey mincemeat,
massa, close up ready, you see,”—and, placing a fresh
slice in his mouth, his jaws moved rapidly, and a further
addition was contributed to the infernal mess. . . ,
The cause of Sam’s reluctance to furnish a larger dish
than usual now dawned upon me. He evidently had no
objection to mince for us three, but to do so for a greater
number was more than his Chinese jaws could well under-
take.
That is an excellent variant of Brunton Ste-
phens’ rabbit-pie by a similar cook—
Last-a week-a plenty puppy ; this-a week-a puppy done !
The death of one of Major’s “ colonial experi-
ence ” young men befell curiously. E was
mustering cattle in some very thick and scrubby
pine-country, where the larger trees have pro-
truding dead branches about six feet from the
ground, as sharp as spears. F-4— was found
fallen from his horse, lifeless, his clothes saturated
with blood. His face Was as pale as marble ; but
not the slightest appearance of a wound or broken
bone could be discovered.
Even after he hud been washed and closely looked at,
the mystery of his death was not solved until evening
Behind the lobe of his right ear someone observed a slight
scratch, which was found to be really a puncture; so
small was it, that a quill could barely have entered the
wound. The jugular vein had been pricked by a sharp
stick, and every drop of bis life’s blood had escaped.
Major gives an excellent picture of a sailor
turned squatter, “a rough, honest, old sea-dog,”
who had never in his life been on a horse’s back ;
and who travelled in an old gig which he called
his whaleboat. He never used fire-arms, but
fought aggressive blacks with a harpoon and
twenty fathoms of line, kept clean and shipshape.
His address to the horse which drew the gig was
“Pull away, my hearty ! ”
And of such and similar materials are Thomas
Major’s memories made, and in such fashion does
he relate them. The price of his book is 3s. 6d. ;
posted from any metropolitan bookseller for
3s. lOd.
♦
Fragment of conversation with Marcel Schwob,
reported by Yance Thompson—
Bluntly stated, Mr. Schwob’s theory is that Meredith’s
books are are only a transcription—a Latin translation, as
one might say—of his life. (When you read his essay in
“ Spioil&ge ” you will get his theory in full.)
Smoking his cigarette, stirring the lemon in his tea,
watching my pragmatic spaniel, Marcel Schwob said :—
“The greatest of modern novels is The Egoist."
“ My wife thinks as you do,” X said.
“ And that novel,” Marcel Schwob said slowly, stirring
his tea, “ is a page from George Meredith’s life.”
“ Yes.”
“ I)o not think of him as he is now—the old, gray, deaf
man that you and I knew hobbling up to Chapman and
Hall’s in Henrietta-street—but of a George Meredith
who was black and swarthy and 23. He married
an English girl She left him. You know the story—if
not, read The Egoist. After that, George Meredith went
to Italy. For five years he stayed there. He wore the
red shirt of Garibaldi. He fought like a love-sick man for
the liberty of others. Then he came back.
“ Five years had passed. His friends in London said,
‘Here’s Meredith.’ He gave them to understand that
the Meredith they knew—the Meredith whose wife had
created a scandal by running away from him—was dead,
definitely dead; if they wished to know a man named
(oddly enough) Meredith, who was no kin of the other
ridiculous man, he should be glad to meet them. And so
it was. A new Meredith began life in London."
I did not interrupt Marcel Schwob, save by the silent
tender of a cigarette. He lit the cigarette gently—merely
holding the match to it and permitting it to enkindle, as
one lets a blind girl absorb the scent of a rose—
“ * Evan Harrington,’ ” he said.
“ That, too, is a chapter of George Meredith’s life. Old
«Mel,’ the tailor. That was George Meredith’s father. It
you will look up Captain Marryat’s Peter Simple, you
will find in the early chapters that the midshipman went
to be outfitted to ‘ Meredith, the tailor.’ Portsmouth is
the ‘ Lymport ’ of the book. This Meredith was the
novelist’s father. More, he was exactly the character of
old ‘ Mel ’—a gentleman and a tailor. The truth is that
Meredith’s father was a bastard son of George IV. who
became a tailor—and rode to hounds; a tailor—and a
conqueror of women. ‘ Evan Harrington ’ is merely a
transcription of Meredith’s youth, as in David Copperfield
Dickens wrote his own life. Old ‘ Mel ’ —the ‘ Marquis ’
and ‘ Micawberonly sons could have painted those
pictures.”
■ ♦
This is partly Age’s complaint against Youth.
For the rest it is an expression of opinion on
behalf of the Athenaeum, (paper which encouraged
Kendall —most conservative and one of the most
capable of English literary reviews—especially
gifted with unconscious humour).
Maoriland, and Other Verses. By Arthur H. Adams.
(Sydney Bulletin Office.) —The frontispiece to this ample
volume shows that the author is still young, and in that
fact lies the hope that he will yet wing a loftier flight
than is attained by the minor poets of to-day. His fatal
fluency or his industry must be prodigious for him to have
written all that this bulky book of verse contains. He
has published far too much, and seemingly left himself no
time to trim, to finish, or (what is sometimes much more
necessary) destroy his work. There are over him at
present many influences which we dimly recognise, and
he sings of all things beneath the sun ; but his style is
yet unformed, and he seems unconscious of the bent of
his talent. It is certain, at any rate, that he will not
achieve success as a dramatic poet, for it is difficult to
exaggerate the supreme silliness of “ The Minstrel: -an
Incident in One Act,” a miniature melodrama, written in
the lofty style that Lytton affected. It is certain, too,
that he has a hundred faults of taste of which to cure
himself, the most glaring example being the dedication to
his mother of a book largely consisting of poems which
tell of the passions and loves of women of the demi-monde.
Instances of such false imagery, too, as the following are
not rare :
Her white brow a-clamour to be kissed ;
or this description of the Anarchist: —
The maddened one against the many; thus
' He strove to strangle Order’s octopus.
In his love poems—which, after all, contain his best work,
as they should—he is far too fond of singing about
“ bodies pulsing with love’s desire ” and the “ vehemence
of veins on fire ” (a good phrase, by the way), and the love
of which he sings is nothing but carnal desire. Still
there are many passages of beauty, though not of striking
originality, to be found—as, for example, the following:—
No. I have kissed you ! And the brief warm flower
Born of our lips perfumes eternity.
From the long loneliness that silently
Stretches behind, before, I am content
To cull this blossom of one perfect hour —
To snatch one star from Time’s deep firmament!
His verse, too, is always musical, his mastery of many
metres is surprising, and he has all a true poet’s love of
nature. “ The Dwellings of our Dead,” one of the Maori-
land poems, is richly melodious, and shows how close and
sympathetic is his observation: —
In whispers tender,
The flax-blades mourn and murmur, and the slender
White ranks of toi go,
With drooping plumes of splendour,
In pageantry of woe.
Moreover, such poems as “Bereft’’and “Lament” are
instinct with a simple, moving pathos, very sweetly and
tenderly expressed. If, on the whole, we value “ Maori-
land, and other Verses,” rather for its promise than
its performance, such poems make the fulfilment of the
promise certain. But Mr. Adams must learn not to split
his infinitives ; such a trick is neither for the poet nor the
grammarian.
♦
Quote—
We Americans are a much-enduring nation. We allow
ourselves to be ruled by a thievish, lying, bribing,
thoroughly corrupt circle of cheap politicians. We
permit the use of our glorious flag for flaunting advertise-
ments of shoe polish and skirt-binding. We sit quiescent
and let a selfish, incapable Chief Executive wage a private
war in our name against a naked, desperate, brave little
nation that is fighting in the last ditch for the preserva-
tion of certain principles, the love of which was once our
proudest boast. Wo accept the fatuous vapourings of
Edwin Markham as poetry, the opaque platitudes of
William Jennings Bryan as oratory, the tea-caddy flimsi-
ness of W. D. Howells as literature—all these things we
do in great good nature.
The name of the American who wrote this is Karl
Stephen Herrmann. And he is just as good an
American as if he were named William John
Smith or Timothy Michael Murphy. Please get
out of your Australian head the notion that
America is English. It’s European.
fg
Died recently Falguiere, one of the best-known
of contemporary sculptors. France owes to him
the groups on the Are de Triomphe, and the
colossal groups in front of the Trocadero. He
leaves a statue of Daudet unfinished at Nimes.
Frank Harris, recently owner and editor of
Bond. Saturday Review, now manages a Monte
Carlo hotel
_ Bond. Morning Post : “ The noise of a ricochet-
ting Mauser bullet is like the coughing of a sick
ghost.” “ Much more like the groaning of a gouty
worm.” —Bond, evening Globe.
E. J. Forbes pleads in a Sydney daily for uni-
form spelling of Australian place-names; and
quotes, among many others, tnese examples of
H.S.W. Govt, usage:
Lands Dept. .. Bullah-Delah Bye Hock Collarindabri
Justice Dept. .. Bulladelah Byerock Oollarendebri
Postal Dept. .. Bullahdelah Byrock Coliarenebri
Statistician .. Oollarendabri
E. J. Forbes is right; and if the Instruction Dept,
possesses an official with brains he should be set
to compile an authoritative list —paying especial
attention to usage, euphony, and fitness.
Mary H. Kingsley’s “ Travels in Africa ” and
“ West African Studies ” have no patriotic bias to
commend them to John Bull. She thought Bull’s
treatment of African natives was as bad as any-
body’ s, and said so; and she showed her sympathy
with the Boer cause by going to nurse the Boer
wounded—the best a woman could do. And now
she is dead at Simonstown—a good and plucky
woman, with all her uncle’s (Charles Kingsley)
hatred of cant and injustice. ’T was her father,
Dr. G. H. Kingsley, maybe (author of “ South
Sea Bubbles ”) who gave her that unquenchable
yearning to wander, and wander, ana wander.
“ To-night she wanders far . . .”
♦ —
Caught on the wing—
“ Voxpopuli, voxDei!" “You should say vox popu-
lie." “ No ; u-lee." “No ; u-lie." “ You lie !"
“Have you seen ‘The Scoffers’ at Sydney Gallery?"
“ No that is, hardly ; I just saw it going' away—very
hurriedly.” “ Ah, that is the way you should see it! "
“ Don’t see the sense of giving two guineas for a sonnet
like that, do you ? My idea of that sonuet was something
purely Australian—all the images out of Australia—•
nothing in it that took your thought away from Australia.
This is an outlandish thing. What’s Delos? Who’s
Sargasso / ” “ He’s a plumber ’’ “ He is n’t—he keeps a
fish-shop in Market-street—Luigi Sargasso—know him
well.” “ No—plumber 1 ” “ No—fish-shop ! ” “ Why,
ho mended our roof last week ! “ “ Had lunch at iris
place this very day!” “Got his hill in my pocket.”
“ Got his oysters in my stomach.” “ Well, blow Sargasso,
anyway; he’s no business in an ‘Australia’ sonnet.”
With all my heart. Moved and seconded that Sargasso
he Mowed. All in favour say—Aye. Those on the con-
trary No. Carried unanimously. Sargasso, you're
blowed ! ”
“ The blokes calls them caretakers of the big offices in
the city Mister and Missis Elying-fox', because they
hangs up on their toes all day, and whizzes about all night
earning their tucker.”
The other correspondent—and the next—
A.G. : ArMtrary Grosbeak ! there are two interminable
sides to the “ first five years five first 3’ears” discussion
—your side and ltosa’s side. There is also a third deter-
mined side—outside; unless somebody states both sides
succinctly.
Cerise: Hebblethwaite’s book of verses is ready for
issue shortly.
THE BOOKFELLOW.
To the homes of the sick and the feeble she went;
Undaunted and firm on her purpose was bent;
The dogs were all glad—they left their old bones
To give a reception to our heroine, Miss Jones.
“ The marble bar at Tattersall’s
Is closed up at eleven:
When closeth, Blessed Damozel,
The golden bar of Heaven ? ”
Her eyes were sweeter than the strong
Waters distilled at even,
And her speech teas a song, though her lingo seemed
wrong,
“Ma jamais 1 hoc ist Heaven.” *
POEM.
Fitchett for the Land wars,
Jeffery for the Sea,
Australia for the Empire,
And the Empire for ME.
V.K.
WILLY AND TUN LADY.
Leave the lady, Willy ; let the racket rip.
She is going to fool you ; you have lost your grip.
Your head is in a muddle, and your heart is in a whirl;
Come along with me, Willy ; never mind the girl 1
Come and have a Man Talk,
Come to those who can talk;
Light your pipe and listen, and the boys will pull you
through.
Love is only chatter,
Friends are all that matter.
Come and talk the Man Talk ; that 'a the cure for you 1
Leave the lady, Willy ; let the letter wait;
You ’ll forget your troubles when you get it straight.
The world is full of women, and the women full of wile.
Come along with me, Willy ; we can make you smile 1
Come and have a Man Talk,
A rousing black-and-tan talk 1
There are plenty there to teach you, and a lot for you
to do.
Your head must stop its whirling
Before you go a-girling.
Come and talk the Man Talk ; that's the cure for you !
Leave the lady, Willy ; the night is good and long.
There’s time for beer and baccy, time to have a song ;
Where the smoke is swirling, sorrow if you can 1
Come along with me, Willy ; come and be a man I
Come and have a Man Talk,
Come and hear the Clan talk 1
We've all of us been through the mill, and we ’v* been
broken, too.
We 11 advise you confidently,
And break it to you gently.
Come and talk the Man Talk ; that 's the cure for you
Leave the lady, Willy ; you are rather young,
When the tales are over, when the songs are sung,
When the men have made you, try the girl again i
Come along with me, Willy ; you ’ll be better then.
Come and have a Man Talk ;
Forget your Girl-Divan Talk !
You’ve got to get acquainted with a higher point of
view I
Girls are bound to fool you ;
We 're the ones to school you.
Come and talk the Man Talk; that’s the cure for you I
GELETT BURGESH, in The Criterion.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brohers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool f
21 per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKEKS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
—Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. uo.
S YD TXT E Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
3
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDKTEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
IN New South Wales and Queensland.
Ihe Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join tho Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
I,a rges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
- COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of tho Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
£ per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars oil Application).
•Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
Ihe COMI ANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Saleß of Marsupial Sltina Held Weekly.
LAWRENCE S PATENT TOBACCO GUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note.— These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
EVIICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE
GRAIN BROKERS
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Obtain Best Brices for WOOL and PRODUCE, and
Safeguard PROCEEDS by their Special TRUST
A/c SYSTEM.
GEORGE MAIDEN , MANAGER
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE ok SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
for making delicious Custards without eggs In
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kiuds of Puddings
DELICIOUS to everything-.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kiuds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure ntid wholesome Jelly mi a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative:JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagotßd.Sablnco.PertMV.Aa6B, King St, Melbourne
fg
hf
'COMBINES'
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
'With wsoiTute purity
WHISKY
£V
8
i'N
vvh£ r£
mfA
gh
Cures While
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Golds.
CRBSOLENE when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm,
less to the youngest child. Sold, by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 63. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
J-*
0
V
H«y'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- &. 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Dear Sir. —Please inform your renders that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send rhe means of cure
t i all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
i nve' pe to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
l itt-sl reet., Sydney.
JJ2
df
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD BTREET. DUNEDIN. a
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE 3
Ht#H-CRAPE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY.
Pateot Sbecp-Braodiog Liquid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go.
MELBOURNE.
Agents e. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, Red, and Blue. 3s 6d per gall, in Melto. and Sydney; 3s 9d per gall. In Brisbane.
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION Ltd
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLI3NTG BROKERS.


TATTERSALL’S.
-Address: Care GEO. ADAMS. Hobart.
Grand National H. Jul y
100,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
shares in the above.
£ t
Address
Silver City C. Jul ? 2s
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Add ress
: t
Silver City C. (SPECIAL).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
\ Please allot me shares in the above.
Address.
Adelaide 6.N.H. August 11.
25,000 Subaoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me,— shares in the above.
Name
Address
06 t s
Spring H. August 11.
25,000 Sutoacribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
s
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name.
J 5
Address
<
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name. :
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “Tattersa.ll,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


modern
milling MACHINERY.
§
N>
\
R4ND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Fiou iv Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill En-'i es. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery er ted by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guarantc d.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
2<l Clarence street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
ev cVts ts
i’S
P^ Ro ; r
Euc»
\# v ' s
Ot\
. , e
. _ v »^ a a c^ eS
- atv* Co \ds
ca^ oia
Ccv
,c r\\S
\d
vm' to
t \Ot» S -
K
m
The Grip
In that tickling cough of
yours there lurks a
crouching tiger! It’s
ready to spring just
the moment you’re off
your guard. Damp
feet, a little more ex-
posure, moist air, or
some little change,
and you are down w i _li
pneumonia. Take no
chances with such a
dangerous foe.
You may not have
the Grip hard, hut there is
always danger ot pneumonia.
chcrrx
Pectoral
is the great preventive of serious lung
disease. It’s a prompt and certain
cure for the Grip. Your hacking
cough stops at once, the soreness in
your chest passes away. Your escape
from pneumonia is complete.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure Is hastened by placing over the chest one
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
bar Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U.S. A.
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.*
CG. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• NSW) has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
rf the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony Everything is made to measure on the pre-
fit a prince Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woonens P comprising vicunas. West of England Scotchand
PHrnevt’uxeds at 57/6. and 65,- ; the great value offete I-
Ha te makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from mdtonj.
vie inis and Venetians from 45/-, and the new pacinoe*
coat, with full back, jSftS'toS
those of ordinary- city tailors. .
Cur Selection: ~,«
By A. H. t ' Steele Rudd ).
extra, illustrated, Cs.
Cloth
E2ESE3P
<3-0 TO HBX.I--
Ifin I. A N I ’ for Prc'ty StattH'B, out
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci),
FOREIGN stamp importer,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Sumps bought, price-
lists gratis.
AGS&raliai) tyGtGal ProVidesjt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Oiir New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
gh
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3T Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
'
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOUIiNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN*
NELLI NS
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of tlie bigh est value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN'S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COT.DS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MAT,NUTRITION.
t * . . . , V
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY
BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
s. freeman * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES :
CO
z
CO <
OS
X 111
HU
<Ol
CDLI
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
IMPORTA-ISTT ANKTOUKTCEMEKrT !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
dfg
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE,
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
IVT.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address :
«Sz Saddlery Manf-
-193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
MILKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-.nan Sulky, £6; 2-Spring Sulkies £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, ill.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buekboard Buggies from £
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
?o Order 0 HARNESS and S.t POLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.-Do not be
misled by any tirins who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(oloae to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
hd
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Moonrise.
There’s the moon rising
Up from the sea;
Shadows, disguising
River and lea,
Hasten and flee;
O, there’s a paven
Ripple-traced road
Straight to the haven
Of Quiet’s abode.
But for a shallop
Gauzily-sailed—
Nautilus, scallop—■
Lover-breath-galed,
Angel-waft-swaled,
Only to speed me
Over the road,
Only to lead me
To Quiet’s abode.
Over the dimples
Pressed on the sea,
Under the wimples
Night-shade flings free
O’er you and me,
Floating and sailing
Swift on the road—
Everything’s ailing
From Quiet’s abode.
Where does it finish,
Path o’ the wave ?
Shall it diminish
But in the grave ?
God our souls save !
Might we explore it,
’Vanescent road,
Travelling o’er it
To Quiet’s abode !
AHAU.
An Australian Lament.
Where, then, shall Truth upraise her bruised
head?
Where, then, shall man look eye to eye with
men ?
If, shouting “Truth,” they shackle her, where
then
May bide high honour? Only with the dead ?
If foul and bestial Fratricide instead,
Proceeding from her horrid noisome den,
Exalt our homage, where shall we again
Find gentle mercy? Where hear Freedom’s
tread ?
Not here, alas, Australia ! Even thou
Dost join the blatant, braggart, jingo crew.
The brand of Cain now glistens on thy brow.
For that thy brother State is slain, thou too,
Must an iwer to High God. Australia, cease !
Thy God of Battles is the Prince of Peace ? >
M. L.
J. M. L.
Delilah.
And when she died, and passed the gates of Hell,
She saw him. How she drank of hatred’s
draught!
There he was writhing whom her beauty’s spell
Had tempted to destruction. And she laughed.
A spark of triumph kindled in her eyes;
She listened to the music of his groan—
Until an angel beckoned from the skies
And led her to the footsteps of the Throne.
And even as the glory and the light
Encompassed her, she glanced below—and fell
With one wild sob into the endless night
Into his arms —into the flames of Hell!
Only a fool would try his shallow art
To solve the riddle of a woman’s heart.
YON KOTZE.
A Ballade of Reptiles.
Girding the king in his pride at the feast,
Seated on high, a magnificent band,
Flouting us all to the last and the least,
Royally ruling a sycophant land ;
Who are the chosen before us that stand.
Greeted as princely by great and by small ?
Whence do they come with their air of command.
These are the creatures who creep and crawl.
Lauded as learned by pundit and priest,
Tickled for ever with epithets grand.
Praised as prophetic from West unto Fast,
Soon as the floods of their drivel expand ;
Holding the reins of a realm in their hand.
Lo—How the multitude come at their call !
g ee how their worshippers stream on the strand,
These are the creatures who creep and crawl !
Branding us all with the mark of the Beast
Treading the brow of the sage m the sand ;
Stripping the fields when the locusts have ceased,
* Mowing the brave with a merciless brand ;
Feeding them fat when the noble are banned.
Leaving the trail of their slime on us all.
Joying to jeer at a nation unmanned,
These are the creatures who creep and crawl .
Weariful toilers all bended and tanned ,
Know tie the race who rejoice at your jail f
Pickin'! vour bones with apologies bland
These are the creatures tcho creep and crawll
Brisbane.
P.L.


THE
PLUM
fgh
Price —SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. IKE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWQ YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CR.A.IG & AITItJUMT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTEY
The Australian Widows’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
niHIS SOOIETY, In addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which Issues Special Policies granting —
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
1L A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board or Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.OL
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
■
FEDEitBt Eg HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
ROOMS AND ACCOMMODATION— ALL
PRICES—Ss. to 12s. PER day.
30s. to £3 10s. PER WEEK, OR ROOMS
AND MEALS CAN BE PAID IOK
SEPARATELY.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE.
//. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
A PROSPEROUS COMPANY
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
Join Bridge Si Co’s ltd. Clients few Rich.
Ask any SENDER or GROWER REASON.
GOLDEN SALES!!!
The direct result of our determined efforts on your behalf,
For past 30 years or every year since 18*70.
Wool. Hides.
Tallow. Skins.
Finance.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON TIIE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
dfg
hd
AR2 RECOGNISED AS THE MOST
PERFECT, BOTH A 3 TO
MATERIAL AND WORSMAK2HT?.
★
ameo
ICARETTES>
SMORe
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 77 TONS GREATER than during 1898.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading- Brand in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
CHAMPION - - The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
CONQUEROR - . The workman’s favorite>for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
BONANZA CIGARS - . Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1062.
SATURDAY, JUNE 23, 1900.
Price Sn.
“CHRISTIANISING” CHINA .-By Our Chinese Artist.
CHORUS OF THE POWERS (to Missionary): “You have done well, little man. You have applied the lotion; we will rub it in!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
■ (Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Lit-rary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article , tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether HI the form of Political, Social , or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaolc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Cordon and Ootch, Ludgate Circus; Street
dc Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, ShS Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Wcstralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JUNE 23, 1900.
The Same Old George.
N.S. Wales Parliament has just met, and
within a week of its meeting ex-Premier
George Reid, now leader of the Opposition,
gave notice of two votes of censure. The
debate on the first one is to cover as many
days or weeks of desultory conversation
about the sins and alleged sins of the Lyne
Go vernmentas George Reid can conveniently
achieve; and when that is over and done
with, and there is at last a chance of some
real work being commenced, he proposes to
move a new vote of censure, and have all the
trackless deserts of conversation over again.
Wherefore it appears that the Same Old
George hasn’t changed, save in the fact that
he is more unpleasantly similar than ever.
In the days of the Dibbs Ministry, Reid
established a record for obstruction. In
three years he moved some thirteen votes of
censure—all of them useless and hope-
less so far as shifting the Ministry
was concerned, but very useful in various
other ways and directions. They took
up among them something like six months
of the 21b months during which Par-
liament sat under the Dibbs regime, and
having thus wilfully and wantonly blocked
business, Reid was able to appeal to the
country with a shocked expression, and ask
for Dibbs’s ejection on the ground that he
didn’t get on with business. And appa-
rently Mr. Reid proposes to follow the same
tactics with the Lyne Ministry unless he is
flattened out. It isn’t known yet what kind
of progress the Lyne Government will make
at running N.S.W. on sane, solvent and
honestly democratic principles. The coun-
try wants to see that Government get to
work, so that it may receive the benefit of the
work if the work is good, and lose no un-
necessary time in getting rid of the Lyne
combination if the work isn’t good. But
unless George Reid is wisely trodden upon
it begins to appear as if very little will be
done to demonstrate either Lyjje’s useful-
ness or uselessness. And New South Wales
doesn’t keep a Parliament in order to in-
dulge the vulgar vanity and querulous spite
and mean self - seeking of any political
acrobat.
• • * •
Ex-Premier Reid has just been publicly
convicted of political doings so base and
paltry that a cleaner Parliament than that
of N.S.W. might 4 long ago have seriously
considered the question of his expulsion.
And this is only one in a long series of con-
victions. To quote but a few : He accused
his predecessors in office of wholesale stuffing
of the public service, and backed it up with
a huge list of alleged appointments so
utterly misleading that he had at last to
withdraw it as a document that couldn't
bear honest men’s inspection. Later he
tried to bolster up his Freetrade policy with
an alleged list of Protectionist prices which
were proved to be largely an invention, and
the work of somebody’s distorted imagina-
tion. These were not very material things
in themselves, but there was a cheap penny
degradation about them that wasn’t nice to
look upon And now Reid has been
charged by a committee of three lead-
ing financial experts—two of them men
whom he himself suggested as fit per-
sons to sit on such a body —of having
shamefully and disgracefully cooked and
misrepresented the public accounts. Even
the virtue of common political honesty in
his dealings with the public cash-book and
ledger is denied him, and this by a court
which, so far as concerned a two-thirds
majority of it, was distinctly his own court.
He is publicly found guilty of having mis-
used the cash and the accounts of the pro-
vince for his own political ends—to make
bogus surpluses for the enhancement of his
own reputation, which, as it ensured his
longer continuance in his salaried office, was
also his own personal profit, and in some
measure to make bogus deficiencies for the
injury and disparagement of his opponents,
which also meant ensuring longer continu-
ance in his salaried office. No such shame
as this has fallen on any previous Australian
Treasurers. There wore wise men among
them, and also foolish men—the foolish men
preponderating ; there were economists,
spendthrifts, weak men, ignorant men, and
miscellaneous, but they were, in the main,
politically clean, or it they were not the
fact didn't come aggressively to light. Not
one of them was ever before charged, on the
verdict of a committee of inquiry, the major-
ity of whom were his own nominees, of
garbling the accounts on a stupendous scale
and by an elaborate process which extended
over years, and of keeping the public books
on three-card principles.
0 m * *
This is not quite the first time such a
thing has happened to the wonderful George
Reid, though it never before happened so
definitely. In 1896, when the great sham
surplus —the one financial triumph of Reid’s
financial career —was on deck, and the
genuineness of that apparition was called in
question, he appointed a committee of three
Sydney bank managers to inquire into it and
guarantee its absolute reality. And his own
committee inspected the facts and proofs laid
before it by himself, and declared it hadn’t
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that
Reid’s one great alleged surplus was a
real and honest property. Reid’s own com-
mittee, after considering Reid’s own evi-
dence, declined to say that the famous
surplus wasn’t a fake and a sham ; possibly,
if the three bankers had had the evidence of
certain other people before them they would
promptly have gone much further and de-
clared that the surplus was a sham. Any
ordinary man would have broken down when
his own judges, selected by himself, refused
to give him a verdict in a case where all
witnesses save himself were shut out, but
Reid topped his record of incredible assur-
ance by presenting the damning document
to the Assembly and saying with pride that
it effectually vindicated his character. Being
indirectly found guilty, he got out of the
dock with a loud cheer and said that his
innocence was now establi hed. At various
times Reid’s accounts were the subject
of such bitter comment by the Auditor-
General as no previous N.S.W. Treasurer
has met with, but the rhinoceros-hided
funny man survived even that. And in
addition to everything else, he stands out as
the only Australian Premier who passed an
Act which, judged by after history, looks
as if it was expressly designed to cover
and legalise the system of faking the
accounts which followed. Further, when
his accounts were under examination
by the three financial experts appointed for
the purpose—two of them on his own sug-
gestion—George Reid failed even to put in
an appearance in his own defence though in-
vited to demonstrate the cleanliness of his
own political doings. Apparently the case
was too hopeless to be worth defending.
• • * *
The plea which ex-Premier Reid now ad-
vances is that the committee was not a fair
and unbiassed institution—that though the
two members whose names he proposed were
promptly appointed, Premier Lyne’s action
in appointing one (the third) member himself
showed an evil mind and a desire to pack the
bench. But, apart from the effrontery of
the man who repudiates his judges because
he was only permitted to nominate two out
of three, the fact remains that Reid was not ac-
quitted by his own two nominees. They formed
a majority, and if they had found a verdict in
his favour Lyne’s nominee would have been
outvoted and powerless. Instead they found
in effect that Reid had created a huge deficit
of about £1,000,000, where he wrongfully
assured the public there was a surplus and
that he was running the country on solvent
principles—that he had done this b}' an
elaborate process of misrepresentation—that
he didn’t tell the fair and honest truth about
his own financial doings, or about the coun-
try’s position, and that he grossly maligned
and slandered his predecessors by charging
them with deficiencies which were not fairly
and honestly theirs. The defendant’s lofty
repudiation of the verdict counts for nothing
—everybody repudiates the verdict when it
is against him. And now that ex-PREMiER
Reid has manifested a fixed resolve to eret
back to office by the old process of block-
ing public business, and stopping the
progress of urgently-needed legislation,
and sacrificing the interests of the
country till he gets there, it is about
time for Parliament to decide whether
he is a fit person to ever hold office in
N.S.W. again. It is also time for it to con-
sider whether he is the kind of person who
ought to decorate the legislative halls in any
capacity. In a country with a higher
standard of political honesty than N.S.W.
possesses it would probably be needless to
consider the first question at all events. If
ex-Premier Reid had been Chancellor of the
British Exchequer, and such doings and
devices had been proved against him on
equally good authority, the chance of his
ever again holding even a subordinate port-
folio would be too small to be worth men-
tioning. He would simply be the Politician
who Dropped Out. And if N.S.W. ever
proposes to cultivate a higher sense of poli-
tical honesty than it has hitherto possessed
it couldn’t havo a better time than the pre-
sent to begin the cultivating process.
George Reid ought to be the Politician
who Dropped Out in Australia also, and he
ought to drop with a sufficiently obvious
thud to warn all other Treasurers against
being anything even dimly resembling him.
The A.M.P. Job.
Joseph Abbott, M.L.A., ex-Speaker of N.S.W.
Assembly, K.C.M.G., solicitor, ex-Minister, and
chairman of A.M.P. Society, spreads himself over
2j columns of Sydney Telkoraph in defence of
the proposal to extend the operations of his insti-
tution to London and other parts of the British
empire. The tall man of many occupations is
long and desperately in earnest, but ho isn’t
wholly convincing. The chief reasons assigned
against the extension are that the British death-
rate is higher than that in Australia, which means
more losses, and that the British interest rate is
lower, winch means less profits. Brother Abbott*
seeks to coinbat both these charges, with ordy
moderate results. On the question of interest, for
example, he says:—
It is quite true that the society, in common with other
financial institutions in the colonies, has not been able re-
cently to realise as remunerative rates on its investments
as it did some years ago. It is equally true that it has
become increasingly difficult to obtain suitable mortgage
securities. In the light of these facts the board has en-
deavored to profit by experience, and has felt the pro-
priety of investing an increasing proportion of the funds
in Government securities. At the end of 1802, the year
preceding the financial crisis, 3 per cent, of the assets
were invested in Government securities ; at the end of
last year the proportion was over 13 per cent. Now it is
a fact evident to everyone who observes the condition of
the money market that colonial Government stocks can,
as a rule, be obtained more advantageously in London
than in the colonies. One example will be sufficient to
illustrate this. A few months ago the Government of
N.S.W. placed £1,000,000 of 4 percent. Treasury Bills on
the London market at 99J ; the investment therefore
yielded a little over 4 per cent. The bills were not pro-
curable in the colony, and as the society had no respon-
sible officer in London it was unable to obtain any. Last
month the same Government placed £500,000 of 3£ per
cent, bills on the local market, and in order to obtain a
share of these the society had to offer a small premium.
The absence of an office in London lost it over one-half
per cent, per annum on this transaction. The board
realises that if the existing condition of comparative stag-
nation in the commercial and industrial enterprise of
the colonies continues, it will be compelled to resort
more freely to investments in Government stocks ; if, on
the contrary, as it believes, the present condition is only a
passing phase of national life to be followed later on by an
extension of enterprise, there will be ample field for the
remunerative employment of the society’s increasing
funds. In any event the sum which the proposed exten-
sion will add to the society’s accumulations will be insig-
nificant compared with the amounts of British capital
which annually seek investment in the colonies. Fur-
thermore, as the rate of exchange is always against a
debtor country, the transfer of funds from London to the
colonies will afford a constant source of profit.
* * * *
This argument looks a great deal more solid than
it is, for these reasons : (1) It can’t be supposed
that the N.S.W. Government will go on as a
regular thing making the hideous blunder of selling
4 per cent, securities in London when the money
can be got in Australia at per cent. It made that
astounding mistake once, and the A.M.P. wasn’t in
London to take advantage of it. But there
is no evidence that it will do a similar
foolishness in the next 50 years. (2) It is true
that recently (only during the depression) Austra-
lian State securities could be bought more cheaply
in London than here. But Mr. Abbott declares
his firm belief that the depression will pass away,
and if so this state of things will pass also. More-
over, even if money can be invested to better ad-
vantage in London than here that doesn’t necessi-
tate doing life insurance business in London.
Various British life offices have agencies for the
investment of money here without doing insurance
business. And if better interest can be obtained
in England than here, why don’t the British offices
obtain it ? They had a chance to buy up the recent
N.S.W. 4 per cent. loan. They also have had the
run of the cheap Australian securities offering in
London for years past. And yet, out of nearly
80 leading British offices quoted in Whitaker’s
Almanac for 1900 not one earned nearly
as high interest on its investments as the A.M.P.
does. The best of the lot —the great Scottish Pro-
vident—only earned £4 6s 6d per cent, against the
A.M.P.’s £4 11s. lOd. per cent. If the A. M. P.’s
funds were invested at the Scottish Provident
rate it would have meant a loss last year of
£40,000. If the British offices can’t get better
rates than this on an average in Britain, how can
the A.M.P, do better —unless the leading British
offices don’t understand their business ?
* * *
Also, Mr. Abbott speaks (1) of the extra
money to be made by investing the British
premiums in Britain, and (2) of the ex-
change to be made by remitting the British
premiums to Australia for investment. Now
the A.M.P. can’t do both these things —at
least not with the same money. And if it does
make a profit out of exchange by remitting British
premiums to Australia, it has no possible right to
treat that as profit and divide it among its policy-
holders. Mr. Abbott says that the rate of ex-
change will alt. ays be against Australia because
it is a debtor country. Most probably it wilL
That simply means that £lOOO of British premiums
sent to Australia for investment would expand to
perhaps £lOlO or £lOl5, or some other amount.
And the £lOlO or £lOl5, or other amount, when
sent back to England to pay death claims on these
same policies would probably shrink again,
by the reverse process of exchange, and allowing
for loss of interest while in transit, to about
its old dimensions. The only assumption on
which the exchange could be treated as profit
is that the money will never have to be sent back,
that the British business will always go on and
always yield enough in premiums to meet
claims without drawing on the accumulated
fund. And, even then, the principle isn’t
sound. If the rate of exchange will always
be against Australia, as Mr. Abbott alleges,
and the A.M.P. in course bf time accumu-
lates (say) £10,000,000 in Australia that belongs
to policy-holders in Britain, and it. has made
(say) £lOO,OOO of that out of exchange, it has
still got to remember that the £10,000,000,
for the purpose of paying these British policy-
holders, isn’t worth £10,000,000. It is only worth
that sum less crchanye. The profit made on send-
ing the money out here should not be divided but
put to a special reserve to cover possible loss on
sending the money back again. It must be sent
back some day unless the A.M.P. lives and grows
for ever. Does anything live for ever ?
* « » *
Mr. Abbott also states (what is certainly quite
true) that small policies are less profitable than
large ones, for the medical fee on a £lOO policy is
the same as on one of £2OOO. And he points out
that the policies issued last year by the A.M.P.
were for an average of only £2Ol each, while in
some of the best British offices such as the Scottish
Widows’ Fund the average of «U the policies in
existence is as high as £l3OO. Considering
that the average amount of policies is steadily
decreasing this isn’t a fair comparison. The
average amount of all ordinary life policies issued
in the United Kingdom last year was not much
ovor £350, so the small policy rages there also, and
it is getting worse year by year.
* • * #
Some more of Mr. Abbott :
At the two mortality investigations of this society in
1878 and 1888, the death-rate was ascertained to have
shown little variation, and this fact must he ascribed
entirely to the abnormal increase in the number of endow-
ment assurances. Unfortunately, a favorable mortality
experience among endowment assurances it not a source
of great profit, as it is in the ease of whole life policies.
This may be a revelation to some members, hut it has
been proved to a demonstration. Our mortality investi-
gations have shown that our deaths have been
about 67 per cent, of those expected according
to the Hm. table, and this fact has at once been
accepted by superficial observers as a proof that
the mortality among assured lives is lighter in
the colonies than In Great Britain. As a matter of fact,
however, the experience of British offices has shown a
similarly favorable experience when compared with the
same standard. The difference has not been so marked
as with us, hut the reason for this is obvious and will he
explained directly. For example, the deaths in the
Metropolitan Life Assurance Society of London, a most
conservative office, which pays no commission to agents,
and consequently transacts no business of the ephemeral
character common in these colonies, were, at the end of
45 years, in 1890, equal to 88 6 per cent, of the expecta-
tion, hut the average age of the lives at entry was 336
years, and the average duration of the policies was 17‘8
years, while only 1 per cent, of its policies were for en-
dowment assurances. The deaths in our society at the
end of 40 years had been 07 per cent, of the expectation,
but the age at entry was 32 years, the duration of the
policies 6'2 years, and the endowment assurances
issued were 42 per cent, of the total. At the end
of last year the endowment assurances in force
largely outnumbered the whole life-policies. No one
familiar with life assurance statistics would contend that
these figures disclose a more favorable experience in our
society than in the Metropolitan. The Loudon Life Asso-
ciation, an office similar in every respect to the Metro-
politan, reported that the claims in its 89th year were
71.5 per cent, of those expected by the Hm. table. Its
policies must have been very much older than those of
the A.M.P. Society ; it had only 18 endowment assurances
out of a total of 8560, and yet its experience was but little
less favorable than our own. The mortality in the Law
Life Office at the end of 52 years was 92.8 per cent, of that
expected by the Hm. table, but the average age at entry
was 37.24 years, the average duration of the policies 15.69
years, and it had only 6 per cent, of its business in endow-
ment assurances. In the Scottish Widows’ Fund, which
is 85 years old, the deaths ranged from 70 to 80 per cent,
of those expected by the Hm. table, but its policies are,
of course, very much older than ours.
• • • *
This is all very beautiful, and it is also a good
deal too tangled for the ordinary reader. But
against it we have the assurance of the A.M.P.
Society’s own actuary that:
Jt is well-known that the powerful influence which the
medical selection exercises on assured lives disappears
after about five years, after which such lives are little, if
any, better than those of the general population from
which they have been taken.
If this means anything it means that, after the
policies have been in force five years, the insured
nave just about the same chance of living to an
advanced age as the rest of the population. And
all the elaborate calculations about the proportion
of ordinary and endowment assurance can’t alter
the fact that the average male cornstalk of 30 can
look forward to two years’ longer life than the
average Englishman of 30, and that means two
more annnal premiums paid to the A.M.P. Society
before he becomes a claim. And in the big busi-
ness these two extra premiums may make all the
difference between a large profit and a small one.
• » • *
Mr. Abbott winds up by pointing out that the
heads of the A. M. P. Society are all in favor of the
extension of the business to England, and they
ought to know better than mere outsiders. So
they ought. Still the rule isn’t always a safe one
to follow. The experienced men who ran the 20
busted land-banks of Melbourne ought to have
known the banking business better than mere
outsiders, but the result leaves that very much in
doubt. This isn’t a comparison—only a reflection.
The real question is: If the men who run an
institution always, by reason of that fact, know
better how to run it than anybody else, how is it
that any institutions go wrong?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Enthusiastic Sclieveizer.
Probably the worst advertisement for the money
which any one has yet got out of the Bushmen’s
Fund was secured by Mr. H. S. Chipmax, of
Sydney. The following is Mr. Chipman’s letter
to Sydney Telegraph, the italicised parentheses
being The Bulletin’s suggestions and com-
ments :
I enclose letter from the Ansonia Clock Co., of New
York ( for which I am agent here —excellent clocks—
•prices low—call round promptly and buy ) re the Citizens’
Bushmen’s Contingent. This letter is a fair specimen of
the sentiments expressed in letters addressed to me from


a number of important manufacturers in the United
States (for whom I also do business —call and see samples)
aggregating many millions sterling, and employing thou-
sands of hands {the sentiments of the hands don’t matter).
The writer of the letter enclosed is a German by
birth {name Sdieveizer), and though a good Ger-
man and a loyal American citizen, he backs up his
sentiments towards the British Empire and its people
with a subscription to the Bushmen’s Fund, which I will
have pleasure in forwarding through you, to the extent of
£SO. (It is/i’t my money, you see, but Sclieveizer’s ;
call and inspect the Ansonia clock.)
Then Sclieveizer’s letter to Chipman is given, as
follows: —
I am in receipt of your favor of April 10th, and thank
you (in a tired sort of way) for the souvenir of the Bush-
men’s Contingent which you have sent to me. We have
contributed to the Hospital Fund in London (where the
Ansonia clock is being pushed for all it is worth), and if
it is your desire (we don’t expressly say it is ours) that we
contribute something to the Australian Fund, please advise
me. ( You don’t expect me to grow enthusiastic over it I sup-
pose ? I never dreamt of contributing, but if you think it
advisable, I suppose you lenow best. You are a good man of
business, or you wouldn’t represent us in Sydney, and you
are on the spot, and I’m not. I don’t fix the amount; give
whatever you think will make a decent impression). I quite
agree with you in regard to the sentiments powerfully ex-
pressed in your letter. (Powerful sentiments utterly
omitted, heaven only knows what they were.) I agree
with you in the far-reaching results (it is the biggest reach
I ever heard of; please note that I don’t say whether the
results will be good or bad) of the entire movement, and
furthermore think that this spontaneous combination of
the colonies will place before the world an Allied Power
the like of which has never been seen in ancient or
modern history. (You will observe that I don’t commit
myself. You may read this to mean that it will be the
greatest Power, or the most scattered, or the most excited,
or the one that has made the biggest grab, or the Power
that has done the best or the most foolish thing on record, or
the richest one, or the most villainous, or anything ;
I only say that in some way, not specifieii , it will
excel any other power in history. The fact that I don’t
specify my meaning may be taken to signify anything you
like, or don’t like).
Mr. H. S. Ciiipman’s struggle to make his princi-
pal’s blankly-indifferent aud non-committal letter
read like the fervid outpouring of an enthusiastic
soul that sells the Ansonia clock is pathetic. And
how the Sydney D.T. people, who printed Mr.
Chipman’s letter, must have chuckled !
“Hobart Mercury” Turns Dog.
When The Bulletin said that Brisbane Courier
was the angriest paper in Australasia on find-
ing that Joe Chamberlain wasn’t going to
mangle the Federation Bill so much as originally
expected, this paper had not read Hobart
(Tas.) Mercury. All its life until now the
Mercury, a solemn paper printed in laudanum
on sheets of lead, has been saying beautiful
things like this:
We desire to see the Empire united, to make the Briton
abroad one with the Briton at home, and to consolidate
the strength of an empire which stands for true freedom,
and which, if united, may leave the foreign critics to
gnash their teeth in impotent despair.
The Mercury also pointed out that “the Bill”
was sent to England purposely to be mangled, and
that if the people here hadn’t been assured that it
would be properly mangled and clear-starched and
ironed by Joseph they would never have voted it.
It also loudly inquired for weeks who “ this man
Barton ” might be, who had the front to defend
the Bill as the people of Australia and Tasmania
had made it and accepted it, and “whom does he
claim to represent.” When I wrote and told it
that Barton was really Holman of Grenfell in
disguise it was too angry to reply civilly. Then
news came that Joseph Chamberlain in his
wisdom had decided to mangle the Bill much less
than originally intended, and the Mercury, after
being absolutely Jingo for years, started to abuse
the British Empire. Some extracts:
Our telegrams about the Commonwealth Bill illustrate,
we are afraid, the unfortunate proclivity of the British
Government to make it unprofitable to colonists to be
loyal. The terrible muddle in South Africa, the end of
which is not yet, can all be traced to the tendency of the
British Government to throw over its most staunch
friends in the colonies, apparently for no other reason
than to save itself some little trouble and responsibility.
In the case of the Commonwealth Bill we have the same
mistaken policy or want of policy in another form. The
Imperial Government set out in the right manner by re-
ferring the Bill to the law-officers, who tacked a number of
objections to it, but no sooner did certain quite
unauthorised persons arrive from the colonies, than
all the objections were at once abandoned except
one, and that seems now finally to have been thrown
overboard. . . . The whole business is an unpleasant
and unworthy one, and it tends to lower the Imperial
Government in the minds of the colonists, especially of
those who may be said to be the most thinking and most
loyal portion of them. Moreover, it shows a very unfor-
tunate misunderstanding of the position and opinions of
the colonists generally. It is assumed, apparently, that
there is a compact body of opinion in these colonies which
has decided on every provision of a Federation Bill, and
that the holders of that opinion have a clear, undoubted,
and unalterable case in their minds. Everybody in the
colonies knows not only that no such opinion exists, but
that Abe vast majority of the people are altogether indif-
ferent as to most of tbe details of the measure. There are
a large number of persons, the very ones most staunch to
and most capable defenders of Imperial Federation, who
have relied on the Home Government to deal conscien-
tiously with the Bill, so that the many crude opinions of
the Conventions might be carefully reviewed by the men
who are supposed to be the foremost and best informed
in the Empire. These persons are being, as usual, be-
trayed and abandoned. They are.being taught the lesson
which has borne such bitter fruit in South Africa, that he
who trusts the Imperial Government is sure to be
grievously disappointed. The Imperial Govern-
ment has, in fact, broken a solemn compact....
The situation seems to us to be very unfortunate. It is
not only a direct breach of compact and a betrayal of
those who relied on the Imperial Government, but it
lowers that Government in the mind of every colonist.
The extreme Radical will snigger to think that Imperial
criticism vanishes before the simple bullying of the Home
Government, while the more staid, the loyal, the up-
holders of a wise and prudent union, will feel that it is a
mistake to be loyal, a fatal error to have reliance on the
authorities in Great Britain. . . . Not a soul, as far as can
be learned in the colonies, objects to the proposed altera-
tions, but we are told that they must not be made because
the delegates, who have no authority from the people,
want the Bill intact. . . . But, after all, the worst part of
the business is, not that the Bill may be passed as it
stands, which we believe to be a mistake, but the further
proof we have of the flabbiness of the Imperial Govern-
ment.
So Hobabt Mercury, the old banner-bearer of
Jingoism, now says straight-out that “ it is a mis-
take to be loyal,” and that it is a fatal error to rely
on Britain, "and tries to undermine Australia’s
devotion to Britain by calling the Mother-country
flabby and foolish, and a betrayer of its friends.
What strange tilings do happen in this world !
"A Rigid and Revolting Regularity.”
An amended Building Act for Brisbane is in con-
templation, and Brisbane Telegraph thus takes
time by the forelock with an appeal on behalf of
the Sacred Rights of Ugliness :
Mere appearances cannot reasonably be held to fall
within the scope of any legislation for the control of
buildings in a city. The taste of the man who spends
the money must control the appearance of the building.
It may be that there are persons who, being so entirely
possessed by the doctrines of socialism, would insist upon
a rigid and revolting regularity even in appearance, such
a regularity as would excite ridicule. Full scope for the
artistic faculty must be conserved, for the variety which
must spring from such freedom will secure a general
beauty. Interference with private taste can be tolerated,
or even required, only when the safety of the public is
concerned. That safety calls for buildings of a stable
character, and of a nature not likely to facilitate destruc-
tion by fire, or the spread of fire from one building to
another.
And, in reply, The Bulletin rises to maintain that
mere appearances are one of the things which
every city’s Building Act should keep in view
continually. If Ugliness isn’t a crime it ought to
be one. When a building law has provided for
sanitation and safety from Are it has only half
fulfilled its mission. The socialist doesn’t
want “ a rigid and revolting regularity ; ” what
he wants is to escape from the mean and revolting
and sordid regularity that prevails already, and
which is so dear to the grocery-soul of the Tele-
graph and like organs. To know what the
present regularity amounts to it is advisable to
explore some city like Melbourne, which has an
elaborate suburban railway system. The railway
takes you past the city’s back doors, while the
tramear only shows you its front doors, therefore
you can see Melbourne’s aggregate back door by
train in a day, while that of Sydney or Brisbane
(which is very similar) has to be explored gradu-
ally on foot to do it full justice. Either way all
these back doors are a revolting spectacle. The
miles of cottages with the exactly similar wooden
lean-to; the miles of crippled back fence of the
same orthodox height; the miles of wooden back-
offices, of practically the same size and pattern
and all painted the same mud-color; the square
leagues of galvanised-iron roof and unpaved back-
yard—what a misery they all are ! They repre-
sent the awful uniformity that comes of cheap-
ness. The suburban-cottage landlord has dis-
covered that a certain style of architecture—the
wooden-box style with the lean-to, a certain pat-
tern of fence and out-offices, a certain brand of
paint and galvanised-iron roof, represent the
irreducible minimum of cheapness; and dead,
blank, awful uniformity is the result. A certain
type of street —the bare, muddy, treeless kind—
represents another irreducible minimum, and is
popular accordingly. And the ugliness of them is
an outrage. This paper wants to see wooden
buildings, wooden fences, wooden out-offices, un-
paved back-yards that are seas of mud, and
pocket-handkerchief allotments prohibited in
every city because of their rigid and revolting
regularity. It would let the landlord’s fancy
range over everything in the shape of stone
or brick, but the accursed monotony of
the weatherboard shanty gets on to its
nerves. It wants to see wide streets lined with
evergreen trees, because the blankness of the
ordinary blank highway is too awful for words ;
and improved back lanes because the orthodox
ribbon of mud, with broken wooden fencefe on each
side and a mongrel dog in the middle distance,
makes the eye ache with its dreariness. After all,
it is a question between the monotony of beauty
and the monotony of ugliness.
♦
The Sydney Wharf Resumptions.
Already there are signs that property-owners in
the to-be-resumed area of Sydney fully expect to
work the usual gorgeous grab when they sell out
to the State. Land values have gone up materi-
ally even now, merely on the prospect of selling
to the easily-milked Government; when the
prospect becomes a certainty they will probably
go up further. The Bulletin hears of one case
where a property has been offered to the State for'
£50,000, yet the land - tax valuation is only
£25,000, and the municipal valuation is based on a
rental-value of £l4OO a year which, at 5 per cent.,
means a capital value of £28,000, and no one has
yet heard that owner complain that either of
these valuations is too low, or offer to pay the
difference Yet he is a moderate property-
owner compared with some of his kind. When the
struggle for the loot really arrives it is essential
that the community should understand that the
water-side property-owners haven’t nearly so
much to sell as they will probably profess. Most
of their land has, in itself, only a moderate
value for wharf purposes. It is made valu-
able through the building of jetties, and the
right to build jetties doesn’t belong to the land-
lord. He has to apply to the State for per-
mission to use part of the State’s harbor, and he
has to pay rent for the same. The rent is supposed
to be full value for the use of the harbor, and if
the State takes from tiie landlord the use of its
harbor, and at the same time ceases to collect the
rent from him, things are supposed to be equal,
and no compensation is due, except for the actual
material —mostly old and depreciated material—
in the abandoned jetties, and for the cost the land-
lord is put to in removing. Then the land
remains to be paid for, and it is merely
so much inferior city land in a low and
cheap locality with no very valuable water rights
after all. In hasn’t the value which
attaches, by reason of their picturesqueness, to the
residential sites at, say, Darling Point, for there
is no picturesqueness left, and it isn't a residential
locality. The privileges which make it most
valuable for shipping purposes don’t belong to the
landlord ; they are already the property of the
State, and always have been. The Bulletin re-
iterates its old contention that the municipal
valuations, with reasonable compensation for dis-
turbance added, should be taken as the basis of
compensation. They are estimated—and very
fairly estimated, as a rule—on the value of the
landlord’s own property. No property-owner in
the whole resumed area has ever complained that
the municipal valuations were too low, and, unless
anyone proposes to assume that these landlords
are a set of swindlers, taking a mean advantage of
the Corporation, this is in itself reasonable proof
of their accuracy. At all events, if the person
whose property is municipally valued at £25,000,
manages to prove that it is worth £50,000 when he
sells out to the State, it is a fair assumption that
the property in question has defrauded the Cor-
poration of half its fair taxes for many years, and
it ought now to pay the other half with compound
interest added. In which case one thing will pro-
bably go a long way towards balancing the other.
Also, it should be charged with arrears of land-
tax and compound interest added, together with
the usual fines for defrauding the Department.
And if it can be found that the proprietor, who
now proves that his land is worth £50,000, has
sworn to its value as £25,000 or some other less
sum, for taxation or probate purposes, any reason-
able Resumption Act will provide for him getting
three years hominy for perjury as well as pay-
ing the difference, and compound interest on
the difference. These things have been said
before, but they can’t be said too often. They
will probably be said two or three times more
before the resumption business is ended.
♦
A Religious Paper on “ Brats.”
The Protestant Banner (Sydney) thus cour-
teously and in a spirit of Christian charity alludes
to the recently-established Waitara (R.C.) found-
ling hospital:—
Waitara Angel Factory wants miscroscopic observation.
Already it is full with 150 little immoralities, and the un-
happy mothers have therefore cast off their responsibili-
ties for the time. The refusals per month are now 40 and
if there was room for 500 the place would be full. The
medical officer, Dr. O’Neill,, gives the death-rate as 30 per
cent; but one half of the admissions die within a short
time owing to parental neglect. The institution owes
£4482, and Protestants will be badgered to support it.
The State should undertake this sort of charity, because
it alone could compel the minute registration of paternity
and get repayment from the man who so frequently
leaves his victim to shift as she best can. -In purely R.O.
lands, where Holy Church does what it jolly well likes,
the illegitimate brat is put from the outside of the con-
vent on to a revolving table, and the nun inside neither
asks a question nor gets a glimpse of the surreptitious
depositor. As an adjunct to the most demoralising
immorality foundling hospitals are unequalled; and in
Catholic lands they are termed “ angel factories,” because
the little dears are starved into becoming denizens of the
sky.
Thus it appears that, in purely R.C. lands, where
the Holy Church, in the frisky language of the
Banner, “does what it jolly well likes,” that
church takes in the homeless, fatherless infant
without asking questions, and its iniquity in not
asking questions rouses the Banner to fury.
Ordinary unchristian people will probably fail to
see where the sin comes m. The R.C. Church, it
would appear, acts in this matter, anyhow,
as a gentleman. It doesn’t glue its eye to
the orphanage keyhole to take stock of the “fallen
woman "’ who leaves the evidence of her trouble at
its doors. It is a man and a brother in so far as it
doesn’t intrude its shorn and shaven head into a
lady’s personal affairs ; nor does it suddenly stick
its tonsure out of the orphanage window to ask a
perfect stranger how and when she fell, and with
whom, and to call her bad names in a pious spirit.
It doesn’t hire a committee of old, middle-aged and
mixed cats to interrogate her about her disgrace,
and stand her up in a large room for the old cats’
inspection. Nor does it go round to Christian
families asking them to take a fallen girl as a
slavey at reduced wages, and keep a steely eye on
her, and not let her forget that she is a crushed
worm and a thing apart. It doesn’t drive her to
leave her child on the inhospitable doorstep, or to
give it to the “kind person” on whose premises
the miscellaneous infant dies so promptly for a
consideration, or to have recourse to the abor-
tionist whose advt. strikes the public so conspicu-
ously in the eye in this country’s press—ana the
Banner gives way to common earthly rage be-
cause it doesn’t. “Little children, curse one
another,” is evidently the Banner’s new
reading of an old verse, and its wrath at
the Church which takes in the “ brat,”
as distinguished from the Church which leaves
the brat outside, is pathetic. As for
the plea that the R.C. system of foundling-hos-
pitals encourages immorality—possibly it does.
Any kind of mercy or charity doubtless encourages
sin to some extent. Probably the only kind of
person who never encouraged sin is the one who
never forgave anybody or assisted anybody. It
would do the Banner good to read, in this con-
nection, Dr. Muskett’s expatiation on Coghlan’s
statistics concerning infant mortality in N.S.W.
♦
Westralia has generally some stench on hand in
high places. I’or instance, the freight for ice
from Perth to Kalgoorlie is £1 7s, lid. per ton
while milk, fish and other goods usually sent in a
chilled state cost up to £5 per ton. And it is
openly alleged that the Perth Ice Co., wherein a
number of highly-placed politicians and notables
are shareholders, has regularly consigned large
quantities of other goods to Kalgoorlie as ice, thus
saving nearly three-fourths of the freight, by
which saving it was enabled to cut prices against
all rivals and scoop the trade. It is further
alleged publicly that the Government’s attention
was dragged to the matter with difficulty, and that
even then it didn’t collect the arrears of freight or
prosecute for fraud- j -it was simply a case of the co.
promising not to do it again. Whether the co., if
it ever really did what is imputed to it, thereupon
left off doing it doesn’t appear. It is also
alleged, very publicly indeed, that the co. in-
variably got the preference over rival firms
in the matter of trucks, and that its goods
were hitched on to the express at times, while
other people’s ice and substances came behind by
ordinary vehicle. Nobody seems to have been
prosecuted so far by an indignant co. anxious to
clear its character, and the fact that such a monu-
mental stench should arise about a concern in
which so many big politicians are said to be in-
terested (and they haven’t cleared their characters
of the charge) is a very sad coincidence. Sad
coincidences like that are quite too common in
W. A.
♦
Bishop Goe and the clerical faction in Melbourne
University Council appear to have formed an anti-
MaksHall-Hall League, under the patronage of
the baffled Argus. Numerous schoolmasters,
reverend and otherwise, have suddenly discovered
that the conscience of the community objects to a
renewal of the musical professor’s lease, and as the
community in a general way leaves all questions
concerning its conscience to be settled by a few
newspaper correspondents this new attempt
to get rid of Marshall-Hall looks rather
formidable —in the Argus. It is practically
an attempt to “ avenge Majuba.” Two years
ago Marshall-Hall and his friends fought a
battle with Bishop Goe and the Argus brigade,
and the forces of snuffle were routed. Since then
the victorious Prof, has strengthened his reputa-
tion aa an able man of music, and has done
nothing to horrify the unco guid. His present
lease of his University billet will not expire for
months to come, nevertheless the majority
of University Councillors who propose to extend
his career of usefulness over another term, are told
that the community’s conscience regards their
proposal with Horror. The “gag” would be more
funny if it were less despicable.
In the Adelaide dailies of June 11, Chief Justice
VV ay publishes what he calls “some further ob-
servations ”on the Commonwealth Bill. It is an
advantage to the public that these further observa-
tions have been openly published, for the previous
lot were marked “ confidential,” and were circu-
lated in England only, and were merely made
known out here because Kingston accidentally
discovered the existence of the document. Pub-
lisher Way, therefore, in response to general desire,
now prints an Australian edition of his elusions.
Way’s latest discourse is a remarkably impudent
affair, coming as it does from a Judge who is
supposed to be removed from political strife.
Little Samuel thunders about the dangers accom-
panying political interference with the judiciary,
yet he is dumb as to the greater danger of judicial
interference in politics. But the most charming
specimen of his assurance is the assertion that the
new clause should not be admitted into the
Bill “ without the consent of the people or their
Parliamentary representatives.” This is written
by the same Samuel who wrote secretly to the
Colonial Office urging it to amend, by inserting
a clause which Samuel himself drafted, the very
measure which the people of Australia have twice
adopted ! Samuel James Way poses as the Friend
of the People ! And ho says “ there has been a
remarkable reticence in giving publicity to the
exact provisioned the new clause.” Behold Way,
the author of the 12 pp. confidential pamphlet,
condemning secrecy!
♦
To Melbourne Aiious’s pertinent inquiries as to
why a oertain Vic. Hailway Service embezzler was
not prosecuted, the Department replied that it
was not, in the circumstances, expedient to put
the law in motion. But, if tho question of ex-
pediency is to govern such cases, why not make
the principle applicable all rouild ? The miserable
petty larcenist could readily fix things if the out-
raged prosecutor would only sell his wife’s sewing-
machine or wash-tubs to cover the sum annexed.
But in the said p.-l.’s case expediency “ isn’t in it.”
He must “do his bit.” It is reserved for ex-
pediency to avert tho fetters from the delinquent
who has held a good position and who is “suffici*
ently punished by losing it.” The Bulletin is
so tired of saying this, that it really feels it should
now get a pinch for stale news.
♦
Queensland did honor to itself and justice to
thousands of its silently-suffering children by
following in the footsteps of Maoriland and South
Australia, and passing, last December, an Act to
legitimatise children born before the marriage of
their parents. Both tho Q. and M.L. Acts contain
the absolutely necessary proviso that the Act
shall apply to children born before as well as after
the passing thereof. When are the other provinces
going to follow suit ? 'I he re, for instance, is work
which the much-advertised Vic. Society for the
Protection of and Prevention of Cruelty to Child-
ren might well take in hand. What physical
suffering short of absolute death-dealing cruelty
can equal the mental torture silently endured all
through childhood and youth by thousands from
the “ scornful looks averse ” of those who, if this
Act were in force, would be their comrades and
equals, and from the brutally-hurled “ bastard ”
of other callous but franker contemporaries ?
However chivalrous it may be for a nation to hold
up a woman’s shame, for perhaps a momentary
slip, to her for a lifetime, it is surely nothing short
of low-grade barbarism to similarly pillory inno-
cent children.
—♦
Someone should really make a collection of the
gruesome tales of Australian Boer-killers. Here
is one found in Sydney News some time ago ; it
may prove useful to anybody in need of an emetic,
but, as usual, the writer is not ashamed of putting
his name to it. He is describing Elandslaagte
fight:—
. . . There was a stampede in the Boer lines—but too
late; the “ bhoys of the Emerald Isle ” were among
them. Then we had a second go and collared 100 horses.
We went after the Lancers, and started with the six-
shooters at the enemy ; but we were too late, as the
Lancers did not leave much for us, though I did not do
so badly. I managed to get five to my account. . . .
In spite of our excitement we had a good laugh when the
Lancers charged. The Boers pulled off their shirts and
waved them as a flag of truce ; but Britishers, always
seeing a white flag used for such a purpose, did not heed
their old shirts, as their color was very doubtful—may
have been white one time, but are quite strangers to
water ; result, no mercy.
+ .
Two extracts from S.M. Herald :
(1) By cable:
The Boers (i.e., at Zand River engagement) robbed a
few of the dead, and looted the saddles from the horses
that were killed.
Evidently an unusual occurrence, or it would
hardly be worth cabling. The second item, same
issSue, appears in Macdonald’s Impressions of
Battle:
Blink at the fact as one may, loot is inseparable from
battle, and must not be judged by the moral codes of
peace. Some are for spoil pure and simple ; some want
onlj' a souvenir (teeth and whiskers, for example.—Ed. B.);
nearly all —if they have the nerve for sudden and start-
ling opportunities—loot in some way To rob the
dead seemed to me at first the meanest act in the whole
range of human capacity, but that feeling blunted after a
time, and if one did not actually fall himself he became
ver3' tolerant of the frailties of others. It was a latitude
that reached even such sordid things as cash and valuables.
The Herald’s censor must have been nodding
when he let that pass.
♦
“ E.F.C Du C.” to The Bulletin
Isn’t it about time, the Australian dailies gave up sneer-
ing at “Boer mercenaries”? What has England been
through most of her history but a mercenary-employing
power ? She never fought a white race yet without the
use of hired troops until the Boer wars of the 80’s and the
present day. Here are a few comparatively recent in-
stances in which Great Britain has used mercenaries :
In 1756, in view of a threatened French invasion, 6000
Hessians wore brought to England for defence purposes ;
the same Hessians being afterwards employed in the
suppression of th.e ’9B Irish rebellion. Again, during the
American revolt, thousands of Hessians were employed
against the “ rebels.” At Waterloo, also, out of 67,000
troops under Wellington, only 22,000 were British, the
other 45,000 were mercenaries pure and simple ; and at
the conclusion of peace, there were 29,000 foreigners in
the “ British ” army. Coming, later on, to the Crimean
War, the English Parliament passed a Bill, despite Dis-
raeli’s vehement opposition, to authorise the enlistment
of 20,000 foreigners to supplement the British forces at
the seat of war. English agents were despatched to re-
cruit in Europe and the U.S., but only some 5000 men
were embodied—a poor recompense for the humiliation
England suffered in having her consul put on trial at
Cologne and her envoy dismissed from the U.S.—not to
speak of the loss of national prestige. Even at the present
day foreigners can enlist in British regiments, though
only in the proportion of Ito 50 Britishers. It thus ill-
becomes us to sneer at the Boers because they employ
mercenaries—a mere handful at that.
A Jewliauneaburg Jingle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ring the joy-bells for the Chosen,
Who were (tell it not in Gath)
Lately paralysed and frozon
By-the fear of Kruger’s wrath,
Lo ! the British Flag is flaunting
Where the Transvaal banner waved,
And the nosey ones are chanting
“ Our Jewhannesberg is Saved ! ”
What a theme for jewbilation !
Jumping Mo ! it was not strange
That they made a demonstration
On the London Stock Exchange.
Greasy foreigners waxed skiteful,
Most insanely they behaved
When they got the news delightful
That Jewhannesberg was Saved.
Their loud song of joy and rapture
Nearly raised the blessed roof,
For the troops had scored a capture
Of the all-important Oof;
“ Rule Britannia ! ” “ Sovereign Lady ! ”
Britons ne’er will be enslaved.
Each stockbroker smashed his “ cadey ”
When Jewhannesburg was Saved.
Now the Rand mines’ golden treasure
Has been wrested from the Boer
Let us speculate with pleasure
On the richness of the ore,
And forget that stones and crosses
Mark the spots where dead lie graved :
True, we had some trifling losses
But—Jewhannesberg was Saved.
Vic.
F.


AGENTS
THE TRANSVAAL WAR i
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
260 Collinb-st., Melbourne. 81 Qpeen-st., Brisbane. 65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Ha* 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
Ciiiev Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
I
Portables, Locos, Eoad Hollers, &c.,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sole Agents:
Mutual Life of New York Buildings,
Martin Place, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMTNG WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Pirates of Penzance.”
"° YAI ' “ Woman and Wine.”
Tivoiji Rickards’Co.
Criterion - “ Briton and Boer.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess s “ Hans the Boatman.”
Her Majesty’s “ Elizabeth, Queen of England.”
Theatre Royal “On Active Service.”
Buoc Rickards’ Variety Co.
Douaid Macdonald—Victorian Tour.
Good old “Pirates of Penzance ” was re-
vived at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) last Saturday
after an absence of seven years, and a multitu-
dinous Saturday audience took it in a serious
spirit. The loyal and patriotic pirates, who drop
their unlawful ironmongery and lay down their
bloodstained hardware when called upon in the
name of the Queen, and who say that, despite
their blaok flag and the dried brains on their deck,
they still love their Sovereign, were probably
meant by Gilbert as a wild satire on “ loyalty” in
general. But Saturday’s assemblage took it in as
dead earnest as if it had been a hanging or a case
of plague, and sheered violently. The Bulletin
has a dark suspicion that Gilbert isn’t a Jingo.
He represents tne Queen’s authority as being up-
held by seven terrified policemen who don’t ex-
hi bit the valour which the Queen's polioemen
should; and his British Major-General isn’t a
hero ; and the pirates put their sea-boots through
the Royal authority as derisively as if it was
brown paper. The “ Pirates ”is about as violent
j}. British army and police force as
Pinafore” is at the British navy, and just now a
writer who thus throws the bad'egg of mockery
at oherished British institutions should be dis-
couraged as a person who is dragging the public’s
limb. Still, The Bulletin doesn’t mind letting
* Pirates ” off with a caution. #lt is a gladsome
tnnig to meet, especially compared with the work of
Gilbert’s successors, and looking at it one becomes
more and more convinced that it will be centuries
yet before Gilbert’s real successor is born. It
wears wonderfully well, too. The only sign of
years about it is where Frederic, the apprentice,
discovers that he won’t be of age until he is 84,
and, finding that it is y&t 63 years till he is 21,
asks his best girl to wait, and he will call again in
a full-grown state in 1940. That seems to suggest
that the opera has been on deck since 1877, but
otherwise it looks as young and fresh as if bom
yesterday. The British policeman is just as
flushed about the head now as he was 23 years ago,
and the head pirate’s remarks about the degrading
instincts of stockbrokers and such-like trasn have
pnly grown more appropriate with age, for Torah
Hooley has arisen since then.
• • * ft
The Firm has imported a new Mabel, and
Sydney seized the oooasion to drop a tear over the
ever-belovod memory of Nellie Stewart. Miss
Winston-Weir made a rather indefinite first
appearance. She sings very well and acts very
moderately, but there is little scope for acting in
the part (if Mabel. If there was more scope, the
hyphenated lady might be lees moderate, or again
she might be more moderate —it all depends on
the hidden cause of her moderateness. Also she
Beems nervous and looks anxious, and the only
things this writer. is dead sure of so far axe that
she has a sweet voioe and is pleasant to listen to,
and that she looks better sideways than viewed in
front., This doesn’t necessarily imply that she
doesn’t look well when viewed in front. Other-
wise the court is adjourned for further considera-
tion of the case. Dorothy Vane’s Ruth is excel-
lent, or even a little more than excellent, though
sho makes up the pirates’ ancient darner and
bottle-washer as a well-preserved maid of 29, and
when Frederic casts her off on account of her age
the situation is absurd. Still no one would ex-
change the present Ruth for any battered and un-
comely wreck of 47, and if Williamson sets
about putting the anomaly right he will make
enemies. So. far as concerns his aoting of
the Pirate King, the same enthusiastic adjec-
tives as used above apply to Brownlow, and
it is only in a few places that his singing falls
noticeably below his acting. Kenningham and
Kauri (the latter makes the Major-General a close
copy of Roberts, and is warmly cheered for putting
np that stainless warrior as an incompetent soldier
and a bogus orphan) are at least eminently respect-
able, and Hugh Ward and Bathurst are a trifle
more than respectable. The jumpy and eye-
wrecking biograph winds up the show as hereto-
fore, but the writer feels inclined bo aim a smaller
and less remorseless boulder at it than he did last
week. One new picture, a series of views of
S’African soenery, taken from a train at full
speed, compensates for many weary rear-elevations
of many Unthinking Cadgers.
*» * *
Sydney has resolved definitely that it
likes Bland Holt’s “ Women and Wine ” and will
take that gorgeous but not too logical production
as it comes. Miss Frances Ross looks very sweet
and heavenly and resigned when she loses her
character through being found calling on a
lawyer on a matter of business, and when she
refuses to explain the business and thereby
drives her shocked lover away with the
bad woman it looks reasonable enough the
way she does it. Later on, when the bad
woman has cleaned him out and left him without
the price of a drink, and he is in danger of being
“scragged” as well, she explains the old mys-
stery, and the hero kicks himself at the top of his
voice. That also looks reasonable—the way she
does it. All the same, if she had explained earlier,
the wreckage of her idol might have been averted,
but the dramatis heroin* ha* no sense in small
things like that.
** * *
Rev. Charles Clark, a lecturer too well-
known and esteemed to require elaborate descrip-
tion, paid Sydney a flying last week. And,
aa Rev. Charles arrived on the tail-end of the
war-enthusiasm, he felt bound to start by lectur-
ing on “ British Valor, Old and New,” from Agin-
court downwards. The grand old man pounded
eloquently over many battle-fields; struggled over
heaps of dead men, horses, and piles of cannon and
scrap-iron ; put his venerable head briefly, but
firmly, into the hospitals where the wounded
were getting their legs sawn off ; carefully
dodged the workhouse, where the balance of
Tommy spends his declining vears after
he comes out of hospital, and luxuriates
on the rich gruel of his grateful country: skimmed
over plains, deserts, Soudanese bones, Zulu bones,
Kaffir bones, Boer bones, Afghan bones, assorted
bones, and bones miscellaneous, and said old
things about the Flag in a way that sounded almost
new. He held forth about many other things as
well, but his bright and clever deliverauce on
Valour and Bones pleased the audience best. His
colleague, Mrs. Te-Rangi-Pai, the stately
light-brown lady from Maorilnnd, sang in a
contralto voice in between times. She doesn’t
sing about bones. When her turn came the skele-
tons of those w r ho were gloriously belted in the
good cause had a rest.
** # *
Alfred Dampier’s bright and child-like
officer with the stutter continues to scorn Kruger’s
pot-hat at Sydney Criterion in a way that brings
tears of joy to the eyes of all true Britons.
Dampier’s stage lisp, which he has wof-ked into
many parts, isn’t quite like any other lisp that
this writer has met. It makes one feel as if he
was reading an old, old book —one of these time-
yellowed works where the letter “s” is long and
looks like “f, ” so that when the reader comes
across the word “ possession ” it looks like
“poffeffion,”and “suspense”becomes “fufpenfe,”
and he pronounces them that way instinctively.
The gallant officer in question gets off some very
ancient and silly jokes on his besieged country-
men. He is a kindly person, seemingly in some
degree out of his mind, but his smile is a beam of
sunshine, and the story he tells the wicked Boer
about the dog lasts nearly a quarter of an hour.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Professor Almond
oomes out with affairs like sledges on his feet, and
walks about on the points thereof; ho also dances
with roller skates on his feet upon an elevated
stand about the size of a pocket-handkerchief. It
is a clever performance, but it lacks spectacular
effect. If fie' could contrive to fall off without
breaking his neck and every bone in his body the
effect would be better. The Martinottis ' have
struck another long-winded pantomime entitled
“The Keyhole,” in which certain people who
look through keyholes are thereby led into
matrimony—this as a warning to shun the
inviting aperture, in the sure and certain
knowledge that bondage is lurking behind.
The Century Animatographe goes on its tremulous
way and displays pictures from South Africa, and
other views. Some are decidedly good, and
others are put out of court through the tremulous
flicker that seems to be the bugbear of all moving
photographs. Charles Seel is back from Melbourne
and sings a good song about “Jock Magee ” and
another that is of sky-blue complexion. Charles
is a clever artist, and it is a sad thing that he
should resort to suggestive songs.
•* « *
“ Elizabeth,” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.),
was, from this present writer’s standpoint, an
unwise production, not so much because the
piece is a dull jumble of historical facts, as
because it makes the booming of Nance O’Neil
look foolish. Concerning bonnie Nanoe’s share in
this noisy undertaking there can be no two in-
telligent opinions. Physically the fine woman is
disadvantageously placed in her ungracious gown,
huge oollar and stiff red hair. The square-built
skirt takes a couple of inches off her height. Her
muscular arms are lost in the hideous sleeves of
the period, and her back and shoulders make no
direct appeal to public feeling. For the present,
her “Magda ” barrackers are rather disillusioned,’
but they will probably renew their faith when the
massive lady gives them Camille.
• • * •
As a tragedienne Miss Nance O’Neil is not
equal to the part of Queen Elizabeth, and that’s
all about it. Something more than a physique, a
voice, and a scowl are required of her. It is not
always an easy part to play, and the crude, hard
actress fails just where a brilliant, nervous artist
would be strongest. Her full-toned ranting and
viragoic scowl are effective for a while, though
even groundlings grow tired of having their ears
split. In the earlier scenes Queen O’Neil’s rant is
a royal monopoly and a relief to the tedium of the
dialogue. One would prefer that she didn’t de-
claim a soliloquy exactly as though she were talk-
ing to the parson or Von Keller in the pre-
vious drama, but a little fault like that nearly
esoapes observation. The Queen’s stormy method
boosts her along all right until Essex sets
up a rival rant, which is so obviously more
impassioned than the rant of his Sovereign Lady
that she tries to keep up her position by roaring.
And when Nance O Neil roars her top note the
angels weep—they do, indeed. Also the unin-
fatuated sections of the audience laugh. As for
Saturday’s performance of the last act, it was a
ioke, or a have, or both, and if the public had not
been thinking about their last train they might
have felt aggrieved. The unkind scribe who pens
notice (and who would not state the truth so
candidly but for Miss O’N. being elsewhere rated
tar above her merits) remarked the other week
that Magda turned her back or hung her head
whenever she felt unable to produce a suitable
racial expression, or rapid changes of expression.
In short, -N ance O Neil is as artful as she is high,
ihe last act of “Elizabeth” requires her
to impersonate a wicked old hag dying of
general decay and mortal funk, aggravated
by grief for the loss of a young man who
lay sleeping without his head, in the cold, damp
ground, rhe order is too large for Nance O’Neil,
so, m>tead of attempting to look the character on
Saturday, she simply talked it in semi-darkness.
j* intents and purposes, Nance remained in-
i' lsi jle what time she was said to be petering out
m the gloom.
* * * *
Kingston, as Earl of Essex, distinguishes
himself in the shouting-match aforesaid, bat most
or the time he is a somewhat colorless and abbre-
viated reminder of Wallace Brownlow. Among
the other people, Joseph Came is a cold, huskv
Lord Burleigh ; and Plimmer, as King James,
gives a, pleasing suggestion of what that pro-
B™nced Scotchman ought to have been. Bacon
and Francis Drake, and the talking ladies of the
Oourt, are unsatisfactory in various wavs,
m
At the Princess’s, a revival of “ Hans the
Boatman ” has happened ere this, unless the advt.
broke its promise. Hans Arnold and the kiddies,
and all the things (bar the big dog) that helped to
make a success in days when Melbourne was
younger and more difficult to please, were under-
stood to fall due on Wednesday of this week.
Charles Arnold’s season at the Princess’s is now
at the Last Nights stage, so the new revival will
again before a lot of people have seen
, bins the Boatman” for the first time, if
they forget to hurry up. Meanwhile, “ The Pro-
fessor s Love Story ” is numbered with the shows
that fail for want of a good start. It was
a charming comedy when Arnold and Co had
played it for a fortnight, and is as likely as not to
get a prosperous run m Sydney later on. Two or
throe changes in the cast, and an all-round de-
termination to make the moat of every bright little
him and small business detail ought to compel a
certain amount of success for sucli first-rate work
as Ihe Profeasor’s Love Story.” Managers and
actors seem to leave undone so many tilings that
nught be done so easily. On the first night of
Barrie s comedy two out of throe Scotch characters
were in hopeless trouble with their Scotch accents,
and the other one was not too happy, yet they
might have pioked up a Sootohman in the street
who would nave taught them their iines for
fifteen ‘ boh ” and the same number of whiskies.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal thereareonly medium-
sized audiences for the new farcical melodrama,
so the girl who divorces Tom Foster behind his
back in order to marry the woman-hater, is not
likely to be robbed of her child after next week,
ihe Bulletin has a certain respect for Tom
roster and his friends and enemies, especially the
tall, glowering villain in unusual boots. They
enter with all their hearts into the spirit of the
burlesque, whilst resisting every temptation to
their parts. A more frivolous comedian
than Inman, the common sailor, would pro-
bably favour his messmates with some
song and dance when they seleot him for the
billet of sole lieutenant of a war-ship, but Inman
goes on acting seriously, and leaves the joke to
speak for itself. The bigamist who drinks herself
to death by the light of a thunder-storm is another
conscientious performer. She refrains from ex-
aggeration. She doesn’t spoil the effect by
whistling a solo, or blowing strange noises down
the neck of the empty brandy-bottle. Also, the
scenery is remarkable for self-control, and as for
the final triumph of British arms, in which a brass
band turns the Dervishes’ flank with a patriotic
tune, it is the < quintessence of tragic humor in its
most enthralling aspect. “ Two Little Drummer
Boys will be the next matter at the Royal.
** * #
A sweeping change of bill happened at
the Bijou on Saturday night. All the old, faded
and dusty “ turns ” were thrown out in a body,
and a lot of this season’s goods filled the vacuum’.
The Flying Jordans, Venus, the wire-walker, and
Schrader, who falleth like bricks from Heaven off
his bicycle, are new—to the Bijou, anvhow. Also
Miss Daisy Coppin and little Dorothy Leigh and
the Haytors in a sketch called “Desperation.”
Moreover', some of the songsters are there for the
first time, and others had been away for many
weeks before they came back. The bill at
Rickards’ was in need of extensive alterations, and
now the plaintive moan of the pay-box is silenced
until further notice.
*# * *
The Athenseutn Hall, deserted by the War
Biograph, awaits the arrival of Rev. Charles
Clark and the lady vocalists. The Town Hall,
too, lost Donald Macdonald last week, when that
budding capitalist and good fellow began his in-
vasion of the Transyarra with decisive victories
in Geelong and Ballarat. On Saturday afternoon
Marshall Hall conducted an orchestral coneert at
Melb. Town Hall, and the soulful followers of the
Ormond professor piled chrysanthemums on the
platform, and waved their hats and bonnets, and
beat the air with their umbrellas as evidence of
trouble in store for those godly people who are
just now after the Prof.’s scalp. One way and
another Marshall Hall is a very entertaining in-
fidel.
“ Aletes ” discourses on Australia’s best
woman-pianist:—
Later impressions of Elsie Hall confirm the earlier.
Lacking the elements of greatness, there is yet a suf-
ficiency of charm in her playing to warrant grateful and
generous recognition. Purely feminine in her outlook
she is, and always will be. For which the gods be praised.
There is room, after all, for sex in art—interpretative art,
at all events ; hence we may understand the consistent
absence of Beethoven from her programmes. Given a
dash of defiance, a touch of Bohemian lawlessness and
revolt, of lurking humor, she might succeed, notwith-
standing ; but hers is a serious, placid nature, while the
discipline of school is stamped firmly on her tempera-
ment. Sometimes she surprises by failing just wh' re
failure, for her, would seem absurd. The writer always
feels a little breathless when the Chopin “ Berceuse ” is
developing, fearful lest some false note or rude touch
should jar the delicate gossamer-like web of melody.
And although Elsie Hall handles the theme far too ten-
dency for such a fear to materialise, yet it lacked,
in my opinion, that remoteness, that hint of
far-off fading hills and misty stars, which, to my think-
ing, broods within it. It is a sigh for the unattainable, a
sigh of the soul, pathetic, yet resigned, of a soul content,
indeed, that the unattainable is, and lies before it. Yet
one asks too much. Amid the glare of many lights, the
jar of confusing murmurs, the hundred infinitesimal dis-
tracting details, what artist can give of his best! Re-
clining comfortably in the soft twilight, an ocean of
nothingness around, this graceful and deft-fingered
pianiste might, methinks, beguile me into whole-hearted
recantation of all and sundry heresies concerning her.
rending which one may pray for a continuation of the
Wednesday night recitals, finding therein a comfort that
is missed in these days of ultra-patriotic clamor and vapid
sing-song.
** * *
Mayor M‘Eacharn wanted to “buy the
house ” for one performance of the War Biograph
at Melb. Athenaeum last week, but lie was too
late. The Bio. was turning money away, and
seats for each of the few remaining matinees and
night shows were already booked, so his Worship,
for about the first time in Corporation history,
found himself a patron of no importance. It is
remarkable that nobody ever offers to buy the
house when business is bad. No matter how good
a show may be, if it doesn’t happen to get talked
about the management may whistle for a large
wholesale order.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
“Anxious”: Would as soon invest in the pie
ference shares of the Bank of Victoria or National Bank
of AutftralWia as m anything’ else. Preference shares of
the Commercial of Australia are also reasonably proniis-
mg. All three promise a moderate return, some chance
of a rise in value, and no liability for calls.
* * * *
.u : -P ont see any reason to suspect
that the Bank of Victoria will have to write down capital.
Consider the shares a good enough investment at present
rates.
• * * *
Regarding the recent issue of £500,000 worth of
N.S.W. Treasury bills in Sydney, a very remarkable story
hangs thereon. The Lyne Government has made two
issues of Treasury bills—one of £1,000,000 at 4 per
cent, in London and one of £500,000 at 3* per cent,
in Sydney. When the 4 per cent, issue was made
the Lyne Government simply scorned the idea of letting
the N.S.W. investor have any of the securities. What
he was offered was Funded Stock at 3 per cent Three
per cent, was quite good enough for the wretched Aus-
tralian, but when a 4 per cent, security was going it was
reserved for the higher-class London buyer. Ana when
London took up the 4 per cent, securities at about £9O
10s for every £lOO Minister John See told a newspaper in-
terviewer that “ nothing could have been gained bv
offering them here ” (in Sydney), and that it was doubtful
if the 4 per cent, securities would have realised £99 10s
in Sydney (this in face of the fact that N.S.W. was at
that time paying £lOO for 3 per cent, securities). Then
tKonn t rv 1 ln i'^ e<Jlately , M, le - same L >' ru ' and See offered
£500,000 of treasury hills in Sydney at 31 per cent After
asserting that Sydney wouldn’t lend the State money at
so low a rate of interest as London would 'the
Lyne-See Government flatly contradicted itself by
?u k l ng l e-. for T mon , e - v at a lower rate. And the result is
that while London gave barely £99 10s. for 4 per
cent. Treasury bills, Sydney gave over £lOO for 3A per
cent, hills Therefore, Tub Bulletin wants to know :
Why did Lvne and See offer 4 percent, to the English
investor and only 3V per oent. to the Australian one ? Was
it because they can’t get rid of the idea that the Austra-
lian is an inferior animal, or whv? Why did they sav the
4 per cent, securities were offered in London because
N.S.W. wouldn t lend money at such low interest, and
XT a n „r Btr : Ugh P" a i V £ive themselves the lie by asking
N.S.W. to lend money at lower interest? What
hin„u» f 9 fl w! I T, r ? a aru .» he / *9 niake such a hideous
blunder ? IV hat kind of Protectionists are they who ke i>
4 per cent, securities solely for British consumption while
they offer the Australian 3£ per cent, as being quite good
enough for him ? And how much do they think they have
lost by agreeing to pay the British investor 44
per cent, (including loss on redemption), when experience
shows they could have got the money in N.S.W. at rather
less than 3£ per cent, (including profit on redemption)?
The visible loss is over i 5000 a year for interest, apart
from the cost of remitting the interest every half-year
Also, there is the gross insult to the Australian investor’
which should count for something. *
• * * #
The committee of. three financial experts (two of
them appointed on ex-Premier ltt id's nomination) to con-
sider the N.S.iv. finances, has brought up a progress-report
of a blasting character. It amounts to the statement that
certain of Held s financial-statements were utterly unre-


m
V
mm
A
ZZTZ*(
[ TME
ten
ttWi
MILE
feSWEI
The
ZETZ SprincN
Ballibhore
Mtm BuggO
W-S»W‘
'Ccpetf
Famous
Hebaeeea
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE. *
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, ft Co., Lti„ Liverpool.
fg
“ THE FINEST -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Agents: M, Rutty & Co,, Sydney,
The Snowy and Tfiredbo Rivers Gold Dredging
Co. has acoepted the Clyde Engineering Co.’s tender for
the supply of a dredge, to be delivered in working order
on the site of the co.’s lease at Snowy Itivor, for tne sura
of £5550. It is anticipated that the dredge will be work-
ing early next year. Snowy and Thredbo contributing
shares (paid-up to 7s. 6d.) are quoted at 9s. 6d.*
• • • *
Scottish Critic, September, 1899 : “ The enter-
prising Colonial Mutual Society has reached a position of
great progressive strength. In 1899 the position was
sound and strong, but the situation has been relatively
more than doubled in strength."*
• • • •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South
Melb., has just completed the large Bucket Gold Itredge
for Mr. David Marks, at Kiandra, N.S.W. The dredge lias
started its active career and results have been most satis-
factory. The machinery, which was all built at the Otis
Works, S. Melbourne, has worked without a hitch from
the start, and the Company deserves credit for the expe-
ditious manner in which it executed the contract at so
remote a place. The Otis Co.'s contract was for the
whole plant, including the building of the pontoons on
site and handing the machinery over in full work.*
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » *
Messrs. W. & J. Lemprier®, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Oollins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, Ac., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* • • •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• • • *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ’’brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &a, &c.*
* * • •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&e., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged jointß or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluniing, patent Neiyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * * •
Gilflllan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
* * * *
Mercury, in the form of sulphides or cinnabar, is
found in N.S.W., Queensland and Maoriland. In N.S.W.
it is found on the Oudgegong River near Rylestone, at
Bingara, Solferino, (Yugilbar and Cooma. The world’s
supply of the mineral was for ages drawn from the Almadan
mines in Spain and those of Idria in Illyria (Austria),
which have been worked for nearly two thousand years.
Latterly these have been eclipsed by the deposits at New
Almaden, in California. China, Japan, Bavaria, Hungary,
Transylvania, Bohemia and Peru all contribute a little to
the world’s stock, but nothing to be considered seriously.
The supply is not kaeping pace with the demand, which
increases rapidly, while the Amerioan yield alone fell from
79,963 flasks in ’7B to 28,100 in ’9O. Last year China
became for the first time a buyer, having imported several
thousand flasks. Prospectors should carefully note, for
it is a solemn truth that a good cinnabar mine may easily
be a more valuable article than anything on the Golden
Mile at Kalgoorlie.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zino Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 817.
Hy. Markwald
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt,st., Sydney ;dS Cierrie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
S’risb.; Lambton Quay, WetUnqtvn,, Nz.;
Waterstreet, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland,
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining;, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Drjiitfc-st., Sydney.
liable, that the alleged great surplus was a lie, that the
vear when he claimed to have a surplus of over £300,000
he really had a deficiency of £550,000, that Reid seized
upon moneys which should have been credited to the time
of Dibbs’s Administration, and put them into his own
revenue, which make his accounts look better and nis
opponent’s look worse, and that he charged back
liabilities to Dibbs’s Administration which should
not have been - so charged, thereby again making
his own accounts look better than they were and
his opponent’s worse. Also that he largely invented the
“Dibbs deficit,” about which he mouthed with such
sickening pretence of political virtue—the committee de-
clares that the shortage which Reid inherited from his
predecessor was £125,090 instead of over £1,000,000, and
that Reid himself piled up a new deficit of nearly £1,000,000
which he concealed by various devices and insisted on
calling a surplus. This was only the sort of result which
might have been expected, for one damning piece of
evidence has been sticking out ever since the great Cash
Basis Fake was performed. It appears in the expenditure
accounts (Reid’s alleged expenditure) for the various
years of his administration :
1895- .. £8,924,804 1897-8 .. £9,462,676
1896- .. 9,491,644 1898-9 .. 9,756,974
The first year was the one when Reid did his great
re-arrangement and piled so much of his own expenditure
back into the “ Dibbs deficit.” He always claimed that
each year was charged with its own proper ex-
penditure, but he never explained why, in the year of the
Great Fake, he managed to run the country for £538,000
less than in any succeeding year, and this without cut-
ting down salaries, or abolishing offices, or sacking
public servants, or defaulting on the public debt,
and with less assistance from loan funds than he
had in every succeeding year, and with £400,000
more to pay for public works out of revenue
than he paid in 1898. Reid’s figures for 1895-6 were
simply an impossibility if he charged that year with its
own real expenditure The fact that he didn’t has been
too conspicuous to be worth arguing about. His only
plea is that his Great Fake was legal, because he passed
an Act which made it legal—an Act so cunningly devised
that Parliament didn’t see the true inwardness of it till
long afterwards. And that only aggravates the Great
Fake. It shows it to have been a carefully premeditated
affair worked out with vast ingenuity.
» * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania, in its balance-
sheet for half-year to 31st May, 1900, shows another
material improvement. Profits for eight years are as
follows:
November, 1892 £5382 November, 1896 £3534
May, 1893 .. 4776 May, 1897 .. 4012
November, 1893 4701 November, 1897 4127
May, 1894 .. 4618 May, 1898 .. 4129
November, 1894 4695 November, 1898 4516
May, 1895 .. 3989 May, 1899 .. 4459
November, 1895 4136 November, 1899 4678
May, 1896 .. 4299 May, 1900 .. 6528
The profits are equivalent to £6 6s. Bd. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ capital and reserve fund,
which is a good way above the present average. A div.
of 5 per cent. (£3801) and div.-tax (£190) absorb £3991,
and the remaining £1537, added to £3460 brought
forward, leaves £4987 at credit of profit and less. There
has been a considerable improvement in business during
the half-year, and things look well generally. At the
same time, it is difficult to understand why the directors
don’t transfer at least £4OOO of the profit-balance to
reserve-fund, and thus make a start at rebuilding that
much-damaged item. The National Bank’s total reserves
arc now £27,487 (reserve-fund £22,600, and undivided
profit £4987). At the beginning of 1893 they were
£39,074, so there is still a great deal of leeway to make up
before the institution gets back to the moderately strong
position which it occupied seven years ago. Over-anxiety
to pay 7 and 8 per cent, dividends when the National was
still young prevented it becoming a really strong institu-
tion in the good days, and the writing-off of £15,000 to
cover losses in ’94 made it a rather weak one. It has im-
proved a good deal since then, but some better evidence
of a fixed resolve on the part of the directors to strengthen
the reserve-fund would be acceptable.
* * * *
Mr. J. St. Vincent Welch, Sydney manager for
the Commercial Union Insurance Co., defends the pro-
posed extension of the A.M.P.’s business to other parts of
the Empire on the ground that many British life and fire
insurance offices and other concerns do a world-wide
business and prosper. As regards British life-offices this
seems hardly relevant. Because an office belonging to
Britain (where interest rates are about the lowest
and the death-rate is only medium) does well by
spreading to countries where the death-rate is lower
and interest-earnings are higher, that certainly doesn’t
show that the A.M.P. (belonging to a country where the
death-rate is the lowest and interest-earnings compara-
tively high) can improve its position by spreading to a
country where people die faster, and where it can’t get so
much interest on its accumulations. The fact that an
English office is benefited by coming to Australia doesn’t
prove that an Australian office is benefited by going to
England. Nor does the fact that a Hindoo can make
better wages in Australia than in his own land prove that
an Australian can make better wages in India than in his
own land. Nor does the fact that a man with 30s. a
week is benefited by a change to 40s. prove that a
man with 50s. a week is benefited by a change to 40s.
Mr. Welch says (quite truly) that some companies which
do a world-wide business make money, and he adds “ I
can point to local offices here that have been directored
to death.” So can The Bulletin. And several of these
local offices died through doing a foreign business at the
instance of foolish directors —the Pacific was one, and the
Standard of M.L. only pulled up by abandoning a great
part of its foreign business. Also the most prosperous fire
offices here do no foreign business. Curiously enough,
Mr. Welch doesn’t say whether these offices (not named)
which were “ directored to death ” lost their money here
or dropped it through doing a foreign business. This is
an important point.
The Arrow Investment and Mining Co., an
Adelaide concern formed to deal in mines and mining
shares, has put up a dreary record in the two years of its
existence. It started with £40,000 paid-up capital. In
its first balance-sheet (30th Sept., ’9B) it stated that it had
paid for Brookman’s Golden Arrow mine £9959 more than
the asset was worth. Said asset was then put down as
actually worth £22,365, so apparently it cost the co.
£32,324. Next half-year it was announced that the dread-
ful thing had been sold for £6OO, and the co., then only a
year old, wrote off £32,000 of its £40,000 capital. Against
its £BOOO remaining capital it has now losses and depre-
ciation amounting to £3253, which leaves an actual sur-
viving capital of £4747 out of the original £40,000, and the
shareholders have received £l2,ooo"in divs, so their net
loss may be set down at £23,253, made up as follows :
Loss. Profit.
30th September, 1898 .. £3,192
31st March, 1899 .. .. 20,970
30th September, 1899 .. £6622
31st March, 1900 .. .. 6,718
£29,876 £6622
In the half-year ended 30th Sept., ’99, the Arrow Invest-
ment and Mining Co paid £BOOO divs. (out of a profit of
£3822), and in the half-year just closed it paid £4OOO divs.
out of a loss of £5713. And with only £4747 left out of
the original capital of £4o,ooo—the balance having
vanished inside two years—the report alleges that the
Oo.’s position is sound.
* * • *
The little Argus. Permanent Building and
Investment Society, of Melbourne—its good and bad luck
in recent years :
80th April, 30th April,
1893 Profit £941 1897 Profit £lB
1894 „ 366 1898 „ 42
1895 Loss 123 1899 „ 109
1896 Profit 7 1900 „ 237
The Argus is now earning £1 Bs. 2d. per cent, per annum
on its capital of £16,825. Out of £l5OO of reserves £561
has been written off to cover losses and £939 still
remains, also there is a profit balance of £640, making
total reserves £1579. An 8 per cent, dividend was paid in
October, 1892, but since then the Argus has lain very low
and struggled with its small difficulties, much after the
fashion of a fly laboring heavily in a stormy teaspoon.
Still things are obviously coming round, and the Argus
looks a sound office ; though a concern of this size, with
£1773 overdraft and its properties mortgaged for £5472,
has still rather a large contract on hand.
• * * *
On account of the drought-losses sustained
during the year, the Scottish-Australian Investment
00. has been compelled to write off £lOO,OOO as a result
of the year’s work. This amount was taken from the
reserve, reducing it to £lO,OOO. This leaves the co.* to
carry forward a surplus of £2,499. Last year the
co., after paying 6 per cent, on £200,000 stock, 5 per cent,
on £400,000, 4 per cent on £200,000 perpetual debentures,
paid 24 per cent, on £500,000 of ordinary stock.
* • • •
Of all the Barrier’s lead-shows, the Pinnacles
has had the most strange eventful hist Ty. The curious
shape of its outcrop struck the eye of the very early
prospectors, and it was pegged by one of the first half-
dozen bushmen who went across from Menindie long
before the Broken Hill rush began. First the show fell
into .a mostly-Melb. syndicate’s hands, then into a Sydney
co’s, next into a Sydney tribute co’s, then into a re-con-
structed tribute co’s, then back to the original co., then
to a consolidated co., and finally into the New Pinnacle
Group co’s—with probably two or three forgotten ones
in between. The ore is plentiful, fairly rich, with occa-
sional very fine bunches, but mostly refractory, on
account of the presence of pyrrhotine ; yet, despite the
difficulty of treating the stuff, it is the best mine on the
Barrier off the main Broken Hill lode, so far as the work-
ings allow one to judge. Nearly all the time it has been
controlled from Sydney ; and that alone means failure,
according to an invariable rule in relation to Barrier mines.
Mostly the trouble has been (as it generally is) that the
new co. began with no capital to speak of; and as
every new co. has had its own idea of what the plant
should be, a practically new start has been made each time,
and no co. has been able to get in calls long enough to give
the thing a fair trial. It altogether affords a shocking
example of the asininity of starting on a big refractory-
ore “ proposition ” with empty pockets, relying upon a
population which knows little or nothing of mining to
keep the calls going. YVhen the present co. was formed
with a ludicrously inadequate capital, this writer sug-
gested that it would be a more Christian act to give him
the money at once and save further trouble. Somehow
the shareholders didn’t see it in that light; so they hung
on, paid in a call or two when they felt that way, and now
have whatever satisfaction they can get out of the
announcement that their mine has been “ taken over” by
the Queensland Smelting 00., and that their manager has
been sued in Broken Hill for unpaid workmen’s wages.
. * * • *
Sulphide Corporation, which owns the B.H.
Central mine, follows its div. of 10 per cent, paid last
Xmas with one of 7£ per cent. The co. is managed from
London, with Messrs. Gibbs, Bright and Co. as Australian
agents, and it has not been made very clear what this 7J per
cent, really is, but it is probably about six months’ profits.
Chief-metallurgist Savage, of Cockle Creek works, is
on the way to London to consult with the directors about
a proposed extension of ore-reducing works. Mr. Savage
is a young Australian-trained official who has already done
work which has won warm praise from professional men
in Europe and America, and still he remains the most
modest of men.
• • • •
Kenney, Frewin & Co., at Long Flat, Gundagai,
N.S.W., appear to have made a really splendid find in
well-defined Lucknow-like lode-channels, picked ore from
which looks like from 60 to lOOoz. stuff. Previous
crushings have gone from 3 to 18oz. Other excellent
local developments are reported.
Occidental, Cobar, now running a 40-head mill,
is gradually equipping itself out of gold returns. The
story is that divs. will be suspended until the mine is
provided with 50 head of stamps and a rock-drilling outfit,
after which there will be an increased division of profits.
Cobar Gold Mines has been running 100-head and a huge
cyanide plant for many months, but local shareholders
know next to nothing about results. All information is
carefully bottled up and sent to London. So effectually
are the mine’s secrets kept that t’other day a well-known
Sydneyite sold his 1000 shares in disgust at 6s. each,
though they were possibly enough worth 255. So much
for London management, which is the curse of Australian
mining, and will have to be made sit up by local legisla-
tion.
« * • *
Cobar Chesney has installed a skilled metallur-
gist as general manager, and is putting in a plant to con-
centrate 200 tons of ore daily. The lode is 30 to 40ft.
wide where now seen, and the ore from the two levels
worked has averaged 5 '3l per cent, copper, which should
mean substantial profits, concentration expenses not-
withstanding. t
Baker’s Creek Consols hung up—for re-flotation
in London.
* • • •
By all accounts Peak Hill (N.S.W.) Proprietary
Mine’s smelting operations are a success. Once the fact
is established, a big future awaits the Proprietary and
adjacent mines.
• • * •
A syndicate has pegged out a large area of
swampy flats around Kelly’s Basin for gold-dredging.
Prospects are said to be very rich—and flotation is nearly
sure.
* • * •
The Australian Smelting Co., which during the
Barrier boom coined money at Dry Creek smelting works,
S.A., finds business in these sulphide days not what it
used to be ; and so it goes out of the business shortly.
• , * *
Brilliant Central, Charters Towers, got another
good result from deep levels—l 66 tons for 6710 z., the best
to date. Shares now 655., dearest on field.
» * • *
Godkin returns from Hampden copper mines,
Oloncurry (Q.), glowing with enthusiasm as to the future
of the place. Says there are 66,000 tons rich stuff jxposed,
and if his percentage-figures are right this means £250,000
for shareholders at present price of copper.
• * * *
“London” wants somebody to tell him about
the prospects of the Retrieve Mount Morgan, Q.
Cashman’s Golden Gate 3 and 4 S. mine, Croy-
don, is held under lease by a private syndicate : portion
of mine let on tribute. The Tribute Syndicate during May
obtained 31720 z. gold from 558 tons (gold £2 12s 5d per
oz.), or £8312 2s Bd. Proprietary received £l5OO royalty,
and the Tribute divided £5750. carrying forward £317.
Tribute expires in August.. Mine paid during May
£15,360 in divs., a record for the field.
Several Croydon deep shafts on Golden Gate line
are nearing “ bottom," ana the boomster is already on the
war-path. Recently, an attempt was made to boom
shares in a co. known locally as “ Drawbridge’s,” and to
distant shareholders as the Golden Gate and Nancy Lee
Consols G.M. Co., Ltd. The attempt was made by means
of the old telegram dodge. Somebody wired that 3ft. of
golden ore had been bored through ; scrip was anchored,
wire shown round, and at attempt made to un-
load. Local paper, Mining News, sent its reporter down
the mine, and put the fake away. Found about Bin. stone
and not enough gold to swear by. Then there was gnash-
ing of teeth in boom-circles.
• * * *
Warrentina (Tas.) gold-field is looking up of
late. A fair amount of work is being done on some
allegedly rich lodes and they are waiting the right moment
for flotation.
« * » *
At Dunedin and on the West Coast of M.L.
lately dredging-prospectuses has been appearing at the
rate of about one per day ; and the craze is extending to
Southland district, where river-options are being secured
by speculators and capital is being sunk in all directions.
One firm of engineers has let contracts for dredges total-
ling £82,100, and is inviting tenders for another batch,
estimated at a similar amount. Then 54 other dredges
are being designed—cost, about £7OOO each.
* * * •
flFor the year ended 31 Dec. last, Ivanhoe Co.
earned net £286,000 as compared with £140,000 for
previous term. The Co. recovered 90'3 per cent of gold-
contents. Mr. Hewitson gave the mine’s ore-reserves on
December 31 last as 211,873 tons.
* * * *
At last, whipped up to it for six months by
public opinion, the Adelaide directors of the Associated
are rising in self-defence. Flouted and fleeced by the
London jibers, Australian shareholders at last realise
how mistaken they were in crediting Bull with a reason-
able amount of honesty. Adelaide henceforth demands
the fullest and earliest information.
* * • *
Fraser’s G.M. Co., the old-established W.A.
low-grade affair, got for the half-year 36700 z. gold for
11,326 tons crushed—6}dwt. per ton, but it didn’t pay
expenses, by £1034. 200,000 tons of tailings available,
which, when treated, are expected to pay off £3OOO over-
draft and the cost of a £2OOO cyanide plant.
Brownhill Extended (Hannan’s) has a good
position—on the map, but unfortunately its own develop-
ment and that of the Brownhill, as well as the Associated
Northern, prove beyond doubt that the lode passes
through the corner of the lease at an acute angle, and the
strike is away from it instead of into it. These shares
were at one time under ss. and within five weeks they
were over £6. It had a few rich crushings, but the pro»-
Eect of more is remote. Two of the directors, Captain
epage and Mr. Oordner James, recently Inspected the
mine and “ an order has been issued that no visitors are
to be allowed on the mine unless armed with their written
authority.’’ Writer found some consolation in the fact
that the best mines on the camp are the easiest to get
down, and there is probably not one mine closed to
visitors that has not got something unsatisfactory to oon-
ceal. There can be no doubt that had the Brownhill lode
continued through the Extended lease it would have been
mopped up by the Brownhill long ago, and that was the
movement in contemplation when the shares boomed last
year.
• • • •
Perseverance is the best-pegged mine on the
fields, although that was an accident. It does not lose
any of its own lodes and it will certainly get one of the
Associated’s in depth. Being in a valley its oxidised ores
turn into sulphides within 100 ft. of surface and with the
exception of one or two shipments the sulphide bodies are
intact. Mine splendidly developed to 600 ft. with levels
driven and everything in readiness as far a* mine is con-
cerned for a continuous big output. Not much oxidised
ore left, but enough to last till the completion of the
sulphide plant, which is practically a copy of the Great
Boulder’s. Dry crushing in Griffin mills, roasting in a
different design of furnace, grinding in amalgamating
pans, the residues going to the filter presses. Has one of
the biggest main shafts in the fields, and an assured div.
future before it. No movement in shares likely till the
success of the sulphide plant is beyond doubt, all on
account of the ignominious failure of the Associated
sulphide plant and the partial failure of that of Lake View.
• • * *
Pride of the Valley, Hannan’s : Writer found it
impossible to find this mine by its name. Even when on
the lease nobody living on it seemed to know it by that
designation, but immediately one of the inhabitants was
asked to point out the place where an “ old gray horse ”
worked, identification was established. Pity some Sydney
shareholders could not see the spot on which they threw
away thousands of pounds. It apparently never had a real
show of finding anything ; cannot be regarded as even a
speculation ; and to talk of picking up good lodes worked
in other mines was mere moonshine. It is one of the
great laughing-stock# of the place.
* * • »
Chaffer’s. — For nearly two years this mine has
been given to announcing “ developments” with astonish-
ing regularity. At last they became too monotonous,
and shares fell from 245. to 12s. in two months. About a
quarter of a million drop. Why this mine should ever
have had a valuation of half-a-million has always been an
enigma to the writer, and it is now quite as great a one
that it should be worth its present price, over £250,000.
It has never had a crushing worthy of the name ; there is
no pay-ore, much less a div., in sight, and it has done
enough work to prove the ore-poverty of the lease. True,
it occupies a splendid position right on the southern boun-
ary of the Golden Horseshoe and the Boulder, but if its
area, 12 acres, happened to belong to either of those
mines, to what extent would it have increased their value?
Certainly not £lOO,OOO. The Great Boulder itself has a
lease on the northern boundary of the Ivanhoe, with much
better prospects than Chaffers, but it has never been
taken into account by the market, and the opportunity of
floating it into a separate co. hag been lost for long if not
for ever. Big as the slump has been in Chaffer’s the mine
is still monstrously over-valued.
* * * •
Paringa Consolidated (Hannan’s) is a reconstruc-
tion that took over Cassidy’s Hill, the Sir John Forrest,
and the Paringa leases, concerning which Mr. C. E. Hogg,
0.E., cabled that the management was excellent, that
some’ of the veins went as high as lOoz. to the ton, and
that the future was assured. But Mr. Hogg is a gentle-
man too much inclined to go the whole hog. The co. is
working the Paringa lease, which is between the Brown-
hill and the North Kalgurli; it has a modest capital of
half-a-million, and has issued over 700,000 ten-shilling
shares. Recently boomed up to par, they are now worth
about 75., and at 7d. would not be too cheap. There are
veins in other leases besides the Paringa that will go over
lOoz. to the ton. The getting of the ton is the only
trouble. .
* * * *
Brownhill has started to put up the plant for the
treatment of sulphides per Diehl process. The mine’s
present dry-crushing plant is the most elaborate in Aus-
tralia. Built entirely of iron ; has an elevation of over
70ft; a capacity of 200 tons a day ; must have oost over
£lOO,OOO and deals with the oxidised ores with a high
extraction.
• • » »
The Boulder Workers’ Association was cornered
the other day when the truckers at L. V. Consols struck
work owing to their wages being reduced from IJs. Bd. to
10s per day. The Mine Managers’ Association some time
ago fixed the truckers’ wages at 10s. 6d. But the Boulder
and Ivanhoe were then paying 10s. and—the workers
making no move to get the extra 6d—have continued
paying that wage up to now. L. View Manager M'Kinnon
mentioned these mines when a deputation protested
against his reduction, and the men, finding their attitude
scarcely logical under the circumstances, took a poll, re-
sult of which favoured the acceptance of the 10s. 6d they
were ultimately offered, with the assurance that truckers’
work would be trucking only. Ex-manager Callahan’s
plan wa* to employ truckers who could do miners’ work
when wanted. Golden Horsehoe and many others do the
same, and pay 11s. Bd. M'Kinnon didn’t mention them.
The greatest difference, however, between the truckers’
work at the Boulder and Ivanhoe, and at the L. V. Consols
and Horseshoe mines, is that the former’s trucks go three
to the ton, while the latter’s are alleged to hold I7cwt.
So the truckers’ protest was not so illogical as it might
appear.
* « • *
Fremantle Smelting Works. Westralian Govt,
continues to feed these with a spoon, this time using a
larger one than the last; and how big the spoon will have
to be to keep them going time will show. When they
were started it was declared by experts that there was
plenty of lead and copper ores in YVestralia within easy
distance of rail or sea to keep the works busy. As the
works had to buy lead from Broken Hill mines, and are
said to have made a loss of over £20,000 in one lead
transaction, W.A. Govt, now comes to the rescue with an
offer of bonuses amounting to £3OOO for the discovery and
production of lead, and has also issued a regulation agree-
ing to convey ore and concentrates up to lOoz. value for
jd. per ton per mile, same as charged on 2oz. ore
going elsewhere.
By the way, in addition to the higher freight on
ores above that value there is an export duty of 6s. per
ton on all ores the value of 10ozs., and 10s. on all above.
This is protecting the Westralian mining industry with a
vengeance, and indicates what outrages the Forrest Govt,
is capable of. Nothing of this sort exists at Johannes-
burg.
* * * *
Some wicked joker, seemingly, has been manu-
facturing brilliant novelties in mining reports for Melh.
Argus. In June 12th issue of that sacred journal, 9999th
verse, it is written—“ The Golden Horseshoe May return
is : Crushed 5929 tons for 5,841,2530 z. ; cvanided 3034 tons
sands for 2,400,7500 z. ; slimes, treated 1001 tons for
622,9500 z., and 3900 z. saved and concentrated—total gold-
yield for the month, 9,154,9530 z.” The Golden Horseshoe
being a Westralian mine fully explains why Oom John
doesn’t want to federate. The oountry is too rich : Four
hundred million pounds sterling per annum from ons
property !
* • • »
So far, it must be admitted, N.S.W. dredging
results have not approximated the prediction* of the san-
guine. When mining schemes are put forward more in
the guise of sober industry and less as glittering roads to
immediate fortune, they will find more steady publie
support.
(Continued, on page 19).


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS-
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in J WEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fa icy Scotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 05s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 66 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES~& COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
A SMILE
THAT WILL
&
M
7?
PLEASE you
Is the RESULT when PORTRAITS ARE
TAKEN by one of
HARRINGTON’S
CAMERAS^*.
POPULAR CAMERAS at 5/-, 12/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, £2 25., £2 10s., £3, £4,
and £5. HICH-CRADE INSTRUMENTS at all prices up to £5O.
N ™ No. 5 FLAT FOLDING KODAK
(Size of Picture, 7x5 inches.
Fitted with Goerz Double Anastigrmat Lens, Iris Diaphragm, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter working between the Lenses. Com-
pact and elegant. . . . Price, £l9.
Harrington & Co. Ltd.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
B3T Branches or Agencies in every Colony.
Society
For many decades it had been the custom
of S.M. Herald to report Governors’ speeches
word-for-word, in the first person. The rule has
been departed from in Gov. Beauchamp’s case.
Hunter-street has the temerity to cut him down,
sub-edit him, and put him in the third person.
Once Granny would have regarded it as high
treason and ten broken commandments to put a
Governor in the humiliating, inconsequential,
damp, musty, and degrading third person. Third
person is the nearest relative of no person—of
nobody. \Y hat has Gov. Beauchamp done to the
Herald ?
* • » .
Most of N.S.W. opposition leader Reid’s
attack on the Lyne Govt, fell flat, but the one part
of it which roused both sides to cordial acquies-
cence and sympathetic cheers was his reference to
the impudent appointment of Minister Wood to
the command of the Australian Horse, vice
Kenneth Mackay.
FITZGIBBON-THE MAN IN CHARGE.
-r-, T , .
Premier Lyne accounts for the appoint-
ment of N.S.W. Justice-Minister Wood to the
command of a cavalry corp 3 on the grounds that
Colonel Mackay, before he left for South Africa,
had asked the G.O.C. to appoint Mr. Wood a
major in the Australian Horse, as he, Colonel
Mackay, thought the welfare of the regiment
would be looked after thereby during his absence
from the province. So, in N.S.W., the amateur
C.O. not only owns his own corps, body and soul
(vide Supreme Court judgment), but may nominate
his successor ! Also, the possession of the most
elementary military knowledge,, or of what
Roberts calls “the very exceptional qualities
necessary for a cavalry leader,” is not essential to
the commander of this corps; and it is only
necessary that he should live in Sydney “to deal
with certain matters.” What are those “matters”?
It would be interesting to know.
% ■» • « »
Premier Lyne made a rather lame reply to
ex-Premier Reid’s charge of appointing his son
and the son of Minister See to commissions in the
Lancer Regiment over the heads of competent
men with an implied right to the positions. His
chief defence was absolute ignorance. He spent
over £lOO in equipping his boy in the necessary
fal-lals for a lieutenant, and apparently expected
the House to believe that his son had not discussed
the matter with him. The Premier also remarked
that the morning papers would not refer to these
appointments; yet he also said that when they
were “criticised” the young men withdrew.
They certainly did withdraw—in a violent hurry
and at a cost of £lOO each. The squadron openly
mutinied and their “criticism” consisted in flatly
declining to go into camp, coupled with a threat
of a wholesale resignation. The Premier did not
deny that the boys were appointed on the single
qualification of being Cabinet Ministers’ sons.
Ihe first day one of the young hopefuls appeared
m full war-paint a non-com. had to carefully ex-
plain to him the proper way to draw his sword.
• • • •
On Queen’s Birthday, when Gov. Gorman-
ston, of Tasmania, gave his levee and there was a
big attendance to celebrate the relief of Mafeking,
the local Council of Churches was absent, to a
man. The reason popularly assigned is that Gov
Gormanston is of the R.C. faith !
* * * »
It was generally predicted that when those
printed “letters from the front” found their way
back to S’Africa there would be trouble. Well,
now we have it. Private H. Bradstook, of H.
Company (N.S.W.), 2nd Regt., writing to his
mother:—
I saw two of Sid’s letters in the E. News, and one of
Sandy Hardie’s, which were straight enough, but some of
tiie letters the chaps have been writing to their parents
are a iot of lies, for we never saw a Boerat Enslin. There
is one chap in particular, whose letter was published in a
Bathurst paper. The captain is going to nave his letter
read out to all, and give him a lecture. That ought to
show him up a bit. We were thinking about giving him
a duck in a dam close by.
* * • *
A very well-known former resident of
Junee (N.S.W.), now serving at the front, writes:
They are starting now to enrol a Colonial Police Force
for the Free State. A lot of our chaps have volunteered
for it. The pay is 10s. a day and forage allowance. I
don’t think many of them will get it, however, as they
are a poor iot—mere lads, jockey boys, hangers-on at
country pubs and billiard-rooms, and bicycle riders.
There are only about 60 good sorts in the squadron. The
whole thing was messed up at the start by the selection
of such men. They are always trying to shirk their work,
and instead of taking a pride in their horses and looking
after them, they have to be driven to feed them. It is
awful, and I would like to join another squadron. Our
men are caving in. I fear we are a badly-selected lot; no
less than 24 out of 130 in the hospital at Bloemfontein
with fever and one thing and another.
The sort of letter that does not get into the daily
press—just yet.
• » • •
The brains of Melb. University are all on
the side of Marshall-Hall with the exception of
thote which have good practical reason for opposing
him. Prof. Allen and Dr. Bride lead the Hall
party, and as Bishop Goe heads the persecuting
gang its rank-and-file may be well imagined. Dr.
McFarland is about the only man of intellect
behind Goe and—well he holds a good post in a
Scotchbyterian College. The Hallites showed bad
tactics at the first meeting, when they could easily
have carried a motion for re-appointment.
Instead they allowed the minority to bluff them
into a postponement which led to next meeting
being swamped by the Stiggins crowd. Heaven
and earth are now being moved to oust Hall.
* * * *
There was a big wreck—that of the Sierra
Nevada—at Portsea (Vic.) lately, and the local
Samaritan came out strong. He fished out the
very few survivors, and warmed and fed them, and
he buried the nine dead like a man and a brother.
The nine graves stand in a row, as a silent evi-
dence that kindliness of heart belongs to all lands
alike, and a touch of nature makes the whole
world kin. A further evidence is a bill of £54 for
funeral-expenses, which has just made the Vic.
Government sit up—£l3 10s. for digging nine
graves, £4 14s fid for nine burial services at 10s 6d
each, £35 15s 6d for sundries; also another bill
for £37 for rubbing-down the survivors and giving
them beef-tea, &c. A certain inclination to curse
the good Samaritan of Portsea is manifest in
Melbourne just now.
* * * *
The other day a Carlton J.P.— Carlton is
the place where they deal tenderly with the most
savage of larrikins—ordered an old man to gaol
for a week if within 7 days he did not pay £l3s. 3d.
arrears for the maintenance of his son, who had
been committed to the department of Neglected
Children, The man is a small stall-holder in the
market, and his average earnings are 14s. per
week, out of which he has to pay ss. for rent and
keep himself and his wife in food. When the un-
fortunate man tried to explain that he was 60
years old, and had never been in Court before,
and for that reason thought it hard he should be
made a criminal of, lie was sternly ordered to be
careful what he was saying or he’d get seven days
additional.
The list of subscribers to the Argus
Melb. Hospital Fund contains one well-known
•i C ‘ bl R ca P italist ’ s name—that of Percy Chim-
side. One looks in vain along that £ll,OOO for the
people naturally expected, and especially for the
Millers, perhaps the wealthiest family in Melb.
to-day, and certainly the best-advertised.
“ What is wanted "
said a Mudgee (N.S.
Wales) parson re-
cently, in winding
up an impassioned
burst of oratory,
“is more of the
burning flame of
spiritual life.”
Then he took a
step back ward and
spread his arms by way of
effect, and his large ear got in the
gas-jet. A man who was crying out for
more burning flame should have taken
the situation kindly,
but this reverend
shouted something
which wasn’t in
Corinthians, and
bounced in the air „
about the height
of eight family
LOOKING AHEAD.
RUSTIC SUITOR: “ Kin yer cook?"
HHONORED ONE: “ Yuss. Mother does the rough cooken, an’ I do the
fancy cooken."
bibles, and the peroration was wholly ruined.
• • * *
Salomons, Q.O.’s impending return to
N.S.W. will make a difference to the local bar.
At present the only Q.C. available for Govt, briefs
is “ Dick ” O’Connor—which probably accounts
for his non-acceptance of a seat in the Upper
House. The rule with regard to members of
either House being debarred from accepting Govt,
work—a very wise rule, too—deprives the Crown
of the services of Want and Pilcher. Salomons
will, as a matter of course, share the Crown briefs
with O’Connor. And a magnificent harvest looms
ahead for the Devil’s Children—the Sydney water-
front resumption cases.
• * • •
Several N.S.W. country journals issued
gratis second editions chronicling the relief of
Mafeking. “Stood me £3,” said one ; “stood
me £5,” said another.
The editor of the
Mountaineer set an
example worth remem-
bering. He fee’d the
local bellman, and for
5s had the news oried
lustily through the
streets.
UP TO DATE.
“'Ere yer are — on'y a penny a time, and all
British-Born !”
Chief Secretary Jenkins told a questioner
in the 3.A. Assembly that it is the duty of the
Govt. House sentries to challenge any suspicious-
looking person entering the enclosure. Evidently
their authority stops at the challenge, for the other
day one of them asked a seedy man what his busi-
ness was, and got for reply, “ What the devil has
that to do with you ? ” The stranger passed on,
and amused himself by breaking the vice-regal
windows.
• • * •
The shocking inaction of the police on re-
cent occasions in Adelaide will probably lead to
an agitation for reform now that 3. A. Parliament
has met. There is a strong impression that Com-
missioner Madley, formerly a Govt, school-
teacher, is unsuited for the position. The other
night, when ex-priest Slattery was lecturing, a
howling mob held complete possession of a portion
of the city for hours and defied the police to the
number of two !
• • • •
In Sydney Hospital died recently of
starvation and exposure an old man of 80 years
who had been found by the police on the steps of
the Salvation Army’s Sydney People’s Palace,
where he had been lying all a wet and bitter
night. It is a grim satire on the loud-mouthed
“philanthropy” of the Harmy that a poor old
creature should have been allowed practically to
die on its threshold, for want of the base, ungodlv
“ thrum.” '
• * • •
“ Ratting ” is more profitable than rabbit-
ing in M.L. In Dunedin the animals are haled
to the gasworks—the headquarters of the rat in-
dustry—from early morn to dewy eve. Dear little
children bring them in their schoolbags along with
their sum-book and their joggraphy and their
bread and jam “piece.” A Wellington young
lady rode up with rodents dangling from her
bicycle; but this was outdone in Dunedin by a nice
old Scotch body who lifted her outer skirt and
disengaged from round her waist several rats, ex-
plaining, “ one frae Mrs. Maeallister, ma neebor,
and twa from a trap, and this one ma cat caught—
the guid beastie.” The next lot of goods for the rat-
emporium came in a pram, and it is said that baby
yelled for half-an-hour when forced to give up her
playthings.
* * * *
Christchurch Spectator (M.L.) has 'been
giving the British generals in S’Africa fits for
their incompetence, and so on. When “Colour-
Sergeant ” wrote to say that perhaps said generals
weren’t quite such fools as they looked, the editor
replied, “ In spite of ‘ Col.-Serg.,’ we can inform
our readers that nine-tenths of our volunteers are
of our opinion.” Poor Buller!


3
JUST OF3Ej3XTED
' LARGE SHIPMENT
OF NEW SILVER-MOUNTED
KHA.RKI
blotting books . • .
CIGAR &. CIGARETTE CASES . -
PURSES, ETC., ETC.
hd
SHOWROOMS: ■■ ■■
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; and at
81 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
A Tommy Atkins in a letter to an English
paper:
“ I really think the Colonial lacks the reckless courage
of the British soldier when all’s told.”
That Tommy had better be put down as a disguised
Boer emissiary and shot accordingly. It will save
much painful argument.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A Leichhardt (Sydney) resident has re-
ceived from her brother, a gunner serving in
S’africa with N.S.W. “A” battery, a letter which
is published in Sydney E. News. Extracts
The Boers are the most contemptible (ate) beings on the
face of the earth, and when you get them beat they cringe
like a dog. ... At Modder River there were thousands
of prisoners, who were strictly watched. A sentry was
asked by a Boer if there was any chance of escape. “Oh,
there might be,” replied the sentry, who turned away as
if to give him an opportunity to escape. Two Boers then
attempted to make off, but were immediately shot dead
by the sentry.
Theme for the Y.M.C. A debating society: What
is murder ?
A Kind Neighbour.
The kindest and most neighbourly thing one
woman can do for another, in case of illness, is to
tell how she herself was brought out of trouble
and distress : and urge her neighbour to seek the
same remedy.
“ Neighbour, you are looking glad !
What good news have you to tell ? ”
“ News ? That, when I was so bad,
Warner’s Safe Cure made me well! ”
Thousands have cause to bless the same kind,
neighbourly spirit which actuated Mrs. Melle, of
Abercrombie-street, Balwyn, Victoria,*who wrote
on the 29th. January last as followsl have
good cause to be thankful for what Warner’s Safe
Cure and Safe Nervine have done for me. By
their use I was saved from an early grave and
much pain and suffering. During some great
family trouble I was attacked by heart weakness
and. swelling under my breast and around the
head, accompanied by nervous depression to an
alarming degree. The slightest unusual noise
would make me tremble all over. I became very
irritable and lost flesh rapidly, and was altogether
unfit for my domestic duties. I was under the
doctor’s treatment for some time, but continued
to get worse. The doctor said he could hold out
no hope for me, so in despair I tried Warner’s
Safe Cure and Safe Nervine, and very soon began
to improve in health and spirits. The nervousness
left me, swelling and pains vanished. The doctor
and friends were surprised at my rapid recovery.
I am pleased to say I am now in good health.*
A THOROUGH ARTIST .
METROPOLITAN STAGE-MANAGER: “ Well, do you
think you could do the Landlord in The
Lady of Lyons? ’”
EX-TOURING MANAGER : “ Sir, I have done a
great many lately .”
Sydney juries struggled nard last week to
measure sentimental damages in pounds sterling.
One plaintiff, held to be libelled by the Evening
News (which, trapped by a fake paragraph, was
led into publishing an account of a wedding that
never occurred) recovered £300; though defend-
ants were plainly innocent of malice, and instantly
apologised. Another plaintiff was a maker of
kola-nut mixture; and, when _ charged with
assaulting a publican’s wife, a rival kola firm
advertised rather pointedly that .the assailant
did not play in their yard. A jury gave him £2o;
though on the reports he had a far worse grievance
than the £3OO man. A third jury, led by Justice
Owen, gave £1250 damages to the mother of a
“seduced ” girl for “loss of services.” Altogether
matters were mixed.
• * * *
Compare that Sydney jury’s recent award
of £1250 to a mother for loss of her daughter’s ser-
vices (through seduction) with the £l5OO “com-
pensation” to the railway-smashed Taylor family,
of Victoria, which had a daughter killed and the
mother and two sons severely injured (one boy
losing an arm and a leg). Now which award was
absurdly large, or which ridiculously small ?
• * * •
The Rockhampton (Q.) Chows have been
“ proceshing,” with a view to scaring away the
plague. There were two lorries with lanterns,
Chinese bands, gorgeous banners, and torches;
also crackers galore, and two dragons with
hideous pasteboard heads, and tails made of long
rope. A big, fat Chow brought up the end to cavort
around and give finish to the show. Their first
visit was to the shop of a sick countryman, where
they raised a horrible din with crackers. Then
they marched through the principal streets,
stopping in front of the infected places and repeat-
ing the cracker-business. Their fire-baslcets—on
long poles and burning some pungently-smoking
wood—effectually kept a clear space for the
dragons to jump around in, and made enough
vapor to fumigate all Rockhampton
A BIT SUDDEN.
HER : “ How did you avoid volunteering , Hr.
Frockcoat? ”
HIM: “ Well, I told the fellows that Em going to
be married. And so I am, Phyllida-to you
if you'll have me."
A far-west (N.S.W.) publican, being sued
for wages recently by his barman, pleaded that he
had acted the Good Samaritan to that hired beer-
dispenser, and had taken him in out of charity
when he was “ stony.” He didn’t deny that the
barman worked the usual awful public-house
hours, or that he served the beer efficiently and
dispensed the gin in capable fashion. He didn’t
deny, either, that when he took a barman as a
matter of business he would have to pay him, and
if you save £1 a week by an act of charity, where
does the charity come in ? The publican simply
said he was amazed and shocked that a man whom
he engaged when he was dead-broke should want
any wages. The barman got a verdict, and the
publican went away, still shocked. Reminds The
Bulletin of another story. A widow was in deep
distress and wanted laundry-work, and a chari-
table society woman, hearing of this, sacked her
regular wash-lady (ss. a day), and gave the poor
creature a show. She did 12 hours’ hard washing,
and was offered sixpence. And when she put in a
plea for at least half-a-crown, the benevolent lady
was pained at her ingratitude. “ I only took you
out of charity," she said.
* * * *
Bit of typical “ fine-writing ” re an acci-
dental-poisoning case, taken from Australia’s
dullest and most respectable paper:—
The landlord had spread some poison, known as “ Rough
on Rats,” upon some sandwiches with the object of
bringing about the death of the large vermin which the
composition referred to is calculated to exterminate.
Surely the acme of journalese !
* • • *
Someone writes in the N.S.W. country
press that the late Parkes was always ready, even
when Premier, to enter the private bar of an hotel
and drink with an acquaintance, provided the
acquaintance provided champagne. Now the fact
is that Parkes never, while Minister or private
member, entered private bars to drink. He
attached no virtue to this—just didn’t do it, like
cutting his hair. N.S.W. Ministers of the Crown
are divided as to the practice of hotel drinking.
Lyne’s batch are unusually liberal in their views
that way. Some of the defunct Reid Cabinet
wouls rather cook their financial statements and
seal a dozen political jobs than take a single six-
penny drink at a hotel bar. But ordinarily
Ministers admit that their office carries certain
social restraints and keep fairly within the imagi-
nary lines.
• * * *
Launceston (Tas.) had a weary little drunk
on Mafeking Day. After the local constable had
fired three shots out of an old gun in front of the
Town Hall, the populace rubbed its eyes and
meandered round, and enquired “YVhat’sup?”
When they quite grasped that Mafeking was re-
lieved no one neglected his beer for his work for
several days ; and ever since Launceston has been
gathering up its boots from among many snakes
and wondering where it has been.
9 • * •
The enthusiastic but frugal residents of
Ermington (N.S.W.) have been celebrating the
success of the British arms in S’Africa with a—
mock banquet.
• * • *
The Melbourne dailies charge
the well-known “Rats Push”
with the display of larrikin-
ism in Bourke-street on
23rd ult., when tram-
cars were taken
possession of and
spilt off the lines.
This is alto-
gether too flat-
tering to the
Rats, who
number 20 or
30 human
weeds at
most, and
have n’t
strength
e n o u gh
all put
together
to lift a
tram-car.
It was a
respect-
ably dress-
ed crowd,
numbering
I some thou-
sands, and
including
sharebrokers,
m e r chants,
clerks, civil ser-
vants, bagmen,
shopkeepers, and
the like —who up-
ended the co.’s
property in the
» Queen’s name
on Mafeking
evening.
The struggle for a crust :
T ADY will TEACH Lady ELOCUTION, Compo-
-*-i sition, Dumb-bells, in exchange for two meals
daily, Jolimont, E. Melbourne. Bee, Argus.
SOLICITORS’ Law CLERK, 10 years’ good- general
® experience, will accept any position ; low wage.
Capable, Argus.
And women University graduates are offered, as
teachers, from Is. Gd. to 2s. 6d. a week.
That celebrated English surgeon Frederick
Treves, F.R.C.S., addressed a crowded meeting
of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society in
London recently, and proceeded to knock the
stuffing out of another Boer atrocity. The alleged
verdigris with which the Boer bullets were said to
have been poisoned had been analysed
and proved absolutely non-poisonous. It was
only paraffin, which acting on the nickel
of the bullets, showed a green color, and
it was used to prevent the rifles foul-
ing. Some day, when the atrocity-monger
has ceased to manufacture sensational
lies for heavy news-headlines the
British nation will awaken
to the fact that the Boers
have fought a fair
straightforward,
manly battle,
and having
failed, deserve
the respect of a
generous foe.
A. STUDY IN THE
ABNORMAL.
1ST MELR CITIZEN (with bundle of crackers): “Look at that fellow on the comer."
2ND. MELB, CITIZEN (with tin-trumpet): “ Yes; what’s the matter with him?"
1ST. DITTO (hoarsely): “He's Sane!"
Re that Dutch-flag business. At a recent
school concert in Rockhampton (Q.) the children,
while singing’ ‘ ‘ Britannia, tlie Pride of the Ocean,
waved said Dutch flag—red, white and blue
with the red uppermost. Sundry remarks were
made amongst the audience about the Boer
Flag ’’—which, however, adds green to the three
colors aforesaid —making thus the “ vierkleur, or
quarto-color.
* * * *
Commissioner Turner, of Melb. Metro-
politan Board of Works, is a little man with a
squeaky voice and a great flow of language. He
is also a most aggravated Jingo, even for the Board
of Works, and at the meeting to consider the
sacking of those anti-Jingo employes he “ waxed
awful. “ There was the Union Jack ! he cried,
“ the flag that braved a thousand years the battle
and the breeze.” Then old chairman Fitz Gibbon
interrupted. “Asa matter of chronological ac-
curacy,” he pompously said, “the Union Jack is
only 200 years old.” Poor little Turner tried to
finish his speech, but his eloquence bad gone
bung. And, by-the-way, the present Union Jack
isn’t quite one hundred years old.
The just complaints as to the inferiority
of much of the army stores—flour, saddles, etc.
sent from N.S.Wi to South Africa are not alone
common in army contracts ; they are common
wherever Govts, employ contractors to feed,
clothe or otherwise provide any large body of
people. When N.S. W. was in its infancy over
100 years ago, Gov. Phillip again and again re-
proached the British Govt, for the scandalously
•bad quality of the food, merchandise and tools
sent to his order. “One would think,” wrote
Phillip, “that you sent them out for barter on
the coast of New Guinea.”
0 * * *
The reports of the unveiling of the new
statue of Queen Victoria at Ballarat were full of
enthusiastic references to Councillor This and
Councillor That, and to the loyal utterances of
Fat, Esq., and thirteen different reverends and
Moneygrubs, but not one solitary syllable was
said about Mackennal, the insignificant artist,
who hewed the stone. The statue is merely an
advt. for a handful of “prominent persons ”—a
standing column, in fact.
• • * *
Lost in the mists of history is the date
when N.S.W. Parliament authorised the construc-
tion (out of loan-money) of large gaols at Cooma
and Glen Innes. These institutions were built at
a cost of about £40,000 ; and up to date have not
received a single prisoner, nor have they been
used for any purpose whatever. The latest idea
is to thrust the buildings on to the Chief Secre-
tary’s department as institutions for refractory
children, who, though unfit for the usual boarding-
out process, are not bad enough to be committed
under the Industrial Schools Act, the only now-
available remedy. Both places, Cooma especially,
are intensely cold in winter, and owing to this,
combined with inaccessibility and other objections,
the idea is not looked on with favor by the officials
Mount Gambier (S.A.) W.C.T.U. has re-
solved to wait upon and ask all the local publicans
to close on Peace Proclamation Day, “ seeing
that on the occasion of
bration of the relief of
and Mafeking, a great
of boys of a tender
seen lying quite
intoxicated.”
M e 1 b o urne
begin to turn their
the brick and
horses. In a re-
tain loads seized
were found
the cele-
Ladysmith
number
age were
helplessly
police
attention to
stone carters’
cent case, cer-
and weighed
to go over
63c wt. to a
single horse !
concerned. Besides, the buildings were meant for
gaols, look like gaols, and will always be taken
for gaols, and so are quite unfit for the housing of
children, whose faults are, after all, venial.
CORRIGENDUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In olden times ’twas quite the thing
(Before these days of nice distinction !)
To call the good physician “leech,”
Who helped along our race-extinction.
But this is changed ! ’Tis but a step
From one profession to its brother.
And we ought now, to designate,
The lawyer “ leech,” and not the other.


NECKWEAR
Charming Variety
Profusion
fgh
S Lace
Scarves, and
Ribbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS have wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
, r Sydney, Jun® 19, 1900.
Mt Dear Myee,—
An interesting' account of a voyage ’Ome was
given me the other day. On board was a pretty,
lively little Sydney girl, who had once been on the
stage, going away to get over a recently-broken-
off engagement—not theatrical. Also, a hand-
some young Sydney eligible, who had hitherto re-
mained impervious to local belledom. The num-
ber of women who have described that man as
“my ideal of a man ” defies contemplation. Let
us pass over that. On board, the pretty little Syd-
nev girl used to sit on the next lounge to him.
Before the end of the voyage their engagement
was announced. They will probably be married
m London, from the house of a big sister of the
bride. To satisfy your curiosity, I suppose I had
better mention that the gentleman is Mr. Harry
Austin, of Sydney ; and the lady, Miss Loloa
Roberts, on her way to her sister, Mrs. Stanley
Mylius. J
1 here were lots of Australians on that boat.
After Ismailia, their proprieties were quite too
severely put upon. Two women and a man, who
came on board there, made a sensation by drawing
three cigarette-cases out of their pockets at dinner,
and smoking three calm and steady smokes before
the whole table ! Australians were dreadfully
shocked !—until they found out that the women
were the Hon. Mrs. K and the daughter of a
Queensland millionaire, whose entertainments are
the talk of London, and the man was the brother
of the young Countess of Dudley.
A new engagement is that of Miss Edith Marks,
the farr-haired, eldest daughter of Mrs. James
Marks, of Elystan, Woollahra, to Mr. Arthur
Shuts, of Goldsbrough, Mort & Co.
Do you know, I have come to the conclusion
that ‘Rumour” isn’t a she after all. I believe
its a he, and a parson—because he’s always
marrying someone. Rumour’s latest is that the
ladies man ” of all our politicians is going to be
married soon—to the well-known widow of a racing
man. °
On dit, of a certain engagement, that the fianc6
with one e—began by admiring the mother,
went on with the eldest daughter, and ended with
marrying little sister.
The wickedness of marrying two people without
asking them was demonstrated by a recent libel-
action brought by a ohemist against a Social
column. The chemist had been wedded for ever
so many years to an excellent wife, who used to
help him in his business, when suddenly a social
column broke into .a graphic description of a
marriage that had just happened between that
same ohemist and quite another lady, named “Miss
Brown, of Crown-street.” Not a false detail
was missing, down to the bride’s uncle who gave
her away, and the obliging guest who livened up
the nuptial with “ Remember me no more.
Many of the chemist’s customers left suddenly on
reading this. For the flight of imagination the
chemist got damages—£ooo. Patients will now
nock back to have their teeth pulled out in com-
fort by a decent and more-than-substantially-vin-
dicated married man.
It is quite possible that that verdict will affect
all social columns more or loss. There is even a
faint hope that we have chanced on the beginning
of the end of Mrs. Jones’ Musical Party, as
recorded in the News, and written by Mrs. Jones
herself ; and of that deadly cortege : “ The pretty
wedding and the pretty bride, who looked cnarm-
nig thereat ; “ the mother of the bride ”in avoir-
dupois, satin and an aigrette; the wedding pre-
sents that always were “both numerous and
costly ’; the bridegroom’s presents, to the brides-
maids ; the happy couple, who “departed among
showers of rice and confetti.” Doesn’t it make
you yearn to be a perfectly plain bride, whose
couple of wedding presents went into a band-box ?
J here were no bridesmaids, and the bridegroom
didn t give anything away, and the happy couple
departed in a cab amidst a shower of heavy rain.
If the libelled chemist gets rid of the others, what
a blessing!
A wedding that came off last week in Sydney
was that of Miss Nellie Bruton (for some time a
Truth penweman) and the well-known Armand
Jerome. They set off for Paris Exhibition a few
days later.
Lieutenant Dowling, of the Australian Horse,
who lately returned from captivity in the Trans-
vaal, where he was badly wounded, has again
been taken prisoner. At Mudgee, on Monday,
he was married to Miss Grace Cox, daughter of
the late Mr. Alex. Cox, of Oakfield.
Some coming dances are North Sydney Tennis
Clubs hop, Friday, June 22, at local Masonic
Hall; St. Vincent’s ball, date not definitely fixed
yet, pending the meeting next Thursday, June
21st, at St. Vincent’s Hospital, Darlinghurst; and
the University ball, June 28th, sandwiched be-
tween the two V.R. evenings.
Apropos of the latter, I am not going to stake
my immortal soul on the truth of the following
storyette, but here it is, and if it keeps anyone
out of trouble on June 25 or 27, don’t thank me. I
was only told the story. At last Govt. House
"Jp nglish Evenings,” as Mrs. Brough called them,
a delighted guest was folding up her programme,
preparatory to pocketing it. Suddenly a vice-
regal official tapped her on the arm. “ Oh, please,
don’t take away the programme. It is requested
you should nqt do so ! ” She fluttered, reddened,
and dropped it as if it had been the silver spoons.
Spoons one could understand, but programmes!
A mystery unless His Ex. wants all the
mementoes he can muster of the beautiful hours
spent in his red drawing-room.
Mrs. B. R. Wise left us for a trip Home last
week, taking her only son “Tony” to Rugby;
which reminds me that the V. R. educational diffi"
oulty has-been settled by the engagement of Miss
Leas as French governess to —well, there are such
a lot of young people in the V.lt. menage just
now that I had better mention that little Mary
Gilmour is the raison d’etre of a governess at
Government House.
The Governor’s latest-arrived sister dresses her
hair with daring, but extremely’ becoming, seve-
nty wears it parted in the middle and plainly
put away at the sides, with never a lock escaping.
Her face is of the conventional Beauchamp
pattern rounder, less nose—a winning, piquant
face, with a delightful smile that is rapidly’ salving
Potts Point’s wounded feelings.
I hear of a society woman, who, unable otherwise
to escape thePlague-and-wartopics of conversation,
has retired to bed these last few months, drawn
the curtains, lit the gas, and told her maid to let
her know when the world has grown cheerful
again. When the influenza scare and mining
boom were on, some time ago, this lady behaved
m the same sensible manner, shooed the ordinary
newspaper away, and read nothing but the share-
list, as this, she declared, was ttie only current
literature that had anv hilariousness about it.
Significant ! Eleven out of 21) probationers
seceded from Prince Alfred Hospital last year, and
of the eleven four left through weakness, three
through unsuitability, three from dislike of work,
and only one to get married. Spite of effective
puritanical costuming the hospital doesn’t seem
good hunting-ground for the matrimonial aspirant.
Man sick, and man well, are two such different
beings, and doctors—well, all doctors don’t want
women who know too much.
Charles Clarke brings back whiter hair than of
yore, but the same voice, the same humorous
little-boy mouth, the same irreproachable shirt-
front taking shirt-front metaphorically for purple
and fine linen generally—and the same delightful
way of getting tilings over quickly. It would have
been a pity, even though natural, if he had aged
in the least. But no ! He whips up his recita-
tions, drives them at you, bows, smiles, and is
gone. This is your real epicure. The man who
can feed himself as well as you; the man who
always stops before he has given you just enough.
buch a gitten’ upstairs ” was gone through in
the same luce, droll way, that hasn’t much spark
of genius in it, but is charming, always charming.
Ihe only new feature was the Patriotic Oration.
Hus took the house by the wool, and raised it to
the seventh heaven, where sheep are glorified
(opposed to goats, you remember). For my part,
lam not sure whether [ like orations or not; or
should I say whether I understand them ? A
deep study of the classics has left the fancy with
me that there ought to be somebody dead. Not
so. The Centenary Hall was very much alive,
first floor patronised, galleries full, upper
galleries crowded—and the Oration smote them
into cheers, which would have been missed if the
usual sad circumstances of corpse and pile had
been complied with.
Mrs. Howie—otherwise “ Te-Rangi-Pai”—came
on in the Rev. Charles’ intervals. This warbler
is new to us. She is a half-Maori, lam told, but
was clad all over in a long black jetty dress with
long sleeves, and a garden of pink roses on her
left shoulder. In a mezzo-contralto she sang
ballads from the programme, and ballads for
encore. Her voice is ordinary and sweet, her
style simple and devotional, and, for the rest, her
dark face and artless manner captivate. Hetty Hol-
royd joined the concerts during the week, and
goes on to Melbourne with them later.
new music there seems to be great activity.
I had begun to hope there would be no “Battleof
Prague,” no “ Jessie’s Dream ” (descriptive of the
biege of Lucknow), no brilliant fantasia com-
memorating the screams of the wounded and
dying m South Africa. It seemed a great hope.
And it was too great, too vain. The War-music
is upon us, in battalions, many pages strong,
operas, fantasias, marches—they are getting ready
to bombard, furioso. Have you heard about the
Transvaal War Symphony, ” just being published
m London ? The composer is Miss May Louise
White. She brings out her symphony in three
parts, as she goes along ; but the first movement
gets a little behind things, does it not ? It repre-
sents “ An earnest appeal to the British Empire
to pause before she strikes.” Then there is also,
according to the composer, “ The simplest musical
cadence suggesting how easily matters of discus-
sion can be settled.” I should think this was the
sort of music you hear about, that makes men
fight like the devil.
But this pales before a local fantasia, “ The Re-
j Ladysmith,” by Landon Roberts (Allan
and Go.). In a few well-chosen chords “The
British retire from Dundee ” —first andante maes-
toso, then allegro—but non troppo, you will be
glad to hear. I was sorry to see that “The
British surprised by Boers” was expressed by
runs. Couldn’t the composer have managed
otherwise? Everything warlike you ever heard
or read of is included in these 14 pages, from the
Anxiety of the Besieged ” to a clock striking
at sunrise in low bass—rust, I presume. All
the war-tunes are introduced freely, a magnifi-
cent two bob’s ” worth that puts Prague to the
blush. Pleyel and Co. send “The Pretoria
Waltz, by Lionel Alexander, which is spirited
and tuneful. Paling and Co. send Lawrence
Phillips “Grace,” a charming little piece that
never fails to fetch an audience. Also from Pal-
ing, a new and excellent edition of the ancient
enemy, Czerny’s “Hundred and One,” at the
nominal price of one shilling; and Irene Frank-
lin s Tivoli success, the pretty, plaintive “Won’t
you take me back to Dixie?”
I am glad to say that the concert at Parra-
matta in aid of the widow and family of the
late Corpora] Harkus was a distinct' success,
financially and otherwise.
The friends and admirers of Mr. Rivers Allpress
are rallying up a benefit concert for that well-
known fiddler, who has fallen into bad health
lately. If anyone deserves a ben. it is Mr. Allpress,
for he has never had one in his life, though he has
played for charity hundreds of times.
“The Pirates of Penzance” followed “Pina-
fore ”on Saturday at Her Majesty’s. Miss Ada
Winston-Weir made her debut among us as Mabel
of the thin white stockings and large white feet.
The new star, who was too chalkily made up—
following her predecessor soprano in that—sang
with a good clear voice persistently vibrato, and
was well encored. Apropos of the white feet,
how boldly hosed and booted is the comic opera
artist of to-day ! Her sister of “ The Halls ”
vide “Dainty” Irene Franklin—twinkles jewels
of feet, not particularly tiny, but set in—ah—
such stockings, and such shoon. Snappy bronze
shoes and stockings would be a welcome emenda-
tion in Miss Weir’s toilette, and the white track-
ing would gain instead of suffer. Dresses are not
a feature in the “Pirates.” Pretty Cecil Engle-
hart reminded one of a full-blown pink rose, and
dainty little Annie Cubitt was worth admiring ;
but these merely aggravated the chorus crudities
of yellow, red and ginger confections, topped by
hats apparently slept in, or on. But what has
become of the Gilbert and Sullivan traditions ?
Dolly Vane, as Ruth, was no “ remains ” of a fine
woman.” She was quite the prettiest and most
tastefully-dressed woman on the stage, snappily
frocked in black and scarlet. From the late
Little Buttercup’s hideous green bonnet Dorothy
emerged with a conspicuous new polish—grateful,
soothing—applied equally to clothes and make-up.
Woman and Wine ”at the Royal. “ Standing
Room only ” night after night. The beautifully-
mounted play is such a maze of dresses that I
hardly know where to begin, but, of course, the
villainesses get all the best frocks. It makes one
perfectly sick of being good to see Harrie Ireland
m her own red-gold hair sweeping about in a
flowing ballgown of/lull pastel-blue silk. Miss
hitzmaurice Gill wears a long-tailed primrose
satin with chiffon flounces, and her new way of
hairdressing adds to her prettiness. One’s only
comfort is that good Mrs. Bland Holt lias several
smart frocks. One boasts a polonaise and corselet
of black satin, hand-painted with lilacs, worn on a
dull pink, covered with black lace, and topped
with a little blaek-and-pink velvet hat.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
The Skating Carnival in the South Yarraßink,
I riday night, June 15th, made a snug sum for the
Children’s Hospital, thanks to the energy of Janet
Lady Clarke, President of the Skating Club. As
a spectacle, however, the affair was marred by dim
lights. The President herself, in tame black
frock and Vandyke collar, seemed a smaH,
scrimped suburban imitation of the scintillating,
rustling Personage we’re accustomed to. Miss
Hodges, the Club secretary, was big and blooming
in trailing blue muslin, opening over white under-
skirt, and, of course, white furs. Secretary Richard
Nevill, in dark tweeds, looked surprisingly well-
nourished. Either the Madden plumpness is
catching, or the Lieut.-Governor’s little cupboard
is less bare than his predecessor’s. One of the
most amusing things was seeing Lord Richard
counting the potatoes in the various buckets, after
the potato race ; one wondered if he had ever seen
the horrid things before, don’t-you-know. Pretty
Miss Madden, in parrot-green, nursed her white
muff and looked listlessly on.
“Local sassiety is stupidly imitative in its dress
tactics. Every pretty girl’s waved hair is combed
up in a rounded basin-shape, and every “she”
affects a flowing, ample, Madden-daughter contour
and carries blonde muff and tippet.
“N.B. —Now that swansdowrfis rampant in the
suburbs, white fox and the smartest will soon part
company.
Skating will soon supersede dancing. After
all, it’s a prosaic pastime. At the Carnival a
pretty young daughter of Toorakia, in pique suit
and sailor-hat, glided round like the Spirit of
Youth and Spring. Then she sat down hard in
the middle of the floor, sounding no more poetical
than a sack of potatoes. Another winsome spin-
ster retired behind sister’s skirts to pull up her
sock. She took her time over the process, fondly
imagining that her friends were shielding her—
when a man o.i the other side audibly sized them
up as ‘spindle-shanks.’ Had her ankles been
visions of deiight, catch her chums letting the
sharpest eye in ti e room steal a glimpse of them !
“In the ladies’ skating competition, the win
wasn t popular. Most people backed a graceful
glider in dainty heliotrope blouse, trim skirt and
Fair hair coilcu under toque of turquoise, violets
and sable. Judge Richard Nevill and Co.
awarded it to a much more utilitarian figure in
tweed and sieh.
“ In the ‘ Professor > Love Story ’ the smartest
frock was Inez Bensusan’s flame-silk with polon-
aise of biscuit lace, emerald-green rosettes, and
toque of black plumes and flame-satin. The last
chapter of the Professor’s wooing, or, rather, its
illustration by shadows on the blind, went against
the grain. So ghoulish of the lover’s devoted
sister and oldest friend to stand outside gloating
over ‘ dear old Tom’s ’ reflected billings and over-
heard cooings, even though the discomfiture of a
husband-]muter palliated their eaves-droppings.
At the start, before Goodwillie and his ‘little
Lucy thing ’ had rehearsed the most effective
modes of shadow-production, their reflections were
at times grotesque. The scholar, flourishing his
hand to stroke his lassie’s frisette, as she stood
gazing upward with her chin pillowed on his top
vest-button, repeatedly had the air of cheekily
putting his thumb to his nose. Talking of noses;
Dot Frederic’s looked yards long whenever she
shyly bent her head and inspected her hands, as if
mentally encircling her third .finger with an
engagement ring at the Professor’s expense.
“At Her Majesty’s ‘Queen Elizabeth’ first
night drew a big dressy crowd, including the
Lieut.-Governor, who brought all his available
daughters, not forgetting the baby, presumably
with a view to improving the latter’s historical
knowledge.
“ Regarded as a junior history lesson, imparted
by a splendidly-handsome rampageous lecturess,
the production*is a success. Queen Bess, I guess,
though hot-tempered, must have been a less-con-
tinuous scold than Nance O’Neil’s edition or she
wouldn’t have worn her crown for 44 years. ‘My
sweet sister Temperance,’ as Edward Tudor called
his canny kinswoman, boasted too many staunch
adherents to have been a tireless termagant.
Humor, methinks, is one of the things wanting in
the showy O’Neil’s version of Bess Tudor, who, to
do her justice, had a tang to her tongue as well as
a clapper.
“ Mrs. George Chimside, for one, came to ‘ Her
Majesty’s ’in black satin cover-all. These black
pelisses, though gloomy, promise to find favor
with the Smartest, who tire of the elephantine,
bathing-dress effect of baggy light-colored coats—
especially now that suburban imitators are ramp-
ant —dressing-gown-like garments of cardinal or
navy cashmere edged with mock fur.
“Overheard in a Melb. dress-circle: ‘ls she a
lady ? ’ ‘ Well, ah—she’s not English.’
“ The attendants at a smart restaurant still keep
a black mark against the memory of Mafeking
night. First of all, the Naicest, trooping in from
the theatres, were hustled and chaffed by side-
walk critics, because of a bevy of airy, fairy brides-
maids. Then, the suppers, ordered in advance,
suffered like that lovers’ dinner in ‘ The Lim's, ’ as
no one could settle down to eat them. The wai-
tress, in despair, moved the tables to the windows
so that the company could fill eyes and mouths
simultaneously, but fresh bother began when a
parcel of gilded Jingoes grabbed one of the at-
tendant nymphs, danced her up and down stairs,
out into the street and back again, till her hair
came down and the rough side of her tongue came
up, and all was anarchy.
“ The khaki-and-scarlet craze is only a craze—
not a fashion. It is the sign of the bounder and
the boundeross. Yet it is made effective in some
instances. This scribe, dining at a cafe, saw a
smart woman wearing a bodice with the front
made like an officer’s mess jacket, only of scarlet
silk, with a row of tiny gold pea-shaped buttons
sewn closely down the centre. It looked pretty
and neat. But military millinery is too obvious
to suit smartly-dressed people who like the
fashions that a sluggish pocket and limping taste
will adopt twelve months hence—not those that
are seized upon immediately by every barmaid.
One beauty of the plague is that hypochon-
driacs refrain from openly boasting its symptoms.
You know the bore who is always first in the field
with up-to-date La Grippe, ‘suppressed typhoid,’
&c. ? The slightest ailment at present may lead
to medical consultation, quarantine, and cremated
furniture. In side-streets mothers scoot their
snipes out of the gutters with the throat, ‘ Gress-
well will get yer ! See how you’ll like it when yer
burnt in tar 1 ’ Dentists thrive, for a puffed
cheek may boycott the owner as a bubonic case.
T’other day in a rural suburb a baby indulged in
the mildest form of scarlatina while constables
guarded its home, and an excitable neighbour
warned passers-by to ‘ cross over before you come
to the Black Death house!’ v
“Bats are now selling at 6d. a heaa in Mel-
bourne and suburbs, and sixpence is now known
as a ‘rat’ in infected areas. The jump in prices
has developed a new industry. The collector now
calls at your front door in one or two suburbs
with a, bag and the question : ‘ Any Bid rats this
mornin’, missus?’
“A Melbourne manufacturing chefnist rejoiced
over the plague-scare in my hearing the other
day. ‘I ve made so much out of the scare that I
can afford to go to Paris Exhibition if it really
takes hold here. Why, there’s a small fortune to
be made out of flea-powder alone these times. It
isn t pearl-powder that all you ladies are carrying
in those dainty little silver boxes? Not a bit of it
—it is insectimort, or something of the sort.
Watch and see it being spread round at church.’
The poverty of the church mouse is nothing to
that of the church flea. The latter only dines
once a week.
“Mrs. Tom Fitzgerald, also known to friends
of Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus as a pretty ‘ globe-
trotter ” and smart equestrienne, is in Europe at
present inspecting novelties. She left Adelaide
when it was 114 in the shade and got to London
in a snowstorm, but is still alive and much in-
terested in a pious English dog named ‘ Markis. ’
He’s a handsome fox-terrier to look at, but more
to his credit is the fact that before each meal he
folds his paws, bows his head, and presumably
says Grace sotto voce. When he’s helped himself
to anything he fancies, he ‘ offers thanks ’ on
the same lines as before. He took a great fancy
to Mrs. Fitz., and when she was leaving it was
found that he had stolen her purse and hidden it
in his house. She thinks he wanted it as a keep-
sake, but I’m afraid ‘ Markis,’ with all his pro-
fessions of piety, must be a whited sepulchre.
“The next Victorian Treasurer who is on the
look-out for something to tax should ‘ have ago’-
at armorial bearings. They are taxed in England :
why not here ? The use of these symbols of bar-
barism on carriage-panels, letter-paper, envelopes,
as ornaments for gates, for bookplates, and on
finger-rings is distinctly on the increase. Few—
scarcely any—of the hideous griffins are genuine
crests, but they give snobs a chance of setting up
a brag about family connections. Perhaps it was
not of aboriginals that Emerson was speaking
when he said that heraldic devices ‘ belong, with
w % s > powders, and scarlet coats, to an earlier age,
and may be advantageously consigned, with paint
and tattoo, to the dignitaries of Australia and
Polynesia.’
Y ours aflectionafcely,
GOULI-GOULI.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a*nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye. I
Produces a permanent brown or '
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland s articles, of j
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the.
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sore that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
Kjng-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The mouth of demised Banker F. C,
Smith was framed to say No.
The scribes have a brutal habit of report-
ing verbatim interviews with Mayor Harris, of
Sydney.
Wigram Allen was the only N.S. \Vales
Speaker who lost the Speaker’s chair by a direct
vote of the House.
An English illustrated prints a portrait of
Col. Secretary See, whom it labels “John Lee.”
So much for ambitious John’s Imperial fame.
Mr. T. W. Taylor, the narrowly-defeated
candidate for Canterbury (N.S.W.), was at one
time private secretary to the Earl of Dufferin.
Died in harness at Bowen, Q., editor
Rayner, after spending 35 years in that Sleepy
Hollow. During all that time Rayner never went
five miles from his office.
Jack Higginson, the old-time champion
jockey of Australia, is now a ranger at N.S.W.
National Park. Jack, who is 86, is the father of
27 children, the eldest a chubby-faced youth of 63.
N.S.W. Assembly has had three native
Speakers—Allen, Barton, and Abbott; three
English-born—Cooper, Arnold, and Young ; two
Irish—Murray and M‘Court ; and one Scotch—
Hay.
Gov. Tennyson strictly adheres to his
sensible rule not to deliver speeches at random,
and he frequently stipulates that he shall not be
called upon to talk before consenting to attend
any semi-public function.
Millionaire Tyson’s Q. estate will pan out
about £200,000 to Q. in various duties—so says
Treas. Philp, who complacently adds that it will
help to pay for the Q. Jingo Contingents. Verily
the evil that men do lives after them.
During the London Exhibition of 1886
the papers announced that an Australian
greatly distinguished himself at the Prince of
Wales’ garden-party by appearing in a low-
crowned hat. The perpetrator of that crime was
a big vignerou, who is now some sort of a society
man.
Anderson, M.L.A. for Waterloo, objecting
to the number of questions asked without notice
in N.S.W. Assembly, brought down the House
the other night by naively inquiring “if it would
not be possible to have all the questions asked
without notice placed on the business-paper the
day before '! ”
Knighthood knocks at the door of the big
men (physically) of N.S.W. There are Speaker
Abbott, Ex-Republican Dibbs, Chief Justice
Darley and Mayor Harris who are more or less
giants in stature, while the newly-patented Lyne
is also a mountainous and tree-like person.
Probably this is because the British authorities
once knighted a small man named Ren wick, and
were so sorry that they swore olf small Corusta Iks
for ever after.
ITS ERRATIC HABITS.
BUSH PARSON: “If you did not lose any stock
this season Providence has left you much
BUSH PERSON : " Maybe! But it took every hoof
last season.”
Paris Nesbit, Q.C., lecturing in Adelaide,
recently, advocates a State Bureau of Justice,
where lawyers would not be welcomed. “At
present,” says Nesbit, “justice is bought by the
man who is able to fee the best and most able
lawyer.” It is rather singular, in the face of this,
that Nesbit is one of the strongest supporters of
the maintenance of the appeal tp the Privy
Council!
The recent death in Sydney of the aged
Mrs. Honora Davies revives for an instant the
memory of her son, the late John (“Jannery”)
Davies, Parkes’s bottle-holder and untiring under-
ground political engineer. Mrs. Davies lived and
died in the 8.. C. faith; her son was an Orangeman
of high degree.
It was Chief Justice Way who gave
Kingston his first start in the law, as his articled
clerk, over 30 years ago. When Way became C. J.
in ’76, Kingston “started on his own.” They
have always been fast friends; it is generally
understood that Way owes his title to Kingston’s
persistency. But when Kingston comes back
Premier Forrest’s likening the repudiation
of himself by some of his party to the denial of
the Saviour by Peter was fully paralleled by a
certain N.S.W. politician at the stormy close
of his Premiership. “Yes,” he cried, “ye howl
now at me just as ye did when yelling at another :
* Away with Him, away with Him ; crucify Him,
crucify Him ! ’ ”
R. B. Sibley, one of the pioneers of the
Hustler’s line of reef, Bendigo, and 30 years and
more ago one of the goldfield’s heavy plungers,
died lately as the result of accident. “ The
Major ” —he had dropped the title of late years—
came a bad cropper after one of Bendigo’s wildest
booms, and thereafter, much broken, chasea a
crust as local truant-inspector.
An acidulated correction :
Dear Bulletin. —Old Nathan Young, who lately left
Parramatta (N.S.W.) Benevolent Asylum (B. 9/6/’00), did
not “ share in the war between North and South,” but in
the ’46 Mexican war, in which McClellan, Grant, Lee,
and Stonewall Jackson got their war-experience. Young
said he was “ in the war ” (the only war he knew of), and
the daily-paper men jumped to the conclusion that he
meant the Civil War—the only American war they knew
of.— David G.
There is pathos in the complaint of M.
Wiegand, Sydney’s Town Hall ex-organist, that
the alderman who took the lead in dismissing him
owns the butcher’s shop with which lie (Wiegand)
has dealt for meat. And the musician, if en-
couraged, would probably go on to explain how
mucli better his organ performances have been
than the alderman’s daily beef.
New England (N.S.W.) small-debt court
item:
Angel Gabriel Madercine v. A. T. Mitchell.—Claim £l,
for wages. Verdict for defendant.
Which is all very good for defendant now, but
he’ll be at the thick end of the trumpet on resur-
rection-day, and Angel Gabriel at the thin end.
And then the matter will be argued afresh, with a
billion years’ compound interest.
The even-tempered but somewhat slow
Mr. M‘Court, just appointed successor to N.S.W.
Speaker Joseph Abbott, is, or was, proprietor of
a N.S.W. country-paper, but his main business
has lain in politics, lie has long been Assembly
Chairman of Committees, and, though there wore
members, such as Ashton and others, who would
probably have more impressively filled the office,
the House, recognising Mr. M‘Court’s long ser-
vice and excellent intentions, felt.that it would be
ungenerous to pass him over.
“Alba.”: Henry Lucy’s recent letter as
to what would happen if Cronje went to England,
makes writer feel dubious. Shortly
after the Zulu war, an enterprising
manager got hold of six warriors,
said ta have belonged to Cetewayo’s
impi, and shipped them direct to
the ’alls. Immediately upon their
arrival in London a huge crowd
gathered at the landing place armed
with bricks and sticks that numb. It
took about 180 constables and in-
numerable hired pugs to stave off
the welcomers (they were still sore
about Isandlana.) A biick hit Um-
lani on the chest—a quiet-looking
chief with childlike eyes. He smiled
tenderly, picked up the missile and
smelt it, then he handed it to his
impi-men and each of them smelt it
long and sorrowfully. Umlani said
afterwards that he thought it was a
charm to keep off a cold—he had a
bad cold. Now if Cronje went to
London: well, well; public opinion
is generally divided : he’d get
bouquets for a certainty, and probably
a little boiling oil.
He Lord Roberts’s alleged dis-
approval of Kitchener’s conduct in
ordering Kelly Kenny’s attack on
Paardeberg. “Chief of Staff” is
the modem equivalent of the old
“ Second in Command ” —adviser,
“ dry-nurse.” When Wellington
was appointed to the Peninsular com-
mand he gave his dry-nurse to under-
stand that he, W., was “on top,” and
would stay there. Looks almost as
if there was some such notion at the
bottom of Kitchener’s appointment;
but, if so, Roberts is the wrong sort of old bird
to be hustled into a backseat by the “victor of
Omdurman ” —such a victory as it,was !
It turns out that the row kicked up over
Marshall Hall’s frisky verses and his heterodox
utterances was actually followed by a large increase
of pupils (especially female) at Melb. University,
instead of the expected great falling off. Hall is
the hardest-working and most-earnest of the pro-
fessors, but the pietists hunt him like wolves.
They would prefer a good Christian and a bad
musician.
Baden-Bowell, of Mafeking, is brother of
George Baden-Powell, who was Private Secretary
to Gov. Bowen at Melbourne in ’77-8 —Black
Wednesday epoch. Powell was then a budding
statesman, and it is not unlikely he gave Bowen
some advice at that stormy period in Vic. politics.
Bowen was sent to Malta to arrange a new consti-
tution, and he took Baden-Powell with him once
more. Bowen and Powell are now both dead.
At a certain recent good dinner at an
Australian metropolitan club a high and able legal
dignitary presided; and, unbending for the
occasion, became a little elated. A well-known
self-confident operatic artist was present as a
guest, and, as His Honor arose to depart, the
mummer walked up, slapped him hard on the
back, and remarked hilariously: “A nice blanky
old party you are to go and sit on the bench in the
morning, by ! ” That mummer will not
readily forget His Honor’s stare. Truly, famili-
arity breeds cockroaches.
Only one N.S.W. Speaker died during the
term of his office Speaker Arnold, who was
drowned. Murray left the S{leaker’s chair to take
the Presidency of the Council. All the others re-
signed on account of health or money. The first
Speaker, Daniel Cooper, resigned through ill-
health, but still survives. Dr. Nicholson and
Alex. M'Leay were officially styled Speakers, but
they sat in the reformed Leg. Council, liefore the
Assembly was called into being. Both these
pleaded ill-health on resigning, and one of them,
Dr. Nicholson, is still alive.
Ex-N.S.W. Sheriff
Cowper was at King’s
School (Parramatta)
with the late Justices
Windeyer and Innes.
Little thought those
youths that in after
years two of them
should many a time
and oft turn a poor
wretch over to the
third to be strangled
according to law. In
1909 the Cowpers will
have been a century
in Sydney. In 1809
the progenitor of the
numerous family (he
was three times mar-
ried and had three
families) arrived in
Sydney as chaplain
to the province
although he was only
21 years old. Ex-
Sheriff Cowper lias
seen the last of a lot
of notables. For in-
stance, Nichols and
Lester, who used, as
guides to the scenery,
to take tourists up
Parramatta Fiver in
a boat, then knock
them on the head,
loot the bodies, and
sink them in the river.
C. C. also saw Captain
“ Moonlight,” alias
Scott, swung-off. A
few weeks before he
was hanged Scott was
lecturing at Melb.
Temperance Hall on
“Pentridge,” and
complained that he
hadn’t been able to
get a work on the
differential calculus
in the Prison Library.
Scott’s advance-agent
was Dick Thatcher,
well-known years ago
in Melbourne and
Sydnoy as journalist
and theatrical agent.
Another of Dick’s
principals was Ada
Ward. Scott went to
the gallows and Ward
to the Salvation
Army! Present
writer was told off
once at a Melbourne
newspaper office to
“do” Scott’s lectures,
and was met at the
door the first night by
Thatcher, who asked
the scribe to give the
lecturer “ a fai r show,
old man.” But the
“show” was nothing
to that given by Scott
himself a few weeks
later at Darlinghurst
with Charlie Cowper
as “manager.” Cow-
per also officiated at
the strangling of the
Mount Rennie boys.
He used to say that
if his office wasn’t as
poetical as that of his
namesake William, it was a lot more useful—
wliich is doubtful.
Re the statement that Mrs. W. J. Lyne
objects to the “My Lady” shadow of her hus-
band’s knighthood, and even speaks of the N.S. W.
Premier as “ Mr.” Lyne, it is an authenticated fact
that the late Mrs. Farnell, mother of ex-M.L.A.
Frank Farnell, protested against her husband,
.James Squire Farnell, then N.S.W. Premier,
accepting knighthood when, but for her protest,
he would have taken it.
“F.” “rises to disbelieve the statement
that Duncan Gillies, in his Ballarat mining days,
was ‘ rated as A 1 with pick and shovel ’ and ‘ got
top wages—4os. a day.’
The late James Cowie, who had been Mayor of Geelong
in the earty ’so’s, and a member of the first Vic. Leg.
Council in ’56, and who knew the history of every old
identity in his province, once told me (it was at the time
when Duncan's alleged indolence as a Premier was often
joked about) that the clean-shaven tactician had always
shown a distaste for hard work. D.G., said my ancient
friend, was noted among the Ballarat crowd of the roaring
camp days as a ‘lazy digger’ and an inveterate talker,
and when it came to the question of electing a fit and
proper member for Ballarat they sent Gillies into the
Assembly in order that he might get a chance to live by
the work of his tongue. They felt quite certain that the
wordy young man would never acquire riches by the sweat
of his brow.”
President Chaffey Baker, of S.A. Leg.
Council, would give even his K.C.M.G. to be
President of the Federal Senate—although he
would hope to get another one. So just at present
he totters on the brink. To achieve his ambition
he must leave his present rock and his safe con-
stituency of property-voters, and go into a stormy
general election on the one-man-one-vote prin-
ciple. And Baker—about the most unpopular
man in S.A.—would have, on present appear-
ances, quite as much chance to float in that kind
of political sea as an anvil would off Cape Leeu-
win.
The two Bevans :
Freetrader.
Dr. Bevan said, re the
advocacy of a “ native
trained ministry,” that the
doctrine savoured of Pro-
tecti»n, “ which, as eoery-
hody knows, is a coward’s
platform and a coward’s
policy.”
Protectionist.
(S. M. H., June 7th.)
Dr. Bevan (in the Council
of the Churches) said that
he was opposed to the
bringing in of outside evan-
gelists, for what was there
to prevent one denomina-
tion obtaining its evangel-
ists from another denomina-
tion?
Now, is the seraphic wind-bag a freetrader or a
plain and unadult ered Yes-Noer?
The other night an ex-Minister (say,
Johnson) who hopes to regain office went to speak
in the electorate of a political supporter. Many
women were present, and this is part of what he
said :
I atn only sorry that the future Mrs. Johnson is not
here. I can promise you that shortly after we are married
but our marriage will not take place until we kick
the present Government out. I will promise you that as
soon as we get settled I will bring her down and intro-
duce her to you ladies. I promise you ladies that faith-
fully, because we both believe in children. (Laughter.)
I promise later on to introduce to the ladies of this
locality all the little Johnsons. (Laughter.) I really
don’t know what you are laughing at. I suppose you
think there will not be any. If you have surprised me
with this presentation 1 will be surprised if there is not
any ;it won’t be my fault. (Laughter.) 1 think it is as
well that I did not bring the future Mrs. Johnson down
to-night.
JP-TO-DATE BOOK COVER DESIGN, SUITABLE FOR A WORK
DEALING WITH THE WOMEN’S FRANCHISE QUESTION.
Some current news items:- "Crisis in China.—An Emperor in Gaol.—The. cry of
Kwang Hsu, Emperor of China, to the Powers is, ‘ Let me out!’—A Masterful
Dowager, Tze Hsi .... Since then she has actively pursued the vocation of general
manager of regal affairs. Incidentally she is said to have contributed to the violent
deaths of the present Emperor’s mother, her sister, Marquis Tseng, Prince Chun, and
other prominent persons whose political views were not harmonious with hers. But
this has been denied.”
Some years ago a Chinese maiden, Ah
Qua, was, by order of Govt., taken from an Ade-
laide Chow, who was said to have abducted her.
She married recently a fellow-countryman named
Sin Can, who, out of gratitude, christened the
first baby “Gordon,” in honor of the S.A.
Attorney-General. “ Gordon Sin Can ” is the
Celestial infant’s name, but “Johnny” Gordon
explains that, though he can, he doesn’t.
Bishop Thornton (Ballarat) is a great
admirer of the revised version of the Scriptures.
Recently preaching a farewell sermon at Portland
he said it pained him to see in the Church the old,
garbled version with its 30,000 errors. Arch-
deacon Allnutt, who was within the communion-
rails, was so shocked that he advanced to the
lectern and gazed in mute horror at his ecclesias-
tical superior. The sermon was stopped for a fqw
minutes, and the atmosphere was electrical, but
nothing was said on the subject. The Quarterly
Review stated a year or two ago that the new
version was as dead as the dodo. This is some-
thing like an example of the up-to-date Bible :
Instead of “ And he fell on his neck and wept,”
read “And he advanced towards him and shed
tears.”
“Smiler” Hales, whose London Daily
News war-sketches are so much reprinted this
side, and also appear to be a good deal talked of
on the other, is a restless Bohemian who, bom in
reposeful Adelaide, has already wandered into
many queer places. He was half a carpenter in
S.A. ; got into country journalism in Vic. ; was
first a prospector, then a press-contributor, and
finally a mining- reporter in early Broken Hill;
thence, through Sydney, on to ’Murka as a sport-
ing pressman; back to Australia as prospector,
pressman and publican in Westralia —and finally
to the war as a free-lance. Hales, whose heart
was always to be trusted rather than his head,
lost a first finger in “ a bit of a turn-up” which
arose out of one of his early press articles; and
after that his hand-writing was more awful than
ever—-more awful than almost anything except his
spelling. When in Sydney he had political am-
bitions, but a defeat in his one candidature
damped them.


Schnapps
H The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
K exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
“ Ovum ” thus wails to The Bulletin :
Re the placing upon Sydney market, this year, of over
100,000 dozen Chinese eggs, it may be interesting to learn
that fresh eggs can be bought in China all the year
round in inexhaustible quantities, at from Id. to ljd. per
dozen. Packing-labor costs in Hong Kong 14s. per
month, and freight to Sydney is 255. per ton. These eggs
(peculiarly dark-colored, owing to having been dipped in
a preservative solution) can be sold in Sydney (allowing a
good profit) at 3d. per doz. ! Biscuit-factories and pastry-
cooks, whose requirements are estimated at 1,000,000 doz.
per annum, are now nearly all using these eggs, and the
local producer is hopelessly handicapped by such compe-
tition. Even the duty of 2d. per dozen on these imported
eggs exacted in the other provinces makes no difference
i i the bulk of the importations from China, and nothing
AT THE IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT.
NEIGHBOUR : "Well! How's things?”
WIFE: “ Horrid! We’ve got atheists in the
peaches and anthracite in the vines .”
HUSBAND: "An' the whole business is Sheol.”
NEIGHBOR : “ Wei 1 , you go a long way toward it
with the materials named!”
WIFE: “ What materials?”
N.: "Unbelievers and furnace-coal!"
short of a duty of 6d. per doz. will have any effect
towards the saving of the poultry-farmers of this country
from ruin. Also—with the fitting-up of cold storage
rooms in China-going steamers—we shall next have the
local market flooded' with poultry and other kinds of
farm and dairy produce. Table birds, for instance, can
be had in Chinese ports at 2s. per doz., and other things
in proportion. The N.S.W. Govt.—by the erection of
costly cold-storage premises, and in other ways—has done
much to foster the local egg and poultry industry ; and
now, just as it begins to prosper, it is threatened with
utter destruction by this new feature in the trade. Over
300,000 doz. eggs were stored at Sydney this season, but,
owing to the falling off in demand, a large proportion of
these, having remained too long in storage, had to be
destroyed. In the past, if the N.S.W. Northern river
farmers happened to have a bad season they could
generally manage to ke. p things going with the aid of
their poultry and egg production ; but, as things are
now, that chance is gone.
* * * •
“ A.A.A. ” : Your correspondent (8.,
26/5/’00) might have finished that Kararabum
chestnut. The true gospel saith that the tramp
whom “Jacky” Dow set to purposelessly turn
tlie grindstone commenced to turn all he knew,
backwards, for the expected length of time.
“ There you are, Dow, yer cow,” he said when he
had finished; “I’m even with her after all.”
Never waited to get his tucker-bag filled either.
Dear Bulletin,—The “Jacky” Dow yarn in
8., 25/5/’OO recalls that in the early ’4o’s old
Mar ley Maxwell, of Narragool Station, N.S.W.,
was never known to refuse a man work. One
day when a tramp appealed for a job Maxwell
started him off with a bullock team and a note to
a storekeeper in Wellington. Two days it took to
do the journey, and when the order was delivered
to the storekeeper he laughed and said, “ There,
give this man a tin of sardines, and enter it to
Maxwell, of Narragool.” Another time Maxwell
put a man on to swing a gate to and fro at 6d.
per day, and when, later on, another tramp called
and asked for a job, Maxwell sent him to sit on
aforesaid gate until sent for. A few minutes later
the gate-swinger went on strike, and was paid-off.
* * * *
Harry Stockdale writes .
I lived for a considerable time with “Jacky Dow,”
whose eccentricities have been recently referred to in The
BoMjETIN, and consequently well knew that kind-hearted,
though eccentric, old gentleman. Mr. Dow was the best-
dressed and most courteous squatter I have met in forty
years of bush life ; he always looked as though he had
just popped out of a band-box, so scrupulously neat was
he from head to toe. A favorite practice of his was to set
an applicant for work to grind an axe “ so that the edge
will be round and blunted—not sharp ; and when you
have made a good job of it bring it to me.” But the man,
thinking Dow was playing a practical joke upon him,
would invariably sharpen the axe. Then, when he’d
bring it to Dow,'the latter would feel the edge, remark-
ing ' “ Yes, it’s sharp ; very keen, indeed—but you won’t
suit me mv man ! ” “ How’s that, sir ? ” “ Because I
want a man to do as he’s told, and not to think he knows
my mind better than I know it myself. Good morning ”
and the old gentleman would hobble away. One day,
whilst he and I were driving “up the river,” we met a
“ sundowner,” and Dow, as was his custom, pulled up.
“ Good day, my man ; where are you bound for ? ” “ Oh,
only as far as old Jacky’s, to see if I can get a job.”
“ And if you don’t succeed, what will you do then, my
man?” “Oh, I’ll just ‘streak’ it down to the big hut,
and roll up at supper-time to sample his mutton.” “ And
what then, my man ? ” “ Why, I’ll ‘ hump bluey ’ down
as far as Hay,’and then come up t’other side.” “ Just so,
my man, just so ! Up one side of the river and down the
other— sampling old Jacky’s mutton l Go along ! ”
* • » •
A Roma district settler fell ill recently
and was taken to hospital. His family was too
young to work on the farm and destitution stared
them in the face as no land was ready for planting.
Neighbours assembled, put in a dozen ploughs or
so, and soon had some 30 acres ready for seed.
Not all the heroes of this continent left for
Mafeking and Krugersdorp.
Dear Bulletin.—The
"gang - gang” (Callocephalon
galeatwm) is a cockatoo, closely
allied to the black cockatoos.
Color, slate-grey, the male hav-
ing bright scarlet head and crest.
The gang-gang is, as far as I
know, a mountain bird, and its
habitat extends as far south as
Tasmania. I have come across it
at Mt. Wilson (N.S.W. Western
Line) and in the mountains of
the South Coast, and it is com-
mon at Mittagong. It feeds on
seeds and, as to its voice, imagine
a combination of countless locusts
and steam-trams with the brakes
on. I once winged a pair, and
the row they raised while I was
securing them has left my hearing
a bit shaky ever since. They
live, well in captivity, but arc
not often seen caged—probably
on account of tneir seraphic
voices. —L.H.
* • * •
“ Yarrum” : The gang-gang
parrot (8., 19/5/’00), as far as I
know, is rarely, in N.S.W., found
off the coast, although I havo
shot a stray one as far back as
Queanbeyan. No bird can shell
a cob of coni as quickly us a
gang-gang. When one is wounded
it sets up a loud cry, and the rust
of the nock continue to circle
around, so that your shooting be-
comes rather murderthan “sport.”
Eating, not bad ; and soup, “just
lovely.
* • • *
“ Wat T.” : Can any
“ Aboriginalities ’’ reader inform
me if there is an Australian animal named the
“coolawine?”
* * * *
Overheard in a wine-shop near Scone :
“ An’ Roberts sez to the Orstralian soldiers,
‘ Now, you blanky chaps,’ho sez, ‘you’ll have to
do it all! These blanky Englishmen's no blanky
good, and if you blankers don’t fight like blank
the old Hempire’ll be busted up!”’ The solid
backblocks opinion really is that “ Mudgee Mike ”
and “ Bourke Billy ” (incidentally with Roberts)
have saved the Hem [lire, and will get a Boer
farm or a Govt, billet for the rest of their
“ natural.”
Many years ago one of the
B ’s took charge of a station
on the Bogan, and at once in-
stituted porridge as a staple for
breakfast. Mary accordingly
made for the first breakfast an
ordinary dishful. “ Make just
a little more porridge to-morrow
morning, Mary,” said the boss.
And at the second breakfast,
Mary brought in a fresh platter
after the first was exhausted.
“ I’ll thank you to make a little
more porridge to-morrow,
Mary,” was again the comment.
At the third breakfast, after
the last of a series of bounteous
supplies, it was again “ Make
more porridge to-morrow, girl.
Hash my buttons, do you want
to starve me ! ” On the fourth
morning, Mary, rising to the
occasion, had made a bucket-
ful. “Yes, sir; plenty in the
kitchen,” was her smiling reply
to each of many requests for
“ just one dish more, please,
Mary.” But at last when the
bucket was empty and the
bell tinkled yet again, Mary
fairly staggered to the dining-
room. “ Any—more—por’ge,
M’ry ? ” grunted the boss, with
difficulty. It nearly settled
both of them.
Case concluded in a N.S. A. small-debts
court : Chairman, to brother magistrate :
“What’s your opinion?” B.M. (German store-
keeper) : “Humph ! giff de zicks monts !
He owns me fifteen bounds und von’t bay me ! ”
Two J’s.P. (one very deaf) were determining a
debt-case, in another wayback court recently,
when the chairman turned to his deaf colleague to
ask his opinion about one particular item in the
bill. “Oh, give him a month,” said the deaf-’un
briskly ; “ I don’t like the look of the !”
* • * *
Young Australia shows a perfect genius
for the work of artistic destruction. Melb.
Hekald lately offered a prize for the l>est and
cheapest way of wiping-out rats, and yoking
Johnnie determined to make fame and profit by
rescuing the community. His scheme, labori-
ously committed to paper, read thus :
Dear Mr. Erai.d this is the best way to kill rats When
you catch a rat tie him by the tale to a tree safe to a rope
by the tale, then fill him up with gunpowder and put a
fuse onto him you strike a match & set fire to the fuse and
what oh she bumps the rat is dead in 1 act.
“ Pel ” : I have seen a Q.
crow when “winged” and pegged-
out on the grass with forked
sticks behave much like his
Indian relation in Kipling’s
yam : Blaspheme tremendously
until a sympathetic brother heard
the swears and came to investi-
gate. |Said brother was then at
once grabbed by the other’s claws
and hung-on-to until also cap-
tured.
• • •
Walclia (N.S.W.) Witness is
srongly imperialistic, as witness these
immortal lines: —
“ X.X.” : Have I seen a teetotal swaggy 1
(“Benalla,” B. 12/5/’00). Rather! Down near
Wagga one went on his knees in front of my
house, and stopped there half-an-hour praying for
my spiritual welfare l>ecause I offered him a glass
of rum on Christmas Eve. But I have never seen
a sane teetotal swaggy.
• * • •
“8.G.5.”: Re teetotal swaggy (“Ben-
alla,” B. 12/5/’00). During four years regular
labor-engaging have only once come across him.
Last vintage I hired eight men for grape-picking,
onoof whom politely refused some wine, saying
that ho never touched any tiling. “Yes,” said one
of liis mates afterwards, “ ’e ’asn’t touched a drop
for three years, but ’e’s gettin’ terrible soft, and
gives away nearly all ’e earns to any bloke as
arsts ’im.”
* • • *
Sydney reports a curious dream. A wharf-
laborer named Salvador told his sister at breakfast
on June 11: “I dreamt last night that I fell into
a big hole, and I couldn’t get out of it. I’ve been
feeling strange ever since. I don’t like it.” On
June 12 Salvador was wheeling a truck along a
wharf. “He was in the act of turning round,
with his back to the edge of the wharf, when he
overbalanced and fell into the water. He clung
to the truck, trying to save himself, but the only
result was that the truck went over with him and
he was drowned.” The best explanation is that
Salvador suffered from a functional weakness of
the brain, involving some loss of control of the
motor nerves, which made him liable to fall, both
in waking life and in the mimic life of dreams.
Thus the dream and the drowning were kindred
effects of the same physical cause.
IN SYDNEY: FLOWER-SELLERS AS THEY ARE—AND
AS THEY MIGHT BE.
At Hughenden (Q.)
station, lately, a boring
party struck a supply of
water, and bored further
for more. As a result,
they struck a sand-drift
and lost the water. Filled
up the hole above the
sand-drift, and got back
the water. At Lad bury
wool-scour, on the Rich-
mond, arrangements are
being made to run 1(5
shearing-machines by a
Pelton wheel, to be
driven by bore-pressure
—to the extent of some
10-horse-power. In some
Western towns, the bore-
water is a splendid irrigant; in others, it ruins
vegetation.
« * « *
In Maoriland it is customary for youthful
rabbit-hunters to enter holes feet-first and pull
bunny out, using feet like a pair of pincers. The
other day a six-year-old youngster was unable to
extricate himself after he got in and was found
dead next morning, irritation to the windpipe and
lungs, from inhalation of sand, added to ex-
posure, having finished him.
SCIENTIFIC PRESSURE.
“ If yer don't go whacks in that apple I'll rub this
'ere rat in your mug an’ give yer the blue-
bonnet plague.”
Dear Bulletin. —Re H. Stockdale’s par.
(B. 19/5/’00). Great also is the strength of a
blackfellow’s teeth. In robbing bees’-nests, he
takes a bucket between his teeth, cuts nioks with
the tomahawk, puts his big toe in, and up he goes.
When at the nest, either the bucket, nearly full
of honey, or the axe, is held between his teeth. To
get the noney, he puts his arm right into the nest
and hauls it out, and, curiously enough, the bees
never sting him. Coming down, the axe is be-
tween his teeth until about 12 or so feet off the
ground, when he drops it; and then the way he
keeps his eye on it and comes down the tree at
same time is worth seeing. Used to be able to got
a bucket of honey—no bees in it—from King Billy
for fid.— Jimmy a.
• • • •
A Sydney resident has originated a move-
ment for the acclimatisation in Australia of “one
of the great deer, the eland of South Africa . . .
which runs to 20001 b. when fully grown.” There
are already plenty of red deer in Victoria and
Maoriland, though, of course, this animal cannot
compare as a meat-producer with the oland—
which, by the way, isn’t a “ deer.” It is the
largest of the antelopes (Oreas conna), and has
marked bovine affinities. Thero is (or was) a fine
stuffed speoimen in Sydney Museum.
* * • •
“Yangan”: Re animals drinking salt-
water (B. 12/5/’OO and 26/5/’00). I have never
known wild animals to attempt this, and judging
by the consequences to humans and horses that I
have seen try it, I think thero must bo a mistake
somewhere. Wild cattle, deer, &c., do, however,
lick at the salt left by evaporation of seawater.
Salt, too, is good for most birds, though very
poisonous to parrots.
• • • •
H. J. M'Cooey
Malformations amongst the mammals of Australia seem
to me almost, if not absolutely, unknown. It is exceed-
ingly doubtful if Australia can produce a two-headed
kangaroo, wombat, or opossum. Two-headed snakes
and double-tailed lizards I have seen and handled ; but
a malformed Australian mammal I have never met.
In this connection mere ipse dixit, unsupported by ex-
amples, is worse than worthless.
* * * •
“ Vril ” : I knew a man in Westralia
who, when the supply of “tinned-dog” was
temporarily “off,” caught some bush mice,
killed and “cleaned” them, singed the hair
off, wrapped each in dough, cooked them
on the embers, and had what lie called “a
good meat feed.”
Dear Bulletin. —You say (8., 2(i/5/’00)
that albinism, “ being an individual defect of pig-
mentation, does not seem to lie transmissible to
offspring.” How about black sheep? Presum-
ably, defect of pigmentation fills the bill as to why
a white ewe throws a black lamb to white ram.
On Braeside Station, Dalveen, S.Q., the owner
collected blackamoors of both sexes, and
endeavored to breed a black flock, with only par-
tial success because, though sometimes the union
of black parents produced a “nigger” lamb, more
THE RELIEF OF MAFEKING.
Come friends and neighbours, let us sing :
Believed at last is Mafeking !
The Boers may rave, the Boers will howl,
While we have men like Baden-Powell.
Six months ago—a raging flood,
The Boers cried loud for British blood,
And Botha, putting forth his cards,
Was stiffened at a thousand yards.
Then Oronje sent in haste his son,
Who said : “ Now, lads, we’ll have some fun ! ”
He said, “ My blade shall never rust,"
But down he went and bit the dust.
Then cruel Cronje tried his best.
He fired from east he fired from west,
He fired from north, he fired from south,
But couldn’t close a brave man’s mouth 1
They fired on woman, children too,
And wounded, sick men. Now, boo-hoo l
They tried their best; but, let us sing,
They couldn’t take brave Mafeking !
Then friends and neighbours let’s rejoice,
And thank God every British voice.
The Boers will rave and foes will howl,
While we have men like Baden-Powell I
Hooray !


The
“Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are produced in every elegant design of ease —in
both Gold and Silver 'and Gun Metal. They are a
marvel of Reliability, Accuracy and Strength.
In Gent’s Oxydised Open-face Cases .. 25/6 each.
In Lady’s ~ ~ ~ 40/- »>
In Gent’s Silver Open-face ~ .. 42/- ~
In Lady’s „ ~ ~ 60/ - »
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
VICE-RECAL JEWELLERS,
23 Hunter Street (Only), SYDNEY.
A CLEVER GIRL
will always speak with enthusiasm of “D.C.L.”
Whisky after her “ boy ” has tried it once. Most
whiskies, she finds, tend to make him dull and
morose. A nipof “D.C.L.” causes him to sparkle.*
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
often a white was the result. —Canip. [“ Aberrant
pigmentation,” as in the case of the sheep and
of some breeds of dog (not uncommon to have a
black or brown puppy in a litter of pure white
poodle strain), is not defective pigmentation—
which is always in the direction of whiteness, and
has accompanying characters (such as pinkness of
the eye) ihat distinguish it from color-freaks due
probably to “ reversion of type.”
• * » •
“ Puyyaka ” countereth on the M‘Cooey :
The surprise of Balaam when his long-eared steed
sprung its rhetoric upon him was nothing to my astonish-
ment when I found (8., 9/6/’00) that “The M’Cooey” is
really an individual instead of a humor-created phantom
upon whose elusive shoulders was laid the burden of re-
plying to questions about snakes with a windy tirade
of pseudo-scientific nonsense, but who always promptly
vanished when cornered. However, since he appears sud-
denly to have materialised, it becomes necessary wearily
to traverse his statements. Imprimis : I may state that
in speaking of the death-adder ( acanthophis Antarctica)
as our one viviparous Australian snake, I was referring
only to the venomous class—a fact which should have
been apparent, even to a M’Cooey, from the context. In
a popular article of the kind one can’t stop to explain
to everybody tnat the colubrines(to which the other Aus-
tralian poisonous snakes belong) are not considered as
being oviparous by those who know better. “ M’C.’s ”
dictum about the futility of color as a distinguishing-
mark of species is not new (wide Darwin and others), and
he himself talks glibly of “ red-bellied black snakes,” and
'so forth. “ M’C.’s ” appeal also to “ every country school-
boy ” as an observer and authority, is Maeaulayesque, but
unconvincing, and if “ M’O.” is really by way of believing
himself to be a snake-authority he ought to be con-
sistent and speak either scientifically or popularly. The
mixture is dreadfully difficult to deal with. To “ M’O.’s”
assertion that 12 years ago he discovered and publicly
announced for the first time the fact that in several
species the young seek shelter in the parental throat, I
can only offer a flat contradiction. This was well-known,
even in Gould’s time, as occurring among the Hoploce-
phali, and the late Prof. M’Coy in 1879 (in “ Notes on the
morphology of certain colubrine snakes of Victoria”)
gave a full account of the phenomenon. That’s where I
got my information, and I have never seen or heard of any
publication of “ M’O.’s ” beyond occasional paragraphs.
Mr. M’Oooey should go in for more reading and original
observation, and less yarning to the intelligent school-boy
of the neighbourhood—if he wants to pose as a snake
authority.
• • * *
That was a terrible experience of a Dargo
(Vic.) miner, recently. Hiding home from work,
lie was thrown, dislocating his thigh. It took him
seven hours to drag himself to his hut, a auarter-
of-a-milo on, his elbows being worn to the bone in
the effort. Luckily, his stock of food was high ;
so he lay for nine weeks in agony, dragging him-
self round by the aid of improvised crutches, till
his repeated failures to tum-up for his monthly
supply of provisions induced the constable from
JO miles-distant Dargo to investigate. He arrived
just in time to save the poor miner from death by
starvation.
# # # *
“ Trotter ” tolls of a visit to Surat (Q.): —
Struck Surat after travelling 80 miles of barren, water-
less desert, cursed with flies and prickly-pear. Put up at
a hostelry in which the “room” 1 occupied was only
separated from the others by bagging. The bed was
swarming with strange beasts, while overhead more
animals frolicked on an iron roof, and the largest cock-
roaches I ever saw pervaded floors and “ walls.” On one
side of me a man dilated for two hours on the merits of
his “ dorg ” ; on the other, a drunk used his proboscis
like a fog-liorn. They drink up there like demons, and
the alleged whisky is simply murderous unless you can
stomach molten lead. A shilling is the smallest coin
there ; and if you put down a half-a-crown for a drink they
ask if you have a florin. “We don’t keep no sixpences,
you see ! ” They called it winter when I was there (May
10), yet the glass registered 90' in the shade at noon.
“ God help the summer.” On the banks of the Balonne
a Chinaman keeps an opium-den for the use of the blacks
—and others—in which I counted 10 black and yellow
NANOR O’NEIL.
Photo, by Talma & Co.
people of both sexes in a state of semi-stupefaction.
Don’t know a better place to qualify for a madhouse than
Surat—hard living, bad water, bad liquor, insects, opium
—ugh !
King Oscar, of Sweden, is reported as
saying he “has no sympathy whatever with the
Boers.” No one who, like Oscar, is in the King
line of business, can have any sympathy with such
people.
The Bulletin has re-
ceived a great deal of Jingo
poetry which it hasn’t pub-
lished, but in a weak moment
it resolved to give one Jingo
bard a chance. The following
poem, which has just come to
hand, deserves publication for
various reasons. Out of con-
sideration for the writer’s
possibly aged parents his name
is suppressed :
Extracts from a “letter from the front,”
from a Narandera (N.S.W.) trooper, as published
in a local paper :
Oronje’s men are just placed in a large square sur-
rounded by a strong barbed-wire fence ; then they are
trucked, 1000 at a time, to Capetown. They tried to
escape yesterday while they were being entrained, and
were shot dead immediately. A pity the cores weren't all
brought out and shot! . . . We were jolly glad anyway
to gain shelter of the small kopje, and then we got at
them in real earnest I can tell you, and poured volleys
into them for hours, whilst one battery kept shelling them
as fast as possible, and then another larger battery
sneaked around somehow further forward and dropped
four or five shells into their kopje very quickly and made
the skunks shift their ground further around the hill, and
we then at once mounted and galloped up to another
kopje within 500 yards of them, and, by Jove, they did
pour it into us ; we returned it willingly, you may be
sure, and soon after this up went their white flag, the
carrion, but we didn't stop, but let them have it whilst
they galloped array.
A new London daily paper, which is try-
ing to boom a London international exhibition for
1902, hopes that the Australian will give money
and goods in aid as freely as they have poured
blood and treasure in S’Africa.
When you treat a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
OUR BUSH CORPS.
“The Minister says the riding-test is a severe one.”
RIDING-MASTER : “Look at your scat, No. 2! Look at your seat, sir!” No. 2: “So I will rehen I get off.”
Australia the Land of wealth
For ages was unknown
But she wakes
From her slumber
Of silent fame
For a Prestage of her own
True were their fathere
Who led them to fame
Whome fortune called away
And true are their Children
Who fights for her Pride
In the kopjes far away
The Contingents thats left
Australian Plains
To Africa their gone
To fight for the freedom
Of nations all
And the angelo Tongue.
And to Push the Progress
Of the southern star
Of a nation new and young
And not to be taught
In the morbid way
Of nations that lived so long
And to fight for the fame
"Of their native land
An not for Picknic Play
And the freedom and joy
Of a coming race
The contingents sailed away
The contingents that left
The Australian Plains
To the kopjes
They are gone
To fight for the freedom
Of nations all o
And the anglo Saxon tongue
And to push the Progress
Of rising Star
Of a nation new and strong
And not to laught
The morbid way
Of nations thats lived so Ion"
And to fight
For the fame o
Of their native Land
And not for Picknick Play
And the freedom and joy
Of a coinming race
The contingents sailed away
NANCE.
You’re a massive form and fine,
Nance O’Neil,
And we note in its outline
The Eternal Feminine—
Hips and shoulders, oh-o-oh,
divine !
Nance O’Neil.
You look beautiful in black,
Nance O’Neil.
When you sail ahead, or tack,
With your arms outstrained, or
slack,
You’ve a most impressive back,
Nance O’Neil.
You can puti. on lots of pace,
Nance O’Neil,
Though your gait has little grace,
In a ladies’ walking race
We’d support you, “ win and
place,”
Nance O’Neil.
And your voice is loud and clear,
Nance O’Neil ;
As they view you from the rear
All the people, far and near,
Can be guaranteed to hear,
Nance O’Neil.
Simplest speeches you declaim,
Nance O’Neil ;
None can ever call you tame,
For you play the slogging game,
And—you get there just the same,
Nance O’Neil.
You're a show that should attract,
Nance O'Neil,
Houses pretty full, or pack’t:
For, no matter how you act,
You’re a large, important Fact,
Nance O’Neil.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
C. 5.8.: Thanks, but we don’t want re-hashes of
London papers F.W.W. : That leaden fancy wasted in
English verse. Try Chinese Wallan Dooly: Should
have hunted up a magistrate or J.P. with the offer of
bail. The police may have been needlessly offensive and
grumpy, but they were legally right all along the line. And
the man who publicly uses the “ordinary adjective’
doesn’t deryrve bail. He deserves 12 months... .A.M.S. :
“ I shall sell it for 125.” You mean you will sell. And we
mean you won’t 5e11.... Kundrus : Oh!—G.M. : Can’t
reprint here. But will bear you in mind for “ A Book of
Bulletin Verse.”... .W.A.P. : “Vendetta” is a labored
joke J.A.R. (liapunda): (1) Can’t say. (2) Bank of
England was authorised by Govt, to refuse cash for its
notes in William Ill.’s reign. It was again allowed to
suspend cash-payments for 24 years (1797 to 1821), and its
£5-notes fell to a value of £3 13s. Also, in 1847, 1857, and
1866 it was authorised at a time of panic to issue notes
without the regular legal security behind them.
(3) Can’t say off-hand how many Australasian banks
of issue have broken. Some of them are very
ancient history. Probably about 15 or 20. (4) De-
cline to swear to the reliability of the Book of Kings....
James M. : Too much like item already here printed on
same subject. We don’t aim at monotony, but are always
willing to print interesting variants Quardo : Too
much grease. As greasy and obsequious as that Sydney
school-teachers’ meeting to testimonialise the chief in-
spector. And what American takes any notice of the
Jingo mouthings of Consul-Colonel Bell? You should
just hear the local Yankees laughing at him !... .C. Sy-
mons : It was founded on the fact that in the steeple-
chase in question jockey Death rode the horse Despair.
.. ..Oandide et C. : (1) He appeared and gave evidence—
i.e., he appeared and (lodged all questions with an ability
and wilincss that drove the lawyers distracted. (2) tie
was not dismissed, so far as Tiie Bulletin- ever heard
E.P. : The United States isn’t an “ Anglo-Saxon” com-
munity. It comprises ten or eleven millions of Germans,
also millions of Irish, Italians, French, Greeks, Spanish,
Scandinavians, Dutch, Poles, and so on, not to mention
other millions of African blacks. Walk down an Ameri-
can street, and you’ll find that more than half the traders’
names are “ foreign.” G.M. (Gladstone): Vule memo.
posted. But we don’t appoint correspondents in such
cases. The “appointed correspondent” is usually the
sort of person who goes about waving a gigantic note-
book and yelling at the top of his voice that he is the
living incarnation and visible embodiment of the Way-
back Gazette Again : Humorous, but crude of style...
Ipswich: Tell us Why should a public memorial
be erected to the murdered Gatton Murphys ?
Why not let the unclean thing die? The money
collected should be spent in charity G.W.B.
(Kia.) : The British private’s maximum life-pension (even
if he has lost a limb) is Is. per day, after 21 years’ service.
In case of disablement, the Commissioners of Chelsea
Hospital (who manage the whole business under the
stingy War Office) may grant such pension after 15 years’
service, but life-pensions cannot be granted to men of
shorter service; though temporary pensions may be renewed
indefinitely, if the applications are influentially backed
Quilp N.: Will print “ S.” Geo. E.E. (T.) : Will print.
H.A. : Not up... .Charles H. (Tas.): Not enough
interest Kalgoorlie : Old legend unimproved Aus-
tralian : Basket... .N. (S.A.): Sorry not to care for last
batch... .Sym : Mostly dull Derelict: Sunk... .N.W. :
Declined Owl: Possibly I.R. : Would like to see
test of judgment before commenting.. . .Zadig 2 : Not
quite enough force or novelty.... J.M.R. (C.) : When you
come to think over it, you wouldn’t really like to see in
print those verses of yours extolling the Australian con-
tingents, written in the metre and inevitably suggesting
the music and the words of “ Botany Bay.” They would
set everyone thinking, not of “ the Empiah ” and “ that
valiant band, Australia’s Volunteers,” but of —
Therese B. : You are too wordy ...E.P.O. : Yes, a
set of persons who dress themselves up in yachting-suits
and caps at 17s. 4Jd. each per rijr-out (with 2J per cent,
off for cash), and get themselves photographed and
shoved into the shop-windows as the members of the
Royal So-and-So Club. We know ’em G.R.H. :
Allegory ingenious, but based upon strictly conventional
ideas Mitty: A doleful Bacchanalian you are!....
Exmoor (Swansea): Pork should freeze and carry even
better than mutton or beef, but Australia doesn’t export
pork—probably because she doesn’t yet produce enough
for her ow r n consumption.... 11. Gladstone (Bris.): Can-
not trace advt. State about what date it appeared....
Caius : Your original and circumstantially-told yarn is as
old as the hills Andrew S. : “ Barbarian ” accepted....
A.L.S. : hike the things it complains of, it’s “ too jumpy."
....Lionel O. : Will consider... .W.A.P. : “Nameless,”
not ill-told, but hardly interest enough M.M.M. : Ist;
there is no such collective ill-repute of the “ factory-girl,”
as you imply. 2nd ; you recklessly overstate the other
side of the question... .Alex .1. G. : Verse, some lyrical
quality, but spoilt by awkward changes of tense. “ Tim-
berley,” too formless and irerherent. “Old Jack” has
some good touches, but they won’t “carry” the rest of
it.... A.K.M. :No strength or skill... .Gobung : “ Israel,”
much the better of the two, but not quite up H.R.M.:
“ Leander ” ranges from fine to foolish ; others, very in-
ferior... Will ,1. : Can’t extract any connected meaning from
them. ..Pros.: “ Cloth o’ Gold ” too vague and shapeless...
R.T. J.: Too frisky They are reputedly honest
J.O.H. (Bath.): Very interesting. Will print by degrees.
....Perce: But we daren’t print that yarn about the
hon. member for New Plymouth Aloe : You see,
it is not Bulletin's habit to egg-on its readers to buy any
particular mining-scrip X.Y.Z. : MS. left for you as
requested Soldier of the tj. : Bad spelling and writing
not the trouble it’s the matter that doesn’t “g 0.”....
Fred S. (M.L.) : Yes, thanks Ray R. : Lacks style and
strength Billy K. : Yarn no good. Can’t say
about mining-notes till we see some of ’em
Alex. B. : Conventional both in matter and manner
Nemo: Nil /....(-ino: Your “maiden effort”
isn’t promising.. ..Dave T. : Pooh ! your all
“dominies,” generically. The facts of “Taunton”
would he better set forth in an ordinary
paragraph Barbara: No dramatic vigour
E.O. : Maoriland politician Ward was, we believe, born at
Emerald Hill (South Melb.)... T.V. : Premier Lyne said
he tore with his own hands some of the leather which had
been supplied with the N.S.W. military saddlery. The
Prince Imperial’s death in Zululand was due to the break-
ing of his horse’s pommel-strap which on examination
proved to he merely faced-paper.. .. Waroon : Col. Snod-
grass was acting-Gov. of Tas. for nine weeks after the
departure of Col. Arthur in 1836. He was also acting-
Gov. of N.S.W. for 11 weeks after the departure of Gov.
Bourke... M.B. : A far-away subject, but Sir Edward
Clarke resigned his seat in the Commons not V because
compelled by his constituents,” as asserted in the Aar.,
but because, being a strong Tory and a good party man,
he would not split his party in Plymouth Nemo:
“Idyll” one-eyed and wooden-legged kind of verse....
Alone : The final incident, though well put, is old. For
the rest, slightly to alter one of your own lines—“ Dear
friend, we’re sad we’re very sad —to see you getting
worse ! ”,. . .Curra • Not dash and freedom enough for so
risky a subject. I.A.C. : The “biting sheep” and
“ blanky shovel” yarns are of advanced age. Also the
Wellington story.... Ben Sun: “Plea” the better, but
none up.... Sails: Thanks; but “ the editor’s mistake”
was no mistake. The “ fimbriation ” (the ought-to-be
much narrower white strip) is usually made so broad that
with the non-minute observer the difference doesn’t count.
.... McF. (Boulia): Not a wildly usable joke I).: Good
story, yet not one reader in 100 would see the meaning of
it..... Roughrider : Only one item that looks at all
promising
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
F.C.8.: Mere puns don’t illustrate well. Only Cockney
prints are addicted to that sort of thing 6xB: Sug-
gestions impracticable....lt.J.T. : Can’t see your point.
....Unavailable: “Ne’er-do-weel,” G.li.S., F.W.S.
’Twas on a bright May morning
When first I saw my Meg ;
She’d a Govt, band around each hand,
And another round each leg.
Another round each leg, my boys,
So let the music play,
For I’m bound to see my own true love
Ten thousand miles away.


C^ys't!rs?
7:
—-m
OFTHF ~D()C
A L so '
■^!Lxm
ALAS! TO BE BITTEN BY ONE’S OWN DOG!


Mt. Alfred Joseph, writing to a friend from
London, on 9th May, states “ Lord Hopetonn
P met me in Piccadilly, and stopped me and shook
hands, and invited me to call on him at his town
house, GG Grosvenor Square. I did myself the
pleasure of calling, and his lordship treated me
real well.” ~
We Dad a long conversation
on Australian topics, and, perhaps, unlike
most people who travel for plepure, I
never miss an opportunity to speak and
point out our great resources, and what a
grand and wonderful country we possess.
4
•Sm V*v
!, v 4
V-
for tyeSHJ
AIf 'r Meed yof
V*5 l7oblc 905" f wrHfj
oP p
° c
lridi»7<i wei^b'f'
m
.-'"He ujfdMeS me’
fKiljtWfc yeftrli ago he advocated as. Lord
Chamberlain thatYthe Court ot Appeal
should be thi House of Lords, and not the’
privy Council’. ' Thl* would aave groat
expense and time to ’appellants, and he
went further.-And advocated that able
men. like Sir John Madden, Chief Jus-
tice Way. and Sir Samuel Griffith,
should ' be made lords. and alt
pith England's greatest lawyer* on
..appeals. -
#s^
'ti,
'7I7K p^T
h7C ? 'fll °p 1 *
-f-fo^cfou n.
co^tiT^^U
V«> \*t-
rqz ><
»or e*rl>, j
cuitV ofV y\
—. A I
;• r- • .i ! 1 :•,:n "ifi Ili ' S..‘ i ;
V’,.' is , 1
; - Hia n ( . Thor,, ar 1
■■’^ : :i?v;‘o::-!|: l ”. i i?fe. ’ e ,
,C V
c *7 '
e^'-%
His Lordship Wlis
Tan of grief when we discussed the war.
(le «|>w»
JOSEPH OF MELBOURNE, ALLEGED KING OF THE VICTORIAN RING, ON TOUR.


Weadlngr and. Blrtliday GUftg Direct from London House.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hair Brush, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
Monogram Free.
9
A. SAUNDERS.
**T/<*rnalrp” and O-iern Olnas. 85s. £2, £2 10s, £3, £4
£
A. SAUNDERS.
Teapots, Pure Various Styles
Engraving’, 20s, 255, 80s, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Send for Pattern Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
2 Jam Spoons, or Butter, in Silk-lined Case,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s, 255, 30s.
Very Neat and Useful Present.
1/U
7/
-aEf't
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock Tea Spoons in Silk-lined Case, In
Various Patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 265.
m
Gen L’s “ Companion,” or Letter Book, Pure
Silver Mounted, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDHPS.
Egg Cruets, Pore Silver-plated,
20a, 255, 80s, 355, £2.
Silver-plated Bread
Fork, Lite 6d ; other
styles, 4/6, 7/6, 15s.
A WARM FRIEND.
Silver-plated, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A Nice Present.
*
Biscuit, Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s, 20s, 265.
J
r
_•* \
m
r.
'AJ
*ss*~T£>
Child’s Seta in Bilk-lined Oases, 10s, 18s, 20s,
255, 30s.
cs
HANDSCIME S RIKING CLOCK.
Marble 8-Day Striking Clock, Gil Mounts, SI ; without Mount*. S.'s. Useful Present.
Guaranteed 20 Years.
LONDON ‘ S X D^
.
i
SHig
CU"*‘W* -.HII'CI
A. SAUNDERS.
Roger's" Carvers, in Silk-lined Case, 20s ; Other Styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
LARGE SIZE CAKE OR FRUIT
BASKET.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 255.
Extra Ornamented, 80s.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dinner Ornet, 6 Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Hair Brushes, Pure
Silver, 17s (id, 21s, 258,
3 Is. We do up tq ;;al to
new Discolored Uuir
Brushes, 2s.
ztm
am
Mirrors, Pure Silver,
Velvet Back, 255.
All Silver, £2, £2 10s, £B.
A. SAUNDERS.
Flower Stands, Silver-plate d
Red Glass, 12s Cd pair.
Jams, Pure Silver-plated, Chased, Green or
Red Glass, as above, 15s 6d ; round, 12s 6d.
r-y-kVk
Hi mi
: ill:
mss?*
■&er
'iffisssscssim
A. SAUNDERS.
Knife Rests, Cut Glass, Pure Silver Mounted,
15s 6d, in Silk-lined Case.
4 O’clock Tea Set, with Covers, Pure Silver-plated, Gilt Inside,
Fi-st-el s'. English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styl;, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Lunch or Dinner Cruet.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 21s.
Similar Style, 265, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Butters, Pure Silver on Hard White
Motal, 15s (id ; large, 20s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugars, Coal Scuttle, 16s 6d, 20s,
255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Gilt Clock, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Neat ami Useful Clock.
Butters, Pure Silver-plated, White Glass
8s 6d ; Round, 10s.
a
Toast Rack, Pure Silver-plated,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 18s 6d, 21s.
Cali and See Our Silver-plate and Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
OR SEND FOR OUR 1900 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
POST FREE ANYWHERE.^/
A SATT’NTTTPTR.C!
1
LEADING ALT JEWELLER.
815 & 817 GEORGE ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


D*MACKENZI£’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Haney. ltd.,
London, S.E.
Eh
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H Newman, the well-known jeweller of L7o
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will, hncl it
to their advantage to send their opa' direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 10 years, which u
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.
“ R E.” to The Bulletin :
Re Arnold White’s London Daily Chronicle remarks
on “The canker in the Army ” (recently quoted by >ou,.
The real “ canker ” is the meanness of the British tax-
naver’s representatives in refusing to pay military officers
a?afr wage for a fair work. As to “ the Queen’s uniform
Ling “bad form ” in the officer off duty, the officer, un-
like the private, has to provide his own uniform, aud it is
a saving to mufti off duty. Also out of h,s 6s. 6cL a
dav the infantry lieutenant has to pay '2s. 6d. for his mess
dinner 6 besides certain days’ pay every month for mess
and band subscriptions. Hence the subaltern with-
out private means is actually _^ an
a sergeant. Things mend somewhat as he rises,
but Hie man without private means cannot hold
his own Hence promotions from the ranks are even
less common now than in Peninsula and Crimean times.
•Then 0l quartermasters, paymasters, &c
had "nearly been “ rankers," but now these post.
had nearly always oeen ra,—.,, but now these posts
are tilled bv youngsters from Sandhurst or by older men
whose inirses have run dry. In any the man with-
out private fortune cannot hope to rise above bent, c .
Again, in the case of a district commander, therei is no
recoupin'- him (as in the Continental countries) for the
heaw cost of keeping up an expensive establishment,
giving official balls Lid dinners, and (as the Portsmouth
command) entertaining royalties, *c., as the , pw*»
from the Isle of Wight. The pay is m
this case about T2(HX» a-vear, but the thing can t be done
foAwTce the money. The benighted foreigner, too ge s
a regular allowance for traxtment— table-money—to enable
him to pay his way.
This IS the BTYLB of tho
30/- MACINTOSHES.
in PITT STREET . .
Send CLOTHING at their Sydney Prices, carriage
paid, by the Parcel Postal System, to your nearest
Post Office, no matter how far distant it is.
We are making a Speciality this Winter of
Waterproof
Overcoats
Every size, Long or Short, Well-made, Price,
30/- net. Our usual terms, CASH. Money can
be sent by Postal Note, Bank Note, Post Office
Order, Bank Draft, Stamps, or Orders on Station-
owners.
HORDERN BROTHERB have a good name for a
quarter of a century, and this Coat will help to
maintain it. We are no mushroom firm ; when
you buy from us you know you are dealing with
a reliable, old-established firm.
We can also supply Macintoshes at the follow-
ing prices, viz., Black Cape Macintoshes, 20/-,
25 7- SOI- 42/-; Fancy Tweed Macintoshes, 21/-,
26/-’ 30/-’, 36/-; Box Cloth Cape Macintoshes,
67/fi’: Men’s Chesterfield Macintoshes, 27/6, 32/6,
87/6, 45/-, 56/-; Men’s Double-breasted Chester-
field Box Cloth Macintoshes, 62/6 : The Talma
Macintosh, latest cut, 55/-; Boys Macintoshes,
15/6,10/6, 20/-,-25/- ; US’ But the cream of all is
the 30/- one. (Be sure and mention size when
ordering by letter.)
Hordern Brothers—>
Federal Clothing: Manufacturers,
203, 206, 207, 200, 211 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,”
sayat—
Most
decid u e ‘ KOKO/
It
will
stop
your
half
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It'S ja
nice clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrift, Prevents
[Hair Failing, Promotes Growth, and is the
. Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
| Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
| and its unique testimonials prove it to be
| undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
j Hain »'-■ 2 6 and 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
k Hairdressers, S 1 ores, &c.
i THE KOKO MP.3ICOPAS C 0„ LTD.
I 16, Beyis Marks, London, England.
J HOBSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ’’
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World*Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
WOHJ_
SNO
m
MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
X'ji'—OUl Model Corsets always in stock.
“t. a. nsr obt.tkisse ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S; Thomson & 00-> Ld-> London-
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top, ss.
THE WORD)
FOX
is a guarantee ot soundness of Material and
Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
Serges&TweedS
on which it is stamped.
Fox’s Pure IncPgo.
As the result of many years of experience,
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE is recog-
nised as the best in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are stamped
every two yards on the back
I*OX’S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp are not genuine.
Fox Brothers Co,, M:d.
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas, Serges,
Tweeds, Tennis and Costum3 Cloths. Contrac-
tors to the English Admiralty, War Office, India
Office, Crown Colonies, and Metropolitan i o ■ *
THEIR MILLS are capable of an annual produc
ion of 2,000,000 yards of material, and find etn
iloyment for 1200 hands. Reliable records show
hat The business at Wellington was founded early
n the eighteenth century, and the present Lorn
,any have in their possession a balance-sheet
lated 1733.
These celebrated Serges can be ob-
tained from the leading Tailora and
Drapers throughout the Australian
Colonies.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE WHOLESALE
Trade only—
STOGDALE & DUFFBS,
326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
. . AND . .
422 George Street, Sydney.
dfg
fringes,
g »turel Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAIT 3 and TAILS,
fOtn. lone, f/0. all leal haha
CUTTINGS A COMBIMB*
. worked up, V 6 por oz.
we ore the cheapeetio M*
trail a for all Hair Work.
Semi Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzell;
)10 William StuRET,
corner of PMuter street*
SYDNEY.
Cabio Tnon will slop at Poor.
hd
Send stamps tor full Price I.leV_
ppt attention given to Country Orders
‘■•XS&Srfe. *"<l j«g- •■
and Verse, by Bulletin nter,.
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.
Fuse
Fap r
“Maiden Miner” to The Bulletin Your
nnbUcation of my letter last Sept, re the value of the
South German mine, Maldon, did much good by keeping
a number of small capitalists from investing their savings
in such an inflated concern. Is it not in the power
shareholders to deal with directors who at their half-
yearly meeting reported that the mine was as good as
Ler that they could see three years’ profitable work
ahead, and that the person who said the lode had cut ou
was lying? Within six weeks afterwards they cut th
great cross-course or floor and the bottom was knocked
“ . the lode was gone as clean as if it
h£d never existed. At next ordinary boar< j
tViev knew there was a displacement in the level
wp Now if thev knew there was a displacement why
did thev^telTthe shareholders there was nothing of the
vind thus inducing shareholders to increase their
kmd, thus mauc g suen M plainly as one main
"tot tSSiitoS ?rto£ro“'”ly°inapable,
win anv case they should go. These men’s ignorance or
their deception is causing one of the finest gold-producing
districts of Victoria to languish for want of capital. The
board reports that it has a large quantity of .Pfy^ ble 1 S°“!
in the upper levels. While they mix it with the bit of
j af/vnp Hipv are netting from below, it makes up the
quantity, but, if it were taken out by itself, it woidd not
1, f or breaking. There are arches of stone left at 7,8,
9 and l 0 but, if these were taken out, they would have to
nut in bulk-heads of solid masonry, or there might be a
displacement in their shaft if they should d
enough to attempt it, as the quartz crosses the shaft, and
is close bv it in these four levels. Govt, should step in
and see that there is a way of escape made for men who
mifrht be so foolish as to be below, for otherwise, as far as
see, every man below, if such should happen
to the main shaft, would perish there. These misleading
reDorts say they are driving for a shute of gold that
was cut in the 1600 ft. level on the Western or Old German
reef. Lode, do they call such quality stuff ? There was
one small lot crushed, the balance was kept to fill up the
ato°oe3 with If they had a show of gold there why did
they 68 throw it away? Do they really mean to run
those stopes out again? Ignorance—or what is it?
Why do they not tell the shareholders that they cannot
touch that lode above the 1000 ft. level on account of the
old mine being full of water, and if they should touch the
water it would swamp them out and cost thousands for
machinery to cope with it, and that the lode cannot be
worked at a profit unless they unwater the old minei? I
can clearlv see (and they can report to the public as they
choose) that if they pay away the balance of the 30s.
which I thought they might pay in my Sept,
last, and do not make a reserve fund out of the bit of
stone they have left, it must be * matter of maktog calls
to fully prospect the mine. To sink the shaft 000 ft. anu
drive 800 ft. either way at each end of the five le ve|» Wdh
crosscuts west at each level out in now country, could not
be done for £60,000. # »
“ Bora ”: Inverell Diamond Fields Oo’s Star of
the South Diamond Mine, Boggy Camp, N.S.W., presents
a rather uncertain appearance just now. Owned by an
English co. with £400,000 capital it has had some
thousands spent upon it, chiefly in improving the surface.
An expert was specially imported from S’Afrioa to super-
iiitend P the erection of a very valuable washing plant
capable of putting through some 400 a
nn if 4 completion it proved a failure. The precious gom
is held by a sandy wash with a little rubble, and as it
was found impossible to reduce sand alone, an<,thl j, r d , e , v
was thought of—clay was added to the wash. But that
too proved unsuccessful, the machine neither saving the
valuable tin by-product nor all the diamonds. Repeated
failures led to'the Chairman being sent to investigate ; the
result was that within a few days afterrhis arrivallthie
mine was shut down, some 270 men with about 0 out of
no less than 13 bosses being knocked off. Now the btar
mine is undoubtedly a good one, but unde , r m* a '
management it could not he made to pay, even if it were
one of the richest in the world. If the enormous sums
wasted on the surface had been spent in °l ,e " in g up the
mine perhaps a different tale might be told to-day.
It seems* that, after all, the B.H. Prop. Co. will
not go on with its water scheme ; a compromise with the
B. Ilf Water Supply is being arranged. Matters have got
so far that the application made for a lease of the land
necessary for a reservoir has, on the co. 8 request, been
hung up for six months. .
If an improved dredge now being perfected by
a well-known M.L. engineer is successful there will be a
revolution in gold-scooping. Claimed that the dredge
will raise double the quantity of wash at less than the
present expense. , , *
It would appear that the average yield of gold
per dredge in South Otago (M. L.) is about 330 z. per week.
According to all accounts, Glassford Creek (Q. )
copper-field is going to be a big mining centre. Lodes
low-grade, but big, and apparently permanent—so says
Schlapp who adds that the deposits are un .ike anything
he has seen outside Idaho, U.S. Railway communication,
he remarks, is the v
Great Boulder;—The development recently a-
900ft. is the most important in the life of the mine. Lode
7ft thick, and will average at this particular point o er
•«>o7 to ton Undoubtedly the richness is purely local,
kffact the diamond-drill that cut the reef some 39ft.
awav showed it to be worth something over 4oz. rhe
first-foot of the lode is probably worth nearly as much as
the balance, and 3in. of that foot is probably richer than
the remaining nine. There is a remarkably rich streak
of ore on what is now the hanging-wall of the iode. The
southern end of the cross-cut, too, appears to be richer
than the northern, everything going to show that the
cross-cut intersected the lode at a very rich point.
It is in other respects that the development is important.
This reef has become a distinct fissu re, the ore has become-
distinctly ore, and the enclosing walls distinctly mullock.
There are no values in the country away from the lode
and what might be called the casing of it contains but a
few dwts. The mineralisation of the country, too, is very
aii<rht * thpre is no mistaking one for the other. In most
of the upper levels, and in nearly all the mines within the
it is almost impossible to tell ore from
mullock-in some places there does not seem to be any
mullock. The country is gold-beanng for c ° nslder ‘} b . l ‘;
dist ances away from what is known as the lode, and in
many cases is only called country because it is too poor
to take out Not so in the lower levels. This feature
gradually goes out with depth, and the quartz, too,
fncreases fn proportion. In the bottom levels of the
Boulder the ore runs over 80 % silica. There can be
no doubt now that the Boulder lodes have Come to stay
and that their values are not reduced with depth 1 theywil
probably be worked very deep indeed. At the 1000 ft.
cross-cut the same lode only averages 30dwt., though the
bore that pierced it some distance away showed a value
of over 30z., another proof of variation of values within
short distances. Existence of lode and g°°d vaiues at
1100 ft. are also proved by diamond-drill. All the ore
below the 103 ft., except that taken out in levels and
winzes in reserve and upwards of 15,000 tons on the sur-
“awaits completion of sulphide plant It is the best-
developed mine in Australasia, has probably more ore in
sig-ht than any three within the Golden Mile, and is even
a letter and more lasting mine than writer expected to
find it. ,
Coolgardie Water Scheme: This great bone of
contention has had a quiet time lately, but it is likely to
be revived now that Federation and Separation have
“ come back ” from an agitatoFs point of view Opinions
as to the result are variable. There is no do >iht about the
enormous cost, but the actual amount is a matter of much
sDeeulation Forrest continues to talk about his great
water scheme with every glass of wine, and its opponents
continue to declare that the water reaching the top of
Mt. Burgess will not be sufficient to mix with their
whisky. The idea of laying the pipes on the ground has
been abandoned ; they are being put 2ft. belowit To
put them above in such a climate was altogether too
ridiculous. The chances are that time will reveal greater
mistakes when it is too late to rectify them, and tor rest
might do a less foolish thing than appoint a commission
consisting of Australia’s chief hydraulic to
ascertain if unanimity amongst them as to the cost and
effect of this mammoth water scheme is possible.
* * •
Amalgamation schemes : This business seems to
have been played for all it is worth at Hannan s. Occasion-
ally a par. is printed that the public at Hannan s-who
have little or no interest in the matter— have received
the proposal to amalgamate the Ivanhoe "
Horseshoe with the greatest satisfaction but it ia the
usual newspaper lie, and the public isn t taking any other
amalgamations such as the Extended Brown Hill with the
Brown Hill itself, the Ivanhoe South Extended with the
Ivanhoe, &c. But those who have lost money by buying
shares at top prices on the strength of these windy amal-
gamations want to know how and what for the rumors
•were created. Well, The Bulletin will do its best.
Kaufman made a big hit with the Lake View Consols, he
repeated it with the Ivanhoe deal, so for a long time it
was fashionable.to follow Kaufman. What was easier
than to buy shares in mines near the big ones—although
off the line—when they were very low,.then to start a
rumor of amalgamation, to sell out on the strength of it
when they were very high—then let the amalgamation
idea “goto ” ? Why, it is easier than lying.
* • • •
Mining at Hannan’s will never be cheap. It
will probablv remain one of the dearest mining places in
the world ; * wages will probably come down, but not
while living of any sort cannot be got for less than 255. a
week, and drinks other than beer remain at a shilling.
Timber is sure to become dearer ; it is cut out for miles
round ; a railway is running to a big forest, but the enor-
mous consumption will soon show itself there. I rest t
average price, 14s. a ton, and inferior wood at that.
Collie coal is nearly three times this su “»* £
ern coal is prohibitive in price. A short railway
from Collie to the main Southern line would save
over 100 miles carriage, and make coal consumption at
Hannan’s cheaper than wood. Abundance of water ob-
tainable at from 4s. to Os per 1000 gals., but condensation
costs many times that amount, and a large proportion
has to be condensed for boilers, &c. One co. has decided,
because of the great cost in this duection to train fresh
water from Ooolgardie, where millions of gallons have
been caught in tanks from recent rains. There are very
few storage dams at Hannan’s ; the Lake monopolises the
catchment area, and the absorption is rapid ; it will be
all gone in a few weeks, and then below the surface will
become salt. There is no virtue in salt-water. More
than half cyanide consumption is taken up by the magne-
sian salts and acids in the water. The P r^ rn * n ?
the lake into a huge storage reservoir, and concreting it
to prevent absorption, “ will not hold water on account
of the intense evaporation, which is said to average over
10ft a year, and which would probably be considerable
even if'the reservoir were covered in. Under all these
distressing circumstances, Tub Bulletin fears that
mining can never become cheap at^Kalgoorlie^
Croydon’s new industry— tin—is going to put
the place into a more prominent position than any other
©’land goldfield. Old tin-miners, disinterested parties,
who have lately visited the scene of the tin discoveries,
stato that the lodes are equal to anything , in
Herberton district. A trial shipment of 3 tons 4cwt,
allegedly bulk ore, sent south for treatment by the pros-
pectors, returned 44'5 per cent, of tin, and gave t
shippers a net profit, after paying heavy expenses, of over
£l2O. Tin lodes have now been found over an area 20
miles long by 6 miles wide. ,
A public trial of a new gold-saving machine,
“Webster’s Gold Elutriator" was lately held at N.S.W.
Government Works at Clyde, it being the invention of
one of the employes. About 50 spectators turned up,
most of them gifted with a profound i&noraice
Elutriator consists of a box pitched very flat, fed by ’ &
hopper under which is a dished well, from which the
crushed material runs over fibre matting, a quicksilver
bath and more matting. The box is covered, allowing
only a narrow space for tailings to run through, and
there are pipes traversing the entire length of box which
sprav water against the line of flow. This creates eddies,
and inventor claims that, owing to those, and the con-
fined space, most of the gold now lost m slimes
will be brought into contact with the matting or silver
and be recovered. Box discharges into well at top of a
similarly-roofed-in percussion table, and both wells are
provided with screw plugs for cleaning up. It is stated
that tailings which had passed twice over copper plates
and vanners at the works were tried in machine and .15
per cent, o? their assay value recovered. It is proposed
to manufacture elutriators for fixing at the Uuls of
ordinary battery tables. From the superficial test giv en,
the co. decided that the patent appeared to do its work
satisfactorily.
* * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * *
An estimate yield of this spring’s clean-up at
Klondike is £4,000,000, and observers predict an average
of not less than this for 50 years to come. The known
go' ■’ bearing area near Cape Nome is being enlargi d
steadily by new discoveries, and a wonderful find, extend-
ing over a huge area, is reported from the Koynkuk
above the Arctic circle, and midway between Nome and
the Dawson. But those are places which should only be
mshed by fat Swedes, Russians, and other oil-drinkers
and tallow-candle chevvers. Writer was talking lately to
a man from Cape Nome—a Russian linn, who weighed
17st., stood sft. 10in., had a chest measurement of 48m.,
and a hand like a whale’s ear. The Finn said it was verf
cold place,” and related how “ tw r o poor Yankee man
had died of frost right alongside him in their fur sleep-
ing bags.


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
Yor Station and Oat-door work our Silk ryriUPrf
M ATT A LASS K and other UNBHIUNKABLK SHIRTS
ate highly recommended.
33, per llal-t'-ilozeu, free by post throughout
A ust ml in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MPHTTfASTIE Sc SONS. Brisbane, Q'land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PAT It ONAGER
0n...
fir. Fraok SeQior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND lEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists !
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 109 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT6R BRADLCY CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art A uclioneers,
Auction Room', 324 Geor*; Surest, Sjine ],
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, F'ectro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sah-s, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, a-sisted hv a competent staff.
Sales lh til at the Auction Jlomns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations.and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
Tho Jingoes propose to get a majority in
Cape Parliament by “disfranchising the rebels.”
The Bulletin doesn’t believe that the allegedly-
late Bulcock of Queensland is dead at all. It
believes he has gone to S’Africa.
With the idea of converting the thousands
of S.A. Germans—many of whom cannot read
English— to Liberal political views, it has been
suggested that the Advertiser should now and
then publish its leading articles in the Teutonic
language.
The C'institution Bill conferring Re-
sponsible Government on Tasmania, then Van
Diemen’s Land, provided that the Queen might
declare war but should not sign terms of peace
without the consent of Tasmania. That clause
was struck out.
A vivid illustration of the nakedness of
the land as regards Q. Opposition is shown by the
fact that they are going to test the House on tho
military estimates in coming session. This despite
the fact that the country hasn’t got its sore head
yet, aid that seven-eighths of the members
acquiesced in the blood-drunk.
t To save time, S.A. Govt, will this session
give the Council the first chance of reconsidering
the Household Suffrage, Workmen’s Compensa-
tion, and Early Closing Bills—all frequently
passed by the Lower House, only to be rejected by
the Property Chamber, whose springs of action
are suspicion of the people and dogged selfishness.
N.S. W. Opposition-leader Reid has already
got well going with a few censure motions on the
Lyne Govt. It looks quite unlikolv that he will
carry one in this Parliament; but the effect of his
tvlu U > B motions of censure in years during
Dibbs’reign was so enormous outside the House
and the consequences so great at the following
general election, that he will no doubt play the
car ds again. There is now, however, this
difference in his position—formerly he had Sydney
P-T. with him ; now that fickle but powerful
journal is against him and he has only the aid of
that anaemic giant the S.M. Herald.
IMPROVING THE OCCASION.
THE SHEPHERD: “ Oh. my brother! when will
you give up toiling on the Sabbath and come
to church?”
THE MAN WITH A HOE: “ Well, when it pays
me as well as it does you! ”
Mayor Harris told a great truth when he
said that the difficulty in the way of establishing
a Greater Sydney, with one municipal govern-
ment on purely democratic lines (instead of over
40) for the whole metropolis, was the excellence of
the scheme. A Government may keep in office
by promising to do a great and useful thing ; when
it has done the thing it can only keep in office by
promising to do some other great and useful thing.
And if it can’t think of a second great idea, it
doesn’t want to use up the first one too fast. All-
round Local Government was such a great idea
that Parkes lived on being going to do it all his
political life, and left it undone after all.
Premier M‘Lean (Vic.) must be given this
credit. He was a declared opponent of the
Federal Constitution before its acceptance by the
people, but he has, since that acceptance, been
more than faithful to the popular verdict, and has
done his best, not only to help the Bill through,
but to keep procrastinating Forrest and recalcitrant
Philp straight, and to smooth out obstacles gener-
ally.
The resignation of Suttor for Bathurst was
not unconnected with the victory of Pumpkin
Smith for Canterbury. While Smith was a possi-
ble candidate for Bathurst, that proverbially-fickle
constituency was not a safe gift for the Lyne can-
didate ; but with Smith out of the way, the
acceptance by Suttor of the Council Vice-Presi-
dency became possible, and Freetrade Govt.-can-
didate Thompson ought to win easily.
Premier Lyne, for the second time, takes
his Vice-President of the Leg. Council from the
Assembly, not one of his 10 colleagues having a
seat in the higher chamber. And if the Leg.
Councillors resent the fact they don’t say so. Al-
mostall the brainy men intheUpper House are sup-
porters of the present Administration, but some,
at any rate, would not personally identify them-
selves with the pot-pourri of politicians styled the
Lyne Cabinet.
Storey, M.P. (N.S. YV.), in his address at
Randwick, declared that the Anti-Convention-
Bill League had done excellent work, and it was
owing to the League’s action that Queensland was
coming into the Federation and probably also
Westralia. Poor old Anti-Bill then, it appears,
must have been carrying on like the proprietor of
Balaam’s ass when he was retained to curse the
.1 ews and blessed them instead, to the disgust of
his royal client!
The dove-like Mr. M'Court’s personal
popularity pulled him through and made his
nomination to N.S W. Speakership unanimous.
But personal popularity, however great, is a'bad
substratum upon which to build a Speaker’s repu-
tation. In a riotous House like N.S. W. Assembly,
where almost every man is a born interruptor,
and where the “sniping” of a casual interjection
usually brings on a general engagement of vulgar
abuse, it needs a strong man in the chair.
Purves, Q.C., was lately delivered of
another patriotic abortion at a Port Melbourne
Jingo meeting:—
There was no reason, so far as he knew, against men
thinking out and forming opinions upon questions likely
to involve war. In such matters it was the duty of free
citizens to let their opinions be known, but once war was
declared all criticism should cease, and the man who,
whether from Parliament or pulpit, denounced the
national decision was a traitor.
Wherefore the elder Pitt was a traitor, Fox and
Burke traitors, John Bright an unspeakable scoun-
drel, and Morley, Clark, and hosts of others
deserving of the block. And the chameleonic
Purves, Q.C., is a logician !
Acting-Premier Ward proposes to revolu-
tionise the Maoriland railway-system. Among
. other things, workmen’s season-tickets are
to bo issued for a radius of 12 miles from
each chief town for 2s. a week. This is
to reduce the tendency of the poorer
population to congest in cities,
and supposing a workman lives
10 miles out and makes the
journey back and forward
every working day, it
means 120 miles for 2s.—
one-fifth of a penny per
mile. Accommodation
is to be improved and
speed increased. Return
tickets are to be abol-
ished and single fares
cut down nearly one-
half. In Hungary a
still more reckless-look-
ing scheme, instead of
proving a short cut to
ruin, turned an unprofit-
able railway system into
a paying asset, and
Ward’s policy may pos-
sibly, in a few years,
make theM.L. railway
system the best-pay-
ing one in Australasia.
Every day it grows
more apparent that
those in high military
places in Africa have
received “the office”
from Chamberlain and
Co. to crack up the
Australians. The iam
is being laid on thick
and slab. Baden-Powell
was no sooner out of
Mafeking than he too ex-
pressed amazed admiration
for the fighting qualities of
the Queenslanders. The use
of similar phrases in the com-
mendations of the commanders
is very suggestive of a set lesson. Old birds
are not'caught with chaff, but young kangaroos
are very partial to it.
Terry, M.P. for Ryde, is the great joke of
N.S.W. Assembly. He has been persuaded so
often that he is the leader of the ‘ ‘ Independent
Party ” in the House that he has got to firmly
believe it. When Speaker M‘Court took the
chair for the first time after his election, Premier
Lyne for the ins, and Leader of the Opposition
Reid for the outs, formally congratulated the new
Speaker. Labor-leader M ‘Gowen followed suit
for. his crowd, and to the delight of members Mr.
Terry gravely rose in his place and begged to
offer, &c., and hoped, &c., on behalf of the “In-
dependent ” party. The Independent partv con-
sists of one person—Mr. Terry himself, lie is
truly an independent party, being heavily gilded
and well able to afford the gargantuan feasts for
which he at intervals “stands Sam” to the giggling
members who “ pull his leg.”
“ ASSIST THE BLIND.”—AN EPISODE OF
THE REJOICINGS.
The Lyne Ministry runs another freetrader
in its interests—for the Bathurst seat, this time.
The Govt.’s thorough “sinking ” of the fiscal issue
has mightilv displeased the out-and-out Protec-
tionists in the House, and as a vague threat some
20 of them have formed a “party” led by the
veteran Henry Clarke, who still squirms under his
failure to get a portfolio. But their throat is an
empty one, and Lyne is astute enough to know
that the. wider the split in the freetrade ranks, the
firmer his seat on the Treasury benches.
Queensland Parliament meets on 17th
.July—l 7 days after the end of the financial year.
The estimates will probably bo discussed about
the end of the year, when half the money is spent
and the country is pledged to the expenditure of
most of the other half. Then, if Parliament kicks
at any of the items, it will be told that it is too
late to kick. Parliament is supposed to have con-
trol of the purse, but, as things go in Queensland,
it really only has power to say “ditto,” or else
“ We don’t like it, but it can’t be helped now.”
Four big measures are promised in present
session of N.S.W. Parliament—an Old Age Pen-
sions Bill, a Bill for improving and extending
Local Govt., another Bill for the special repair
and improvement of the awful Corporation of
Sydney, and a measure providing for compulsory
arbitration in trade disputes. If these measures
are so drafted as to really and efficiently deal witli
the four great wants they propose to fill, and the
Lyne Govt, can push them through, then it will
be the most democratic Ministry N.S.W. lias
seen up to date.
Bunbury (W.A.) Herald -Bunbury is
Premier Bigjohn’s electorate:
The original (Federation) Dili is to go to the people and
its acceptance or rejection is subject merely to a majority
vote. On this matter the Govt, have played fast and
loose with the people and placed the colony in a peculiar
position. We have been beaten all along the line.
The idea of a question being merely decided by a
majority is evidently regarded as very peculiar in
Bunbury. Bunbury has been so long accustomed
to have everything decided by Brother John
Forrest with the assistance of Brother Alick, and
silently corroborated by little Brother David.
“ Busted to The Bulletin :
Writer had an action against N.S.W. Govt., and won it
on demurrer before Full Court. Crown appealed to Privy
Council, and in about a year or two that tribunal dis-
missed appeal with great disrespect, also costs. After a
few more months, case came on before a jury for assess-
ment of damage, and this scribe was nonsuited on a
technical point which his legal advisers maintained had
been already settled in his favor by the Privy Council.
For want of the £5OO necessary to go back and find out
what that tribunal really did mean, case was dropped.
This is a good example of what a grand thing Privy Coun-
cil appeals are for spoofing the comparatively indigent,
and Australians should fight like one bull-pup to maintain
this right to be spoofed.
Apropos the Indian famine. Soon any-
one who still contends that the introduction of
foreign capital is a boon and a blessing to any
community will be treated as an imbecile. A very
high official authority has recently declared that
the famine in Rajpootana is absolutely due to the
agrarian anarchy called freetrade in land, which
has allowed absentee capitalists to buy up all the
best-watered and most fertile soil for the cultiva-
tion of poppies (required in the manufacture of
opium). The natives of the country have been
left with the badly-watered and barren tracts on
which to grow food. The absentee poppy-farmers,
many of them rich Parsees, who live in luxury at
Bombay, continue to grow wealthy while the mass
of tbepeople are perishing through famine. General
Cotton has recommended drastic reforms in the
way of closer settlement, increased taxation on
poppy-growing, irrigation, and the construction
of light railways through the badly-watered land
which has been left to the people. The project
has been bitterly opposed by the capitalists, and
so far the capitalists have won the day, and the
people perish by thousands. Truly, the absentee
capitalist is the same curse all the world over.
Commonly reported in Melbourne that
the M‘Lean Ministry will go down crash when
Parliament assembles, unless it meets the House
with such a strong programme that it is impossible
to refuse it a longer trial. Some seven or eight of
the deserters from Turner are said to be ready to
desert back again—among them Fink, the ‘‘in-
telligent man ” who was to help Shiels at the
Treasury. Fink has never forgotten that adjec-
tive, “ intelligent.” It was about as aggravating
as if one member assured the House that another
M.L.A. was quite clean, and any suspicion that
he was caked with dirt which would fall off him
in clods if he shook himself might be dismissed at
once.
It isn’t actually a crime to have a vote in
Westralia, but it is at least a suspicious
circumstance and the people in author-
ity do all they can to avert it. One
essential before you get on the W.A.
Parliamentary roll is to get on a muni-
cipal roll. The way to get on amunici-
pal roll is to pay up, before 30th Sept,
in each year, all rates due to 30th June.
So Perth City Council last year struck
upon a brilliant device. It made the
year’s rates payable up to Ist June.
The rates from Ist June to 30th June
were included in next half-year and
didn’t become payable till Ist Jan.,
1900, and yet if they weren’t paid be-
fore 30th September, 1899, the rate-
payer’s vote was forfeit. Unless a
man paid his rates three months be-
fore they were due he was struck off
the municipal roll and consequently off
the electoral roll. No less than 600
Perth ratepayers who didn’t understand
the inwardness of the dodge lost their votes
in consequence—carefully-selected ratepayers,
that is.
The subjoined was not written and signed
by ex-Republican G. R. Dibbs, but by the still-
self-proclaimed Republican John Norton, in Tiiuth
of June 17 :
Soon after taking “ the leap in the dark ” at the refer-
endum, it was recognised that if there was to be “ Union
under the Crown ” the unrestricted right of appeal to the
Queen in Council would have to be retained. Indeed, the
majority of those who voted for its abolition under the
Draft Constitution now favor —nay, demand—its retention
as desired by the Imperial authorities. So much for the
wisdom of a mob or referendum vote, obtained from an
ignorant people under false pretences.
Is John really running for a C.M.G. ?
F. B. Suttor, who vacates the Bathurst
seat to represent the Lyno Ministry in N.S.W.
Bog. Council, is the “Vicar of Bray” in local
politics. Ho has held office—under Parkes, twice;
Bibbs, twice; Jennings, once; and now under-
takes a sixth term, under Lyne. He has held at
various times tho portfolios of Justice, Publio
Instruction, Post-office, Mines, and Acting Chief
Secretary. This versatile Parliamentary old hand
was first returned for Bathurst in ’75 ; ne has sat
either in the Upper or the Lower House ever
since, and has spent a third of the period as a
Minister.
A brilliant flash from the fac and ancient
Maitland (N.S.W.) Mercury :
Mrs. lteitz and Com Paul ought to be collared, even if a
war with Portugal follows. They are both the vilest of
thieves, stealing what is not theirs and letting the minor
scoundrels in—which they richly deserve. Rut seize the
Portuguese man-of-war, an easy matter, as they are the
worst of sailors ; take the millions and sink ship, crew and
passengers as a lesson for others, who are still traitors to
the core.
It is lucky for Britain’s reputation that its people
are not quite such savages as the average Aus-
tralian bucolic jingo. The jingo’s demands for
the wholesale and retail murder of prisoners of
war and the butchering of women are good, loud,
exciting reading, but Britain doesn’t want to turn
Zulu or Red Indian just yet.
CHAMBERLAIN’S PIE.
Sing a song of Chamberlain !
(Forget the widow’s cry)
Twenty thousand fighting men
Baked in his pie.
Sing a song of Chamberlain 1
Eighty millions gone,
Getting to Pretoria —
And Europe looking on.
Sing a song of Chamberlain 1
A pocket-full of gold,
The Russian bear is off the chain.
Unguarded is the fold.
Sing a song of Chamberlain 1
Our army on the Rand—
Yes, British ships control the sea
But armies hold the land.
Sing a song of Chamberlain !
Siberian Railway too,
A million Cossacks on the way,
And what will England do 1
Sing a song of Chamberlain !
Who saved the Stock Exchange,
And China’s sub-division left,
For Russia to arrange.
And now the pie is opened,
And birds begin to sing,
Pray, isn’t that a dainty dish
To set before the Queen ?
D.


PALING’S
Do you
want
the BEST
that can
be made ?
Then look
carefully into
the merits of
our PIANOS
and you will
be convinced
that they excel
in
TONE
TOUCH
DURABILITY
and CHEAPNESS
Call or Write for Catalogues.
PALINGS
For
Every
Known
Musical
Instrument
VIOLINS
CORNETS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
BANJOS
BAND and
ORCHESTRAL
INSTRUMENTS
of every description
At Lowest Possible Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 George-street, Sydney. Brisbane Newcastle.
Meat is at a ruinous price on the W.A.
goldfields —as much as Is. sd. for steak and Is. Id.
for mutton. The heavy stock-tax is in part
responsible there. But even in Adelaide sheep
for slaughter have been sold up to 265. The
drought has cleared off hundreds of thousands of
head; most, or certainly many, stations are
understocked, and now, when it looks as though
the run of bad seasons was over, stock-breeders
are buying in order to “stock up” instead of
selling.
Apropos of the foundering of the Glenelg,
one witness, a marine surveyor, stated that there
was a flaw in the shaft, and he had been keeping
his eye on same ever since January ? 1899.
Later another flaw developed, and he kept his eye on
it also. Orders were given that a new certificate
should not be issued until a new shaft was pro-
vided, and the old certificate was within a few
days of expiring when the venerable craft, with
its damaged shaft, went out on its last voyage. It
was allowed to start on condition the engine
worked at reduced pressure in ofder not to bustle
the injured part too violently. So the Glenelg
went forth in the capacity of a vessel in delicate
health, and saved any further wear and tear of
the witness’s eye by not coming back.
READ WHAT^
VITADATIO
DOING.
Little specks of fever, little chills so bland
Make the mighty graveyard , and the angel band.
A little of VITADATIO, taken now and then,
Makes the handsome women, and the healthy men.
LADIES, READ THIS!
THE BEST IN THE WORLD FOR THE COMPLEXION.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure that I add my
testimonial to the many others you have received about
your wonderful herbal remedy, VITADATIO. For nearly
two years I have suffered with an ERUPTION OF THE
SKIN, and I have tried all sorts of remedies without avaaL
After much persuasion I resolved to try a course of VITA-
DATIO, and I am thankful that I ever did so, for the
result has been beyond my expectations. My friends
cannot fail to notice the change that has taken place in
my skin.—Hoping others may benefit by this, I remain,
yours sincerely, MAY SMITH.
46 Finlay-street, Albert Park, Melbourne, 15th July, 1899.
S. A. PALMER, 184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s Gd; Small Size, 3s 6 d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s Gd.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
ST ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
“ Pipe ” : Re plague-precautions: —
“Titus Sale” (8., 2/6/’00) had much the same experience
as mine. My paper, however, was required from me some
distance down the line. In Albury there is no drainage
to speak of. Everything is thrown into yard or paddock,
and the first rain washes it up against the back-door.
When I was there (about 7 weeks ago) the Council was in
a fix over sanitary night-work. The contractor was pre-
pared to carry out his contract; but the Council, under
instructions from plague-scared Sydney, wanted him to
do more than was specified therein. He declined, and
instructed his men to collect the night-pans (he owned
them all) when on next round ; whilst the Council advised
Albury to keep its back-gate shut, and to stand by its pan
like a man and a brother and perish, if need be, in its
defence. And how it all panned out I don’t know.
yT
MeL
OQ3
SCVd
Mi
Ten
piano-
Forte
Solos
. . FOR . .
ONE
SHILLING
the NEW ISSUE of
THE AUSTRALIAN
MUSIC BOOK • •
Ntx 52
CONTENTS:
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Australia, or.
direct from the Publishers,
pan #i Co. proprietary [td
276 & 278 Collins-st., Melbourne.
A Mr. ROBERT BYRNE
HAS ACTIVELY RESUMED BUSINESS AS
Land and Estate Agent,
333 CO LL/ .V 8 8 Til EE T.
M EE BO City E,
Next to Commercial Bank. EsUblished 1853.
Tourists
find
that
ROADSTER
m
%
m
it
fg
are far Superior to all others, for
Road Riding, their Strength making
them Durable, and their Resiliency
the most Comfortable.
PREVENT
IMPOSITION! of having cheap imitation tyres foist
upon you, in place of genuine Dunlops,
by examining the cover and tube for this
hdf
TRADE
MARK
ghd
Without which none are genuine.
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre C°- °f Bus. [tl,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ;
AND AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.]


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTSREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
fg
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
' ixr.s.'V'sr.
U|ont deplete OJ|.Co-,Etd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH 5T5. f
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bnd g e.st.)Syd ne y t
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Finp. JLiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynb ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
file jjank of |]ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
-THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 O
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M‘Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JBishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NNIW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
..cting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford with aeency at Wrong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Fair girls and gray horsp:s.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West&South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., June 23, 1 p.ni.
Leura, Saturday, June 30, 1 p.ra.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyonjr, Tues., July 3, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., July 3, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., June 23, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., June 26, 5 p.m.
Gabo, Sat., June 30, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
T.vrian, Saturday, June 23, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Saturday, June 30, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT)
GERALDTON I
CAIRNS. &c. I
Lnss o' Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passemrers and Carpo
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Pares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies'. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
lb* Trustees, €xccCitors,
AND
RgSOCV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ...
£'150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr.
trustee.
L. I. Barker registered
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; O. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. ,1. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per oent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. 500,000
Amount of Capil.al payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Compy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
Jtc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS
Aldershot, Queensland. ’
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
Jambs Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackbllar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Utiier, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tne Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
FALSE
ECONOMY.
Every housekeeper worthy of the
name knows what “false economy ’’ is.
There is no need for us to go into
details.
But why ladies, whose management
of their domestic affairs is so skilful as
to call forth the admiration of their
friends, can be so careless—there is no
other word for it—in the. purchase of
foot-wear is beyond explanation.
Your shoemaker may offer you an
article which he declares to be of the
highest grade, and which may only be
of poor leather, finished in good style ;
in short, an expensive shoe which will
be worn out in “no time.” False
Economy 1
The “ HERZ ” Shoe
Has a reputat on for Quality and
Durability which the makers are
jealous to maintain.
Call and see
them at
HUNTER’S.
Missing Friends.
DOBERT CHARLES STONES) of Ulverstone, Tasmania,
last heard of St. Jose Goldfield, Ulam, in March, 1895.'
Anyone knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with J. STONES, Ulverstone, Tas.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., Condon).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows:
Name of Steamer.
Commander.
AUSTRALASIAN ,T. F. Spalding
SAI.AMIS ... A. H. Douglas
ABERDEEN ... A. Robb .
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
AMERICA
IjINGLAND VIA
by the
American A Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
tlm cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer. Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOANA
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
3158 July 4 July fi'july 27
3158 August 1 August 6 August 24
*o°o August 29 Sept. 3 Sept. 21
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San I* ranoisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway mnps, and guide books showing
*l* £''her mf.rnmtion, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
. inn Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
sa °" rio •“->
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and i4L Hiver Steamers with
49(1,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Vl'lb l 'II I/O.
Commander, n'l'nf •“'de,
I 2 p.m
Steamer.
Tons
p.m
DARMSTADT ..
*P. R. LUITPOLD
GERA
KARLSRUHE
•KONIGJN LUISE
5012 0. Dewers JuneSOJuly 7
6288 H. Walter Aug. 25 Sept. 1
5005 0. von Borell Sep. 22 Sept. 29
5057 0. Oesselmann Oct. 20 Oct. 27
16566 M. Eichel ... Nov. 17 Nov. 24
TWIN SCREW STEAMERS!
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
'via Queensland Ports.
Steamer.
Tons'; Commander, O^'5 onl hestina- 1
1 Sydney tion.
STFTTTN N 1 i? re i b 8 • July 25 Hongkong
SILTTIN ... 2478 J. NiedermeyeriSep. 5 Singapore
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSOHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE.
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^>
HAYING niade special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of Tailoring 1 Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to.those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mail boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
LADIES !
4. OA Z rTu „ - Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything vou want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
Neiv South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply Bouse
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Shipping. __
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
June 22.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
June 30. (Without
Trarishipmeufc.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
June 22.
first and (he,treat Itoute to Goldfields.
baioon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
amers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
. ns ' f, or Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C,
_ r OY. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINK
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BLRKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nornianton.
fivnSH’ NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. y
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
fortnightly.
Passe nt/er A ocotumodatlon, Attendance and
Cu is ine a a rival fed.
qvnwcv E ! IH Particulars from the Agents:
MFlRmmvv r " B ,' Co - Ltd - 10 Bridge Street.
A.U.B.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
fjVpm'a v m P' " ' MacDonald, Currie Street.
PERTH I). Hamilton.
BRIS BAM'. British, India and Queensland Agency
Qoy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Oompuny will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
BRITANNIA
CHINA
INDIA
AUSTRALIA... 16901 1. Reeves
Commander.
Syd ney,
Noon
5287 W. A. Wheler
6525 P. H. Seymour
801X1T 8. Angus
7911 W. I). G. Worcester, R.N.R. Amr.
"“ M T Aug.
June 30
July 14
July 28
11
25
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, 135 to £7O.
r> * Ditto Return, 165 to I'llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial porta
are available for Return by Orient and Messaireries Mari*
B THtM A e wM h pv"? on application
t? • i Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker g go's tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
For MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
AIRLIE ...
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
Tns; Commander. ILeave Sydney.
... 2500 St. John George . July 12
...'3OOO P. T. Helms ...'August 4
... 2500 W. G. M'Arthur ... September 1
. Ellis .. September 22
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are Otted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Apents,
i — mmm* B _^^^^^^^^3^Pit^streetjSydney.
ffllhuraith, f|]‘Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PIIILP & CO. LTD.,
~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUB.VE ADE-
L m I K E h^ LBANY ’ COLOMBO > SUEZ, and PORT S4ID
. eu io comnav, India, China.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais-
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return bv P and O
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at. the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


hd
fgh
WE
KNOW
OF NO
OTHER SAUCE
TO
EQUAL
THIS.
OUR OLD AND TRIED
FRIEND
LEA & PERRINS’
SAUCE.
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
Agents—VlßCOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
ARE YOU ABOUT TO FU.JESH
You cannot do better than try HALL’S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues ? If
not, call or write for one. Posted Free. 72 Pages, 600 Illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, in rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
2 Arm Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
select from.
HALL’S
DINING-ROOM SUITE, very strong, covered in best American Leather; (5 Padded
Back Chairs, Large Couch, and Pair Easy Chairs. 6 Guinoas. Ditto, m real Maroo
Leather, 10 Guineas.
HALL’S
BEDROOM SUITE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color; Wardrobe, with Plato-glass
Door and Deep Drawer; Duchess Chest Drawers, with Glass attached; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £(> 15s.
HALL’S
FULL-SIZE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD, Brass Footrail, Double Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 17s. Cd.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George Street, Sydney
(BBICKFIELD HILL).
Goods Stored Free until required. Country Orders Packed Free. Leave Tram at Liverpool-
street for Hall’s. Close— Saturdays, 9 p.m. ; Wednesdays, 1 p.m.
dfg
w«3
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
National
Cash Register
Save and Make for You
in a Few Years.
You don’t understand why?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. ITS MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
[jational Cash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
EW
Electricity Poured into Your
Body
You
Sleep
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
WILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Pr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts; to
such men Electricity and the Re-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
'MM •¥'
m
Ns
5«
N
%
O
as
fl
vw
i
p%vffy
7''
X
uWI 1
Mi
a
y<
-vvs
-
£- V«.T . V/T
TT FILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. "While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BODY BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles £1
a® Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not, let
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
Call or
Apply:
OWL
CUT
RATE
Cut-Bate Price List Post Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


THE MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
“ Runs easy, and keeps running easy.’
Factories—Toronto, Canada New South Wales Headquarters-Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Bydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 885 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and Ho.w to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
THpfll Tvro Pmr RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
AUCtU Ayre L<Oy., and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
What a difference there is in women? The
actual number of years they have lived seems to
have little to do with their looks. Some women
at 45 look and act younger than others at_ 30.
Their eyes are brighter, their complexions fairer,
and there are not nearly so many wrinkles. Old
Father Time deals gently with a healthy woman,
but when a woman is run down with ailments
peculiar to her sex she ages fast. The wrinkles
come early. The roses in the cheeks vanish, and
an unwholesome pallor spreads over her features.
She becomes nervous ; she loses flesh, and drags
about in a most miserable state of body and mina.
Such a sick woman needs Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. “More than two years ago I began
to suffer from acute indigestion. From the
beginning of feeling out of sorts, this ailment
attacked me very severely, the ailment soon de-
veloped into debility, and I became thin and run
down,” writes Mrs. D. Byrant, Fitzroy, Victoria.
“I bought various medicines, but none of them'
acted up to their stated qualities, and then I went
to several doctors (at various times), thinking they
might understand my complaint and be better
able to treat it; but the medicines they pre-
scribed for me did not have the desired result.
Then I went on living what I might call a life of
misery, thinking that time alone could cure me,
or end me, when 1 was advised to try Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. This I did, always eager to
get something, in the hope that it might prove the
right thing. And in getting this valuable remedy
it proved the right thing, for it began to cure me
from the first dose, and every day afterwards I
felt better than the day before. People 1 knew
remarked how very well I was looking. My
cheeks filled out, and my eyes lost their naggard
look, and my lost energy began to return, and
when 1 had taken three bottles of the pills I felt
that I was a well as ever I’d been in my life ; and
I am now quite cured.” They positively cure
biliousness, indigestion, dyspepsia, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
and blotches, a perfect blood purifier, and for
female ailments they stand alone as womans’ best
friend. Hold by chemists and storekeepers, price,
Is. lid per bottle, or six bottles (is. (id. Sole pro-
prietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Austra-
lasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are
packed in amber bottles, and full name blown
thereon.*
hd
AN AUSTRALIAN MISTAKE^
When RED BIRD BICYCLES are mentioned, you whistle
“Yankee Doodle.” That is because you don’t know. The RED BIRD is
not a Yankee, but the best wheel manufactured, sold, and ridden under the
British flag.
Made in Brantford, Canada, the RED BIRD is a colonial
machine, specially suited to colonials.
Call in at our Showroom, and we are only too pleased to show
you the famous 1900 Model.
The Goold Bicycle Co.,
64 King Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Weights for V.R.C. Hurdle and Steeple are
pretty much what was expected. Wait-a-Bit, who is
jumping satisfactorily at Ballarat, is asked to carry 12.5
in the hurdles, and last year’s winner, Valdis, has risen
211bs. in the handicapper’s estimation. Mysore, in the
steeple, is also 211bs. higher than when he carried his 9st.
of Domino and won the race. On paper
the backers of the same double event have a chance to
bring it off again, but of the two Mysore, now a 6-vear-
old, looks the more likely to duplicate his win. The
downing of Domino last year was a respectable perform-
ance, and 10.7 is not a big weight for a born jumper with
? , . steeplechase to his credit. Mysore, with good
luck, will go near to doing the Daimio trick for the Mani-
fold stable.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—ln last issue an excited “ Red-
rof declares, with emphasis, “ Carbine did not go off in
ms fourth season,” which sounds about as relevant as the
statement by Mr. F.’s aunt(“ Little Dorritt”) that there
are milestones on the Dover Road. Whoever can have
said that Carbine “went off” for good in his fourth
season? What is “ Redrof ” driving at ? By-the-way, the
great horse had some trouble with his teeth and his feet
in the early part of his fourth season. Abercorn beat him
for the Melb. Stakes, Bravo beat him for the Cup, and on
the last day of V.R.C. Spring Meeting he was un-
placed in the Canterbury Plate-the only unplaced run
he ever made. But at Randwick in ' the following
autumn the horse was himself again, and he won the
Sydney Cup (for the second time) with 9.9 up.—E.F.
• Yic ;, heavy-weight Mo—alleged leader of Yio.
nng Alf. Josephs, is “at ’Onie ” now, too far off to be
interviewed, so he interviews himself for the benefit of
hungering Australians, and proceeds, per medium of
letters intended for publication, to unburden his mighty
mind on turf matters “down under.” (How nauseating
press interviews with “Mr. Josephs "-before and after
Melb. Cups and upon all important matters connected
with turf —did become!) Some of Mr. Josephs'
latest :—The English ring have been getting a bad
time, favorites have been winning with monotonous
regularity, and Mr. Josephs never saw such a succes-
810n ~ victories by well-backed horses. Joe Thompson,
ion Harry Hart (bookie-partners) dropped
£20,000 at fair fielding in a fortnight. Betting opera-
tions enormous there is a betting-race 4 on the course ’
every day in the week equal to Melb. Cup. The prof,
backer here knows more than the bookmakers.” says the
ponderous “ Alf.” Writer can’t let this pass. The prof,
backer only needs to know as much as the books to drop
his end of the game and take up Mo’s. Mr. Josephs says
that good horses are more numerous in England than
Australia ; this is indeed a sensation. He wasn’t “ taken
with the P. of W.’s champion Diamond Jubilee, which is
unfortunate, seeing what doughty deeds the nag has done
since Mr. J. penned his letter. Our racecourses are cen-
turies ahead of those in England, but our riders are
stones ” inferior to Eng. jocks. Mr. J. isn’t in love with
the music-halls, and says you can get as good a show and
more comfort in Sydney for half the money. Biggest
staggerer of all: it costs Mr. Josephs, at his hotel “ a
rinea a minute and 3s. 6d. to look at the waiter.” Alfred
finishes up nicely to the effect that Lord Ilopetoun has
invited him to his estate in Scotland.
* * * *
Owner of Yellow and Black got a knock at
Warwick Farm (Sydney) last week. Ultimate winner
(Gozoetta, at 15 to 1) of the big handicap, when near the
finish, ran over from centre of course to outer rails
carrying Y. and B. and Delusion across, and palpably
marring their chances. Looked a guinea to a gooseberry
? I j 8e j on ,?
lodged the protest with secretary instead of with judge
and ere the error could be rectified the horses were
weighed-m, which, according to rule, invalidated protest
Yellow and B. was well backed ; Gozoetta only carried a
stray pound or so, so there was joy in Mo’s camp.
* * * *
A peculiarity of Sydney race-goers is the idea
that anything coming out of “ Ike ” Earnshaw’s stable is
a hummer.” At Warwick Farm, week before last,
Marama was well backed, but ran nowhere; and on
Saturday, at Moorefield, she started a hot favorite and
was beaten out of a place. Another heavy blow to the
public at Moorefield was the defeat of Centurion in the
Writer On his running at Warwick Farm, punters
thought him the best of good things, and his price was
never more than even money. Hall Caine jumped out of
the machine and never gave anything else a chance.
• * * *
Prominent Sydney turf scribe
who has the walls of his den covered with tickets in
4 Tatt.’s ” sweeps, costing from £1 down to ss. Thought
that unique, but the parlor of an Adelaide pub. has 1640
on its walls, cost of which is averaged at 6s. 9d. each or
a total of £471 10s.
* * * *
“ Amb. G.” : Recently took advantage of race-
day excursion to inspect a N.S.W. South Coast town.
Sauntered to the back of the course and seated myself
amongst the bushes to await next event. Presently it
came. There were four in it, and they came into my line
of vision with two about 50 yards behind the other pair
and all going strong. As the leading jock, got abreast of
me he turned in his saddle and yelled to his neighbour
“Come on, it’s no d d use me tryin’.” In justice to
him I must say he did not try, for his heart was so tender
that he applied neither whip nor spur.
• • • •
Darkness set in just as the last trot was being
got off at South Wairarapa (M.L.) lately, and a steward
was posted at the entrance to the straight. Most of the
neddies galloped until they came to him, and then
sedately settled into a trot. Winner paid a div. of £B4 4s
(10s. tickets). In fact, it was the only ticket on him. In
same race last year, singularly enough, there wasn’t a
ticket registered on the winner. One was presented
afterwards, but wasn’t paid, law proceedings resulting
Div. then was £B5.
* * * * |
A Maoriland jockey, who just missed victory
t’other day, told the judge that he had made a proper
bloomer; that his (the jock’s) horse should have been
placed first. The astonished official got the youngster a
month for his temerity.
• • • •
The average “bookie” is very valorous at skin-
ning the lamb. Several of him went to Gatton (Q.) race-
meeting, but wouldn’t stay when the gloaming arrived.
Said the neighbourhood “ wasn’t too good 1 ”
* » • *
So two Australian horses have been “placed”
for the coveted “Ascot Gold Cup”—Merman first
and the Grafter third. It is quite certain that we
never saw anything like the best of Merman here. He is
now, at seven years old, one of the stoutest horses in Eng-
land, and always requires watching over courses that
need stamina.
* * * *
The big attendance at the Buttan Singh-Pagel
wrestlin-match, at Melbourne, argues a revival of interest
in the game. Pagel is a 22-year-old German giant, not
more than sft. lOin., but a man beside whom the best-
built heavyweights of the day look mere slabs. He is also
as graceful as he is muscular ; and with his lithe, brown
femininely-constructed opponent, made a statue-group of
Hercules and Omphale. Pagel looked as if he could catch
hold of the darkey and tear him to bits, and probably he
could have done so had Buttan given him the chance.
But the Hindoo was too wily, and his cat-like play ended
in his cleverly twisting the German’s shoulders to the
floor, and gaining the first fall. After the rest the supe-
rior tactics of the darkey were even more apparent and
the white man’s burden became heavier every minute ;
eventually Buttan got Pagel’s foot in chancery, and’
levered it down until he threw up the sponge to avoid a
broken ankle.
• * * •
The victory of the comparatively-obscure Hin-
doo hawker over his white opponent opens the question
whether the mighty Caucasian knows anything whatever
about the game Of wrestling as understood by the brown,
man of the Orient. The little Bst. Japs showed points to
the best Melbourne amateurs during the recent
war-ship visits. The conduct of both Buttan and
the hundred or so turbaned barrackers who turned
up to support him belies the general belief in the
placid fatalism of the Oriental. Instead of murmuring
“ Kismet,” Buttan whooped wildly and danced about the
middle of the ring, while the Hindoos in the body of the
hall arose, waving their turbans and howling with glee.
Despite the fact that Pagel was a foreigner and Buttan a
British subject like themselves, the white crowd’s sym-
pathies were all with the big man, and they dispersed
wondering how on earth the dashed nigger did it. Pug
“ Starlight ” was among the interested spectators, and
the mass of people wondered whom he barracked for.
* » • *
Some authorities allege that ’rastler Buttan Singh
was long a champion in India, and won 82 out of 85 contests.
He weighs 12.7 in trim, strips lithe and sinewy as a panther,
with hard bunches of muscle on arms and back. Buttan
looks the catch-as-catch-can wrestler all over. Indian
wrestlers are becoming thick. Gunga Brahm is also in
Melb. and may be matched against Buttan Singh shortly.
At Coolgardie lately Massa Smgh, said to be very clever,
won two falls in I7min. work from Abe Pickup, the erst-
while Newcastle (N.S.W.) miner-wrestler. Ned Pickup
(always better than Abe) will probably take the Sikh on—
and get licked, though not as easily.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: Strong man Pagel isn’t a
rastler at all ; he doesn’t know enough of the game to
keep himself warm. At Sydney St. Pat.’s Day sports, in
’9B, he competed in a wrestling event under the name of
illiams,” and met Harry Dunn, who had been drinking
beer for days previously. “ Williams ” won by sheer
brute strength. Dunn hadn’t condition enough to last
smin., and ultimately gave in, played-out. Writer
wouldn’t inind wagering his all that Pagel (who isn’t 24
yet) can lift a bigger weight than any other strong man
in Australia. Saw him put up 2101 b. with one hand
easily, and tested the weight on accurate scales after-
wards. On same occasion (a private exhibition) Pagel,
while hanging by his calves from a trapeze, lifted a good-
sized pony with his teeth by means of a leather strap
fastened round the animal’? girth. At that time (only
two or three years ago) Pagel was employed in a Sydney
restaurant.
* • * *
Tim Hegarty never showed his cleverness to
better advantage than in his last week’s fight with Cullen,
at Melb. Vic. Hall, and he never had more reason to show
it. He scored off Cullen early in the fight, -but was
steadied by some heavy swings that would have ended the
contest had they landed properly. A dozen times Cullen
seemed to have him in a hole from which there was no
escape, but Hegarty always dodged into the safety of a
clinch until, in 17th round, he was able to send out his
opponent with a downward chop on the chin. Cullen has
little science and relies upon rushes and hard-hitting ;
he is a blacksmith week-days and has been fighting as a
pro. since he was 15. Hegarty’s blows are not forceful,
and his strength consists almost wholly in avoiding
punishment. His offer to take on any man up to 9.7 has
been accepted by Jack M'Gowan.
* • * •
Dusky-hued Starlight and stocky Fred Preston
had another go in Melbourne, Saturday night, before a
big house. They roughed, wrenched and Tastled, giving
Referee Virgoe a hot time. Preston did most execution,
banging the left in often and heavily on the darkey’s weak
spot—ribs. Starlight’s sponge went up in round B—a
bone in his left hand had been broken. “ Star’s ” long
sojourn abroad and consequent acquirement of “don’t-
cherknow ” and other affectations have smoothed off all
the rough necessary for a fighter’s make-up. Given the
lean, gawky black as he was in the days of Foley’s White
Horse gym.—or a few years later—men of Preston’s calibre
would have no right in the ring with him. In Saturday’s
fight the black fouled repeatedly, and should have been
outed by the referee in the first round. Altogether, the
contest was an unedifying spectacle.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: Downfall of the erame Polish
Hebrew fighter Choynaki and Jim Corbett in successive
months at the lianas respectively of sailor Sharkey and
Jim Jeffries, who recently fought that gruelling fight for
the world’s fistic supremacy, recalls the first meeting
between Ohoynski and Corbett— on a barge near Benicia
(Cal.) 11 years ago. It was a slaughtering struggle of over
27 rounds. In the hurry but one pair of gloves (20z.) had
been brought. Someone produced a pair of driving-
gloves and Corbett allowed his opponent to use these
while he took the others. Corbett won ; both were
knocked about badly.
• » * *
E.M.C.G. (Masterton): Sandow is a native of
Konigsberg (Germany).
♦ » * »
From Yankee files it would seem that Griffo is
still far from being dead. He went to the Springs at
West Baden, Indiana, pulled himself together in style,
and cut even with Tommy White (one of ’Murka’s
cleverest light-weights) in a six-round go. The mar-
vellous recuperative powers of the brilliant Sydney
Rocks development may pull him through and put him
on top again if he keeps straight, for he’s still a young-
ster.
• » • *
“Phormi ”: I knew intimately Christchurch
tobacconist Simpson (recently mentioned as being Sydney
boxer Cribb’s father), and with extensive circus and gym-
nasium experience I never met anyone with such extra-
ordinary natural strength—of which, however, he never
made any parade, being the kindest and best-natured of
giants, wrapped up in his “ babies,” as he called them,
and quite devoid of the financial acumen of his race. Re-
member a half-drunken Scotchman insultingly asking
him once why he didn’t fire him (the Scotchman) out of
the shop, to which replied Simpson—“ Once, when I was
a very young man, I squeezed a man so hard that for a
long time he appeared to be dead, and it gave me such a
fright that I never laid a hand on anyone since.”
* * • *
No man well up in the game uses the term “on
form ” when arguing out the prospective chances of one
pug. against another. As a rule, fighting is the one
branch of sport wherein form isn’t at all a reliable guide.
If there was anything in form, feather-weight champion
of the world M’Govern would be as good a man as heavy-
weight champion of the world Jeffries : for M‘G. beat
George Dixon, who defeated Erne. Erne accounted for
Lavigne, who scored over Walcott; Walcott downed Ohoyn-
ski, and Ohoynski has a draw with Jeffries to his credit.
* ♦ » ' •
Now that the English XI. has abandoned its
Australian tour for next season it is probable that an
Australian team will visit S’Africa to play a series of
matches. The biggest “ gate ” would be in Johannesburg.
Immediately after the death of the late Frank
Grey Smith, President of Melb. O.C. and gen. manager of
the National Bank, Melb. Argus printed that M. 0.0. com-
mittee was about to offer the vacant presidential chair to
Acting-Gov. Madden. This statement proved false, and
the committee were angry, for it was never proposed to
offer the position to His Waxellency, who is not even a
member of the club. Of the two V.P.’s, H. C. A. Harri-
son, erstwhile champion hurdler of the province and ex-
Registrar-General, and J. M’Laughlin, solicitor, the choice
might have gone to the former had he been sufficiently
popular ; and the latter could not in justice be appointed,
as he is junior to Mr. Harrison as a V.P. Perhaps this is
why the committee conferred the honor on Mr. R. Mur-
chison, local manager of the Bank of N.S.W., a club
member whose disposition is perhaps as unobtrusive as
that of his predecessor.
* » • •
The tiresome cable sends news of Ranji making
a couple of “ double century ” innings against Somerset-
shire, which is merely another notification of the county’s
awful weakness in bowling. Time that the cable dropped
the subject of English batting performane .'S in these
county matches. Australia doesn’t want to be thrilled by
the thought of how a dark gentleman had two big
helpings of “ tripe ” in one match, but they can let us
know when a new English bowler does anything remark-
able on a hard wicket
• * • •
Cabled news that Australian amateur rep.
(Stan. Rowley) was second (18in. behind winner) in a
100yds. handicap at Glasgow last week, run in lOsec., is
very satisfactory. Rowley is sure to have been on scr.—
probably giving winner a start. This run is close up to
the best ever Rowley showed in public here, though ft is
asserted he has done much better privately. He could
not have been in the country above a week or two, and so
may be expected to improve later, particularly in the
British championships and Olympian games.
% • • •
Hunter River sculler George Towns, who has
been hanging round in hope of luring world’s premier
Jake Gaudaur out of his hole at Rat Portage, seems dead
out of luck. A year ago his ribs were badly smashed
through a collision in practice, and it looked as if he’d
never sit in a boat again, but he survived and became fit.
Now word comes that Towns got a serious chill and was
again laid up iust as a match between him and Shoal-
haven (N.S.W.) flier Wray for the Eng. championship
seemed imminent. Towns has had such a parlous time
one way and another that he’ll probably die S he doesn’t
get home quick. Sullivan, the M.L. sculler, also in
London, pulled through his turn of blood-poisoning and
was coming along well when last mail left
• • • *
Forty-year-old sculler George Bubear, who
was out in Australia years back, has been heard from.
Most people thought him dead. He offers to scull
anyone-bar Jake Gaudaur—on the Thames for a big
stake, provided he gets one length start for each year that
acceptor of challenge is younger than he. Would he have
a hope with our whilom top-notch old ’uns—Bill Beach
(50), Peter Kemp (47), M'Lean (43), or Nielson (41)? Any
man of them could give resurrected George lengths and a
licking.
* • • •
Arrangements for Sydney 20th-century regatta
—Jan. 26, next year—were completed Monday. Events
to be open to all Australia. Prize-money totals £Bl3
£513 for sailing and £3OO 14s. for rowing-races. If more
money be available—and this is expected—it will be
divided in the proportion of 3to 5. Each approved in-
terprovincial crew will be allowed £lO towards exes.
• * ♦ *
Cabled that N.S.W. swimmer Fred. Lane went
under to world’s champion-sprinter Derbyshire at Bir-
mingham last week. Race was over 150vds. for Midland
Counties’ supremacy. The Englishman finished a yard to
the good in 1.40. The time indicates that both were in
great buckle.
* • • •
Billiard - match between Australian premier
Fred Weiss (of N.S.W.) and Smith (Vic.), for £l§o aside,
in Melb., created a big stir among cueists. Weiss con-
ceded 2000 in 10,000, and was expected to win handily
but Smith surprised everyone. Game was up-and-down-
one day Weiss would get to the front, and then Smith
would assert himself. Smith was a 10 to 8 on favorite
Weiss shaped excellently right through, but had bad luck'
notably when he put up 358, and seemed like making a
record for the provinces. A miss-cue stopped it. Smith's
improvement surprised Weiss. His average one afternoon
was 44, and on other occasions from 28 to 32. Match
ended Monday night, Smith winning by 115 points. When
play started that day, Smith’s score stood 9001, Weiss’
8726. Before adjourning for dinner Smith had compiled
9501 and Weiss 9284. Smith's best breaks were 91, 72 65
and Weiss’ 113, 92, 62. In the evening Smith shaped well’
making 146 in one break ; Weiss’ best was 117. Score was
Smith 9951 when Weiss gave up the cue, and Smith easily
made the other 49 in an unfinished break.
* • * »
“Rook”: Bulletin par. (2/6/’00) re Massy-
Eales pigeon-shooting match. Massy thinks he can win if
given another chance, and has posted £5O for matches at
Yass and Newcastle or Sydney—or one at Sydney alone.
Probable that N.S.W. championship, held by Massv
will be thrown-in this time.
* * • •
Auckland (M.L.) Society for Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals had recently a go at the pigeon-
shooters, but Brabant, S.M., held that these competitions
are legal, though, as a question of sentiment, lie person-
ally disapproved of pigeon-slaughter.
* * * *
Gen. Sec. Wynne’s report last week as to the
shakiness of N.S.W. League of Wheelmen was no surprise
to most people—the structure has long been sick. Cause,
internal troubles—old-womanish wrangling, constant
bickering, and petty jealousies. Only combined effort—
apparently impossible under present conditions—can
avert the impending collapse. But just now most cycling
governing bodies are broken up or on the verge of it.
Vic. League is reconstructing, U.S. League is but a
memory, the Internat. Cycling Assn, has a foot in the
grave, and the ALL. institution looks like pegging-out.
It seems, too, that all are cases of suicide.
* • • •
The Vic. bike pusher who lately admitted
in the witness-box that he had ridden “ stiff,” has been
disqualified by the L.V.W. for six months. Open confes-
sion is good for the soul, but bad for the biz.
* * » *
Professional pedestrianism appears likely to have
a new lease of life, and under good auspices. Mr. Wm.
Hunt, of Kelso’s Hotel, Oxford-street, Sydney, advertises
a Botany Handicap to be run on the world-famed tracks at
the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel, Botany, on Aug. 24 next.
The prize-money is £lOO, and a big entry is reasonably
expected. Mr. Hunt is well known in the sport, having
been secretary to Mr. M. J. Moroney, both at Newcastle
and the Carrington grounds, and an old ped. himself. A
strong committee has been formed and a resolution
declared that any man found guilty of running a bye will
be ruthlessly “ passed out,” arid kept out. There’s ample
opening for good, clean sport in this line, and, so far, every-
thing promises to be conducted in a fashion that will
preclude the crook business which killed the game in the
early nineties.
• • * *
The Warnambool to Melbourne road-race (168
miles) is to be held at the latter end of October. The
prizes will be cash—£2s first, £lO second, and £5 third,
presented by the promoters, Messrs. Bennett, Wood and
Roche, Melbourne. A valuable gold medal will be pre-
sented by the Dunlop Tyre Co. to the rider establishing
fastest time. A bonus of £1 will also be given to every
rider who finishes the course in 10 hours, prize-winners
excepted. Single pacing only allowed, motor pacing de-
barred. The race—a handicap one—will start from the
Town Hall, Warrnambool, and finish at the Haymarket,
Melbourne.


-1
r&i
'A
\P-
t
•VM
DERBY Tobacco wins,
because on account of its
matchless qualities it has
the largest sale of any
Tobacco in the Southern
Hemisphere.
DERBY
WINS!
WHAT?
TfERBY Tobacco
WINS
RESPECT
because it is always evenly
excellent in manufacture.
CUSTOM
because it is of superb
flavour. . . .
FRIENDS
because after you have
smoked it you don’t want
any other brand.
The MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY
N.S.VV. Lancers’ Brooch, with Enamel Flags.
IN SOLID GOLD. Price 18/0.
3=>
GOLD Lee-Metford Cartridge Brooches. Price 11/6.
Gold Lee Metford Rifle Brooch. Price, 6/0.
187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
Latest War Souvenirs.
MAFEKING’S HERO.
Baden-Powell
Gold Pendants. Price 7/6.
In Silver, 2/-
GOLD Lee Metford Cartridge
Charms or Gold Pins. Price 6/0.
1 nnn
I UUU
Different Gold
war Souvenirs
to Choose'from at 187
Pitt Street.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Numbers of readers possibly do not know
that Scrubb & Co.’s Cloudy Fluid Ammonia is
useful for many other purposes than one’s bath,
especially for taking the stains out of hunting
clothes and for cleaning leathers, whilst it is also
used very extensively in many stables for remov-
ing rust from grey horses, as well as for washing
dogs.*
What has become of those Pretoria
“forts”? Did they ever exist except in the dis-
ordered fancy of the war correspondents ? Roberts
doesn’t seem to know anything about ’em—hasn’t
even mentioned them in his report. And the
alleged great array of modem guns which defended
Pretoria were mostly absent. The explanation
now given is that there once were some big guns
for the defence of Pretoria, but Joubert had to
strip the batteries and leave the town defenceless
in order to hold his own against Buller.
Rev. Geo. Walters to Bulletin :
In a recent issue, some correspondent has secured the
insertion of a par. concerning myself which is generally
incorrect, and in one particular absolutely false. Refer-
ring to a remark by Miss Spence in her Sunday address at
the 1.0.0. F. Temple, your correspondent says :
“Amidst the storm of applause which this observa-
tion evoked, Miss Spence smiled blandly all round,
while the flabbergasted Walters remonstrated
feebly with ‘ Hush! Hush ! this is a Church! ’
The simple fact is that, when Miss Spence said the war
might have been avoided by arbitration, I was not on the
platform but in the choir-seats, and I did not utter one
word, nor did I by the least sign or movement show either
approval or disapproval. This fact will indicate the value
of the par. as a whole.—Yours, Gf.orgif Walters. Aus-
tralian Church.”
[W ill, of course, not undertake to assert, in face
of Mr. Walters’denial, that he said the words com-
plained of. But somebody did most distinctly
to the hearing of self and of friends consulted
since. There may have been that error as to iden-
tity, but otherwise the account of the incident as
a whole is strictly accurate.— The Writer of the
Par.]
The prevailing tendency to put a bullet
into something at long range accounts for the
publication of a Rifle Register bv Sands and
M‘Dougall, of Melb. The natty little red-covered
booklet appears to have been compiled with the
greatest care to insure accurate information in all
particulars relating to riflo shooting. It deals
principally with the Marfcini-Enfield and Lee-En-
field rifles ‘303 and will certainly be useful to all
amateur enthusiasts who have joined dubs for the
purpose of smiting the bull’s-eye. But is it loyal
to fire at a Bull’s eye these times ? Better to cal
it Boer’s eye.*
The Chamberlain compromise in the
Federal Bill is considerably agitating the minds of
delegates and ministries, although thusfar no one
seems to have made themselves ill worrying over
it. Why should they? There is always plenty to
hand to fume over without any seoking. In fact,
life is so largely made up of worrying about trifles
“of fretting our hour upon the stage,” that, to
meet .the huge demands made upon the vital foroe,
Providence provides (per medium of M'Lean Bros,
and Rigg,) a Primus Chief Stove to help manu-
facture abundant energy by perfeot cookery.
These stoves cost only a trifle to work and bestow
unlimited happiness upon those using them. Send
for catalogue, or call and see them working.
M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Elizabeth-st., Melbourne;
George-st., Sydney; Murray-st., Perth.*
That settles it ! The popularity of
amateur photography is bound to have a good
innings now the fair sex have engaged it so freely.
It is a sign of good taste ; ladies always have good
taste, and this has led them to Harrington and
Co., Ltd., in King-street, where they found
numerous kinds, grades and sizes of cameras at all
prices from ss.—yes, from ss. to £5O. And, bless
the dears, if their choice wasn’t superb. They
ohose a Folding Pocket Kodak fitted wibh high-
grade lens, elegant in design, neat and compact—
to be sure very compact and simple in extreme.
That settles it 1*
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
00., Limited, report, for week ended June 16th, is to the
effect that marsupial skins were in only moderate supply,
witli a spirited market. Prices, although not quotably
higher, showed a firmer tendency. Bright silvery bear-
skins, in strong request; "possums, very keen ; while best
grey kangaroos made up to 42£d., best reds to 60d.; walla-
roos, to 30d.; scrub wallabies, to 19Jd.; swamp wallabies,
26d.; best Monaro grey ’possums, to 14s. 3d. per doz.; best
Monaro reds, 11s. 9d. per doz. ; mountain blacks, 21s. 6d.
per doz. The co.’s large catalogue of horsehair, horns,
etc., topped the market with 22Jd. for horsehair and 14£d.
for washed cowhair. Horns were poor. Bones irregular;
but glue stock went strong up to £26 165., for choice
sinews ; dehaired hide pieces, up to £23 6s. Owing to
London quotations, the sheepskin market was irregular.
Prime pelted, free lots, kicked the beam as highly as last
week, but faulty and indifferent parcels were sniffed at,
and generally fell Jd. Choice full-wools, from 7Jd. to Bd.
per lb. ; half-growths, 6Jd. to 7d. Hides were in big
supply and mostly “ sloppy,” and were only got rid of at
a drop of id. per lb. In London, tallow has slipped down
another 20s. per ton, and, in sympathy therewith, Friday’s
sales showed the same, and sometimes a greater, decline.
The London slump is due to a glut from America, and
there is no prospect of any immediate recovery'.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
BOTflliy HMIDICIIP,
ioo sovs.
Distance,
130yds.
To be run on Friday Afternoon, Aug' 24.
Nomination, 10s.; Acceptance, 10s.
NOMINATIONS, Wednesday, Bth August; HANDICAPS,
Monday, 13th August ; ACCEPTANCES, Tuesday, 21st
August, 1900. Entry Forms and full particulars may be
obtained from the undersigned.
WILLIAM HUNT,
Kelso’s Hotel, Oxford-street, Sydney.
“ A TRIP TO THE RACES/’
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new-tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “ Duck ’’ brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines fol launehes,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, pointing and
general power, from 1 h.p. tosoh.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is'King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pose
Office.
Proprietor
GKO. W. KIiLIS.
At Poverty Point.
Little Beaumont Read, aged 72, in still singing pathetic
alto ballads—chiefly in South Australian provinces. Mar-
vellous to say, his voice remains clear as a bell.
Demise —William Marshall, Melb. theatrical printer,
guide, counsellor, and friend of the pro. He made one
think of a benevolent Jew, Boaz, in an old play. Said
Boaz, “ I lozes, and I lozes, and yet I goes on lending.”
So with Marshall’s faith in the Thespian on the Road.
Apropos Sydney civic incident of alderman and organist
—whose music “nearly made the butcher-alderman
vomit.” “ Vy, zat fellow,” said the poor organist, “I do
buy me my meat from him, und he do not know ze
sonata from ze sausage.”
J. C. Williamson has probably made more money than
any man living out of a “ Dutch ” character —to wit
“ John Stofel." By the way, Williamson’s cable address
is “ Stofel.”
Arnold has certainly got hold of a very promising actor
in Frank Denham. The novice, quite a youngster, plays
a Scotch yokel part in “ The Professor’s Love Story,” and,
although his low-comedy resources are limited as yet, the
performance, coming after his bright gentlemanly work
in “ Jones,” shows him to be versatile.
“.Barber” : Have you npticed how Sydney women
follow the hair-dressing of the imported woman mum-
mer? Bernhardt’s well-dressed coppery crop ; Brown-
Potter's wind-blown chevelure ; Trip-to-Chinatown
girls’ door-knocker bang. Nance O’Neil is the latest
mode. Just gather the hair up like an armful of straw,
and fasten it anyhow. A black gin could do it, and the
women who are copying Nance’s style look exactly aq if
they slept in their hair.
The first division of Fitzgerald Bros’, new 00. will reach
Townsville (Q.) at the end of the month. They promise
to be a taking assortment. Three trapezists (including a
pretty woman), a pair of horizontal-bar gymnasts, Cicero,
who walks a wire and turns somersaults on a tight-rope
(like Caicedo of yore), and Rhodesia, the lady-juggler.
The enthusiastic Tom fairly breaks the dictionary in his
attempt to find adjectives of praise for Rhodesia. She is
a beautiful woman, he vows—he says she does all Cinque-
valli’s tricks, and a great deal more, but that must be
Rats ! A second shipment of artists for the circus will
include some Russian dancers, and the well-known French
clown Gillaume, who works nowadays with a wonderful
dog. Another turn will be all dawg—plain Hungarian
dawg. And, as Tub Bulletin has already mentioned,
Adelina Antonia, the Roumanian lady who used to make
giddy descents into a net what time poor Peart, the diver,
was plunging into the fatal tank, will pay another visit
to Australia under the old management. A.A. is the
same shining star or even more so. Lately she
scored a particular success at St. Petersburg, ana the
Czar gave her a gold medal—for bravery in the air, or
for saving her own life, or something. Other people are
to follow these, writes Tom Fitzgerald, but the trouble of
getting them on reasonable terms is great. Unless they
happen to want to come to Australia for the sake of the
restful voyage, they shrug their shoulders and appraise
themselveB at £lOO a week, and higher. “ Salaries are
up.”
A certain pretty Australian actress has a black husband.
F. H. Pollock, now lessee of Adelaide Theatre Royal
hotel, will probably succeed Wybert Reeve in the
management of the theatre in Oct. Pollock, years ago,
was lessee of Adelaide Academy of Music, long since burnt
down, and he was treasurer for Allison when the latter
ran Adelaide Royal over 20 years ago.
See by the Era that Florence Lloyd is married to the
Hops who was dangling after her in Australia. Every-
one here, thought at the time that the fascinating Flo.
only had him “on a string.” Neither of the Hopes
shone on the stage—though all the Sydney girls (who had
heard rumours of their blue blood) declared they “ looked
such perfect gentlemen, and showed Charles R.vley up.”
So they did—the handsome, manly Charles looked thrice
manly between the languid gentlemen. Alas! poor
Ryley ! There never was, or will be again, such a wicked
smile, or such legs !
The Melbourne dailies—three of them—are now left
without one special correspondent in S’Africa. But the
Arous scores by having Donald Macdonald on the war-
path as a lecturer. He has left the paper pro tem., but
in his new capacity he is a more valuable representative
of the Tory organ than he would have been had he stayed
at the front. Under the circumstances, the Aqk and
Herald can tie ulmost excused for saying little or nothing
about the platform-successes of an Australian journalist.
Auguste Wiegand, almost immediately after being fired
out of his billet as Sydney city organist (largely at the
instigation of an alderman who sells meat, and who de-
clared, with the artistic knowledge invariably born of the
squeaks of dying swine, chops and sausages, that
Wiegarul's playing “almost made him vomit”) has re-
ceived from Belgium an order of knighthood in recogni-
tion of tiis great musical abilities. He holds two other
decorations granted on the same grounds, and three gold
medals from the Liege Conservatoire. He has also re-
ceived the offer of two highly-paid posts in the U.S., and
has arranged to give 20 organ recitals there next Sept.—
terms, £540. An order of knighthood may be a foolish
gewgaw, but when it is given in recognition of artistic
abilities that are known over a great part of Europe it
probably counts for at least as much as an order for lib.
of pork chops.
Very noticeable, just now, the alliterativeness of Sydney
show-announcements. “Briton and Boer”; “Woman
and Wine”; “Pirates of Penzance”; “Charles Clark,
Centenary”; and Talented Turns at the Tivoli. Is the
trail of the ghost of A. O. Taylor over them all?
G. L. Goodman had a kind of a birthday last Saturday,
it being the 20th anniversary of the day when he entered
on theatrical management in Sydney. He commenced at
the Royal with Arthur Garner, and has represented “ the
Firm ever since. The Firm has undergone many
changes since June, 1880, but it has been the same old
“ Goody ” all the time.
The litho. of Nance O’Neil, shown in Melb. windows,
looks very much like an imitation of a popular and much-
printed portrait of Miss Enid Wilson, the English beauty.
Nance is represented with her hair heaped comically on
top of her head, her eyes looking bossy and staring, and
her lips pursed,, either in the attitude of kissing, or of
blowing her coffee to cool it. There is also much chest
on show. But probably Nance can look like Miss Enid
Wilson when she tries ; only it must be very trying to
do it.
Clara Butt, the six-foot English contralto, is going to
be married. The height of Clara’s best boy is not men-
tioned in the announcements, but one may almost take it
for granted that he is half-a-foot shorter than the lady.
Hard for a giantess to resist the importunities of all the
little men who come a-wooing. And she is so hemmed-in
by them, as a rule, that a fellow of her own height can’t
get near enough for a few minutes’ conversation. The
Butt’s future husband is Kennerley Rumford, the eminent
(and wealthy) vocalist.
Heard at back of Melb. Royal dress-circle : “ Seen this
new play up at the Princess —‘ Professor Love’s Story,’ by
Han Barry ? ”
Long, lean Lord Londesborough died, the other week,
of general boredom and belated dissipation. He was the
lord who financed Boucicault’s extraordinary “ Bahil and
Bijou ” at Covent Garden Theatre in the early 70’s, and
who subsequently paid the piper for many a pretty
actress. Some of “ Londesborough’s girls” were real
acquisitions to the stage after they had gained experience
at his expense. Although the languid old johnnie was a
deplorable person from a strictly moral point of view, he
had his uses as a benefactor, and it can be said to his
credit that he never was known to quarrel with any angel
whom he had once—haw—loved. They simply parted
with many protestations of mutual esteem. Londes-
borough was too tiah’d to be otherwise than kind.
The new Melb. Opera House —the plans are practically
fixed at last —will have a striking frontage in Bourke-
street and a pleasing scarcity of steps to climb. The
stalls-entrance is to be a little below the ground-floor, say
half-a-dozen stairs down, and the dress-circle will go about
half-a-dozen stairs up, which ought to suit the large
number of people who jib at making wearisome ascents to
Rickards’ show in its present pitch. They reckon that
the Bijou’s narrow marble steps keep fully £3OOO a-year
from coming into the house.
Pianist Albert Friedenthal, who has been engaged to
give recitals at Paris Exhibition, sends word from Berlin
that he often meets little Fritz Mueller, and is much im-
pressed by the possibilities of that one-time Melb. pro-
digy. Also, the estimable Friedenthal, looking back with
a critical eye on his tour in these parts, says : “ I consider
Maoriland more musical than Australia. Take away the
large towns of Australia, like Melbourne, Sydney, Bris-
bane, Ballarat, Sandhurst —I consider also little Perth a
musical place—but what remains? Little or even fair-
sized provincial towns, but populated by kangaroos and
wallabies. Not one of them can come up m musical
intelligence and progress even to such little places in
Maoriland as Wanganui, Nelson, Invercargill, and others.
Even that large town of Adelaide is the most stupid place
imaginable. One hundred thousand kangaroos—no, par-
don me, a few dozen of white ravens amongst them.
What a peculiar zoological garden ! I cljpm it to be the
most unmusical place on earth, and I don’t speak only by
personal experience. I have found out that whenever a
decent musical affair has been a success in Adelaide, it
has been so through particular circumstances, like
patronage of certain people who went peddling with the
tickets.” Friedenthal seems to have picked up a lot of
information whilst travelling around with his grand
piano.
The Martinettis, at Sydney Tivoli, have awakened fresh
interest in the soul of the jaded theatre-goer. Lively
music, clever pantoniime, and delicate feature-play com-
bine vividly to work out to the audience a little dramatic
history. Present writer saw Jeanne May, the great
French pantomimic artiste, in “ L’Enfant Prodigue,” in
Ixmdon, where that piece ran for months to huge houses.
That story of Pierrot’s folly, punishment, and rehabilita-
tion, told in gesture was finely pathetic. Jeanne May
aforesaid has a play written round her pantomimic gifts
called “ Le Pauvre Petit,” in which she plays the part of
a boy rendered dumb by a mad scientific uncle, but who,
through the influence of love, is restored to speech. This
artist, though aided only by dumb show, generally scores
as against those who have the assistance of the spoken
word.
Shakespeare’s “ Pericles," a little-known play, was pro-
duced by John Coleman at the Stratford-on-Avon theatre
during the bard’s birthday commemoration week, and
was warmly received by the worshippers of that most
respectable author.
The revival of Gilbert and Sullivan’s early-day favorites
recalls that probably the best Dick Deadeye that ever
appeared on the Australasian stage was—tell it not in
Gath ! —Tas. ex-Premier, Edward N. 0. Braddon, long
before he dreamt of knighthood or the “ Blot.” ’Twas in
’79, and Braddon had not long taken his seat in Parlia-
ment when he conceived the notion of producing “ Pina-
fore ” for the first time in Vandemonia. There was always
fair musical strength in Hobart, and no difficulty was ex-
perienced in getting more than able amateurs together to
play for charity. Braddon painted all the scenery-
painted it well, too; stage-managed, bossed the orchestra,
re-arranged the scores, cast the parts, and, in fact, ran
the show. His own hornpipe was the feature of the
whole, and the performance was a huge financial success.
But it was understood that Braddon had to pay pretty
heavily afterwards to stop the “ Firm’s ” legal mouth on
the question of performing-rights.
Muzzy has got into Fiction. In Sims’s last budget of
theatrical yarns, George Musgrove attends a young
author’s premifere, slaps him on the back, and says,
“ There’s a gold-mine in it.” Which is, indeed, very like
George.
Dr. Goodby, of “ What Happened to Jones,” was first
cast as Lord Bishop of Ballarat, but the English censor
wouldn’t stand it. So they ohanged him into a theologi-
cal professor at Ballarat.
N.S.W. 001. Secretary See got into a
(Wesleyan) pulpit at Sydney t’other night, and
while expatiating on the glories of his great god.
Jingo, said :
In all the dispatches that had been received, either
from her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen or from the
Field-Marshal or his officers in connection with this war
—whether they related to reverses or successes —the
name of Almighty God had been used. (Continued
applause.) And he thought it was a good thing for any
country that this should be so.
Poor See! Why, the Spanish Inquisition, when
it fried a man, or scored his soles with a red-hot
rake, always “used the name of Almighty God.”
Westralia takes its Federal Referendum
on 31st July. The readiness with which both
W.A. Houses passed the Enabling Bill when
Premier Forrest slewed round and became a very
moderate Federalist was a revelation. When John
did his previous slew it was pleaded on his behalf
that he only did it because he found his party
wouldn’t accept the Convention Bill, but now it
would rather seem that the party was quite
willing to accept the Bill, and that it was Bigjohn
himself who dragged it into the paths of provin-
cialism. Bigjohn’s reputation for political liQnesty
thus suffers its 275th slump.
Deceased journalist Thomas Moser, for
years Parliamentary sketch writer for S.M.
Herald’s bantling, the Echo, began his Australian
career as private secretary of a Governor. Ex-
private secretaries of Governors are more
numerous in Australia than is generally supposed.
Every province has one, if not more, in com-
mercial employment or in the service of the State.
Not long ago N.S.W. had a pair of them, one being
Gov. Duff’s nephew, historiographer to N.S.W.,
and the other Insolvency-Registrar Henry, who
arrived as soc. to Gov. Belmore. Some Governors
have made the billet of private sec. irksome, if not
odious. Gov. Gipps was for a period without a
p.c. though inability to induce a person to accept
it with the indignities attached.
When the N.S.W Public Departments
were regraded in 1895, two officers (colleagues),
each in receipt of some £5OO a-year, were re-
trenched. In course of time, one received a per-
manent billet in the Treasury Department at
£250 a-year, while the other was employed else-
where as a temporary hand at 10s. per day. The
latter seemed much the worse off until last year.
The Pensions Act passed through Parliament last
session granted pensions to certain officers who
were debarred from drawing them under the old
Act, and, as a consequence, eaoh of the retrenched
servants was entitled to £250 a-year retiring-pen-
sion. Unluckily, the first officer forfeited his
claim by accepting further permanent employ-
ment, while the second, being but a temporary
hand, threw up the work and has the pleasure of
drawing £250 in idleness, while his old pal has to
work for the same salary.
Julian Ralph reached the high water-mark
of bad taste, even for him, in his description of
Cronje’s wife as she emerged from her husband’s
laager at the surrender. After holding up to ridi-
cule a woman old enough to be his mother, he
goes on to tell us, on the authority of “an ob-
servant officer,” that she had with her one of Lady
Sarah Wilson’s dresses. As no English officer
with Roberts could have seen Lady Sarah for
more than six months, this officer must indeed
have been a most observant man. The gallant
Julian goes on to remark : “I am an American,
not an Englishman.” It will hurt no manly
Britisher to know that the person capable of
sneering at and deriding as “bedraggled” the
brave woman who had just emerged from the
bloody shambles of the Modder River with all a
good wife’s misery eating at her heart, is not a
compatriot of his.
Very little has been heard of the state of
the Mafeking garrison beyond the announcement
(written by a Victorian a few weeks before the
relief) that the besieged were “ well and hearty ”
and didn’t care how long the siege lasted—which
tends to corroborate the previous news that the
Mafeking affair was rather a burlesque all through.
Between Baden-Po well’s force inside and Plumer’s
outside the enemies were so nearly equal that
Snyrnan was never able to quite cut off the garri-
son’s provision-supply, and even the mails never
wholly stopped. Apparently Baden-Powell could
have made his way out almost any time had he
chosen, but there was one sufficient reason why he
didn’t—there was no better place within easy reach
to go to. Baden-Powell was in much the same
situation as Premier Lyne. Lyne could burst out
of N.S.W. Treasury any day and escape into the
Domain and become a dosser if he wanted to —but
he doesn’t.
Gov. Beauchamp, speaking at Grafton,
complained of Barton’s endeavors to pass the
Commonwealth Bill intact through British Par-
liament and said that the objection to Privy
Council interfc once in constitutional cases was
really “a fight by a few lawyers.” Just here two
considerations rush past with the force of a loco-
motive. The first is that the only means of
gauging representative Australian opinion with
reference to the Privy Council is the referendum
on the Bill; and the people passed the Bill,
limiting P.C. appeals, by large majorities. The
second is that from an Australian point of view
Barton is representative of N.S.W. in London,
and the man who polled more votes than any other
delegate to the Federal Convention; while Gov.
Beauchamp is an Imperial figurehead, a constitu-
tional cipher—in a word, nobody.


Publications.
“SOLDIERS
QUEEN”
CHARMS.
Solid
Gold
Mounts
(Crystal
Glasses).
fg
PLAIN,
5/-
Hand-Painted in
Permanent
Colors,
6/6
Each Charm contains a Photograph of
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
And any one of the following “ Soldiers of the
Queen ”:
Lord Roberts
Major-General Baden-Powell
General Sir George White
General Sir R. Buller
General Lord Methuen
General Sir A. Hunter
General French
Major-General Macdonald
and others.
(POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.)
H. NEWMAN^
175 & 177 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
SKT A r DISEASES ..and..
"~r- —■ Their Treatment .
AONE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
THE SECRET SOCIETY, BY dr. hodgson, in
HODGSON’S TALES OF MEDICAL STUDENTS.
All Booksellers and Stationers.
W holes ale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co. Ltd., Syd*
Books. Booits. JEJ o oka.
TDOI’ULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £6 for £1 ss. The
x Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclqi>seciia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for '2 15s. Wt bsler’S Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only he procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sidney.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature Ims not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia w II supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. Y<*u can, the know edge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It. considers the whole tubject from the time y.*u
meet until you ivo are one. Valuable chanters also about
dress, nersoual appearance, cure for basiculness, and many
other thing* heretofore secrets. Reproduce ions of curious love
lettersaml FI FTKEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find dailv use for. 2s. (Id. <stainps,2d. extra),
will bring you the hook by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing
* 0.. Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.s.W. Mention this
paper when writing
SEN 1) FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
£SZ.
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Hook Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
LLUSTRATED
ir.I,XJSTRA.TEr)
hd
Address, PRIVATE,
■WITH numerous anatomical
” colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Medical.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills,
( Registered.)
THESE Famous Pills are now universally used thron- b
out the world, being: the most perfect combinati i
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison o
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. 6d. per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co.,
Druggists, 272 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
ROCNESTCR LOD<S€
con ns place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. ITCLELLAND,
Proprietress.
D.S .MAI R
g p
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
"REST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. {ST Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
6s 6d A Watch & Chain for 6s 6d
fgh
VV sold 4700 in
’’ 1899. To every
purchaser of one of
our 2s (id “Burmese”
Silver Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent.’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 4s extra,
an OPEN-FACE
FULL-DAY KEY-
LESS WATCH which
we guarantee a per-
fect timekeeper.
nru 1
.... . , mere are no con-
ditions or guessing about this watch. We send the watch
and chain registered (any colony) on receipt of postal note
for 6s 8d and Od for postage. We make this exl inordinary
offer merely to circulate our price-list and a ve tise the
quality of our goods. Watch and chain sent on approval •
if returned within 14 days, money refunded.
*"*■ POTIER & CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney.
AM.UBKMENT for OLD and lOUNQ. W
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Art ides
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Hook of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
J ish (#ives the definition of your character, very superior
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 Geor-e street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “ Prick Warung.” Paper covers,
193 pp. ; 6d.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRATAIS
FER BRATAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
I of the blood,and ena-
blingihi constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“ma» all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth "
SOI l> BY CHEMISTS AM THE WOULD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s, leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street. SYDNEY.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM ”
the;
DEAF
HEAR
O OMPLETELY restore the
_ Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. OHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
oiQ
DEAF
dfg
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, bruin & blood,
quickly & permanently re-tor-
ing to the sufferer the lost v in,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. I’riotposted, 7/6 Kocke,
fomnsitt & Co., Druggi ts, i. 92
Flinders-street W., Melbourne.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Sltin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatio Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rato.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART & GO.
' PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
hd
Our Suit to order at 42«,
Li marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds. Vi-
cunas. or Serges, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3s- To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12*. tfd.
Dress Suits, to measure.
£5. Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £.».
Rid ng Breeches, 255.
Riding Habits. Ac.
We supply ready-made
Ren’s Capital Tweed Suita
215., 255.
. Famous Ballarat Berge
\ uits. Indigo dye, 255.
Lon* Chesterfield Coats
nil colors. 30*.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5» lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s 6d,
Tweed Overcoats. 21s.
W. terproof Coats, full
capes 15s 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2s. 6d., 3s. 4>d.
4". lid.. 5«. 6d.
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs Ills 6<1.« 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
sa. 6d.,7*. 6d. TravefHasr
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Flats,
4s. 4»d., all colors.
Hard Hals,4s. 6d,
Gups, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
fants Is 9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors, Is. White -hirts to measure.
Gents' Bplendid Balmoral Boots. 6s. 9d.. 9s. fid.
We like to write letter*, so don’t he afraid to a*k for any
information. Our book. “The Philosophy of Oress." and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
n
71
a
Brandt Bros.’
KEROSENE
ROOM WARMER
(Registered).
No Bmoke. No Smell.
This heat radiator with
asbestos cone (fives a red
(flow, and will warm a
room in a few minutes,
and hy removing the top
cover a kettle can be
boiled upon it.
It is made to fit a
Jupiter or Primus Stove.
Heijfht, 18in.; Diameter,
lOin.; Weijfht, 41b.
PRICE: Made in Sheet
Steel, 16s ; Brass, 25s ;
“Primus” Stoves, 9s 6d
and 10s Od; Jupiter
Stoves, 12s tki extra.
Kerosene Bath Heaters
heat a flow of water in-
stantly. You can fix
them yourself, £3 15s
each.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
238 Pltt-Btreet, Sydney,
and 422 Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne.
V
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Trice, 10s. 6«1.
fg
“ I'll Try It." Solk Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George- st.. Sydney
JUlenburgs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing: nourishment suited to the crowing: digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
AHenburys”
Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
Similarly adapted to the second three months of llle.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Alien & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
m
v
v;v
L l ;' I ,1
i ' - 'Wm
rrumniw'
mmm.
, .-
:;Y ••#
.4; ; > . ■* i' ?
* *• ~w *-r-
-->
, ;■
. '
The COOLALTA VINEYARDS, from a. Photograph,
Lightest Wines in Australia.
J. A. WILKINSON
Offices :
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAGUE and other Fevers.
Take a Hot Bath daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
wards; apply Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing,
Handkerchief, and take 4 drops on a piece of loaf sugar each
Evening when going to bed; take two Alfaline Liver and Kidney
k if rnnstinated' use the Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes freely; if the Nerves are weak take the Alfaline Vitality Pills for a month or * w< *i
Pills once or twice aw Alfaline Blood* Pills. The Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil and Jujubes and the Alfaline Herbal Remedies are absolute PREVENTATIVES AGAINST
Blood is impure tane tne BUBONIC PLAGUE AND ALL OTHER FEVERS.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, .Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANIBH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
llerhal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, o r
his branches the
addresses of ivhich
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Aljaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
fo rmat ion convicting
anyone of imitating the
Aljaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved;
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeiL
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans R&SSIIIUSS6II,
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, GoiU, x iatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Golds, consumption, Hronehitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
hut most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perf -ct,
resulting not only in Lire return of Youthful appearance
hut also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphh t sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
f ran kinds of headache, no matter how civu ed. Is. per
packei. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder -Builds up
and Strengthens the S.ist-m, improves tiie ligure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6c Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautiflor— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful f >r Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6*. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Aliallne Hair Restoror and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6c
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in -Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Kucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Kucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6a.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Edits -Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE: 160 Q,ueen-st (near Creek-st.)
MELBOURNE : 150 BoUrke-St. <O PP . East. Markets)
ADELAIDE: 154 Rundle-st,(nr.York IT tel)
n7z.7wELLINGTON: 9i Lambton Quay
PERTH,W. A.: Hay-st. (next Royal Theatre)
KALGOORLIE: Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s)
Another Tasmanian private land-grant
railway syndicate has apparently gone bung—the
great Midland and West Coast Railway Co.’s con-
cession has expired without it even producing
the small deposit it was to plank-down with
the Treasury as proof of its bona-fides. The great
trouble with the average land-grant railway syndi-
cate is that it always wants to sell its concession
to somebody else for half-a-million or so, but it is
hardly ever willing to put a penny of its own cash
into its own “ cat.” And the country which waits
for land-grab syndicates to build its lines grows
bald and grey and only fit for the Benevolent
Asylum while waiting.
“ J. Jingle ” from Bloemfontein :
Dear Bulletin. —Have just struck yours of March 10th,
first Bulletin I have seen since leaving Sydney with the
Queensland Mounted Infantry ; and we were all surpris d
and shocked to find you had reprinted from a Sydney
daily paper the statement of a certain man that he had
bayoneted a Boer who at the time was begging for mercy.
I feel quite certain that neither this hero nor those others
who, per letter, have knocked out the teeth of dead Boers
as souvenirs, are in reality the blood-thirsty hounds that
they (unaware of the wholesale looting by the press of
private letters) have been making themselves out. And,
at all events, to my certain knowledge, and that of every
man in this camp, the man mentioned in your paragraph
has not, since he landed, been away from Capetown,
where he is a baggage-guard. So that at the time he says
he was slaughtering the mercy-begging Boer atSunnyside
he was not within 600 miles of the place ! I could produce
250 men to swear that not one of the enemy was touched
with the bayonet at Sunnyside. The wholesale publica-
tion of correspondence by the Australian press has unfor-
tunately brought into painful prominence the blatant
braggadacio with which a certain class of Australian
always refers to any incident in which he himself has been
concerned. The “ blowing ”he used to do over cricket,
football, or horse-racing, he now gets off his chest about
the w r ar and hit exploits therein. It would therefore be
a gross mistake to accept the young Australian warrior’s
caricature of himself, and the exploiting of Tommy
Atkins's private’ correspondence by the English press
furnishes a lesson in truth and modesty which the Aus-
tralian may well take to heart.
“J. Jingle’s” remarks may be substantially
true—but where did the Boer whiskers lately
exhibited at Brunswick, Melbourne, in a frame,
come from ?
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death release*
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send atonce for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
. *o.i3emaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Bri'ain, l/ljd. per b*»x. Prepared by
AI BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents • ELLiOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look fox the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
hd
MEDICATOH.
/~IATARRH is inflammation of the
linin'; membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
dischaige passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds, -
lironchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?e Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BAROOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
Too Fat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps.
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New & Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Free._^
EUCRASy
Addressorcall on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Coiline-etreet, Melbourne, Vic.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
limn CIGARETTES
Difficult}' in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AO LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
r HLOR 0 PYHE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BftOHCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLORODYNK. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
/'
f*
*1
vs*
*A
We grant every purchaser
of our
electric
KELTS and
ARELI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TKIC ERA." Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust Itealth.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,,we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
A
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
./ Proprietor:— STEPHEN GREEH,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those sufferin'? from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT &. POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medioal.
Bubonic Plague
lift"
01
m
RFGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By liefngr
ECKERSLEY’S
(Dentholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6; Small /-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
i Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. AH you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endslcigh Gdns., LON DO M.
HEALTH ANP STRCN6TH
* " may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form), its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 10/- and ‘Jit/- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain an.l Nerves, showing how dis
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address : —HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
STOPS CO'LL) '
This Well-Known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
fghd
“ I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” —E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott • Hoffnu-g ; D erdlD;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Fanldintr; Falk.
coc"' 1


Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n?brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, iiheumatisui,
ar >d Stiffness of Joints u. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioo.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OFI
NEW ZEALAND, OTAGO AND [
SOUTHLAND DISTRICTS
-No. 148.
UNDER “The Divorce and Matrimonial
Causes Act 1867” and the Amend-
ments thereof and “ The Divorce Act
1898.” ’
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith
TO
JANE STEDMAN, of Dunedin in the
Provincial District of Otago in the
Colony of New Zealand, and
BENJAMIN MOLLISON DUTHIE, of
Dunedin, aforesaid accountant.
WHEREAS Samuel Richard Stedman of
Dunedin in the Provincial District of
Otago in the Colony of New Zealand Cycle expert
claiming to have been lawfully married to you the
said Jane Stedman has filed his petition against
you the said Jane Stedman and BenjaminMolli-
son Duthie in our said Court praying for a decree
dissolving the said marriage with you the said
Jane Stedman and ordering you the said Benja-
min Mollison Duthie to pay the costs of this suit
wherein he alleges that you the said Jane Stedman
have been guilty of adultery with you the
said Benjamin Mollison Duthie NOW this is to
command you that on or before the twenty-first
day of July one thousand nine hundred you and
each of you do appear in our said Court then and
there to make answer to the said Petition AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that in default of
your so doing the said Court will proceed to hear
the said charge proved in due course of law and to
pronounce sentence therein your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Registrar’s
Office Dunedin aforesaid and there to enter an
appearance in a book provided for that purpose
without which you will not be allowed to address
the Court either in person or by counsel at any
stage of the proceedings in the cause.
DATED at Dunedin this twenty-eighth
day of May one thousand nine hun-
dred.
(Sgd.) G. A. KING,
(L. S.) Deputy Registrar.
THIS CITATION is extracted by Saul Solo-
mon, Solicitor for Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said Saul Solomon,
112 Prinees-street, Dunedin, aforesaid.
Chenhall and Eddie,
Solictors, Sydney,
Agents for
Saul Solomon,
Solicitor, Dunedin.
OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
—6iVg Best Prices.
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
The Young American Tragedienne, NANCE O’NEIL,
in her Great Representation of
“QUEEN ELIZABETH,”
_ Supported by a Specially Selected Company.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s : Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RONALD MACDONALD,
The Australian War Correspondent.
Brilliant Ladysmith Lectures
At present attracting Enormous Audiences
throughout Victoria.
THEATRES TOO SMALL EVERYWHERE.
EDWIN GEAOH.
■yOVVN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 23, at 3 O’clock,
Scbcrek’S Orchestra.
(60 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR HERR BENNO BCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
£XHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft._ in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. BHERRARD,
Secretary.
NEURALGIA.
Winter brings with it many anxious
thoughts to sufferers from all kinds of
face-aohe and neuralgia. You can obtain
immediate relief by taking a Special
Neuralgia Cure made by
C. E. NEWMAN,
King? Street, Sydney.
Price, 2/- By Post, 2/3.
Missing Friends.
jrVA AiTKEN or HASTINGB.
Come home. Nea about to leave for Scotland.
Address—Bl Fraser-street, Petersham, Sydney.
Amusements.
Her majesty’s theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson..
Bug. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Trees., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o'clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
For a limited Number of Nights Only,
The Pirates of Penzance.
Plan, Nicholson's. PRICES—Ss., 3a., 25., and la.
■J-HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
ASTOUNDING, ASTONISHING ACHIEVEMENTS.
BLAND HOLT’S
Fascinatingly-Vivid Melodrama,
WOMAN AND WINE.
WOMAN AND WINE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Envy’s.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfrhd Dampish.
TRIUMPH COMPLETE and CONVINCING.
ALFRED DAMPIER
EVERY EVENING,
in the Grand Patriotic Production of
“ BRITON AND BOER. 99
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
The Great Favorites CHAB. BEEL and MAUD NEEDHAM.
Splendid Reception of Prof. ALMOND.
THE ANIMATOCRAPHE, DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BILLY McOLAIN and MADAM CORDELIA, ARTHUR
CRANE, ALMA GRAY, and all our
Great Company.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rlokards.
UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
THE FLYING JORDANS, VENU3 and OLAP
SCHRADER.
THE THREE HAYTORS, WILLIAMS OUARTETTE,
Mr. Tod Callaway, Dr. Leigh, Dora Taylor, Eva Lee,
Violet Bishop, E. Brinkman, Fred Dunoan, Alf. Lawton,
Gus. Franks.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
-T-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
THIRD WEEK. INCREASING FURORE.
“ON ACTIVE SERVICE,’’
An Entirely New Nautical Drama, for the first time
In Melbourne.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. fld.. Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS of
THE ARNOLD SEASON
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY,
-EXana tlx© Boatman.
CHARLES ARNOLD in his original creation
of the Title Role.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TJSZE3
SPOONER’S
f’trZr.
SPOONER’S
I
V 'M S
LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED RIOS M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold bu all Storekeeper s,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
r GOUT v
PILL
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
pure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pnoux & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
The Last of Six :
Tales of the Australian Tropica. By
Eknkst Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
LINK MANUFACTURERS.
&
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
ART JEWELLERS, &c.
Solid Qcld, Extra Strong,
Japanese Good Luck, 20s.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c., 255.
With Monogram, 2s extra.
SI
9c., 13s 6d ; 15c., 255.
Silver, 3s pair.
9c. 17s 6d ; 15c., 35s pair
Beal Amethyst or Topaz
Links, Extra Strong, 5s pair.
Smaller Size, 4s.
Wild Boar’s Tusk, Oold
Mounted, 10s 6d. Silver 4/6
Gold Boomerang and
Real Opal Heart, 40s pr.
Federation Shield, Solid
Gold, 13s 6d ;
plain, 12s od.
Opal, 17s 6d. With
Ruby or Sapphire, 20s
Solid Gold, 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
9c., 10s od, 12s 6d ;
15c., 25s pair.
Good Fortune and Enamelled
Chrysanthemum, 27s 6d pair.
THE WORLD’S
MOST SERVICEABLE
'ONE PIECE’ Studs
AND CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. • PATENTED. - Unbreakable.
Section
Collar Stud
Actual
Size
O B
n
Actual
Size.
Section
Shirt Stud
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece’ Studs.
I.—Struck from single disc of metal—no solder,
a.—Elegance and absolute uniformity of curve. andt»
a.—Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease
The Public are cautioned against vamped up
imitations of these Studs —clumsy—in pieces,
soldered together, but shaped to deceive,
and sold as the “ One Piece.” »
WE HAVE ALSO A LARGE SELECTION
. . OF . .
DIAMOND, RUBY, SAPPHIRE, PEARL,
OPAL and EMERALD SET FRONT
and COLLAR STUDS.
Prices Forwarded on Application.
Please Send for Our . .
lllustrated Slips of
Latest Novelties.
Our Latest Patriotic Novelties
A REALISATION OF .RUDYARD KIPLING’S
“ A-baent-Mindeta Beggar ”
“A Gentleman in Kharki from down Bouth.”
SOLDIERS
OP
THE QUEEN.
SOLID GOLD
Mounted
CHARM.
Containing a
Lovely Photo
of
Major-General
BADEN-
POWELL
(the Hero of
Mafeking)
and another
Famous
General.
6s and 7s 6d
each.
Sli.
This Lovely
STATUETTE
(6in. high)
and
WAR
PENDANT
for
4s.
POST FREE.
SONS
OF
THE EMPIRE.
The
BADEN-
POWELL
RELIEF OF
MAFEKING
MEDAL
(size of 2s piece)
with a
Beautiful
UNION JACK
Ribbon Bow.
2s each.
Photo Pendants
of
Lord Roberts,
Kitchener,
French,
Baden-Powell,
and all
other Generals.
2s each.
A WORK OF ART IN FINE IVORY CHINA
And a. Double Glass Photo Pendant.
On one side Major-General BADEN-POWELL (the Hero of Mafeking).
And on the other one of the famous Generals. 4s. the Pair.
We have Hundreds of other War Souvenirs.
Centlemen’B
English
Hall-Marked
gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, single, 50s, 60s, 70s.
15c. Gold, single, 955, 110 s, 130 s.
Silver, single, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
9c. Gold, double, 60s, 765, 85a
15c. Gold, double, 110 s, 130 s, 150 s.
Silver, double, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
OUR LATEST PATTERN.
Silver, single 7s 6d, double 10s 6d.
oc. Gold „ 70s, ~ 90s.
AU Goods POST FREE
to any Address.
9c., 22« 0d; 15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
9c., 22s 6d ; 15c., 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
THE ABOVE FOUR PATTERNS, 9c. Gold, 12a 6d ; 16c. Gold, 265.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c. , 21s ; 15c. 355.
Silver, 4s pair.
9c., 17s 6d, 20a : ISc., 355, 40s.
With Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
9c., 20e; 15c., 87s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
9c., lls 6d, 12s 6d: 15c., 26«.
9c., 19s; 15c., 355.
Silver, 4s pair.


London Daily Mail correspondent
The continued immigration of Japanese laborers is
causing something very like a panic in British Colombia
among white workers and settlers. They are invading
and gradually monopolising all forms of industry. Mongol
immigration into British Colombia now exceeds the white
settlement. It is hoped that friendly overtures from
Ottawa may induce Japan to limit the emigration of her
subjects, who are now still arriving in thousands.
And Premier Wilfrid Laurier refuses to sanction
restrictive legislation, lest it “ embarrass Britain
—cheerfully sacrificing Canada on the altar of
Jingoism.
Nigeria, West Africa, is the land of devil-
worship, “human leopards” and general mystery.
The latest horror is the wholesale killing of un-
popular natives by means of “medicine.” The
“medicine” is placed on a path where the un-
popular one is likely to pass, and, soon after he
or any other native passes it, his legs begin to
swell till the blood-vessels burst. The whole
thing is a mystery to the whites, especially as
white people are not subject to the charm. No
scratch or puncture is visible or complained of by
the victim. Of the phenomenon itself there seems
to be no doubt.
This is the Latest Type !
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONE!
Price, £7.
fg
TALKS! SINGS
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
gsr Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones ;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each—Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. i. N. Oldersiiaw, Manager.
The Life of the System.
N
_yi
m
e
■fe
DNHNHVdS
□ Di C
■
□ □ O
CH
JR »
l-'.
□ Ea E
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can lie prepared w tli lii->
Pure and Wholesome British
product lon.
CLEAIt CIIYST.LLINE
JE..1.1K8,
DELICIOUS BLANO-
MAMIKS. CUE A MS, and
J UDDi.NCS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburg'] & London.
: 'M./VKEY & 23 Camden Building's, 418 George Street, Sydney.
Whole *"'nn‘s
hd
The TJniver. al Remedy for Acidity oi tne Stou.aou.
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
'X'lie Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Childr n, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
wHI
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
fg
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*C> DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
_A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
99
SAUCE.
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
The Basis of which is “ Montserrat” LIME-FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the I übbe.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy:—
“ I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabins."
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
• A&EMTSs
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE-D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
r M
Uu
'.'Cl
mt
‘l U
11
'. w/; »
m/i
: 5 » 7/ 'h
r :
-! i
2 -
> <7 >’.!<•
I Off, -7
Hill
r<-l
t
vVlien
writing
please
mention
The
UULLETIN.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o< STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointmentf, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
■ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
; CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 >ebility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WEILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Bolts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
a.iin jhments. .. 830
Ladies’ Belts nnd Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
EVERYTHING FAILS EXCEPT
CLEMENTS
Another Unbounded Proof.
-A, ZE?OSI i -E , X‘V~3±j ZETI3STGIEUi-JPOST jtPO trt OTP3IPGIR
TONIC.
SUFrEBEES
The Case of
MISS RHODA McGUIRE.
( Reported for the “ Star.”)
Miss Rhoda McGuire resides at 123
Bourke-street, Darlinghurst. A reporter
was despatched to see her, and he was
fortunate in finding the lady at home. In
answer to an interrogation as to the
truth of a report that had reached him
from Nyngan :—“ That she, Miss McGuire,
was one of the lucky many who had been
saved from fearful pain and continued
suffering by the timely use of Clements
Tome,” Miss McGuire said: —“That is
quite true. I have unbounded proof of the
value of Clements Tonic, for when I was ill
I tried I do not know how many so-called
remedies, and nothing did any lasting
good but Clements Tonic.”
“ Would you please tell n/e how your
illness began ? ” enquired the reporter.
-“ I have never been very strong,”
auswered Miss McGuire, “and four years
ago I received a most serious nervous shock,
so serious that it appeared to upset my
entire nervous system and derange the
normal functions of my body. I became so
agitated and shaken with unknown fears
that I was frightened to leave the house
even in the day time. A feeling of
mysterious trouble continually oppressed
me. A sudden noise would make me start
with trembling fear and nearly drive me
mad. t : Solitude was unbearable ; I would
not have stopped alone even in my own
Lome on any consideration; I dare not.
All the brightness in my life seemed
darkened, my mind passing unceasingly
from one dismal thought to another; and,
finally, I reached that point of despair that
life did not seem to me worth living, and I
truly believe that had it not been for my
religious training and my fear of the world
to come, I should have committed suicide.
Frequently I was a victim to fit* of hysteria ;
at other times I would sit crying over my
work for half the day together. Joined
with this mental collapse were ago ising
physical pains. My head was a delirium
and full of screeching noises, and when I
went to bed or tried to rest it would be
awful. I had sharp, frequent neuralgic
pains darting about my face. They would
commenceon the right cheek bone, and from
there spread upwards and downwards to
the forehead and the neck. My nerves
would throb so and I became so terribly
agitated that at times I could not put a foot
to the ground. 1 noticed that the faceache
increased in intensity at night time and
during the hot iveather, and these attacks
would endure from three days to as long a
time as six weeks. '1 hen I had intermittent,
stabbing pains in the back, under the left
shoulder; and after my meals I suffered
from distressing indigestion, a feeling of
weight, oppression, and tightness across the
chest, and often the food would rise in my
throat or be brought up again. This want
of nourishment further helped to weaken
my debilitated system. I was a burden to
myself, fit for nothing. In the latter days
of my sickness my heart began to trouble
me by loud palpitation. ”
“Surely, Miss McGuire,” enquired the
reporter, “ you did not let yourself get so
bad by neglect ? ”
“ No, 1 tried all sorts of pills and prepara-
tions, and all without benefit. I had lost all
hope, and was sure I should never get better,
when a friend of mine strongly advised me
to take Clements because she had
herself seen its wonderful curative power in
her own family. So strongly did she
persuade me that I agreed to try it. The
chemist was very reluctant to give e what
I asked for, enquiring my symptoms, and
then assuring me that a nerve toni s of his
own compounding would be far b. tter and
more suited to my case; but I remembered
my friend’s assurance, and would have
nothing else but Clements Tonic -[Wise
girl ! he only wanted to-sell you something
on which he got more profit—therefore
cheaper—therefore inferior. I'ln. ] —and it
was well for me that I did. For even that
first bottle did ms a world of good. It
seemed to act like a concentrated lood, and
to nourish my debilitated System. At the
same time it gave strength to my disordered
nerves, and built and braced me up ail over.
My fits of hysteria were banished, the fear-
ful depression and melancholy mind passed
away. I was no ionger afraid to go out or
to be left alone. The neuralgic p tins in the
face and the screeching noises in the head
troubled me no more. My digestion
steadily improved, my meals remained in
my stomach, ami were not followed by the
heavy, oppressive feeling in the chest. The
pains under the left shoulder ceased to
trouble me, aud in all respects my general
health took a wondrous turn for the Letter-;:
I was in every sense a new woman. Aud I
am quite sure that this revolution in my
deplorable plight was all owing to Clements*
Tonic. I never weary of telling every one
so and trying to persuade others who are
sick to try it. You are at liberty to publish,
what I say in any way y*>u like if you th wk
it will be of use ; but it seems to mo so-
many persons have tried and proved tlio
undoubted value of Clements Tonic that,
what I have said must be merely an e'd'o of
an oft repeated tale.”
STATUTORY DECbAtxATIQN.
I, Rh da McGuire. of 123 Bourke St., btriwighur'tt,
near Sidney, in the Colony of New South Wales, u >■
soleinnK and sin erel.v declare that 1 havo carefully
read the annexed document, consistin'' of f ur~
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to.
four, and that it contains a id is a true and faith-,
ful account of my illtv ss and cure by Clement*.
Tonic, and also contains my fu.l permission to publish,
the same in any way ; and 1 make this solemn
declaration, voluntarily and without receiving any
pay mens,.conscientiously believing the same to La
tiue, an 1 by virtue of the provisions of an Ac.;
made and passed in the ninth year of the reign < ;
her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the variou- Depart ments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suppre -sion.
of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits “
SC
Declared at Darlinghurst, this seventh day of July,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before
me, 41. HUGHES, J.P.


eame’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
A Lady in London.
_ A MARTYR TO ('OLDS AND BRONCHIAL
asthma:
CUIUSD BV ONIS DOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —■
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Gnd-send to a martyr to
colds aul bronchial asthma. Ido nqt wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ 1 heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense sucoess
it was. —Yours faithfu'l.v, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bail when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if lie could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
It ' LI EY ED BY ONE DOSE OF lIEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add m,v testimony to the won-
derful effect, of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
monllis, and t ie cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I wa < obliged to get up and sit by the fire. 1 had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after talcing the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cou h has vanished. You
,11,lay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfi:' ,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
'tlearne’s Bronchitis Cure, mid we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapid'y succes lid under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
'.fifty-nine other leading.residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only save him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it. —D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S. \V.”
1 Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—o. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne." •
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effcot. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Viotoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine. —(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. Thq result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
hut I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN 0.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. 11. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-strect South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. 1 am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WIIYBROW, Enoch’s
oint, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody' in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, Was recom-
mended to try'your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Col I ins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people eve
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. Q. Hearne. Dear Sir, — Please sent! us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
" We often hcnr your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.’’
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXP RE SES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me lo expre s
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate ourutive effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. quaßrill,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AN£> RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Cliemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
‘DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic is a phorphortse]d iron syrup.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
flre you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Redaction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-Btreet, Sydney.
Co. of Australia
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lalie Illawarra), near SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OD'
FINE SILVER.
m
m
'
J:
£t
V '
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
rchasers 0 f all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PE ICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weikbhbg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. • or Martin Place SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food fob
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only_ highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by -
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
( AND
THE AGED.


GUARD AGAINST DANGER.
mrz
. <//r::
5^
I
ft
4
ff«s
«
?>£tsr
&BS2g&:
.• • •
C, ' -^2^
». ;7~7c=»
, »
• . » /i
* n*
the London “Times” says about Bnfiusnza.
At the commencement of this year, when influenza was reaching its height and
assuming very serious proportions in London, the TIMES hud-the following in its
columns. VVe quote this, as it is written by an authority whose words carry weight,
and who gets to the real secret of the prevention of influenza—
“ Influenza has so far baffled research ; we know, however, that it is hiphhj con-
tagious, its onset is sudden, and that the best thino we can do to escape it is to avoid
whatever map tend to lower the tone of the system.” .
This is the root of the matter. Influenza attacks thoso who, by lack of vigour
and tone in the system, have loft a loophole for its entrance. , The main thing, then,
is to keep in good health while this scourge is so prevalent. This can only bo done
by keeping up the general lone of the system, and so enable the various organs to
carry out their respective duties, the tendency to catch colds and influenza being
thereby greatly minimised.
The body is extremely susceptible to chills, and the slightest draught causes a
violent attack of coughing or sneezing. Many so-called cures for influenza fail to
got at the root of the trouble, and only aflford temporary relief. A medicine that
will brace up the system, keep the liver in thoro igh and regular working order, and
the digostion right, will, without doubt, prove the most effective preventive and cure
for influenza and colds. This is what Bi i.E Beans ecu Biliousness will do, and we
naintain that no better remedy can bo found for these ailments. _
Bile Beans for Biliousness will be found useful in the following ailments: Con-
stipation, Liver and Stomach Trouble, such as Indigestion, Fullness After Faring,
Eruptions of (las, Heart Palpitation, Dizziness, Buzzing in the Head, Sallow Com-
plexion, &c. They are also a cure for Piles, Diarrlnea, Female Ailments, &0.,
Debility, Lack of Physical Tone, That Tired Feeling, Headaches, dfec., &c.
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and Storekeepers generally, or from
the Australian Depot of the Bile Bean Manuf icfrar.uff Co., 39
Street, Sydney, who will forward, past paid, on receipt of Stamps or Post Grace
Order. Price, Is. lAd. per box.
Remember ! Each Box bears the signature of the proprietors, The Bile Bean
Manufacturing Co.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since ICSI, wherever
it has been in Competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists:
From Dr. REDWOOD, Fh.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of "perfection : its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, (tnJ Chemist to the JjuifJi.,’-
ca cits' Mull oj Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears' Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
I arn enabled to certify to its piir.ity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Ph.D., &c.,
j«ctarer on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and lean certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
an 1 it may therefore be used with great
advantage fur toilet and '.bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by t,ho impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
The Sanitary Club.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There was something in a paper,
And it gave an awful rub —
T ;ough they say the scribe who wrote it
Cannot breathe outside a pub.
To the Chairman and the Members
Of the Sanitary Club.
I was present at a meeting
Of the Club ; the House was t :in ;
I was present at a meeting
In the Dog and Kettle Inn ;
And the Orators were sober —
Though they sobared-up on Gin.
0 the Chairman spoke with pission;
He remarked that it was ti ne
That the fly-blown City Council
From its perch should downward climb ;
For the business of the City
Wasn’t quite a Pantomime.
Then the Poet rose, and sadly
Said that, time and time again,
Vain attempts to mend the Co moil
Had been made by many man ;
But he meant to write a poem
Which would end it there and then.
Then the Artist said full grimly,
As he shook his flowing mane,
That if other means for ending
Of the Counoil proved in vain—
He'd cartoon it in a manner
That would put it out of pain.
Then uprose a stout Musician,
And ho spake right bitterly ;
And he said that when the Council
Was a oorpso, as it should be,
Ho would play the Dead March gladly
And would never ask a fee.
Now this same was the beginning
Of the movement that will rub
Off the slate the City Council—
And it started in a pub.
With the chairman and the membors
Of the Sanitary Club.
CREEVE ROE.
Baffled Diplomacy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Mrs. Maloney, licensee of the Bush Rat, was not
in an amiable mood, for she had heard that Greasy
Bill had “cutout” that morning while the dew
was yet on the grass, leaving his account in debt
over £5.
Mick O’Brien, Bill’s recent mate and brother-in-
cups, sat disconsolate on the green form outside
the pub. He was very thirsty, and his account
was in debt, too. Suddenly lie plucked up reso-
lution and went inside.
“ Good momin’, Mrs. Maloney!”
“What, here again !”
“You’re lookin’ well this mornin’, Mrs.
Maloney. Indade, you’re lookin’ tip-top. But
it’s not here you shud be, Mrs. Maloney! Shure,
you shud be lcapin’ a first-class hotel in Mil-
Durrun, wid lookin’-glasses all round, ,an’ bookays,
an’ a grand hall, an’ an office, an’ a row of cabs at
the dure. Shure, it’s not here you shud be, Mrs.
Maloney! Mine's a pint.”
“Indade ye’ll have no pint, Mick O’Brien.”
“ Yistirday, Mrs. Maloney, I was thinkin’ what
a foine daater ye’ve got. Shure, it’s not here she
shud be, Mrs. Maloney, such a foine gurrul !
Shure, she shud be in Milburrun, playin’ the
pianny in a big room wid grand pictures, and
goin’ out drivin’ wid the swells to Flimin'tin, and
callin’ at Guv’mint House, and goin’ at noight to
the opera in a cab wid a foine cloak over her head.
Shure, that’s where she shud be, Mrs. Maloney.
. . . I’ll take a lon 7 beer , please, Mrs. Maloney.”
“ Indade you’ll have no long beer.”
“ I was talkin’ to your son this morning, Mrs.
Maloney. Shure, he’s a fine, intiligint lad, Mrs.
M iloney. Shure, it’s not here he shud be, Mrs.
Maloney, kickin’ out goats an’ swearin’ at horses.
Shure he shud be at the University, learnin’
biology and algeebra, and carryin’ off dozens of
proizes and midals. He’s a smart lad, that ; . . .
I’ll take a maydium beer, Mrs. Maloney, if you
please.”
“I know you’d loike to, but not if I know it.”
“Mrs. Maloney, that’s a foine dog you’ve got !
What a splindid head ! Now, phwat’s such a dog
doin’ here ? Shure, it’s not here he shud be, Mrs.
Maloney. Such a dog as that shud be away down
Sout’ takin’ proizes in all the shows, where there’s
nothin’ to touch him. That dog’s worth a pot of
money. Shure, it’s not here lie shud be, Mrs.
Maloney. ... A small beer, if you please, Mrs.
Maloney.”
“ Divil a drap you’ll git here, to-day.”
“ Shure, as I was sayiu’ before, Mrs. Maloney,
it’s not here you shud oe ! You and yure hussy
of a daughter shud do will in Sydney, wid strict
attintion to business. Ye shudn’t resoide too far
away from Woolloomooloo,' and yure bullit-
headid gomeril av a son wud make a first-class
chucker-out at the low pub. ye’d keep where the
floor people’d be hocussed —git out o’ me road,
ye blashted mongril! ” [Kicks the dog, and
exit.]
A.B.E.
There is a personal note in the appeal of
R.C. Archbishop Murphy, of Tasmania, for aid
for the famine-stricken myriads of India. He
spent 25 years of his early manhood in Hyderabad,
and witnessed previous famines in various districts
of India.
Quarterly Review, vol. 100, has a capital
article on rats. A comrade has been seen to lead
a blind rat by a straw. A rat will lie on his hack
and cuddle an egg while his mate drags him off by
the tail. Two rats were seen getting an egg up-
stairs ; one pushed it up with his hind legs and
the other lifted it. However replete a brown rat
may be, he will eat off the delicate ears of the
black rat. Ivlajendie put 12 rats in a cage, for
some experiments. Three of the rats ate the other
nine. Rats and cats will fraternise, if reared to-
gether. Rats get drunk. This is from their
being very thirsty animals, and their most
ingenious depredations are to obtain water, or
failing that, some other liquid. A rat will make a
good fight against a ferret, but the rat can only
make springs and bites ; the ferret just catches on
once—for good—and sucks the blood.
Angela, the Good.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Two women sat on the verandah, in the star-
gemmed twilight, telling eaoh other their love-
affairs.
One was red-lipped, sensuous, crowned with
black, burnished locks; the other slim in figure,
with a pure white oval face; the white that looks
like the beauty of holiness—and isn’t. The second
was speaking.
“You do not look good ; that is one advantage
you have. I do. It has been my drawback all my
life. Wherever I go, men want to reverence me and
put me on a pedestal. I used to like it, as a girl,
till I found that it never meant Love. Then I
struck. Because whatever good qualities lie
behind these smooth, respectable features of mine
arc purely the pagan virtues, such as are commonly
associated with burning black orbs and eyebrows
that meet. Do you know that whenever I see my-
self in.my mind’s eye, it is with such features ? The
real face I see in the mirror always gives me a
shock, as if I had somehow slipped into the wrong
fleshly envelope. Fancy being tied down to such a
Sabbath-school countenance when one has such a
burning contempt for the meek, womanly virtues
whicli it typifies !
“Even my name was against me. My con-
founded parents christened me Angela.
“ There was only one man who saw through that
mask of mine. He was married—unhappily. He
wrote me a letter full of refreshing devilry, request-
ing my society along the Primrose path. I
respected that man. I might have loved him as
well, but you see I had already met Jim. Jim
loved me too, though he respected me. Dear,
stupid Jim ! He, too, was appropriated when he
met me—Sydney men have got a habit of being
already appropriated. But his case was not so
hopeless. He was merely engaged. She was one
of those silly, hysterical girls who threaten to
commit suicide if their ‘ boy’ shows symptoms of
deserting. In his normal condition, Jim would
have deserted and chanced the suicide; but he
had come under the spell of my sweet Christian
womanliness, and so elected to act the usual fool
by making two people unhappy instead of only
one.
“It was on a verandah like this, but earlier in
the evening, that he told mo of his love, with
many unnecessary apologies for distressing my
pure womanly soul. But I had guessed of his
affection before, and had made my plans accor-
dingly.
“ ‘ I know you will never want to see me again,’
he finished brokenly. ‘ What can you think of the
man who speaks like this when he is pledged to
another woman ? Some girls might treat it
lightly; might oven try to take advantage of my
weakness; but you are too good and pure for
that. Tow would never try it, though I know you
love me.’
“ ‘ Love you ?’ I murmured faintly.
“I understood his nature; had understood it
ever since I first saw his eye brighten as it met
mine. He loved me, true ; but rather less from
fancying that I loved him more. He was sure
that I should never love anyone else, and a man is
always reconciled to losing his lover if he knows
no other man will get her.
“That was the way with Jim. Angry ! You
can’t understand the fierce anger in my heart as
he went on, praising me with the praise that
sickens a woman when she is only wanting to be
caught and kissed and told that no force in
Heaven or Hell sh ill ever take her away again.
From words he let fall I knew that lie was pictur-
ing- me as the future good angel of his life, the
Agnes who was to protect the silly little Dora, the
calm, sweet, sorrowful personality that was to
cherish a secret love for his children and gaze
yearningly into the dear little faces so like that
of her lost love. I loved Jim, but it hurt me
less to give him up than for him to calmly assume
that I would do su.
“As he talked, my resolution strengthened. If
I lost him it should not be through any fault of
mine. When he had finished I took the other
man’s letter from my pocket and gave it to him.
“ He took it, and I amused myself-watching the
burning flush that rose to his cheek as he skimmed
it through.
“ ‘The d d scoundrel! —to write to you like
this ! ’
“ ‘ He loves me.’
“‘ I love you, too; but I respect you ! ’
“ * Respect is only another name for indiffer-
ence. I have had enough of men’s respect. A
man has come who is not afraid to love me, and,
by heaven ! he shall have me, if you will not.’
“ ‘ Angela ! ' he gasped.
“ ‘ Yes, he shall have me, if you will not. The
day you marry that girl I shall elope with my
lover. When you step into the train with your
lawful partner, you will see me stealing into the
same train with my unlawful one. Your respect-
able contract shall be the signal for my shameful
one.’
“I had moved him. I saw his hand clench on
his chair.
“ ‘ But, Netta,’ he said. Netta was the name of
his fiancee. ‘ Netta —she loves me—you know she
has threatened to commit suicide, if .’
“‘Jim,’ I said, ‘you are a good man. Which
is worse, moral suicide or physical ? You don’t
answer. She may commit physical suicide if you
marry me ; but, on my honor—which, in that case,
I won’t be able to swear by much longer—l shall
commit moral suicide if you don’t. Here is a
favorable answer I have written to my other
admirer. If you tear it up, then I shall know that
you accept my terms.’
“H ) took it. For a few minutes I waited in
suspense. • Then a few scraps of paper fluttering
over the verandah-rails told me that my cause was
won. And that’s how I got Jim.’ ”
She rose, smoothing her colorless hair, while her
friend glanced at her pure, white face with new
interest.
“ But, Netta,” she said, suddenly; “did she
die?”
“ Yes; but it was three years later, of influenza.
She didn’t put her threat into force.”
“ But you wouldn’t have put yours ? ”
The woman with a Sabbath-school countenance
lit a cigarette !
“ By all the saints in heaven, I would ! ” she said,
emphatically.
The other woman gazed at her admiringly.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
Corporal Arthur Coucoin. writing fr >in
Bloemfontein (26th April) to Sydney D.T.
. Some of the British troops have a very ha 1 am
out here. On Sunday they surrounded one of our a.no ■ -
ance waggons because they were being fired on. Fine/
going to an ambulance for protection ! S ime of them
ought to stav at home in future. The. Gen toJ-s .vau’t
have anything to do with them, and the majority are
being used'as telegraph-messengers. None of them have
beeirin action, and are not likely to be, judging by their
appearance.
Which statement possibly explains some of the
alleged firing on British ambulances by the Boors.


Stubborn Coughs.
ANGIER S PETROLEUM EMULSION quickly relieves the most obstinate
cough, while at the same time it promotes appetite, aids digestion, and
greatly improves the general health. It is equally good for the cough of
Chronic Bronchitis, with profuse expectoration; the dry, harsh throat cough ; the
irritating cough of influenza ; and for whoop-
ing-cough and croupy coughs for children.
To those who are subject to bronchial
attacks it is an especial boon. The
cough and breathing are made easier
almost at once, the irritation in
throat and bronchial tubes is
soothed, the character of the ex-
pectoration is altered, and a
general improvement effected
in all the symptoms. We
have hundreds of reports
from medical menattest-
ing its remarkable
power to relieve and
cure troublesome
.’our'-s.
h
o<>
M
cv
c«
d'
ootf 1
$
\\>F
KVV
***
*yje
t)\fc e
#•*
**
Mv«*
0
o'*
VWI
ard*
\> v
v\^
0 6
(\5^ et
r.v*
*•»
n*
*t ■
0
■^ : '
***
I\o
0^
o'*
e«
cA
C^ v
v-*?
0
v»°
6".
*<
For
Asthma.
We have also had
favorable reports of its
efficacy in the treatment
of asthma and spasmodic
coughs. In cases compli-
cated with bronchitis its
power for good is especially
marked. The cough and breathing are made easier, the bi (menial irritation soothed,
and the catarrhal conditions greatly improved. In chronic asthma it will be found
effective in allaying the more distressing symptoms, while it also restores strength
and vigor to the exhausted system. It is soothing, healing and strengthening, and
contains no opiate or other harmful drug.
Prescribed by the Medical Pr®fessicn
In United States since 1881.
In Great Britain since 1892.
In Australasia since 1898.
ENGLISH TESTIMONIALS.
Bronchial Asthma.
Sea Houses, via Chathill, Northumberland.
Dear Sirs,—l have got so much real good from
the use of Angier’s Emulsion, that I feel it a plea-
sure to recommend it to others. I have com-
menced my second 4s. 6d. bottle, and find myself
very much better in every way. For more than
a year up to date of receiving your sample bottle,
if I got out in the night air I had to stand and
gasp for breath, but last night I was at Christon
Bank at 8.30 p.m. in a storm of wind and rain, the
worst we have had this winter, and I had to return
by rail three miles and drive in a trap five miles,
aiid experienced none of the difficulty from which
I have suffered so long.
(Signed) Rev. G. W. CLARK.
Bronchitis and Asthma.
Roper’s Bridge, Whaplode, near Spalding.
Dear Sirs. —For the past six or seven years I
have been a great sufferer from bronchitis and
asthma, and a short time ago, seeing your adver-
tisement, I procured a bottle of your Emulsion,
which did me more good than any doctor, or any
medicine that I ever tried. While my asthma is
not wholly cured I now very rarely suffer from it,
and then your Emulsion always affords relief. I
have recommended it to several of my friends.
(Signed) Mrs. W. PEPPER.
Chronic Bronchitis.
Lower Wern, near Erwood, Breconshire.
Dear Sirs —I have for years been a great sufferer
from bronchitis, and have been to a great many
doctors, and have tried ail sorts of remedies with-
out relief. Recently my daughter persuaded me
to try Angier’s Petroleum Emulsion, and I have
derived more benefit from one small bottle than
from all the medicines that I have hitherto tried.
At the same time, my appetite is better, my food
digests better, and I feel a great deal stronger.
Please send mo another bottle, for which you will
find postal-order enclosed.
(Signed) Mrs. M. EVANS.
Bronchitis of Fourteen Years’
Standing.
25 Somorseab's-street, Hull.
Dear Sirs,—Kindly send a sample of your
Petroleum Emulsion to the above address. I
have derived much benefit from the use of
your Emulsion, having been greatly relieved
of bronchitis after having suffered severely
for fourteen years, and I have also found
it very beneficial in building, up the system. I
have so far taken three large bottles, and have
recommended it to several people, who have
suffered in the same way.
(Signed) .T. S. MARSHALL.
A FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE
on receipt of 4d. for Postage. Mention “The Bulletin.”
Caution.
Ours is the Original Petroleum Emulsion. It is made with a special oil obtained
from particular wells, and carefully purified by our own process. Imitations made
with ordinary Pretroleum do not have the same effect. Simply asking for Petro-
leum Emulsion will not do. You should ask for
Angler’s Petroleum Emulsion
And be Sure that You Get It.
Of All Chemists and Drug Stores, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
THE AHGIER CHEMICAL CO,, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W,
Head Office: 32 Sno w Hill, London, England,
The Relapse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When the masterful revivalist had turned
From our little river town, the pious zeal
Of the converts with a feebler ardour burned,
And repenters grew repentant. You could feel
In the air a strange impatience and unrest,.
And there lurked a furtive gleam in every eye.
Then a brother of the best,
Rolling drunk and sin-possessed,
Started raging loose, and singing wild and high:
Ho-o-o, boys, we’ll never get drunk any more !
Ho-o-o, boys, we’ll never get drunk any more !
All the echoes in the land awoke to swell the sin-
ful war.
Converts peacefully a-bsd
Heard with little thrills of dread,
And the shocking chorus stirred among the long
ings that were dead—
We’ll never get drunk—we’ll never get drunk—
We’ll never get drunk any more 1
Soon the poor, backsliding signers mean and shy
Called a shameful truce with sins—a special few—
And the bbttles went to Cody’s on the sly,
And the wrongs that Were forgiven ached anew.
Packet’s feud with Skews, though buried - deep
ahd tight,
Rose again. The brothers niet and battled long j
Then the winner of the fight
Held a shivoo in the night,
■ Which was devilment and madness set to song.
boys, we’ll never get drunk any more!
SHo-o-o, boys, we’ll never get drunk any more !
Satan rattled at the window, set his shoulder to
the door,
And below there in his hell,
Where eternal drunkards "dwell,
Brawled his leaping, raving legion. Brother
Prater heard them yell:
“ We’ll never got drunk —we’ll never get drunk—
we’ll never get drunk any more ! ”
Now the women gossiped scandal at the gate,
In the barn the dance witli pagan ardour flowed,
And you mot the silent lovers drifting late
’Mid the wattles on the old Meringo road.
So the slidings quickened daily to a run,
Till the slump was due on pay-day afternoon,
When the Burning Brand they won
From the pit’s red mouth, for fun
Took a stick and boat his missus to the tune:
Ho-o-o, boys, we’ll never get drunk any more !
Ho-o-o, boys, we’ll never get drunk any more !
How the black blood leapt to hear it! how the
mighty chorus tore,
Strewing joy along the sky,
Making care and sorrow fly,
When the -push took up the tune, and sent it
streaming wide and high :
We’ll never get drunk—-we’ll never get drunk —
we’ll never get drunk any more !
From the chapel on the hill the broken bell,
Like the troubled voice of conscience, used to
steal
Up the gully in the night, and seem to swell
To a passionate and clamorous appeal.
Then the barmaid laughed, and Billy poked the
fire,
Then the liquor framed above the pewter brim,
And what more could heart desire,
When the landlord led the choir,
And the fellows stormed the heights of song with
him?
Ho-o-o, boys, we’ll never get drunk any more !
Ho-o-o, boys, we’ll never get drunk any more !
Came the doubters creeping shyly to the blazing
bar-room door.
Now the bell was never heard,
Nor the thunder of the Word,
But the dear familiar sin in every weakling bosom
stirred:
We’ll never get drunk—we’ll never get drunk—
we’ll never get drunk any more !
Yic.
EDWARD DYSON.
How It Was.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“I notice,” said old Robinson, “that you're
about the only traveller as comes round these
parts, as don’t get askin’ me how it is I never get
married. I can’t get talkin’ with some of the
blackguards for three minutes, without 'em
wantin’ to know. All the same, they don’t know
from me.”
Then he straightened himself up, and looked
like telling.
“ Yer see,” he went on, “at forty-eight—that’s
four year ago—l proposed to a certain piece—a
beauty she were, but I can’t describe her, as I’m
not good at that sorter thing. Well, she fancied
another man—haristocratic kinder bloke: white
shirt an’ studs, and all that sorter thing. They
got married, and carried on top-ropes for a bit.
Then he lost his billet and took to drink, and they
got down until they were low as get out.”
“It was here I chipped-in. I offered ‘em a
home on rnv place ; ‘er to cook, and ‘im to look
after the ‘orses—a ‘orsey man, he was.
“ After a bit, though, 1 jugged him for seven
year for shakin’ a cow, an’ when ‘e comes out,
‘e‘ll be charged again.” There Robinson stopped
short, stroked his chin, and appeared to reflect.
“And the wife*: ” I asked.
“Oh, ’er ! She’s all right. She’s still cookin’
for me. That’s ‘er down there tryin’ to round up
that poddy. Le’s giver a ‘and ! ”
YARRUM.
That London illustrated paper’s thrilling
picture of the men of the Ist Vic. Contingent
lying slain where they have fallen gallantly, sur-
rounded by T dead foes, turns out to have been a
pure effort of the artist’s imagination. The Yic.
Contingenteers themselves say so, at all events—
and they ought to know. Thus has a terrific
amount of high-skiting been wasted.
The Square Ring: an Idyll of
Little Bourke-street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When Aggie had persuaded Chuck Maroney to
marry her, she did up her hair. “I ain't talcin’
no risks,"’ she explained ; and at the critical
moment she said she was 21 in so artless a manner
that even the shabby, red-nosed parson, who had
been passed by 32 congregations to land at Smith’s
Matrimonial Agency, had the sincere thought for
a moment that she looked very young. At the
time for fitting on the ring Chuck indignantly
scorned the aluminium circlet proffered by the
agency “ Weddings, with duly qualified clergy
man and ring provided, 10s. 6das the advt. ran.
“ Ef this here’s gointer be done at all, its gointer
be done in style,” he said proudly, and he osten-
tatiously drew from'his waistcoat-pocket another
ring gold this time, and of strength and weight
sufficient to detain a horse.
Chuck Was duly impressive in his bearing as he
carefully fitted it on the girl’s finger, and it Was
with the manner of one treading on air that he
asked the clergyman across the road after the cere-
mony to join “ nle and the missus in a long ’tin.’*
On the tram, going home, the bride proudly kept
her fat brown fisf clenched On her knee with the
heavy gold baud uppermost—shining out and pro-
claiming to all the world that she had fulfilled bet
destiny.
Chuck didn’t trOubie to go to Ginger Macaii-
ley’s for a barrow of fruit that day. “We done
our honeymoon six months ago,” said Aggie when
he suggested the formality, but he maintained that
something of the sort was necessary for the
sake of appearances. So Mr. and Mrs. Maroney
compromised on an afternoon’s trip to Beaumaris-
round trip 2s. 6d,” as extensively advertised by the
Victorian Railway Department, being seized upon
as the most economical form of honeymoon extant.
The sands of Sandringham, the long, meandering
avenue of dark green ti-trees enclosing the tram-
line, the brown cliffs of Beaum iris themielvos—
looking like a bit of Sydney Harbor lifted up
and dumped down with all its color clinging to it
in the midst of the wastes of Port Phillip
bay—all seemed invested with beauty more in-
tense than ever; and away between the rich
brown and the warm green tints of the land, the
sea lay beneath the sun smooth and pale-blue,
with abloom on it like a ripening plum. It was
at Beaumaris that they had their wedding break-
fast, and it was in the soft, mossy groves along
the cliffs that they told their love over again and
forgot that sucli a place as Little Bourke-street
ever existed, or that, the curse of working for a
living had ever fallen on mankind. Below on the
sand they took off their boots and stockings
and paddled like children, and with the com-
bined influences of love and happiness and
sea-air became so hysterically intoxicated that
Aggie “chucked-off ” in a particularly nasty
way at the porter at Cheltenham, and a
stand-up fight between him and Chuck was nar-
rowly averted in consequence. At the city, it was
oysters and stout at Billy the Greek’s, a fruit-
supper next door, and a bottle of wine at Fran-
cesco’s, and it was close on midnight when Chuck
and Aggie turned from Little Bourke-street into
Hogan s-place—the one spot in all Melbourne that
resembles the “ courts ”so common in the big
English towns. There was a crowd in front of
Levy’s door, and there were loud voices there,
rising from the circle of black, flat figures that
dodged around the lights in Levy’s cart.
“Full out, pull out,” whispered Aggie, “it’s
on’y the ole push. Slip-in without ’em seein’
yer.”
But the old push—always eager to impress on
everybody that it “knew somethin’’’—stood to
its self-given reputation in this instance, and the
attempt of the newly-married couple to avoid the
meeting was seen.
“Wher’ to, Chuck?” asked Arty Doolan,
“ There’s a beer waiting for yer here, an’ we was
just goin’ ter drink the health av you and the
missus.”
The man paused, irresolute, but at that moment
there peeped from behind the cart the sleek black
head and pier ■' ig eyes of the Zulu—one of the
girls at the Blame Angel, and one whose company
Chuck Maroney used to affect much before he met
Aggie.
Aggie saw the dark, handsome face, and pressed
her husband’s elbow. “Come along,” she whis-
pered. But the whisper reached the Zulu, and
she stepped out. “Come along,” she laughed;
“ we’ve an hones’ woman now, ain’t we ? Our old
pals ain’t clars enough for us. You poor silly
little fool, you had to make Chuck Maroney marry
you. He tried to make me marry him. Me! —me
marry Chuck Maroney ! ” and in the dead silence
of the square her pitiless laugh rang up hard from
the stone pitchers. “ Poor silly little fool ! you
an’ yer fine husban’ ! Why, he was mine afore ever
he was yours ; an’, marriage an’ all, he’s mine to-
morrow if I say the word.”
A bottle flashed up and the blood fled from
Aggie’s face, leaving it white and horrifying.
“Knock off,” she yelled, “or I’ll shot this in
yer mouth.”
Chuck seized the weapon from Iris wife, and as
the Zulu saw his hand close upon it she leaped
forward, and her white fist swept grazingly across
Aggie’s face. Though ill-aimed, the blow was
heavy, and Aggie staggered back to recover her-
self against the wall. There her face fell within
the focus of Levy’s lamp, and the change was plain.
The jolly, reckless look she usually wore, the
grey rage that the words of the Zulu had
called up, had both disap ; eared. Instead was
a calm, determined expression, almost masculine,
and as she stepped out again, with her right arm
square across her waist and her left elbow flapping
at her side, t.ie Zulu quailed, Aggie was no
longer the easy-going little lafrikiness of week-
days ; no longer the infuriated, insulted wife. She
was a fighter pure and simple.
Unversed in the art of conflict, the barmaid ran
wildly forward with her head down, spitting in
her temper, and lashing out blindly with both
hands. Aggie knew her opportunity. She
stepped aside, swung the whole weight of her
body into her left hand, and the Zulu rolled over
on the stones. From chin to cheek ran a deep red
line that grew deeper <os they watched ; and Aggie,
laughing in her triumph, glanced from the face of
her adversary to her left hand. Then raising it
high above her head, she threw it suddenly down-
wards, and as the few red drops fell to the pitchers,
she nestled to her husband’s side, and, holding up
her hand, smeared with blood across the four
knuckles, said softly, “It was the ring that done
it, Chuck ; aincher glad yer married me now ? ”
BONDINGIE.


Bad Blood ; Boils and Sores.
A Great Blood-Purifier and Tonic.
Almost Unbearable Heat of Summer Soon Puts
One in the Grave.
A Valuable Fever Antidote.
Sarsaparilla
“While in West Australia one of us had what is known as ‘Barcoo Sick-
ness,’ duo to bad food and water, together with the almost unbearable summer
heat of that colony. This disease soon puts a man in his grave unless he treats
it promptly. I came out of it in fine shape because I relied entirely on Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a cure.
“ Both of us have used this great remedy for boils and sores on our arms and
hands, as a blood-purifier and general tonic, and as a perfect antidote to fever
while in camp or at home. We both believe there is no remedy equal to this
grand old medicine wo know so well.”
Dowling Bros., of 103 Hindley St., Adelaide, So. Australia, send us this letter
and the above photographs with permission to use. After such an experience
they can certainly call Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla “Ayer’s.” Don’t let any-
body induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so strong as
you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Builds up the Whole System.
AYER’S PILLS act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONiC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOB
iirbridge’s
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared 6 y
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. 1 id., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COFT&IQBT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
f*l»S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costivenes3, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to be “ W ORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud oe Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Bcecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he worid. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, OJd, Is and —s 9d each.
hdfghdfghd
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KM BRA Cilia
MEDICAL CO MM ON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Naturoas it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, whiohmakes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the iinfortftadou em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
doth covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. fld.
Spkbchks am) Toa'tk ready-made for all occasions and
everybody : public speaking marie easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is Oil.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illua.
Is; posi is 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art oe Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, B<t posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. Is fid post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. 1b posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern M aoic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Hoxino, br Ned Donnelly, 40 Ulus. Is6(1 posted.
Lover's Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
WRITER, Is 6(1.
Iron Nko Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is Od posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s OoNvr.Ny Life Unvbii.f.d, ls6d post.
Up-To-Date Comio Reciter (newest), IsOd post free.
How to Kf.ad Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Crevasse's Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d post ed.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 0d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
fgh
&
' 9/1 m
f Sen-Sen (» \
f FARRINGDOH AVFNUfcI
F LONDON. 1
INVALUABLE TO
l SINGERS & SPEAKERS
\&Z
d
cP
peril
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
WILL CURE
That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINGTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY foe BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
...FOE..,
Cycle Tyres
JB s. d.
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Tube 16 6
Outer Tyre, Canvas and. Rubber, 15s. and 0 18 6
Outer Rubber Covers 0 8 6
Inner Tube, complete, •with Valve ... 0 7 0
Inner Tube, not joined, without Valve... 0 5 0
Re-rubbering Old Canvas ... 12s 6d and 015 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wearing Strips, Regular, wide ...0 3 0
Wearing Strips, Regular, attached ... 0 5 6
Dunlop Valve 0 16
Victor Rims 0 6 6
Palmer Tyre, Single Tube Fabrie ... 1 5 0
Rubber Solution and Patching Rubber.
BEST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
Lists Sent on Application,
We do Repairs.
PERDRIAU&CO.
268 and 270 GEORGE ST.,
Between I hunter emd
Bond Streeti.
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
I\l AMUFACTURERS
AN> . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Qm««m MalWnme;
Bro«kmaa'i Building, Adalalde.
THE WORTHINGTON
... IS THE ORIGINAL ...
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
DUPLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
She Jjbbot
'^A\Vv\m\\W\\A\\\\V\v^
M AXFIELD, Pjboprs., SHEFFIELD,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. ELDBIDG-E &c CO.,
DYERS A CLEANERS,
40 FORK STREET, SYDNF.Y
(opp. Centenary Hall).
<Cmntto>y Order* iy post from all the entente* premptly
attended ta
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
3oard or Apartments at Option.
fgh
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD &
0. LTD
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
Cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only -|d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send yoiir orders to XIS, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
dfg
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING machinery, steam engines and roilers.
SOLE LICENSEES EOJR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE]
A.3xrx>
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOE
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
hd
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS, ROLLS, PUL
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS, ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS.
Blake Steam Pumps
mm.
*. --
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valve«, ete.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
*55
•tm
We Have Stood the Test
—AND—
Walther’a Saddlery
LEADS IN QUALITY AND PRICE.
WE
TRADE
TO
MAKE
MONEY
No. 1 Stockman’s
Made on strong tree, with
plated bars, plated over head
and round cautle and doi.’Ble
gullet plate, hogskin seat,
fitted with stirrup leathers
and split-leather girths.
£25 17a. 6cl.
BY BIG
TURNOVER
AND
SMALL
PROFITS.
Delivered Freight Free to any port or railway station in X.S.W., if cask
is sent with order, or 5 per cent, discount allowed to any of the adjoin!nr
colonies. £ST CUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT,'and we will aIW
per cent. Special Bonus.
C. H. WALTHER & CO.,
24a HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Send for our Illustrated Price L»t
The Best in Australia.
far" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AN© OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullestairections are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, THEM. Mann-
factured onkyrat 78 New Oxfori>BT., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 628 Oxford-street/London, they are
spurious.
{SECOND-HAND
W AND
■KTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US A.YD
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equiv&ien*
to £5 Earned!
Ever}' requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (8 dooKs past Hunter-st.), syDXET.
Telephone 1023.
