

McEWAN’S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
n
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
107 Kent
Sydney,
Milliner
Street,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2400 Hydro-Extract >rs z>oxa and at work
WINE!
WIiJE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Xnverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WTWE^>
AUSTRALIA.
43T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
I
"85 Pitt Street,
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADB ENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
ies have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar*
Chemicals, the Production of- Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send fo r
That’s All!
A 1 WHIS
SANDEMA
P
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS ANI) LICENSED GROCERS.
m
KOB!A.TIT
laiSley’s
M
NOTICE TO MELBOURVE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S
Hilda Railway Station atjd Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Hay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
'wjo
cM.
CO
■'
“J 'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
C&pillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any partof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, I Os. ti<l.
Sole Agents :
The Remit
Craig & Altken, 680-632 George-st.. Sydney
nm
PERPETUI OUTER.
ALL your letters, hills and papers should
be DATED ! This Pater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and trouble. It is Rapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
PateS from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc- Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shillings post free).
DATING STAMP CO., Box 1402 U.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
PIONEER
LEATHER
feELTING
- ■ \ 7 . ' . j
The Juieaamg x>eit 01 zxuotialia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government!.
Prices and Samples Free to ty address.
J. C. LUDOWIGI 8c SON, LTD.,
117
Yorls Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: . Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart,, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
Tales of the System.”
'RICK Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
SKND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
ok RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney,
n
How Do! May I send you
my
■Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
’$
HIGHLAND
CREAM
m
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE GKRJSAAT • • •
CASCADE ALE
IS HEEE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
n
TOBACCO.
Man
T. C.
ufactured by the Celebrated
Williams
BEST AMERICAN MAKE. FINEST AMERICAN LEAF.
. , . Obtainable of all Lcadinff Tobacconists ...
PHOTOS
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Aiic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 203.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS.
R. GENNCRT,
89e Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris,Franoe
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan • Lamp.
COfSWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THB ois¥l a SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
Voi 21. jNo. iu74 j
[Saturday, September 15, IUOO.
Ppp"F + nrfl Rit tlie (xenfirp! Pint Office. foT li7 "Post rr r


SYDNEY COPYING AGENCY
104 Woolloomooloo-St., Sydney.
OARTFULLY-TYPED0 ARTFULLY-TYPED COPIES made of rare and un-
published Books in public and private libraries.
Students’information, literary extracts, etc., in two days.
Price according to work.
Any Book or Magazine procured at Sydney price*.
The Bulletin publications.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. 3d.; Cloth boards, 2s. 4d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By u Price Waruno.” Paper severs, 193
pp. ; Gd., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Faveno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; Gd. pest
free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Wru. H. Ogti.vih. Third Edition. Silk
•loth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. Gd.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *»* Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur 11. Adams. Buckram, gih
top,; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland Verse vet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Maliony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Full wood ; Os. post-free. *** “ The jolliast
book yet printed in Australia.”
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
i Australasian province), postal notes, or i .O.U.
for .amounts stilted.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop &, do., Limited, Sydxkt and Brisban*.
For the LUMGrS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THK . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Guru of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Infhxenaa!
*nd the Prevention
of Consumption.
03
A . The Larynx, or organ of
roice. .
It. The Trachka or windpipe.
C- The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
jD. A lobe of one of the longs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Contain JVO roe.ninc or 01/irr po< MonpiiH <lm</ . • .
ROLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queeiuil»nd-*o«k
frM on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot ; & unci 7 (JLEKN S l'LACit.
UNDE THE GUMTREE
Half-a-dozen numbers of The
Australian Photographic Jour-
nal, to June, 1900, are sent
for criticism by the publishers,
Harrington and Co., King-st.,
Sydney. This is to the local
photographer decidedly an in-
teresting and useful publication,
more than worth the 4s. per an-
num (with postage) charged for
the monthly issue. From an
artistic point of view, however,
the illustrations which record
the progress of photography in
Australia have rarely any merit.
Occasionally they suffer from
bad engraving and always from
bad printing; and most of them
were not worth engraving at all.
It is, of course, one of the hardest
things in the world to get the
local printer to do justice to a
screen block which contains more
than a single figure, or has the detail of scenery ;
and until we get educated machinists an
editor’s path will remain rough indeed. The
Journal’s blocks are, for the most part,
flat reproductions, destitute of gradation of
shade or perspective. The fault is in the first
place with the photographer. He has a mechanical
instrument which “brings everything up,” and
gives unessential detail equal prominence with
artistic essentials. And he is usually quite con-
tent with his instrument. If he can get a clean,
sharp negative, with some attention paid to a
lively incident, or a striking pose, or a conventional
scenic climax, his satisfaction seems complete. Then
comes the screen engraver, reducing the contrasts
and flattening the picture ; and doing his work as
a matter of business at the minimum per inch. He
has no time to spare to fight his
screen, and engrave his block
“ up ” or “ down ” so as to repro-
duce the tones of his original.
Finally comes the terrible machin-
ist, whose whole art is to imitate
the engraver’s proof ; though he
should by skilful “make-ready”
improve the engraver’s proof be-
yond recognition.
It is a machine process all
through—the photo, machine, the
engraving machine, and the print-
ing machine to complete the ruin.
There is only need of one artist
to make a painting ; but the photo-*
engraving needs three photo-
grapher, engraver, and printer.
Naturally enough, it hardly ever
gebs them. Yet the local journal
oould do much better than it does.
Its photo.-blocks receive now the
saute paper and ink as its letter-
press, and neither paper nor ink
is good enough. The Journal
should produce at least one good
photograph on superfine paper
•very number, and give it special
attention. Then it might begin
to worthily represent local photo-
graphy, which is considerably
superior to the Journal's repro-
ductions. And in a photo, journal
one expects more attention to
artistic work. Blurred snap-shots
of incidents like the “Bushmen’s
Contingent Departure” in tho
June number have no photographio
interest. Crude reproductions on
a small scale of scenes in the
Botanic Gardens (in the same
number) hold no artistic value.
And photography, in spite of
the domination of the machine,
can be made into an art; provid-
ing the machine is fought and
conquered by tiie man.
The best photographsin the Unirn.ah under notice
are two by C. F. luiston, engraved by Dellacana, in
the March number; and it is not made clear that
these are A ustralian work. Two by Edgar Stead in
the March number (of thrushes’ nests) are interest-
ing examples of photography’s uses. “ The Last
Chord”’ in April number, and “Chums, m May
number, are examples of good subjects spout. In
the first case, the photographer has seen his pic-
ture without making it, and the engraver lias done
him injury ; in the second, there is good engraving
but no picture. The local boy, the local photo-
grapher, and the local artist are never satisfied till
they have eaten all tho lollies in the bag. 1 hey
insist on getting the most out of everything, and
they do not realise that the way] to get the most is
to stop before the palate is jaded. It is
neirlv always (to change the metaphor) a case of
• her Mary Jane’s top-note. Please, Mr. Artist
and Mr. Photographer, remember that the secret
of strength is simplicity. The shrieking colour,
the screaming pose, defeat your aim. Restraint
saves; violence is fatal. And the doctrine of
“ pose ” in photography is thoroughly misunder-
stood by the ordinary photographer. The three-
quarter face and the tent arm have become a
formula, a rut ; as if every natural disposition of
face and arm had not natural value. The photo-
grapher cannot hope, as the artist may, to surpass
Nature; and since he is bound to Nature he
should endeavour to make his photographs natural.
As a rule, he does his bes ( t to make them un-
natural
♦—
“ I have heard of a man,” writes Dublin’s Trim
Coll, classical Professor Bury (Gibbon’s last
editor), “who objected to the Giant’s Causeway
as unnatural, ‘too d d scientific.’ .In the
same way I feel that classical scholarship is grow-
ing too d d scientific. It will soon be a branch
of mathematics.’’
D’Annunzio, the Italian poet and novelist, has
taken to politics, and “Ouida” thinks he may be-
come a new Rienzi.” But no, ma’am.
Wallace Nelson, philosophising over monarchs
and anarchists, pities the monarchs— i
What poor, fear-stricken, unhappy wretches kings
must be, to be sure. They must always have a creepy
sensation in the region of their royal backbones. In fact,
they are such an unhappy lot of wretches that it is the
duty of the happier plebeians to try to do something for
them. Why not get up a society to rescue them from
their unhappy condition ? In these days of philanthropy,
of prison brigades and Salvation Army Homes, why
should we not have a sort of “ Rescue Home for Kings,
Queens, and other Royal Unfortunates ” ? Imagine such
an institution, in full swing, presenting an annual report
like the following :
“We have much pleasure in stating that the society
has been very successful during the year. Two Kings, a
Queen, and three Princes have been rescued. They are
all doing well. The two Kings are learning to be black-
smiths, the Queen bids fair to make an excellent nurse,
while the three Princes are at least being kept out of
mischief. Making an allowance for past influences, their
conduct is fairly satisfactory. We desire to make it as
widely known as possible that all royal persons, even
Sultans and Emperors, are welcome to our Home. None
are turned away.”
Notice in the country papers the epidemic- of
heavy leaders strewn with masses of strange
learning, undigested and fermenting ? The
“ cheaper edition ” of the “ Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica ” in 25 volumes has arrived !
A London correspondent says English readers
are already weary of the hasty slops poured on
their heads in the title of Transvaal. war-books.
Dr. Alfred Neale, of Sydney, is writer of two
pamphlets—one on “ Consumption ” and its pre-
vention and cure by open-air treatment; the
other is a study of the Hair arid the causes of
baldness. Both convey informal ion in a readable
style. Dr. Neale recommends mustard op can-
tharides for premature baldness. Irt the American
Medical Record recently, Dr. G. T. Jackson,
instructor of dermatology in the Columbia Uni-
versity Medical School, reports finding “napbthol
and oantharides” utter failures. He recommends
10 per cent, of precipitated sulphur in a good cold
cream, with or without either salicylic acid, three
to five per cent., or extract of jaborandi, a drachm
to tho ounce. Bald-getting lx>okfellows are re-
quested to try tho lot and report progress. By
the way, Dr. Jackson first drew attention
to the fact that hereditary baldness goes
by sex— i.e., a bald father is likely to
have bald sons, a bald mother bald
daughters.
Now that Steinitz is dead, “ The
Modern Chess Instructor” will remain
at one volume and a fragment—as it
would have remained had lie lived, for
the publication never repaid him his itn-
menso, labour. “Cboss is a terrible
game,” said Steinitz o ice; and doubt-
less his chess efforts have hejped to kill
him, despite a fine physique, at 04.
In his championship matches he suffered
greatly from insomnia; and played all
the tetter, he says. Of one contest he
said that “one night I had onlv throe
hours’ sleep, and on another night none
at all, yet in tho second game which I
won I achieved some of the finest re-
sults, while one night preceding a game
which I lost by a blunder I bad slept
for nine hours. I felt much better
on the days following tho sleepless
nights than I did after the nine hours'
slumber, when the reaction was too
groat to bo overcome.” Perhaps it is
not quite accurato to say that Steinitz
sacrificed his championship to a gambit
and a theory ; for vouth will be served,
and Lasker, who beat him in 1804, was
32 years Ins junior. But the Steinitz
gambit proved an unsound opening; and
the Steinitz book-loarning cramped bis stylo.
In early life he was a dashing player; in
later life a plodding one—trying to
win his victories by a mathematical
certainty of play, when an opponent
retired shattered from impregnate de-
fences. Still ... he was a great
chess-player ; and a great chess-player
has some of the qualities which make
a great man.
Louis Becke can beat out his gram
of gold nowadays with the best of
the novel-writing tribe. His romance
of “ Arrecifos,” commencing in
Chambers’s Journal for July, promisee
to be about as good as the ruck. But
as Chambers’s is a “moral” publica-
tion, no dramatic intrigues of white
men and brown women can find place
in its columns. Becke has to confine
himself to thin sentiment—and blood.
Blood is “ mpral,” having the sanction
of many Biblical slaughters. Becke
cannot even get “My God ! ” in : he
has to sav “My !” So “Arreci-
fos ” hobbles along.
Stephen Crane’s posthumous novel
is to be called “The O’Ruddy ’’—a*
romance of Ireland temp. George 11.
One of ‘his friends says he contracted
tuberculosis in the old English manor-
house where he lived for two years
preceding his death. It was a pic-
tui-esque old house, but the draughts,
and the damp, and the chill of it
seemed appropriate to,a cave in an
iceberg'. .
From Julia Ward Howe’s “ Reminiscences ” :
“ Lord Byron, after speaking of the custom of the
Doge wedding the Adriatic, wrote, 4 1 wish the
Adriatic would take my wife.’ ”
Conan Doyle and Stanley Weyman have been
whistled down the wind ; and Doyle (as his new
book of reprint stories, “ The Green I lag, shows)
deservedly. Even H. G. Wells’s star seems
setting.
“St. George and the Dragon,” an anonymous
pamphlet from Rockhampton, Q., attacks current
British conditions and policies. Produced by a
good synthetic mind, it is worth study ; Out the
matter would have teen more attractive and more
forcible if put straightforwardly, without confus-
ing allegory.
From Kelly and Walsh, publishers, Singapore
corn 55 “Friend Tommy and Other Topics,” verses
by “Joss Chinchinjoss for the greater part bad
imitations of Kipling ; for the lesser part, worse.
“An unknown story” of Fenimore Cooper’s,
“Ned Myers,” is announced for publication.
These late discoveries in an author’s rubbish-heap
are rarely worth discovering.
But for the current- interest in G. W. Steevens,
his “Things Seen ” would not be worth reprinting
from the newspapers and magazines which origin-
ally held them. They have the journal interest,
the interest of a day, and not much more. Only
one sketch is fine, and that is perhaps the best
example which can be found of Steevens’style and
talent—the description of a hospital theatre on
operation-day—a wonderfully clever picture.
Robert Richardson supplied to Sydney Tele-
graph of Aug. 18 an interesting eulogy of Dr.
Bad ham, formerly Classics professor at Sydney
University; and a man who carved his name
deeply into Australia.
Bernard Shaw announces a third volume of
plays, to include “Tho Devil’s Disciple,” “ Ciesar
and Cleopatra,” and two others. And finding
that pose pays, his lCgo has become more clamor-
ous than ever. So clever is ho, that one could
almost be angry that he is so ineffectual. But he
sheds light without heat—meat-heat.
Paris Nesbit’s new mouthpiece, Morning, is a
quaintly interesting religious-sensual-political pro-
duct —with method in its craziness. If he prints
for the first time tho poem “God or the Woman ”
(accredited to E. Nesbit, of “Lays and Legend*”),
he is to he congratulated on an editorial scoop ;
for the verse is passionate and poetic.
George Moore, saying that no novel can he
really great which is not “ symbolic, ” merely
changes the local adjective. “ Epic ” is better,
considering both words’ relationships ; but Moore
is no less demanding the universal reference, the
outlook to the eternal.
The woodcut art of F. Vallotton, of which three
examples are given on this page (already indebted
to him for several portraits), is the expression of
an original mind, and has more than common
value. He is one of the most distinguished of the
artistic illustrators who haunt Paris.
“ Caissa’s ” chess malice —
The kernel of the Sydney chess squabble is this ; Crane,
Hall, and Wallace, three of the stronger players, founded
an independent club, and claimed the right to select the
interprovincial teams. Jacobsen stoutly opposed them,
and his friends insisted that the control of public chess
matters should be placed upon an associated club basis.
A couple of years ago, the triumvirate were in the ascen-
dant, and Crane’s chess articles pathetically deplored
that Jacobsen refused to play for “ the colony.” Now
the N.S.W. Chess Association flourishes, and Jacobsen in
turn is hypocritically bewailing the fact that Crane, Ilall,
and Wallace will not play for New South Wales.
THE BOOKFELLOW.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge'!
for Selling Wool J
21 per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
ASTORAL
I NANCE
SSOC’N SaTD.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYD3VEY.
IMPORTANT WOOLGROWERS
111 New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION ... ... ... ... ... ... £ per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting,, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... Ss. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Mlarsupial Skins held. Weekly.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SYDNE -ST,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
9 to
rim
•
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING I
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
> ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by {
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
jstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- (
J CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.!
|DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER (
3 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can 4
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly- ®
constructed Belts_give prompt relief in Insomnia, |
.Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
! Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc'., etc., etc. 4
\They impart vigor and potency to every function,*
" brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and 4
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted "
to renew vital energy., are light, comfortable, and |
may be worn without the slightest possibility of \
detection. They have cured thousands. A
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
10 0
1 10 0
2 2 0
3 3 0
2 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
Mtashments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be '
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and {
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
.LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season :
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
2'°
VINOLIA WAR FUND
AMOUNTS TO
£lO,OOO
REPRESENTING NEARLY
5,000,000 HA’PENNI
id. sent on every tablet sold.
m
-r*e „
th»" M
**•««*
9
Vinolia Soap is specially prepared for Sensitive Skins.
C B B
ssca
SSOO
-v.
180*
m
5800
5807
Gu&rsoteed pot lo or boro.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling: Daily.
'c BB
BRIAR
suoiuuiis oui
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
MOIR’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers s
JOHN MOXR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
— l T s Pat€i)t Sbcep-Braodiog LiqCiid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting 1 Brand; withstand all B>ain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Crimwade & Go,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E> rich & CO. LTD,
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, Red, and Blue. 3a 8d per gall, in Melb. and Sydney; 3a Oc3L per gall, in Brisbane


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMSt Hotoart.
Demonstration H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5>
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Oct. 1.
shares in above.
October 20,
Caulfield C.
100,000 Subscriber* at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name.
£
Address.
Caulfield C. (SPECIAL).
100,000 Snbaorlbera at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
£ l
s
Address
November 6
Melbourne C.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
«
s
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. (special.)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me . shares in the above.
Mame
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
Be St Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\ \
BAND SAW MIIIS. ' CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMINO,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
<3?
AGE
K
MARKS
Why do yon
sit calmly and
just let yon-
hair all fall
out or get
gray and do
nothing to
stop it ? Is
this common
sense? Not a
bit of it. No
need of losing
your hair in this way. And
there is no need of your look-
ing old before your time,
either. The hair may be
pres erved
and made
beautiful
by giving
it the food
found in—
It always
restores
Avcn
H&r
visor
color to gray or faded hair.
Your hair may have all the
dark, rich color of early life.
Then why not have it so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n?brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
. and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n)brocatioi).
When that enterprising gentleman who
escaped from Melb. Detective-office in Feb., ’9B,
and was subsequently discovered in Adelaide
gaol, faced a Melbourne suburban Bench lately he
answered, when asked what he had to say to the
charge of housebreaking, that he was “ too tired
to say anythiny.” “You’ll probably be more
tired before you’re done,” said the beak. Where-
upon the prisoner—“ You are taking advantage of
your position ; and it’s not gentlemanly. More-
over, you’re sitting, and I’m standing.” He was
then given a chair, and sat down so firmly that
when told to stand up to hear the committal read
it took three lusty constables to keep him on his
feet. Here was indeed the Australian “ tired
feeling ! ”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Nervous sufferers will lind it worth their
while to peruse Herr Raßsmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Australia!) Provident Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying nol
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
TT , RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mn
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£SF Send for a
Catalogue.
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE ta
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIEK, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
Th 13 Test / m ony of Em in ent Analytical
Chemists:
From Dr. REDWOOD, Ph.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. C. TICHBOSNE, Esq.,
LIi.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Dali of 1/eland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Ph.D., &c. f
jecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and I can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
99
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
n
The Basis of which is « MONTSERRAT " LIME=FRUIT JUICE.
lame-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Public.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy: —
I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabins.
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AG-EWTS :
SYDNEY—-Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard &Co
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudcf.”
■ S W - Carriage & Saddlery Manf.
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, i. 7. 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to liedferu Ilailway Station).
OUJi SPECIAL No.
£8 18/6
m
D*llrered at any Wharf „ p
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I Shall Remember.
Tell me what potent amulet you held,
The year ago,
When arm-in-arm we walked
The noisy streets, where harsh-voiced life repelled
The rosy glow
Of that whereof we talked.
For thus it was I saw no one but you,
And heard your kind
Words only in the crowd ;
Friends whom I met (I have some friends, a few)
Said I was blind,
Or grown remote and proud.
They knew not what I felt—the lack of pain,
The peace that brought
Good tidings to my heart;
Their faces, far and foreign, stirred again
The morrow-thought—
The hour when we might part!
Tell me, for you had sense to hear and view—
The woman-sense
That nothing may evade—
Did not a glow of roses redden through
And make intense
Tiie street-length where we strayed ?
Or was it that the sunset played the rose
And touched the street, "
The hour, the faces pale,
To kinship with the sacred mood that glows
When lovers m e
And thrill to tell their tale?
Yet sunset was it not, else how had I
I, all in love—
Found roses on the air ?
A perfume came with colour ’neath the sky
As though to prove
A reign of roses there.
Ah, mood of old ! associate with flowers
With violet,
Rose-scent, rose-hue and youth.
It seemed my soul had gathered other powers,
And, love-ward set,
Found fairer things than truth.
The twilight faded and the night came down,
And all the hum
And hurry sank and ceased ;
And every window in the waiting town,
Where all was dumb,
Seemed turned upon the East.
There came a silver sweetness, swift and soon
Along the sky—
A slowly swelling flood ;
And then the even forehead of the moon,
That rising high
Seemed flushed with new-spilt blood.
Moon-mingled melodies began to rise—
A beauty twin
To beauty born of light:
With spirit-surging stress of sobs and sighs
A violin
Made outcry in the night.
You stayed me with a touch ; we ceased to move.
Ah, what divine
And sad foreknowledge made
Your soul grow dark with fear ? I said “ O love,
O love of mine,
Be not, be not afraid ! ”
You stood a moment with white fingers t wined,
And then your cry—
In vague, veiled words—that ours
Was passion of the old romantic kind,
Foredoomed to die —
Turned dark the moonlit hours.
I did not laugh, 'I had no heart for mirth;
No merry scorn
To turn aside your pain ;
A debt uncancelled waited you on earth
Ere you were born.
And ... all the rest is vain.
O Love, when gentle things have made you wise,
And wonder meets
Your gaze in other spheres,
I think that I shall never set my eye 3
On moonlit streets—
And keep them clear of tears !
And if a lonely violin should grace
Some night with charm,
And lift my soul above ;
A sideways glance may show a shadowed face,
And, on my arm,
The srirl I used to love !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE
PLUM
nm
Price —SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory-
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires trrindin«r. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exohange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG- & AITICBM, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTBY.
The Australian UJidows’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
THI®. SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman-
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Minds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
n
FEDERIt mu HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
H. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
A PROSPEROUS COMPANY
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
John Bridge l Co’s Ltd. Clients Grow Rieh.
Ask any SENDER or GROWER REASON.
GOLDEN SALES!!!
Thedirect result of our determined efforts on your behalf.
For past 30 years or every year since 1870.
Wool. Hides.
Tallow. Skins.
Finance.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BITAR PIPES BRANDED
B
88.
OWN
MAKE
ARB RECOGNISED AS THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
★
★ '
Wl
%
MB 4
m
'"m"
CD
O
k
ONE MILLION AND A QUARTER POUNDS
1,250,000 lbs. TOBACCO
Were the Sales for Dixson’s Sydney Factory for Year ending 30th June.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading* Tobacco in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING. DOES NOT CHANGE.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
CIGARS-
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1074.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER, 15, 1900.
Prick 60.
A DELICATE POLITICAL SITUATION-TWO SEATS AT ONCE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £ £
Half-yearly ... ... ... £ -*£ £
Quarterly ... ... .*• (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
weelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macdeod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other paid of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to Theßulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street & Co., Comhul.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, ?M Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., n Hout-st., Cape Town, Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Wcslralia and Alaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers , the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \(l. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
y^^^BxxlleZz/ri.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth— The
Federal Debt.
The Parliament may take over from the States their
public debts as existing at the establishment of the
Commonwealth, or a portion thereof according to the
respective numbers of their people as shown by the latest
statistics of the Commonwealth, and may convert, renew,
or consolidate such debts, or any part thereof ; and the
States shall indemnify the Commonwealth in respect of
the debts taken over, and thereafter the interest payable
in respect of the debts shall be deducted and retained
from the portions of the surplus revenue of the Common-
wealth payable to the several States, or if such surplus is
insufficient, or if there is no surplus, then the deficiency
or the whole amount shall be paid by the several States.
Commonwealth Constitution, clause 105.
In the early days of the making of the Com-
monwealth Constitution a considerable party
of Parochialists or Scared Federationists op-
posed the consolidation of the State debts
into one Federal liability on any terms or
conditions whatever. This party gradually
faded and has now almost disappeared, but
even to this day there are a few desolate souls
who want to know how or why the Federal
Government should be able to renew loans as
they fall due at a cheaper rate than the State
Governments can do. As things are, every-
thing in Australia is pawned as security for the
£200,000,000 or so which this country owes,
and if the debt is consolidated there will bo
the same amount owing, and the same assets
in pawn as security. The difference will be
that all the assets will be security for all the
debts, instead of certain portions of the
assets being security for certain portions of
the debts, and that doesn’t look so very
much of a difference. The Bulletin doesn’t
propose to expound at great length the
reasons why the Federal Government should
be able to renew the State loans
at a lower rate than the States could
renew at. It is content to know that, either
for some good and sufficient reason, or be-
cause of the prejudices of the public creditor,
or for some other cause, it will be able to do
so. The reason, whatever it may be, is
doubtless the same which enables V.S.W.
to borrow more cheaply than Parramatta, or
Victoria than Geelong ; which enables the
Canadian and U.S. Federations to borrow on
better terms than the separate States which
make up Canada and the U.S. ; and
which enables every solvent State to borrow
on cheaper terms than its component parts
can do. While Canadian 3 per cent, stocks
are worth £lOl, and the 3 per cent, stocks
of its province of Quebec, with a larger
population than N.S.W. and only one-tenth
the debt, are only worth £9l, it is needless
to argue as to why the lender will advance
money more cheaply to the supreme Govern-
ment than to the merely local one. The
obvious fact is that he does it.
* * * #
It is, of course, not absolutely certain that
the Federal Government will be able to*
renew expiring loans very much more cheaply
than the rate at which the most solvent of
the separate States can do it just now. But it
will assuredly be able to renew a little more
cheaply than the best of them, and very
much more cheaply than the worst of them.
There will certainly be a saving in interest,
large in the case of some States, and
small in the case of others, but a sav-
ing all round. There will also be a
great saving in management expenses—
the policy of having one management in-
stead of six must count for a good deal.
The conversion of a great part of the
multifarious existing loans into one
great uniform stock itself amounts to some-
thing, for the British market loves a
huge uniform stock which lends itself to
market operations on a vast scale, and will
pay more for it in consequence. And in any
case the consolidation of the State debts is
compulsory, for even if the Federal Govern-
ment can’t renew loans much more cheaply
than N.S.W. and Victoria can do now, it
will certainly be able to do so much more
cheaply than they can in the future. When
the existing State loans were floated the
security at the back of them was the State
customs and excise revenue, and unlimited
power of taxation in the State. When these
loans fall due after this year the Federal
Government can renew them, offering as
security the customs and excise revenues
of all Australia, and unlimited powers of
taxation over all Australia. That will be a
better security than they had before, and
consequently, other things being equal, it
will be possible to renew on better terms.
But if the States retain their separate lia-
bilities they can offer as security no customs
or excise revenues whatever, and only such
powers of direct taxation in the State as
remain after the Federal Government has
levied its. direct taxes. They can’t even
offer as security the three-fourths of the
customs and excise revenue which is to be
returned to them by the Federal Govern-
ment, for there is no guarantee that the
Federal Government will collect any such
revenue, and if it doesn’t the States will
only get back three-fourths of nothing.
Therefore, when the States proceeded to
renew their loans, they could only offer very
much worse security than heretofore, and
they would, consequently, other things
being equal, have to renew on very much
worse terms. The Federal Government
must needs take over the State debts, not
only to reduce the present rate of interest
but to prevent a great increase in the future
rate.
* * • •
The Bulletin has already advanced the
theory that the Federal Government should
take over the State railway systems at cost,
in order to avoid the vast mass of impossible
complications which would arise in endea-
vouring to ascertain the present value of
each system. It holds that the Federal
Govt, should cut the knot of a multitude of
other similar problems by taking over at
cost all the other property which it requires
—postal, telegraph, and telephone buildings
and plant, custom-house buildings, barracks,
fortifications, mints, light-houses, observa-
tories, offices, and sundries. Then it should
pay for these by issuing to each State its
own 3| per cent. Federal securities for the
full amount. These need not necessarily be
issued in the ordinary sense of the term; there
is no knowing what a reckless and impecun-
ious State Treasurer might not do at a time
of deficit with £30,000,000 worth of saleable
Federal bonds, if he had them in his safe.
But if the Federal Government owed the
States in the gross £130,000,000 at per
cent, for State properties taken over, it would
make the interest (£4,550,000) a first charge
on the net earnings of the railways, &c., and
on that three-quarters of the customs
and excise revenue (if there is any
such) which belongs to the States. It
would credit each State with its proportion
of the £4,550,000 according to the amount
of Federal securities held by that State.
Then it would further credit each State with
its share of what remained (after payment
of the Federal interest bill) of the three-
quarters of the customs and excise which
falls to the States.
• • * *
The object of this method of book-
keeping is that the Federal Government
may take over at once the railways,
telegraphs, &c., • without taking over
any direct responsibility for the payment of
principal and interest of the State debts,
until they are converted into a uniform
Federal debt at a lower rate of interest. To
pay immediately for the railways, &c., by
taking over a corresponding proportion of
the State debts would mean giving to a very
large proportion of the State creditors the
added benefit of the Federal guarantee
without any concession on their part in the
way of interest. Having taken over the
railways, &c., and given each State the
Federal lOU for the value of the works it has
surrendered, the Federal Government should
then take over the management and control
of all the State debts to the last penny. It
should also take over the existing deficits
where there are any, and thus give the
States a fair start and a clean slate. But it
should do this without in any way
guaranteeing (until the State debts are
formally converted into a uniform Federal
debt) that the interest or the princi-
pal will be forthcoming. Its position as
regards the States’ creditor would be this :
“The Commonwealth guarantees that there
will be placed to each State’s credit a sum
equal to 3| per cent, on the money which the
Commonwealth owes to that State for
for railways, &c., purchased. It further
guarantees that out of whatever remains,
after the interest on the Federal debt is
met, of the three-quarters of the customs
and excise duties payable to the States, the
due and fair proportion will be put to each
State’s credit. It will hand these sums over
to the States, and they can use them in any
way they please. If any State needs the
money for other purposes than paying
interest, that is not the Commonwealth’s
funeral. And the Commonwealth isn’t
pledged in any way to raise a large
customs and excise revenue merely for
the purpose of ensuring that each State
will have enough money to pay you. It
guarantees to raise enough revenue to pay
the interest on the amounts which it owes
the States for works taken over, but it pro-
mises nothing beyond that.”
* * * •
And it is just here that the conversion
operation would come in. For the Federal
Government would also lay this offer before
the States’ creditors : “ The Commonwealth,
however, keeps before you a standing offer
to convert your existing State stocks into
3 per cent. Federal securities at par. These
will be fixed for 25 years and there-
after be redeemable at the Commonwealth’s
option only, so that instead of having
loans falling due at all manner of incon-
venient times, and renewing them at great
expense, these loans will never fall due ex-
cept when it suits us. If you accept this offer
your securities will be guaranteed by the
Federal authority. They will become its
securities, for which it will be fully
responsible. It will pledge itself to raise
enough customs and excise and other
revenue to see you paid to the last farthing.
If you accept you have the security of all the
taxable power of Australia and Tasmania.
If you don’t accept you have merely the
lOU of an individual State which has
surrendered its railways and its customs-
and-excise-raising power, and has no security
of its own save its lands and its capacity for
bearing direct taxation of its own —this latter
on top of and in addition to any direct taxa-
tion that may be levied by the Common-
wealth.”
* * * *
The situation need not, perhaps, be put
with quite such brutal directness, but that
would be the situation. And in such a
situation it is practically certain that a very
large immediate conversion of the State
debts could be made at a great saving of
interest. The balance of the debts could, of
course, be converted as they fell due. When
a sufficient amount of each State’s debt has
been converted to counterbalance the sum
due to it by the Commonwealth, then the
fiction of a debt due by the Commonwealth
to the States can be abandoned. When the
whole debt has been converted then the
Commonwealth can absolutely relieve of all
liability the State with the least debt per
head, and it can take over absolutely a cor-
responding amount of the debt of each of the
other States. If the least indebted State
owes £45 per. head it can be relieved of all
liability and the rest can be relieved to
the extent of £45 per head all round. The
system of debiting each State with its
separate share of interest need only be main-
tained as regards the balance.
* * * *
The one complaint that is likely to be
made is that this process of coercing the
public creditor is dishonest. Perhaps it is.
The situation is a difficult one. The
Federal Government necessarily deprives
the States of command of the source
of revenue (customs and excise) on which
they mostly depended to pay their in-
terest bills. If it deprives the State creditor
of a large part of his security without
immediately giving him a Federal guarantee
in return, it may be alleged that it is dis-
honest to the State creditor. On the other
hand, if it gives the State creditor the
guarantee of all Australia for his money,
whereas he only bargained for the guarantee
of one State, and if it does this without exact-
ing any concession in return in the way of
reduced interest, it is certainly a case of
being grossly dishonest to Australia. And
there are no ways open except these two.
Therefore, one way being as dishonest as the
other, The Bulletin proposes being honest
to Australia first.
Brother Alick’s Paper Breaks Out.
Westkalta is a land of surprises in matters
political, and the latest is the sudden volte face of
Brother Alice’s paper, Perth Morning Herald.
All through the recent Federal campaign the
Herald cried to the people with a bitter cry to
vote against Federation, because, among other
things, the Commonwealth would certainly cut
down the tariff, and the consequent loss of revenue
would ruin Westralia. (It also urged them to vote
against Federation because the Commonwealth
would certainly raise the tariff, and the consequent
increase of taxation would ruin Westralia—but
that is a mere side issue.) And now that Federa-
tion has come, the Perth Morning Herald has
turned violently Foreign-trade, and is theorganand
mouthpiece of a party which wants the Common-
wealth to abolish duties altogether. As is usual
with the unpractical dreamers of the Foreign-trade
camp not a word is said about where the
revenue is to come from when the tariff goes over-
board, but an income-tax of 4s. in the £ and a land
tax of 4d. in the £ of capital value would probably
about make up the deficiency. Brother Alices
paper, as usual, lies most foolishly and clumsily in
its new capacity as Freetrade leader, and some of
the things that it tells the Westralians are absurd
beyond belief. A really intelligent person might
make out a plausible case for Freetrade without
lying, for the simple reason that a really intelli-
gent person might make out a plausible case for
anything. But Brother Alice's paper was never
threatened with intelligence, so it splashes around
like this:
* * * *
The history of Western Australia furnishes the most
striking example that could be offered of the advantages
of Freetrade. Up to the establishment oi representative
(not responsible) government in this colony there was no
protective tariff. The country, being governed direct
from Downing-street, pursued unflinchingly the policy ot
the mother country, and the newspapers of that day were
prefaced by a Government notice which proclaimed in
every issue that the ports of Western Australia were open
free to all the nations of the world. If local Protection-
ists be right in their theories and assumptions, there
should have been no agricultural enterprise in this colony
at that period. So far from that being the case, despite
absence of railways, bad roads, primitive appliances and
methods, and a scanty population, Western Australia
actually exported large quantities of foodstuffs, V ictoria
being amongst her best customers. And, as we shall
show, just in proportion as Western Australia imposed
restrictive duties did her agricultural industry wane
until, just before the gold discoveries, jt had almost
entirely vanished. Thus we find that, in 1865, when
live stock, bread, biscuits, bran, corn and other grains,
flour and meal, came in free, while only a small per-
centage was charged on other soil and dairy pro-
ducts, the total value of all materials imported was
only £6lBB, while the export of foodstuffs alone was
£8746, of which £8270 was made up exclusively of flour.
In 1869 the total of imports was £9126, while the exports
were £21,463—a1l represented by food. In 1870 the ex-
port of food was worth £23,728, while the imports fell to
£llO2. Now mark what follows : —ln 1872 a change of
tariff took place ; bran and pollard were charged £1 per
ton, butter 3d. per lb., cheese 2d. per lb., fruit 2d. per lb.,
hay £1 per ton, meal £1 per ton, and meat 2d. per lb.
The following year the imports rose to £25,491, while the
export of food absolutely ceased. And from that day to
this it has never been resumed. From 1873 down to 1893
—the year of the discovery of Coolgardie —the agricul-
tural statistics of this colony showed a total cessation of
exports, a constant increase of food imports, and a con-
tinually diminishing area of cultivated lands until, when
the gold rush came, we were obliged to import almost
every article required for the consumption of the popula-
tion Such has been the effect of protection on Western
Australia. Could free, trade bring about any worse re-
sult? But for the disco'very of gold this colony would to-
day be bankrupt and depopulated as. the result of 30
years of protection. #
Whereupon The Bulletin looks up the Statis-
tical .Register of Westralia for 1897, and in a
huge sheet of statistics in Part 12 it finds these
facts: So far from Westralia being really Free-
trade in the early days it started to have a big
customs revenue (big in proportion to population)
as far back as 1833. In 1841 it levied a customs
revenue exceeding £2 per inhabitant—a heavier
rate than either Victoria or S.A. levies to-day.
Its customs taxation varied between 255. and s
£2 3s. per head per annum up to 1871. This was
in the alleged golden period of Freetrade. Think
of “the ports of Wes c Australia being open free
to all the nations of the world ” when customs
taxation ranged as high as the enormous figure of
£2 3s. per inhabitant annually !
* * * *
Next, Westralia never exported large quantities
of foodstuffs of her own growing to Victoria or
any other place. That story is purely a
Foreign-trade myth. Its biggest year’s export
of all kinds of food didn’t reach £25,000.
But it did export in a small way for
many years, up to 1888, when the growth of
population put the local demand ahead of the
supply. The statement that the food exports
stopped short when the Protective tariff of 1872
was imposed is an absolute invention.; the exports
went right on for 16 years after that. Ihey
had got down as low as £4400 in 1870
under Freetrade ; they were over £lO,OOO
in 1880 under Protection. Instead of the
“total value of all materials imported ” in 1865
being £6lBB, as the Perth Morning Ananias
alleges, it was £168,414. Instead of the total
imports in 1869 being £9126, the imports were
£256,729, and the exports of locally-produced
food were not £21,463 in 1869, but less than
£6OOO. And so far from the area of cul-
tivated land in Westralia constantly diminishing
during the Protectionist era, from 1873 to 1893, as
reported in the astounding JoNAH-and-the-whale
of Brother Alice’s paper, the cultivated area
increased from 51,724 acres in 1873 to 83,714 acres
in 1893. As regards the depopulation horror,
whereas in 43 years of the golden I reetrade era
up to’73 W. A. only accumulated a population of
25,761, it thereafter took to expanding vastly, and
in 20 years of Protection up to 1893 it had in-
creased its population to 65,064 —a gain of over
39,000. There is actually not one figure of the
Perth Freetrade organ’s statistics about its own
country which, when compared with the official
Government returns, isn’t invention from the
first letter to the last. According to the evidence
of the State’s figures, it would seem that the pros-
perity of Westralia really began with the
beginnings of Protection, so Brother Alice’s
paper gets over this difficulty by inventing a com-
pletely new set of figures of its own. And having
settled the affairs of W. A. in this off-hand maimer it
plunges into facts about the other provinces which
are even wilder inventions than those concerning
its own locality. But the average 1 oreign-trade
mendacity is too vast to be dealt with at full
length. Still Brother Alice’s paper deserves this
Eassing notice. For a magnificent and incredible
orse-power of inaccuracy it lies over all the other
Australian Foreign-trade organs up to date, with
the possible exception of two, and it runs these
two very closely.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The A.M.P. Extension.
The following letter has been issued by J. P.
Abbott, chairman of the A.M.P. Society, re the
proposed extension: —
Ladies and gentlemen,—When the B >ard recently con-
vened a meeting of the members to make certain amend-
ments in the bylaws to enable it to extend the operations
of the society beyond the Australasian colonies, a, form of
proxy was posted to each of you in order that you might
be represented at the meeting. I also addressed a letter
to the press setting forth as briefly as circumstances would
permit the reasons which influenced the board in seeking
these extended powers. The result of the voting was as
follows :
Votes.
In favor of the board’s amendments .. 119,505
Against the board’s amendments .. 28,820
Majority .. .. .. .. 90,685


Such an enormous majority, unprecedented in the history
of the society, was accepted by the board as a clear indi-
cation that the members endorsed its action and agreed
with its proposals. A number of members having claimed,
h nvever, that the vote already referred to was given by
them under a misapprehension, the board agreed with
the dissentients that, should counsel'advise such a course
to be legal, it would take a referendum of the members
on the question. Counsel having advised that such
a proceeding is legal, and in order to remove every
possible cause for complaint, the board has agreed
to take the referendum, and the necessary voting
papers have been posted to the members. It will perhaps
not be out of place to point out to you that the society’s
affairs in Australasia are managed by seven boards, con-
sisting of 35 directors ; one of these directors is at present
absent in England, the others are unanimously in favor of
the proposed extension. Presumably these commercial
and professional gentlemen, who have been intimately
associated with the control of the society for many years,
are best qualified to judge of the wisdom and propriety
of the proposal. As I have already given the reasons
which induced the board to ask for increased powers, and
as its request has been so unmistakeably granted by the
members, I do not now propose to repeat these reasons or
to add to them. I have only to say that the board sees no
reason to alter its views ; it is still of opinion that the
proposed extension will be greatly to the advantage of the
society ; and I ask you to repeat your expression of confi-
dence in the board by striking out the word “ no ” in the
voting paper and returning it to this office without delay.
It isn’t polite to contradict a gentleman, especially
a nice elderly gentleman of about Bft. high and
with such beautiful whiskers as Mr. Abbott’s, but
the case calls for it: —
(1) Mr. Abbott’s statement that he has “ already given
the reasons which induced the board to ask for increased
powers ” is utterly unreliable and misleading. The board
asks for power to extend the society’s operations to
England, Scotland, Ireland, Borneo, Ceylon, Hongkong,
India, Burmah, Cyprus, Singapore, Cape Colony, British
Central Africa, Natal, the Orange State, the Transvaal,
British East Africa, Mauritius, Lagos, the Gold Coast,
Gambia, Sierra Leone, the Niger territories, Guiana,
Honduras, Labrador, Newfoundland, and many other
wretchedly unhealthy spots. It asks for all these powers
with a vigor and energy and intensity that look absurdly
incompatible with the theory that it doesn’t intend to use
them when it gets them. It demands that it shall be en-
trusted with a blank cheque, which may be absolutely
ruinous to the society if presented. It is moving heaven
and earth to get permission to spread the A.M.P. Society
to the fever-swamps and plague-regions of Africa and
Asia. And Abbott and Co. talk persistently about the
alleged advantages to be gained by an extension to
London. Wild cattle can’t drag from them even a side
allusion to the thousands of other places to which they
are asking for powers of extension.
(2) Even as regards the extension to London, Mr.
Abbott, though he has given reasons why the board
wants to go there, has given not one sufficient reason why
the policy-holders should want to go there. He has
pointed out that it will lead to a greatly enlarged business
which will mean more kudos , more glory, more good
billets, and pleasant trips to and fro for inspecting officers
and others. But more business in a mutual concern also
means more partners to share the profits. The profits
have to be shared equally among all the partners. If the
English and foreign business brought in by the new
partners, however profitable it may be, is less profitable
than the Australasian business brought in by the old
partners, then there will be less profit for the old
(Australasian) partners. And The Bulletin’s reasons for
believing that it will be less profitable are these :
(а) The death-rate in Britain and in almost every other
part of the British empire is far higher than in Australasia.
The Bulletin doesn’t ask anyone to take its word for
this; the handy Statesman’s Year Book shows highly
interesting figures on the subject.
(б) The rate of interest to be earned on funds invested
in Britain is less than in Australasia. Whitaker’s
Almanac or the Insurance Blue Book will prove to any
one that no English ordinary life co. earns such high
interest as the A.M.P. does.
(c) The Insurance Blue Book will show also that no
English life co. manages to pay anything like such high
bonuses on such low premiums as the A.M.P. does.
(d) The A.M.P. can hardly hope to produce better re-
sults in England than the English offices do. And with
heavier losses through deaths, and less profits in the way
of interest, than in Australia, it can’t hope to produce as
good results in England as it does in Australia. And the
English and Australian policy-holders will share alike.
If the English business is less profitable than the Austra-
lian, then the Australian bonuses must suffer.
(e) Even if the English funds are sent out here for in-
vestment there will still remain the loss through higher
mortality, the loss through having to keep more funds
lying idle to meet possible sudden calls at a great distance
from headquarters, and the further loss arising from the
fact that the more money the A.M.P. has to invest the
more difficult it is to get decent interest.
(3) Mr. Abbott’s strong point is that the people who
have been connected with the A.M.P. for years (the
district boards and such) must necessarily know better in
this matter than outsiders. In other words that because
these men have, for many years, been connected with
assurance business in Australia they must necessarily be
the best judges of the prospects of assurance business in
England, Canada, Africa, India, and other countries
which some of them have never seen. The reasoning isn’t
conclusive. The writer of this has been engaged in both
fire and life assurance business in Great Britain. So far
as he knows, Joseph Abbott has not. And he backs his
knowledge against Mr. Abbott’s.
Therefore The Bulletin urges every A.M.P.
policy-holder to vote “No ” with a very large and
indignant N.
4
More About the Cloncurry Railway Job.
Brisbane Street (“ Street ” is a good name for it,
if you think hard) on the proposed Port Norman-
Cloncurry private railway, which is to be author-
ised to charge 50 per cent, higher freights and
fares than the State lines:—
The Labor-party, not being able to build a Government
railway, refuse to assist their constituents by voting for a
private line, preferring to see them starve.
What a beautifully convincing argument can be
manufactured in support of any fallacy if only a
sufficient number of non-existent circumstances
are assumed to begin with ! This one rests on two
assumptions—that the State can’t raise the money
itself to build the Cloncurry line, which is cer-
tainly false; and that the syndicate will build it
sooner than the State or Federal Government
would do, which is probably false. As The Bul-
letin pointed out last week, out of every shilling
charged to the users of N.Q. railways about 7d.
goes in expenses and sd. in interest on borrowed
capital. The sd. represent interest at a little over
£3 15s. per cent. The Cloncurry railway co. is to
be allowed to charge Is. 6d. where the State
charges Is.; i.e., 7d. for expenses, and lid. for
interest on capital, which is equal to borrowing
the money at £8 ss. per cent. Whether the
State borrows the construction money in Eng-
land, or a private co. raises the cash in
England, the price of the railway is equally a
debt owing by this country to England ; only in
the latter case the money will be paid to an
English owner and called dividend, and in the
former it will be paid to an English mortgagee and
called interest. Now Queensland has just floated
a loan (the cheapest big one in its history) which
cost £3 10s. or £3 11s. per cent. It was floated
with some difficulty, certainly, but it is safe to
assume that the money to build the Cloncurry
line could be raised at 4 per cent.—less than half
what the syndicate proposal will cost. It was
just after floating the cheapest big loan in Queens-
land’s history _ that Premier Philp suddenly an-
nounced that it was obviously quite hopeless to
think of getting any more money. Next year it
will be possible to appeal to the Federal Govern-
ment to build the line, and if it consented it could
find the money and get the work started in a few
months. Failing it, Queensland itself could find
the money this year or next. The syndicate, if
one may judge by the experiences of the Tas-
manian G.W. Co., the Midland of Maoriland, the
Midland of W. A., the Cape Patterson syndicate
in Victoria, and others, won’t have a pick in the
ground any time in the next five years. Probably,
by holding the concession, and doing nothing
itself, and preventing the State doing anything,
it will prevent the Northern constituents getting
work where, but for it, they would have plenty.
That is about the average record of the Australian
private railway syndicate.
♦
The Objectionable Jobber.
O’Neill, of Mandurang, Vic. M.L.A., sponsors a
couple of Bills now before the House, one for the
Licensing of House and Land Agents, Valuators,
Financial Agents, and Money Lenders, and the
other for the Licensingof Stock and Share Brokers.
The first proposes to enact that all agents of the
sorts mentioned shall register themselves and pay
an annual fee of £lO. As there are over 500 house
and land agents in Melbourne and suburbs, and
about as many of the other sorts, the scheme
ought to bring in a little sum every year, and
should be regarded with a friendly eye by the
Treasurer. It would probably wipe out a large
number of these very indefinite and remarkable
middle-men, but inasmuch as the whole stock-in-
trade of the house or financial agent often consists
of an office table, couple of chairs, brass plate, and
his wits, he would be but little missed—some
of him, anyhow. The same argument ap-
plies to the share broker, whom it is
proposed to compel pay a £2O fee annually.
The bigger brokers are at present under the more-
or-less watchful eye of their Exchanges, but the
much more numerous “jobber” can act accord-
ing to the dictates of his own sweet will, and is a
rather undesirable person. O’Neill’s Bill also
provides that the broker shall give “bought
notes” and “sold notes” specifying price, date,
and names of buyer and seller for each trans-
action, and proposes heavy penalties for omission
to do so or for making false entries. The Melb.
bulls and bears have already deputationised the
Ministry, arguing with reckless lack of logic that
the imposition of the £2O fee would drive capital
out of the State (the wonder is that any capital
is left anywhere after the number of times it has
been driven out these last few years), and that it
would seriously discourage' people from paying
calls, which would indeed be a regrettable circum-
stance, though the relation of cause and effect
therein is somewhat obscure. But the brokers
admitted that there were large numbers of persons
—outside the Exchange—carrying on the business
of stock-broking and jobbing, and that said busi-
ness was mostly of a speculative character; and
any measure that tends to regulate and restrain
this, as well as bring in coin to the Treasury, is
a desirable thing, and should be encouraged. The
constant buying and selling of scrip which neither
party possesses is, after all, only a swindle, a
device to rob your neighbor and another method
whereby a useless and undesirable person lives on
his wits. O’Neill’s proposal, if rigidly carried
out, would to a great extent abolish this • occupa-
tion, and in so doing it would make one non-
producer the less for the producer to support.
Same Old Weary George.
N.S. Wales ex-Premier same old George at his
recent Granville meeting:
People were perfectly sick of the attack that had been
made on him by means of the Finance Committee. But
he might mention that he had the satisfaction of seeing
the report of three of the keenest accountants in Austra-
lia, whom he had appointed to investigate the accounts,
which stated that he had underestimated his surplus for
the four years’ operations. The independent accountants
fixed it at £261,000 instead of £140,000. (Cheers.) Sir
William Lyne was now working on his balance. (“ Hear,
hear.”) These miserable slanders which had been hurled
against him were being taken up in Victoria, but he had
the satisfaction of knowing that when they took so much
trouble to defame him they must be afraid of him.
If the incredibly impudent George Reid had just
been publicly flogged by the common hangman
(mind you, we don’t even suggest that such a thing
is possible) he would go round the country next
day lecturing on the event, and saying that it
wasn’t a flogging but a coronation, and that it was
the proudest moment in his life. George Reid
has had his accounts inquired into by three
separate committees, and they have found him
about the cheekiest kind of a political humbug.
He nominated the first one himself to guarantee
the reality of his 1896 surplus, and it refused to do
it, whereupon Reid said he had been “trium-
phantly vindicated.” He nominated two out of
the three members of the second committee, and
declared that he would be quite satisfied with their
report, and the second committee branded him as
a shady political trickster, and showed him up as no
Australian Treasurer was ever shown up before.
Then also he said he’ was “triumphantly vindi-
cated.” Finally he got a third committee all of
his own, and paid it himself, and it blighted him
once more. The best he could extract from his
own hired committee was that his mode of keep-
ing the accounts was unsatisfactory, but that he
had a surplus by his own erratic methods of
accountancy, and that the surplus would be real
enough if it weren’t for a lot of painful facts and
circumstances which the committee enumerated.
Any man with a shred of political decency would
have gone and hidden himself with the Breelong
blacks after that unpleasant verdict, but G.
Reid, the brassy, soulless cynic of N.S.W.
politics, published the dreadful thing, and
stumps the country lecturing on it and saying
once more that he is “triumphantly vindicated.”
Of course, not one man in 500 read it, and the
other 499 simply assume that it can’t be so very-
bad, else he wouldn’t have ventured to publish it,
and when he assures them that the blasting
remarks of his own paid investigators were a
complete acquittal a good many know no better.
G. Reid is a political worm-hole carrying a load
of testimonials, every one of which sets forth em-
phatically that he is a worm-hole and nothing
more. But he says that the documents bear
enthusiastic testimony to his splendid qualities as
an apple, and the thing that is said often enough
always finds some believers. Of course, N.S.W.
is afraid of George Reid, as he proudly says. No
man could reveal so vast a capacity for doing
harm without people being afraid of hin. N.S.W.
is also afraid of the Breelong blacks.
♦
The Great Joke in Life Assurance.
The Bulletin culls the following printed shriek
from a huge two-column advertisement, pub-
lished in Sydney, of the Canadian Inde-
pendent Order of Foresters —that curious cheap-
Jack life assurance device which recently struck
this defenceless country. It is part of a descrip-
tion of the appearance of the general manager :
Dr. Oroniiyatekha is a full-blooded Indian. He was
born at the Six Nations Reservation, near Bradford, in
1841. His education was begun at home in an industrial
school established by “ the New England Company ” for
the training of young Indians. This school was the
stepping-stone to the Wesleyan Academy, at Wilbraham,
Mass., where he passed several terms before going to
Kenyon College, Ohio, where he remained two years.
This course was followed by another at Toronto Univer-
sity. All this time the doctor was dependent upon his
own resources.
Dr. Oroniiyatekha was a student at Toronto when the
Prince of Wales made his memorable visit to Canada.
The doctor was deputed by the chiefs of the Six Nations
to deliver an address to the Prince. The impression the
young Indian made upon the Prince and the Royal party
was so favorable that he was invited to continue his
studies at Oxford, England, under the care of Sir Henry
Acland, Regius Professor of Medicine, and out of this
relation of teacher and pupil sprung a fast and lasting
friendship. On his return from Oxford, Dr. Oronhya-
tekha married the great-granddaughter of Captain Jos.
Brant, the celebrated head chief of the Mohawks, of
revolutionary war fame. Several children were born to
them, only two surviving—Dr. Acland Oronhyatkkha and
Miss Karawinaii Oronuyatekiia.
A friend gives this pen-sketch of the doctor : " Among
any number of men of distinguished appearance he would
claim first and last notice, and not by reason of his color
alone, but by his splendid dignity, uncommon repose, and
genial polish—outward evidence of the inner man. Those
who know him best do not need to be reminded how dis-
tinctively his face and figure suggest his Indian blood.
The massive and bold outline of his countenance, the keen
eye that can either warm the heart of a friend or wither
an enemy ; the expressive nose, ample chin, the height,
rather above 6ft. ; the shoulder, broad as those of Robin
Hood ; capacious chest and general fulness of develop-
ment, all equally characteristic of his race. His counten-
ance eminently suggestive of “ muttered thunder ” in
repose, is full of sunshine in animation ; the ever-changing
expression of his lips, at one moment sobered with
thought, and in the next radiant with a rich, lurking
humor, which, coming straight from the heart, provokes
a laugh before a word has been spoken. These are traits
of character that enliven whatever might be supposed to
be saturnine in the mere national cast of his countenance.
This is reducing life-assurance to the level of the
man with 24 speckled bananas in a bag for nine-
pence. Thinks of any sober, sane citizen trust-
ing the prospects and safety and bread and butter
of his future widow and orphans to a concern
which fools away its premium-money in huge two-
column advertisements about the expressive nose
and capacious chest of its Red Indian boss manager!
If any local institution did such a thing it would
be killed by ridicule. Even the deep-rooted
A.M.P. Society wouldn’t stand long if it took to
filling the papers with huge descriptions of the
majestic effect of the general manager’s ear, and
how the chairman had once made a good impres-
sion on the Prince of Wales. Unfortunately dis-
tant assurance offices, as well as the distant fields
of Paraguay where Lane’s pilgrims went, look
green, and the tremendous humor of the thing
doesn’t seem to have struck the Australian public
much. The new life assurance intruder pushes
business by lectures interspersed with music, and
in a manner of speaking, gets business by pound-
ing the irrelevant big drum apd banging the
superfluous cymbal*. But, after all, leetures, and
promiscuous clatter on the piano, and the huge
costly advertisements about the general manager’s
broad shoulders and fullness of development,
are not the essentials of life assurance. The
main question at issue is that the 1.0. F., by its
own published figures, hasn’t enough assets on
hand to equal 2s. in the £ of the present value of
its liabilities, when the liabilities are estimated on
ordinary sound insurance principles, while all the
good Australian offices have assets equal to 20s. in
the £. Even if the general manager in Canada
had six expressive noses instead of one and was
over 60 feet high, it wouldn’t have the slightest
bearing on this painful fact. What Australia
wants is a statesman 6ft. high who will secure
legislation to make institutions of the 1.0. F. de-
scription impossible here. Still this country owes
something of a debt of gratitude to the 1.0. F.
As a concern which seeks to show that it can
safely be trusted with the savings of the poor
because the head of the concern is a Red Indian
of great size with a face like thunder, it is a pleas-
ing contribution to the gaiety of nations. But
neither the comic life assurance office, nor the
musical one, nor the one with a tall Indian at the
head of it, is necessarily good to insure in. A
safe and solvent office, even though it is run by a
dwarf or a living skeleton who never had. a
daughter called Kabawinah, is preferable.
The Maoriland Tote and the Maorilaud
Ikey Mo.
Among the pious element in Maoriland the
demand for the suppression of the tote grows dis-
tinctly stronger. Even Premier Seddon seems to
be drifting into the pamp of the unholy alliance
between the church and the garish bookmaker.
Years ago Maoriland realised that Ikey Mo
was an unmitigated curse. He was fraudulent,
profane, loud-mouthed, useless and unornamental,
and as a non-producer lie was necessarily a burden
on the productive industries of the country. He
was objectionable because his existence encouraged
gambling; the only good point about him was
that his shocking dishonesty also discouraged
gambling. The Srate, somehow, never had cour-
age enough to prohibit Ikey Mo, but it
legalised the tote m the hope that that quiet,
sober, respectable, honest instrument would wipe
him out. It did wipe him out to a very
great extent ; at least it extinguished fully
three-fourths of him. The bookmaker didn’t go
down because he was useless, profane, often wine-
sodden, generally decorated with too much jewel-
lery, and a horrid blight on the landscape gener-
ally ; his own clients, as a rule, didn’t care so very
much about these things ; they mostly injured the
sensibilities of a crowd which didn’t bet much.
The tote came out on top because it was honest
and gave the public better value for its money.
It also gave the State a considerable revenue,
which is a great point in its favor, and the money
thus acquired was quite as clean as the £400,000 a
year or so which the State gets from spirit-duties.
But by its honesty the tote necessarily encouraged
gambling—hence the foolish and illogical shriek
for its abolition. Now there are these alternatives
in view
(1) To discourage gambling by abolishing the book-
maker and the tote. The bookmaker can be abolished
quite as easily as the tote if the pious crowd wants him
abolished. It is only a question of making the minimum
sentence heavy enough. A minimum sentence of £lOOO
fine with the alternative of three years’ gaol would do it.
But he can’t be abolished by the mockery of a £5 fine.
(2) To discourage gambling by abolishing the book-
maker as above and making the tote the only betting
agency, and then raising the State’s percentage of the
tote money to 10 per cent. If that didn’t discourage
sufficiently it could be further raised to 20 per cent, or
more. This would supply a splendid amount of dis-
couragement and give the State a valuable revenue as
well. The tote has made gambling boom by giving better
value for every £ invested. The effect can be undone by
giving worse value for every £ invested.
(3) To discourage gambling by abolishing the tote, and
sacrificing the revenue it yields, and letting Ikey Mo have
all the business again. Ikey Mo, by shamelessly defraud-
ing the public, would supply the discouragement. In
other words to discourage gambling by encouraging
laziness, dishonesty, lying, meanness, and other sins.
Among these three alternatives any one would
imagine that conscientious anti-gamblers would
vote for either No. 1 or No. 2. But strangely
enough they don’t! They go solidly for No. 3.
And that is the reason why The Bulletin i 3
reluctantly driven to suspect that the pious crowd
is, to a great extent, a sleeping partner in th§
dingy, objectionable, sordid, fraudulent book-
making business, that it is a hypocrite and a mate
of Ikey Mo, or that it is hired by Mo to protect
his interests and is selling its alleged conscience
for cash. It has a chance to discourage betting
without bringing back the disreputable bookie, or
to discourage it ancl bring back the disreputable
bookie, and it always votes for the method of dis-
couragement which will bring back the disreput-
able bookie.
♦
The Root of the Matter.
It is beginning to be dimly understood that the
Chinese grudge against the missionaries is not on
account of their religion, but is due to their per-
petual interference with local custons, which have
nothing to do with religion. Miss Searell, one
of the M.L. girl-missionaries said to have been
murdered, described in a letter how a Chinese
girl of 14 (alleged convert) refused to continue to
bandage her feet, though required to do so by her
parents. Now, in a country where all society is
based on the family, disrespect or disobedience to
parents is considered the greatest possible crime,
and those who urge or countenance such a crime
under the cloak of religion are held to deserve no
mercy. The shaping of a foot or the wearing of a
pig-tail has nothing to do with the Christian
system of speculative opinions and moral precepts,
yet the missionary insists that his converts shall
not only accept a new creed, which is a compara-
tively simple matter, but shall also conform to
European social and domestic usages—and thus
cut themselves as hopelessly off from their own
people as if they were sent into exile—to say no-
thing of the loss of livelihood and family affection.
This is fighting against Nature—and Nature
always wins in the end. Hence the abortiveness
of missions for permanent good.
♦
A Freetrade Association has been started in
Westralia with a view to securing the adoption of
a cheap shoddy policy by the Commonwealth.
As usual there is a great silence as to where the
needful cash is to come from when the incidental
revenue supplied by a Protectionist tariff is lost,
but probably an income-tax of 4s. in the £ is what
is intended. The chief apostle of the new move-
ment seems to be Haynes, M.L.C., brother of
N.S.W.’s John of that ilk. Here is a slab from
Haynes’s speech at the inaugural meeting, as
reported by the admiring Perth Morning
Herald :
To the unthinking population Protection seemed the
best policy. They thought that if they could, keep out the
foreign-made goods they could charge higher for the
locally-made article. No greater fallacy existed.
The Bulletin gives Haynes, M.L.C., this free
advt. most cheerfully. Nothing better or kinder
was ever said about Protection. After all the
years and years of cursing about how Protec-
tion raises prices, here is a Freetrader de-
claring flatly that it doesn’t raise prices—that to
suppose it does so is the greatest possible fallacy.
According to his showing, Protection, while
yielding a large revenue to the State and furnish-
ing much employment, doesn’t make things any
dearer. It is a mere detail that, while the
Haynes crowd in East Aus-tralia says Protection is
bad because it raises prices, the Haynes crowd in
Westralia should be declaring that Protection is
simply awful because it doesn’t raise prices. The
Freetrader is always rather mixed on that point.
His bitterest wail is how the accursed Protec-
tionist tariff makes things so dear that the con-
sumer can’t buy them, and his next bitterest wail
is how it makes them so cheap that the producer
can’t make a decent living by selling them.
If the Maoriland Government, which has led the
way in so many great reforms, would make an-
other notable experiment by compulsorily resum-
ing all Wellington, it would get that town out of
a difficulty just now. Wellington is a mountainous
little city of narrow streets, and the Municipal
Council is applying for power to make improve-
ments and to charge betterment-rates. If the
proposed scheme is carried the Council, when it
takes part of a property for street-widening pur-
poses, can deduct from the compensation to be
paid the extra value given to the rest of the pro-
perty. Therefore if it demolishes one side of a
street for widening purposes, the owners of pro-
perty on the demolished side will be taxed to the
extent of the extra value given to their properties.
And it has just been discovered that the owners
on the other side—the one which is not demolished
—will pay nothing. Also the people in adjacent
streets, who will doubtless receive some benefit,
will pay nothing. The Bulletin’s idea is that if
the State compulsorily resumed all Wellington—
which is a small place at best, about one-tenth the
size of Sydney—and paid for it in 3jj per cent.
Government debentures, and charged the same
rates as at present, the difference between rents
received and interest paid would create a fund for
the gradual reconstruction of the city. And after
that it would create a fund for paying off the debt
incurred in the purchase, and leave the State with
its capital as a clear asset. That would settle in
one act all the tangled problem of betterment,
and it would be a big, bold, democratic experi-
ment such as the old Seddon used to love, though
whether the new Jingo Seddon is of the same way
of thinking it is difficult to say.
Premier Salisbury hit the nail square on the
head when he said recently, in a speech at Exeter
Hall, London: —
“You observe that all the people slaughtered in China
are Christians. Do you imagine that they are slaughtered
simply because the Chinese dislike their religion ? There
is no nation in the world so indifferent on the subject of
religion as the Chinese. It is because they and other
nations have got the idea that missionary work is a mere
instrument of the secular Government in order to achieve
the objects it has in view.”
Salisbury—who has glimmerings of sense in that
big head of his —also cautioned missionaries to
remember that—
“ In these Mahommedan countries you are dealing with
men who h tve religious motives—a religion that has por-
tions of our own embodied in its system. You are dealing
with the force which a pure, though mistaken, Theism
gives to a vast population.”
But this —a view of the case which never fails to
strike the intelligent unsectarian white man in the
East—will never come home to the hide-bound
self-sufficiency of the average missioner.
In one particular, Lord Brassey (why the “e ”
in his name ?) never at any time shows the
slightest falling-off : he has the colossal impudence
of a stupid man, and has been busily engaged
since his return to England confidently assuring
pres. 4 and publie'that Australia aspires to nothing
higher than to be a great recruiting-ground for
Bull’s army and navy. “An army of Imperial
Yeomanry might be raised in Australia,” he tells
the Daily News, with a cocksureness possible
only in a man of impenetrable density, “willing
to go anywhere and do anything. A subsidy
of £2O a man would suffice.” Would it,
Thomas ? Let John Bull try it on with an
offer of 7s. Bd. a week for Australian heroes
—who don’t wax over-enthusiastic at even 7s.
fid. per day. His Lordship furthermore reminds
the ’Ome authorities that a splendid naval reserve
might be raised in Australia. “When inquiries
were instituted, following on an intimation re-
ceived through Admiral Pearson from the Ad-
miralty, it was found that there were 30,000
seafaring men of an admirable type available.”
Brassey cheerfully assumes that those 30,000
men are available for Bull’s use at Bull’s own


AGENTS-
THE TRANSVAAL WAR!
The PREMO CAMERA
IS IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CAN’T BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
260 Collins-st. , Melbourne.
81 Queen-st., Brisbane.
65 Rundle-st. , Adelaide.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
Chief Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port ot Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a o n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT OASH.
Special Terms quoted for Larr/e Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE, CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Manaqkr. Agents for Australia
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATER
0
price any time he cares to call upon them in the
name of the Empiah. In short, it is evident to
Lord Tom that there is a glad time coming when
Britannia can have all her fighting done for her by
“her boys.” How the British investor will hug
this fond illusion !. The “boys” have been paying
him tribute ever since they were so high, and they
are proud and happy to remain the support of his
old age and the bulwarks of his money-bags.
Glorious destiny for Australia— a breeding pad-
dock for slaughtermen !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ lolanthe.”
Roval “ How London Lives.”
Palace “ What Happened to Jones."
Criterion “Drink.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Museum of Art and Anatomy.
Redfern (Railway Stn.) Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Christian. ”
Theatre Royal “A Trip to Chicago.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
“lolanthe” was revived at Sydney
Majesty’s on Saturday under favorable auspices.
There were more auspices than there was seating
accommodation for, and many of them had to
stand. “lolanthe” is one of the most popular
of productions and one of the prettiest.
Serious-minded people have pointed out the glar-
ing improbability of a large number of lightly-
clad fairies being on the Thames Embankment at
a late hour without the fact getting into the news-
papers, and the absence of press corroboration has
been mentioned as casting doubts on the
author’s veracity, but the illogical public
has paid no attention to this and other
drawbacks. It always takes “ lolanthe ”as it
comes, and wants to know why it doesn’t come
oftener. The present version is not the worst
that Sydney has seen, though it is quite certain
also that it is not the best. There are new people,
or old people in new parts, all through it; and
some of these new-old people fit admirably, and
some of them don’t fit quite so admirably. Miss
Carrie Moore is altogether charming as Phyllis,
shepherdess and maid in Chancery. Her Phyllis
is a dainty pocket charmer, and there wasn’t a
soul in the audience that didn’t fall in love with
her on the spot. Also she was in good voice on
Saturday, and every chance that the part pre-
sented Miss Moore seized with both hands. Miss
Irene Outtrim made her first appearance in lead-
ing characters as lolanthe, and did it with
moderate success. It wasn’t an absolute dazzle,
but it was good enough to justify a hope that the
lady will do better later om The Queen, as
done by Miss Jennie Opie, was mainly large
and forcible and motherly. Pat Bathurst
scored heavily as the Earl of Mountararat, and
Kenningham was perhaps a little less successful
than usual as Earl Tolioller. A rumour spread
round the hou;e that Kenningham was ill that
night ; cold, indigestion, and corns were among
the ailments ascribed to him. Lauri’s Chancellor
was received favorably, but the writer was haunted
all the evening by recollections of a greater Chan-
cellor who went before Lauri—a long, dry Chan-
cellor instead of this short, unctuous one who
didn’t at all look as if he had been fed on parch-
ments and law reports. Brownlow was all that
could be asked for as Strephon, barring some signs
of wear and tear about the voice; and Stanis
Leslie gathered in a whole cart-load of laurels in
the part of Private Willis. And the dark-greenish
Parliament House, where the accumulated wisdom
of the land leaves things alone with such capacity,
did its duty as usual with the rising moon behind
it. Some grumpy people said in the refreshment
room that Parliament House began to show signs
of age.
* He He He
“ Drink,” a drama full of gruesome fore-
boding and garnished with strange cockroaches in
its mind, has been revived in Sydney after a
lengthy silence. The Criterion co., with one or
two exceptions, makes a rather good piece of
work out of “Drink.” Dampier’s Coupeau, in
particular, deserves to be remembered as a thing
of grisly realism and great impressiveness. Dam-
pier is at his best when Coupeau is still a kind-
hearted man who now and then falls weakly into
beer, despite the remonstrances of the dreary per-
son with the spade-shaped whiskers who pours a
dust-storm of dry maxims on all and sundry and
carries a teetotal pledge in the hinder parts of his
clothes. He is, perhaps, a shade less real when
Coupeau becomes a tragedy, and is haunted by
blue gorillas, and insane talking inkbottles, and
cheeses on eight legs, and devils, and affable
giraffes with burning tails. But it is a fine
performance all through, and Coupeau falls with
a convincing thud from the house-top, in the end,
and bounces in a way that is calculated to
be a stern warning to the dry and the godless.
Miss Lily Dampier leaves a better impression
behind her than usual. She is more natural and
less sleepy-looking than is her wont. Her
Gervaise (a lady with two husbands) and the
Strange Woman, and the first husband with
the leer, and the second one who comes home
to babble of green caterpillars, make the tragedy
of “ Drink ” among them. The play only
brightens up once, and that is where Miss
Dampier flogs the Strange Woman in the laundry
and pours water over her. Miss Roland Watts-
Phillips, as the Strange Woman, is the best and
brightest feminine character in the company, and
she holds up her end of the fight manfully
with the bucket, but the greater size of her
adversary bears her down. The combat of the
two wet women is realistic while they merely
throw water at each other, and reasonably real-
istic when they reach for each other’s hair at close
quarters, but when Miss Dampier spanks Miss
Watts-Phillips with a wooden implement she is
obviously afraid of breaking her small but frenzied
adversary, and pounds her in a reticent sort of
way that diminishes the effect. If Miss Watts-
Phillips wore something extra in the way
of boiler-iron corsets for a protection, and
then took her chance while Miss Dampier
pounded all she knew, this scene would
be a good deal more effective. Mr.
Benson North, the same gentleman who was
formerly a despicable Boer in tan boots, is a very
satisfactory character as Lantier, and his scoff is a
work of art; but the teetotaller with a spade-
shaped beard fills this paper with woe. A number
of persons who have no money and a great thirst
may be taken in the lump.
** * *
A large number of more or less cultured
and intellectual people gathered in a big tent
at Redfern last Saturday night to gaze upon
the sagacious elephant and other appurte-
nances of Fitzgeralds’ Circus. A circus is a per-
formance wherein the interest consists in showing
how near an animal can get to humanity and a
human to the animal. The Wingate Sisters rival
our primeval ancestors by their performances on
the trapeze, while Lizzie, the elephant, is pro-
moted to a serviette and lunch in ths best style,
and an after-dinner snooze, wherein she resembles
a fat old aldermen or some similar produc-
tion of civilisation. The savage trait comes out
most in the audience, who plank down coin in
order to see one Dunbar skim through the ai 'near
the roof of the tent in order to make a temporary
lodging on another Dunbar before he finally emi-
grates on to the right band of the third Dunbar,
who holds on to existence by means of a trapeze
and his own two heels. Some day, when the world
has progressed considerably further in altruism
than at present, nobody will go to the circus for
pleasure, but criminals will be sentenced to have
their feelings harrowed by watching philanthropic
gymnasts, who will perform these dangerous acts
in order to aid in their reformation. At present
the populace is as ready to revel in gore that may
be spilt as the ancient Roman in gore that had to
be spilt. •
• * * *
The much-advertised lion riding on an
elephant does not strike the present writer too
favorably, as the lion does not ride particularly
well, though the mathematical exactness with
which his tail overlaps the elephant’s is certainly
creditable, and suggests that the animals were
measured for each other. Rhodesia’s tricks are
a poor imitation of Cinquevalli’s; but Rosie
Aguinaldo, the contortionist, shows the superiority
of her sex by even outdoing the remarkable
Human Frog who croaked of late at the Palace.
People called Lycurgus, or casually alluded to as
The Olympians, jump off and on horses, or off and
on each other on horses, a good deal during the
evening ; also, there is an act wherein two clown
warriors boast lengthily of what they would do in
a bull-fight, and then fall down flat when a small
dog-bull bounds into the arena and horns one
ferociously in the ankles, and finally wags a doggy
tail over his prostrate body, while the other
warrior flies in among the audience, and tries to
disguise himself by putting on another person’s
hat. The performance concludes with a high-
jumping competition, when the Australian wor-
ships at the shrine of Horse, especially when its
god successfully negotiates a 6ft. gate.
* He He *
Charles Arnold has to reject good coin of
the realm three or four nights a week at the front
door of Sydney Palace, so the prosperity of
“Jones” is evidently beyond question.
** * *
Bland Holt’s Tank drama has got success-
fully into its second week at Sydney Royal. On a
second inspection of this and many other Bland
Holtisms one is struck by the manager’s lavish-
ness in the matter of characters. There are about
a dozen who might be cut out without in the least
degree injuring the sequence of things, but Bland
puts them all in. When he goes to pawn his hat
m order to save Miss Ross from starvation, the
hat is received and Is. advanced on it by
no less than three pawnbrokers, or rather
one pawnbroker and two assistants. Three pawn-
brokers to lend one shilling on one hat is gorgeous-
ness of the largest kind. Gussie makes one soli-
tary appearance when he pawns his watch, and
Bertie does nothing but give him his moral sup-
port while doing it; while a short man in a state
of intoxication has no reason for being in the bill
at all, save that he asks the three pawnbrokers
what time it is.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has broken-out in reappear-
ances. Miss Eva Lee has returned for one,
bringing with her a small presence, a large voice
and a little Billie Barlowish taste in ditties;
while Ferry defies the laws of anatomy in the old
frog-pond as before. Miss Billie Barlow’s range
is decidedly narrow; what she can do she does
well, but there’s a great deal she can’t do. Her
newest item, “ The Soldier,” is printed large on
the programme, but it does not make as large an
imprint on the public mind. Carleton and Sutton
do a burlesque patter specialty and succeed in
being really funny. The high-kicking Haytors
surround themselves with a new and slightly more
improbable farce than usual,, but so long as all
ends happily, with one Haytor being spun round
the table different ways by two other Haytors, the
audience is content.
The Bulletin scribe has nob paid any
further visits to the museum of bones and strange
diseases and drunkards’ livers at the old Temper-
ance Hall, Sydney. But he is reliably informed
that new diseases and human vitals and things ate
being constantly added to the collection, and that
it is growing to be a more instructive nightmare
each week. The lady who is unscrewed and lec-
tured upon gives great satisfaction, and attention
is specially drawn to the addresses on alcoholism
illustrated by samples of the human frame as it
appears under the blighting influence of Beer.
#* * #
A very large and special and fashionable
matinee in aid of the Distressed Actors’ Fund is
to be given at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, to-morrow
(Friday) afternoon. There are many distressed
actors, and many distressing ones, and the charity
is a highly deserving affair which calls for popular
support.
m* * *
On Thursday evening, Sept. 27, lovers of
good music will have a chance to hear Miss Jessie
King, the English contralto, who, assisted by
Herr Gerard Yollmar, violincellist, is to let loose
a stream of melody on that date, at the Centenary
Hall, Sydney.
** * *
The Bulletin learns with interest that its
old friend, “Banjo” Paterson recently in
S’Africa on behalf of S.M. Herald —is, under
the auspices of the Much - Travelled veteran
Smythe, going forth upon the lecturing war-path
in Australia. Mr. Paterson’s letters from the
front were, probably owing to his fair-play sport-
ing instincts, singularly dispassionate and just to
both sides; and, in his platform-venture, he will
have the great advantage of being already, in a
manner, a personal friend of audiences few
amongst which will be unfamiliar with the
spirited and tuneful verses of “Banjo.” Mr.
Paterson will start his lectures at Sydney.
** * *
Miss Ada Woodhill, whose portrait appears
in this issue, is a young Australian actress who
made her debut with Geo. Rignold when Hand-
some George last staged “Black-Eyed Susan.”
Then she joined Geo. Darrell’s co. as leading lady
and played many parts in five States, making a
big hit in “Merchant of Venice,” among other
items. Later she went on tour as lady star with
the Ancelon-Bentley Co., and played the leading
feminine parts in “Silver King,” “David
Garrick,” “Dr. Bill,” “Othello” and “Hamlet.”
She is now departing for the Ugited States, where
the dollars grow, to look for an adequate oppor-
tunity in Shakespearian and other parts, and she
takes with her an attractive face and a good
record as her introductions.
“The Christian” put in its five brief,
gloomy acts at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) on Satur-
day, and got a fairly kind reception, the heartiest
applause being captured by small-part people who
might have stood out of the drama without the
least loss of coherency to the plot. Which is not
to say that “ The Christian ” has any superfluous
strength. The casual minor characters save it
from failure, in so far that they bring an air of
reality with them and create a world for John
Storm, Glory, Francis Drake and other principal
speakers to walk and talk in. Miss Eloise Juno,
as Mrs. Callendar, is a positive blessing to the
second act, likewise Miss Julia Merton, as far as
her few lines can possibly help the effect. Even
the absurdly stagey scene of the Holy Gethsemane
Home is made tolerable by the breezy hawker
who supplies the Brethren with their daily taters.
The small young damsel borne to the hospital-
ward by Storm makes feeling reference to her bad
leg. Miss Rose Musgrove’s sketch of a music-hall
girl looks truthful. The mob howling for ven-
geance on their silly prophet are more human than
most mobs, and the sergeant of police who clears
the street is an actual fact. On the other hand,
Arthur Lissant’s curate and Carden Wilson’s
flunkey are inclined to be cheap caricatures.
Tyrone Power (he was suffering from influenza on
Saturday, it was said), Miss Crane, Cecil Ward
and one or two other important items are held
over for further consideration, bail being allowed
in the case of Cecil.
* * * He
The woes of Inman are running their final
lap at Melb. Royal. Also the long-haired iniquity
of Willard, and the curved outlines of Miss
Eugenie Duggan’s hat have but two more nights
to remain in their present domicile. On Saturday
the last of the long series of William Anderson’s
awful dramas was set up at the Royal, and, like
all of its weird predecessors, this drama will show
a profit, thanks to careful staging and manage-
ment in general. Anderson’s season has been a
steady triumph of “tripe”—tripe toujours,
invariably well cooked and decently served.
“The Land of the Living” reduces Inman to
a battered wreck after the second act. In
the first act he is a happy husband and
father, addicted to plaintive nigger melodies,
but partner Willard bolts with the cash-box, and
forges his signature, wherefore Inman sails by
stealth for South Africa and strikes a diamond-
mine in order to clear his good name. Then Wil-
lard robs him of his diamonds and deals him a
deadly blow from the rear, and returns to Eng-
land to capture Inman’s wife, leaving his own wife
to restore the victim to consciousness in South
Africa. After which Willard plans the further
destruction of his wife and the other fellow with
an infernal dynamite machine, and the other
wife is about to marry Willard as a reward for his
sins when her husband (Inman) returns to the
land where he wasn’t dead. So each man gets his
own wife restored to him, and that’s where the
punishment of Willard comes in. The domestic
sympathies of the romance appear somewhat
mixed.
*# * *
On Saturday (15th.) John Sheridan with
Gracie Whiteford and 00. return to the Royal for
a career of six weeks only, opening in “ A Trip to
Chicago.”
** * *
At Melb. Bijou the three Patterson
Brethren supply a long-felt want on horizontal
bars. Some years have been permitted to slip
away without revealing anything special in the
horizontal bar line, and the graceful Patterson
performance, which includes a most risky pro-
ceeding by the principal brother, is a valuable
addition to the bill. A fresh pair of sisters, of
medium quality, likewise arrived at the Bijou last
week, and a new biograph was to start business
there on Tuesday, for which night a new first-part
setting—magnificent, superb, and adjectively
wondrous —was promised by the regal Rickards.
Mr. and Mrs. Alex. Simpson, of Casino,
N.S.W., celebrated their diamond wedding on
Aug. 27. They were married in Sydney by Rev.
Mr. Schofield, at the Wesleyan church, Prince’s-
street, in 1840. Their family of 12 are all alive.
Kingston’s decision to stand for the vacancy
in S.A. Leg. Council, caused by Tomkinson’s
death, gave the Tories a shock. Kingston’s elec-
tion, which may be regarded as certain, will
appreciably reduce the Fat Man majority in the
Property House.
“The Christian” was a gospeller, by name of
Johnny Storm,
The Hell that he believed in was uncomfortably
warm.
His mode of speech was solemn, and his counte-
nance was sad,
He longed to get to Glory, for he wanted Glory
bad ;
He did no good whatever with his everlasting
wail,
His thoughts were bent on woman all the time he
told his tale,
And he hoped for nothing better than to marry
Glory Quayle.
He went into a Brotherhood and wrestled with
his rage,
Because his red-haired angel took to singing on
the stage;
He sought religious comfort till his brain began to
whirl,
And then he left the Brotherhood to find his
fancy girl.
And when at last he found her she was just about
to take
A taste of dissipation with a naughty Mr. Drake,
And he felt like fifty martyrs burning slowly at
the stake.
John Storm he followed Glory to her nest in
Clements’ Inn,
He said he’d come to save her from a soul-destroy-
ing sin,
(The sin that looks so wicked in the staring blood-
shot eyes
Of a jealous man whose rival draws the ticket for
the prize)
He bade her pray to Heaven, ere she anted-up the
ghost—
They were quite alone together, he had got his
Quayle on toast —
In truth he’d come to choke her, and her soul was
full of dread ;
So she teased him with her tresses, which were
amorously red,
And cried “Don’t kill, but kiss me!” And he
“ fell,” like lumps of lead.
The cuddle was proceeding when they let the cur-
tain down;
The next thing heard of Johnny, he was storming
round the town,
Pursued by twenty members of a droll religious
sect,
They had waited for the Judgment, which he’d
told them to expect;
Those twenty grimy loafers paid their Prophet for
his trick,
By stoushing him adroitly with a common godless
brick
And as he lay a-dying, nigh his humble chapel
door,
Miss Glory came and said she was a Sister of the
Poor,
And begged the man to marry (’twas a harmless
game to play,
For she knew it wouldn’t matter when his life had
passed away),
So a good old Holy Father who was standing by
his side
Said, “ Do you take this woman for your bogus
blushing bride?”
And John got spliced to Glory, and poetically
died.
The other boy was waiting to escort the widow
back
To the evil Halls of Music, where she re-appeared
in black.
And doubtless they got married in the future, far
or near,
And if she thought of Johnny, well, perhaps she
dropped a tear
For his folly in supposing he was troubled by
alarms
Concerning her salvation, caring naught about
her charms,
When he had no earthly purpose but to hug her
in his arms.


IV '
a
A
Z ETZ^F
<={l
■H
ns
rTS
Ffi
E
3MA
; m@wi The I
bi 11 I
ZETZsimN
B&U.IMORE
M.H DMBBO
W-S-W-
mn
AS SUPPLED TO THE BRITISH
I NAYY AND WAR OFFICE.
Wr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & t oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. ft Co., Ltd, Liverpool. Agente; M. Butty ft Co., Sydney.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table in-
stalled at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating Mill at the Conrad Mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without re-crushing. The result of the Wilfley
test is a high-grade concentrate, and tailing waste show-
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on mine.*
* * * •
Commercial World, July Ist., 1899, writes of
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society : “To simul-
taneously increase the business and reduce the ratio of
expenditure is therefore always regarded as a sure indica-
tion of capable and most efficient management.”*
* • • *
Mining is going ahead in the Malay Peninsula.
The Raub has successfully started up its electrically-
driven 40-stamp mill, and the North Kechan—a neighbor-
ing property—is about to erect 10 head. The Kechan
itself is also proposing to enlarge its plant. The Kechan
is quite historical. Louis and Beecher were once there,
and, after taking out a very rich pocket, condemned the
show. Since then several people have at various times
“ fooled around ” with the property; but its remote
position and the want of machinery were against it. Last
year the present company was formed and five head of
stamps erected with such good results as to warrant an'
extension of the plant. Parke and Lacy „Co. have the
order for the North Kechan Mill.
* * * *
The quantity of sulphides now treated per week
at the “ Barrier” compares favorably with the output of
any silver-lead mining field in the world. The difficulty
in treatment of sulphides is being successfully grappled
with mainly owing to improved systems of mechanical
“ dressing.” In this the Luhrig Vanner plays a very
prominent part. A large number of these machines are
now in use there, and fresh orders are still being given to
the agents, Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. The
South Mine people are remodelling their mill on up-to-
date lines, and will install twelve or more Luhrig Vanners
of the 1900 pattern. The British 00. is also erecting
more of these superior machines.*
* * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * » *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, burning, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* « * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• • *. *
The discovery at Coilie, W.A., of a 17ft. seam
of very superior coal will seriously alter a lot of existing
arrangements. -
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81”/.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NX. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide cf Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Blasting: Powder, Caustio Soda, Minina
Requisites, Candles, eto.
The Wild Cat Column.
Apropos the coming, but long-delayed, N.S.W.
Financial Statement. The Finance Committee recom-
mended that all the existing shortages and the Transvaal
war bill should be put into the Great Deficit, and N.S.W.
should set to work to pay it off at the rate of £400,000 a
year instead of £150,000 a year as heretofore. Now if
Premier Lyne puts last financial year’s war bill into the
deficit, and only starts this financial year making the
extra payments in reduction of the deficit, he will just be
doing over again Reid’s mean little dodge of leaving un-
paid liabilities to take their chance in the future. It will
simply be a case of paying none of the war liabilities in
the war year, but promising to do something large in the
way of payment later on, and the financial statement for
1899-1900 will be a fraud and a shuffle like so many of its
predecessors.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Government the other day issued a
£500,000 3J per cent, loan in Sydney and the public
rushed it with offers of £839,000. It got its £500,000 at
£lOO Is. 7|d. per £lOO, so the loan costs a little less than
per cent. The previous local issue (about four months
ago) of £500,000 at 31 per cent, was similarly rushed.
The absolute insanity of the Lyne Government’s conduct
last February in selling a £1,000,000 A per cent, loan in
London at about £99 10s. , and refusing to let the local
market have a chance of taking any, grows larger every
time it is looked at. The plea then advanced was that
Australia couldn’t supply money at the price, and that it
couldn’t supply so large an amount. The local market
has responded by offering nearly £2,000,000 at 3£ per
cent., where the London lender receives more than 4 per
cent. And the success of the two N.S.W. local loans was
not owing to the fact that the market was free
from other demands. Victoria has just floated
a 3 per cent, loan of £500,000 locally at £96 55.,
and it was offered £900,000. Melbourne Board of
Works has just borrowed £600,000 locally. Tasmania is
floating a local 3J per cent loan of £700,000 ; and the sales
of N.S.W. inscribed stock, Vic. Credit Foncier bonds, and
other State securities are always going on. In 12 months
the Australian market has found over £4,000,000 of loan
moneys without turning a hair. In almost every case it
has offered a great deal more than was asked for. In
every case it has lent the money far below present London
rates, and in more than one case it has lent it more
cheaply than London ever did to the same borrower.
The other day Chapman, M.L.A., rose up in
N.S.W. Assembly to complain that, by borrowing locally,
the Government was absorbing money that should
be left free for employment in local industries,
and the Australian Star echoed the same complaint.
Apparently these two authorities are quite unable
to understand that, when an Australian Government
borrows in Australia, and builds railways and other
remunerative works in Australia, it is thereby putting
Australian money into the biggest local industry this
country possesses. It is doing exactly what Chapman,
M.L.A., said it should do. Furthermore, it isn’t with-
drawing a penny—not one single penny—even from
private local industries. When a Government borrows
money in Australia, and spends it in Australia, the money
remains in Australia, and is just as much available for
promoting private local enterprise as before it passed
through the Government’s hands. There is no drain
on the country’s available capital. At June, 1899,
the visible coin reserves in Australia, as shown
by the banking returns, were £21,000,000. This was
the amount then available for promoting local enter-
prise. Various Governments and municipalities and
other public bodies borrowed about £4,000,000 after that,
but instead of the visible pile diminishing it increased, and
now stands at £25,000,000. That is the amount now
available for local private enterprise. And yet the coun-
try 7 is full of illogical beings who can’t see that money bor-
rowed locally 7 and spent locally is not withdrawn from
Australia at all.
It is foreign, not local, borrowing, which takes
away money that is badly wanted for Australian private
enterprise. When an Australian State floats a 40-year 3 5
per cent, loan in London it probably brings £1,000,000
into the country to begin with. But before the loan ex-
pires it has taken awa.v in interest £1,400,000, which
should have been available for private local enterprise,
and then the loan goes too on repayment, leaving the
country with £1,400,000 cash less. And the same loan
floated locally wouldn’t have taken away any cash what-
ever. This is a very simple proposition, but’ even at this
latter end of the 19th century there are bat-blind legisla-
tors who can’t see it.
The Tasmanian Government, which proposes to
float a 3J per cent, loan of £700,000 locally has struck a
bright patch of honesty. It was strongly urged to
issue a 3 per cent, loan at a discount, but it reckoned that
3J was the lowest rate at which Tasmania could borrow
at par, and it stuck to that figure. Floating at 3
per cent, would simply have meant paying the other \ per
cent, interest out of borrowed money. The dishonest
practice of floating loans at a discount because the in-
terest rate offered is less than the State can borrow at,
and thereby indirectly adding the balance of the interest
to the debt, is common enough, but however common it
may be it will never be anything else than a mean and
disreputable fraud.
• * * •
The U nited Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Melbourne) publishes a balance-sheet for the year ended
30th June, 1900, which is a good deal better than the one
published a year ago, though even this one doesn’t
amount to very much. The record of this institution
since 1891 has been as follows :
Profit balance
from .. 1890 .. £1,047 Dividends.
Profit.
December .. 1891 .. £2,873 .. 6 per cent. = £1,884
„ .. 1892 .. 2,275 ..6 „ = 1,884
„ .. 1893 .. 1,922 ..6 „ = 1,884
„ .. 1894 .. 1,349 ..6 „ = 1,884
„ .. 1895 . 2,191 ..6 „ = 1,884
„ .. 1896 .. 2,064 ..6 „ = 1,884
Loss.
„ .. 1897 .. 1,508 .. Nil
June .. 1899 .. 908 .. Nil
Profit.
.. 1900 .. 1,038 .. Nil
£12,343 £11,304
The United Australian Mutual has no reserve-fund—it
never even attempted to construct such a thing. The
£1039 of undivided profit which represents the difference
between the above totals comprises its entire accumula-
tions- And even this alleged accumulation is subject to
the strongest suspicions. At various times between 1891
and 1899 the co. wrote £3185 off the paper value of its
securities, and it is reasonable to suppose that it wouldn’t
have done so unless the securities had really depre-
ciated to at least that extent. Then at June, 1899, it
found itself in a very serious situation. The business
showed a loss of £4579. There was no reserve fund to
meet it, and only £909 undivided profit. Apparently
there was no way out except to trench on the capital, or
carry a debit balance forward, or write up something. So
the management (which had previously written £3185 off
the value of the securities) now added £3671 on to them,
thereby reduced the apparent loss to £9OB, and had
£1 over. The thoughtfulness of the Sydney and Mel-
bourne property, which in value by
just the right'amount at just the right moment, and that,
too, at a time when property wasn’t increasing as a
general thing, has filled this writer with admiration ever
since. The Melbourne property, by the way, was bought
in 1892. Most Melbourne properties are worth about one-
third less now than in ’92. This one seems to have
obligingly made itself worth more. On the face of things,
it seems just possible that an independent valuation
would show that the United Australian Mutual has no
profit balance at all, but that £lO,OOO or so of the capital
has been lost. As the investments only return £2 19s. 3d.
per cent, gross on their nominal value, it is impossible to
avoid the conclusion that that nominal value is consider-
ably in excess of the real value.
» ♦ • *
The United Australian Mutual of Melbourne
has nominally £41,917 of shareholders’ funds (paid-up
capital £i0,878, and undivided profits £1039). Against
this it has £47,372 invested in land and bricks and
mortar at Melbourne, Coburg, Richmond and Brighton
(Victoria), and Sydney, Waverley and Granville (N.S.W.).
In fact all its funds and more are buried in land, bricks
and mortar. Therefore it totters under a £21,000 mort-
gage—apparently at 5 per cent. As the buildings don’t
appear to yield anything like this return, the difference
is a heavy drag on the profits. The most promising point
is that the mortgage is being steadily reduced—it was
£30,000 in ’93, and is now only £21,000 —so the burden is
diminishing. These matters, of course, affect the share-
holders only. The callable capital of £210,000 or so is a
good enough security for the person whose building has
had the good luck to take fire.
* » %- *
The Excelsior Land, Investment and Building
Co. and Bank (Sydney) presents another of a lengthy
series of mournful reports. The last seven may be sum-
marised as follows :
(Ordinary interest paid to depositors.)
Deficit at July,’93 .. £5,365 .. ..] £5,365
Loss on Loss by
Busi- depreciation Total Loss.
ness, of property.
July, 1894 3,409 3,409
„ 1895 5,1891 5,189
(No interest paid to depositors.)
Profit. I
„ 1896 1,374 £13,937 12,563
„ 1897 3.8331 10,239 6,406
(2£ per cent, interest paid to depositors.) Profit.
„ 1898 448 448
Loss. Loss.
„ 1899 .. „ .. 1,939 1,939
„ 1900 .. ... .. 1,987 65,207 67,194
Loss £12,234 £89,383 £101,617
The Excelsior Land, Investment and Building Co. has
(or had) a paid-up capital of £110,851. But of this
£101,617 has evaporated, so that, even on paper, there is
only £9234 intact. So the balance-sheet may be condensed
as follows :
Liabilities. I Assets.
Paid-up capital .. £9,234 Cash £1413
Deposits .. .. 67,085 | Land, Buildings,
Mortgages .. .. 16,000 I Mortgages, &c. .. 92,403
Sundry debts.. .. 1,497 |
£93,816 £93,816
There is £5795 uncalled capital, and including this and
the balance of the paid-up capital it isn’t safe to reckon
that there is more than £15,000, even on paper, between
the co. and absolute insolvency. That is to say there is
still, on paper, £15,000 to cover further depreciation of
property and further annual deficiencies. As the £92,403
of alleged property yielded last year £2782 gross, or just
about 3 per cent, on its nominal value, it seems very '
probable that there is at least another £ls,ooo—possibly
£30,000 or more —of depreciation to be provided for.
Moreover against the year’s income of £2782 the ordinary
outgoings, even with deposit interest reduced to the
exceedingly low rate of 2\ per cent. , were £4769, leaving
a deficit of £1987. No amount of writing-off can make
this shortage any smaller. When the deficit is so vast as
compared with the income there is no visible prospect of
overtaking it, and it alone bids fair to swallow up, in a very
few years, the narrow margin remaining—strictly on paper.
Even if no interest had been paid on deposits last year
the income wouldn’t have been sufficient to cover out-
goings. Under these circumstances it is difficult to see
what possible reason the Excelsior Land Investment and
Building 00. and Bank has for not going into liquidation
and ending what looks like an absolutely hopeless case.
* * * *
The Federal Building, Land and Investment
Society, Brisbane, has not prospered very greatly of late
years. The following is its record since 1895 -
Loss through Loss Loss
insufficiency through through
of income to sale of deprecia-
meet ordinary property tion of
expenditure, below book unsold Total
values. property. Loss.
March, 1895 .. £2140 £599 £ll7 £2856
„ 1896 .. 2154 384 55,708 58,246
„ 1897 .. 1450 323 281 2054
„ 1898 .. 1289 314 1206 2809
„ 1899 .. 1431 269 598 2298
„ 1900 .. 897 491 49 1437
£69,700
There has been a great writing down of capital and for-
feiting of shares for unpaid calls during these disastrous
years. In 1895 the Federal Building, Land and Invest-
ment 00. had £107,186 of paid-up capital. It has
now only £37,746. Also there is a reserve-fund of
£13,500, built up out of forfeited share capital, and
£953 profit balance, making total shareholders’ funds,
£52,199. The only promising feature about the in-
stitution is that the loss through insufficiency of income
to meet ordinary outgoings has considerably diminished
of late, and if in course of time the ordinary income can
be made to show a balance over ordinary expenditure,
then the institution may consider itself fairly on the up-
§rade again. So long as there is a profit on the ordinary
usiness it is possible to accumulate funds to meet any
further depreciation of the assets without further trench-
ing on the capital and reserves. But there are no signs
of a profit on ordinary business as yet.
What seems to be really and truly the matter
with the Federal Building, Land and Investment Society
is the extraordinary price which it pays for deposits and
other accommodation. It has £102,077 invested, which
yielded last year £3 18s. 7d. per cent, all round. Allowing
for the fact that a portion of the property is vacant land
which yields nothing at present, this return doesn’t abso-
lutely prove that the assets are not worth the price set
against them. It is low, but not absurdly low as things
are going just now. But £30,118 of these assets were
bought with money taken on deposit at a very precipitous
rate of interest. The society offers 41 per cent, for money
fixed for six months, and 5 per cent, for money fixed for
12 months, with special arrangements (which, presum-
ably, mean still higher interest) for money fixed for more
lengthy periods. Even this is a recent reduction ;as late
as March, ’97, it was offering 5 and 51 per cent. In addi-
tion the society has an overdraft of £16,818 which it is
reasonably certain costs at least 4 per cent. An institu-
tion which borrows money from the public at 41 or 5, or
even more, per cent, when its own investments yield less
than 4 per cent, is bound to have troubles to contend
with.
* * * *
The Scottish Metropolitan Life Assurance Co.,
a small proprietary concern which does a very small
business in Australasia, has published a rather dilatory
report for the year 1899. Starting from about the time
this institution first became an object of interest to Aus-
tralians results have been these :
Net Life Total Life Added to
Pre- . Interest. In- Expenses. Assur-
mium. come. anceF’d.
1895 .. £59,819 £10,556 £70,375 £12,852 £23,872
1896.. 61,585 11,816 73,401 12,797 32,587
1897.. 63,877 13,156 77,033 13,310 29,171,
1898.. 68,911 14,993 83,904 14,297 38,285
Added to Assurance Fund from capital 15,107
1899 .. 70,287 16,257 86,544 15,217 33,681
The Scottish Metropolitan, after a very brief experience in
Australia, is seriouslj 7 considering the advisability of
going back home again. The long distance extension
policy, it decides, doesn’t pay. It is a concern which
charges very low premiums, and for a long time it
was so short of money that it had to estimate
future interest earnings at the unsafely high rate (as
interest earnings go in Britain) of 4 per cent, in order to
make itself look solvent. In 1888 it had a bare surplus of
£4196.. In 1893 the surplus, though no bonuses were
paid in the interim, was down to £2342. In 1898
things had improved somewhat. The surplus was
£17,388. By transferring ±15,107 of the shareholders’
money to the assurance fund it was found possible
to raise the sum required (£25,418) to reduce the interest
estimates to 3| per cent., and there was still a sur-
plus of £7078, out of which about £4OOO went in bonuses,
and about £3OOO was carried forward. But in Great
Britain even 3J per cent, is a high rate to assume
and leaves a miserably small margin of safety. The
A.M.P., Maoriland Government Department and several
other Australasian offices base their estimates on only 3)
per cent., and yet the actual rate earned in their case is
far higher than that of the Scottish Metrop. The latter
appears to be an office which has out its premiums just a
shade too low. And of late it has made a departure,
which looks very reckless. It offers, for just about the
usual price of a £5OO ordinary life policy, a policy under
which it pledges itself to pay £5OO for death in the ordinary
way ; £5OO extra (making £1000) if the death is caused by
accident; £5OO extra in case of permanent total disable-
ment ; £250 extra in case of permanent partial disable-
ment, and allowances from 15s. to £3 a week during tem-
porary disablement. Altogether the Scottish Metrop.
looks a rather weak office of very narrow margins. And
it certainly isn’t violently progressive. After 23 years’
existence its life assurance fund is only £421,000. Also,
its management is nearly twice as expensive as that of
the A.M.P., and it earns a far lower rate of interest, so it
can’t offer anything like as good value as the big local
institution.
■ * » •
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney)
presents its third half-yearly report since the co. was re-
constructed on an enlarged scale. The results so far
have been:
Net Added to
Profits. Reserves. Dividend.
June, 1899 .. £8,024 £1,500 6 per cent. = £5,400
Dec., 1899 .. 8,894 3,000 6 „ 5,872
June, 1900 .. 7,503 1,500 6 „ 6,000
£24,421 £6,000 £17,272
This addition raises the reserve fund to £23,215, and there
is £1149 of undivided profits to carry forward.
* • •
The Modern Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne) paid its last dividend in 1893.
In the same year it showed a profit for the last time (the
profit for the 12 months ended 31st July, 1893, was only
£5l, but still that was better than nothing). The institu-
tion then had £70,829 of reserves. In 1893 it recon-
structed, getting a five years’ extension of time on its
deposits and agreeing to pay its depositors 5 per cent,
interest. In 1894 the interest was reduced to 2i per cent.
The total losses thereafter were £13,800 in 1894, and
£12,907 in 1895, reducing the reserves to £44,122. Since
1895 the progress of things has been as follows
Loss through Loss through
insufficiency of sales of
incom e to m eet property
ordinary below book Total
expenses. values. loss.
July, 1896 £3,479 £7,952 £11,431
„ 1897 1,193 6,318 7,511
„ 1898 1,671 8,677 10,348
- Profit.
„ 1899 281 15,750 15,469.
„ 1900 8 5,593 5,585
£6,054 £44,290 £50,344
The reserve fund has wholly disappeared, and there is
now a debit balance of £6222. The paid-up capital is
£198,897, so, on paper, £192,675 of the capital is still
intact. How much is really intact it is difficult to guess.
A sum of about £200,000 advanced on mortgage yields a
shade over 4 per cent., so it may be judged as fairly good.
£209,379 worth of house property yields about 1J per cent,
net, which doesn’t look as if it was worth its nominal value
just now by a long way. £90,327 worth of vacant land
presumably yields nothing, and may be worth anything.
Anyhow, the Modern has begun to meet ordinary ex-
penses out of income, and in the past three years it has
paid-off £66,466 of deposits, mortgages and overdrafts. If
the improvement in business continues, something sub-
stantial should be saved for the shareholders out of the
wreck, and the Modern should some day be able to resume
active business. Four or five years ago it appeared not
only as if the capital had wholly departed, but there were
grave doubts whether the assets were sufficient, as things
then stood, to cover the claims of outside creditors.
* * * *
During the eight months of 1900 the Mt. Drys-
dale mine, Oobar, has paid £19,200 in divs. It has again
at 325 ft. met the same sort of rich stone (it went as high
as 330 z. per ton) encountered at the 275 ft. level.
* * * *
Booth’s United (N.S.W.). TJie assay-life of
this concern is about to end. It has been living on assays
for years past. Six weeks ago it was reported in London,
“ Crushing now full time.” This was an extract from a
report written in June, so it is taking the mine a long
time to clean-up. No doubt it is going to have a very big
crushing, extending over four or five months, which
should give ample time to put through, say, 4000 tons.
Now, according to the assay report, it should average
several oz. to the ton, but, inasmuch as crushings seldom
come up to assay-values, and allowing for the gold that
usually runs away with the tailings, let us say an oz. to
the ton —4000 oz. value £16,000. Anyhow, the mill is
bound to tell the truth.
* » * *
The North Central, the little Broken Hill gam-
ble in which a co., mostly of Sydneyites, continues to
play, finishes its 18th half-year with the usual “ proba-
bility of our efforts being crowned with success.” The
show, which is abreast of the big mines, has been giving
these tantalising prospects for nearly 10 years ; and it
remains just as wild a gamble now as it looked at the
beginning.
* • * *
Girilambone, N.S.W.: The manager says the
pyrites in the lode are evidently replacing the silica and
slates, and “ should a big solid p.yritic lode carrying from
3 to 4 per cent, copper be met with they could then adopt
the system of pyritic smelting.” Quite so, and should a
solid body of metallic copper be met with then it wouldn’t
be necessary to smelt at all. The hope of every copper-
mine is to get dense sulphide, so as to be able to use a
water-jacket with hot blast stoves. Many people working
copper in Australia regard the water-jackets as the salva-
tion of every copper-mine, indicating thereby that they
are themselves more fitted for straight-jackets.
* * * * .
Occidental, N.S.W. Last half-yearly report
the most satisfactory to date and shows what can be done
at Cobar with a very low-grade mine on an enormous ore-
body, 13,162 tons crushed for an amalgamation yield of
only 17780 z. ; but the balance got by cyanfde brought the
total gold sold for the half-year up to £14,360 worth.
Divs., £3,150. Manager says the mine shows enough pay-
able stone in sight to keep 100 head crushing for years ; it
is now proposed to equip with air-compressing,
stone-breaking, and self-feeding plant, also with more
stamps. A new main shaft, 12ft. x 4ft. 6in. , has been sunk
on the western side of the great open cut, so that the
huge quantity of pay ore around the old shaft may be
removed : and it is intended to continue the shaft to 500 ft.,
which will be 200 ft. below the commencement of the cop*
per zone.
* * * *
Croydon notes to Aug 25.—Golden Gate 3 and
4 S. Prop, cleaned up to-day—plates and pans. only—
-13660z. gold from 500 tons; crushing
G. Gate 3 and 4 S. Tribute now operating on final crushing,
having up to Sept. 14 to root out another big div. ——
G. Gate and Nancy Lee Limited now raising a good crush-
ing, likewise G. Gate 4 and SS. Block. After allowing
a couple of months for financial recuperation, Morgan s
Block directors let contract to sink prospecting shaft
further 50ft., or to reef, which is expected to be cut any
day. Whether it will be golden is another question.
Plant’s Block, shaft down 280 ft. on its 700 ft. mission.
Other mines as they were.—- —Tinfield dead owing to want
of water—and capital. Rush of capitalists staved off
owing to the manner in which mine-owners opened their
mouths. Miners forget that “tin” shows will not be
bought just because there are surface indications. In-
vestors want to see “lodes” not “loads” of tin before
they buy—and little development has yet been done on
Croydon tinfield.
* * *
Ironsides North, W.A. A “pup” from Han-
nan’s Proprietary Development Co. No gold, but plenty
of water. Wired that shaft is making 24,000ga15. daily.
The machinery is also running smoothly. ’Tis a sad out-
look when you are told every month, “ Still sinking, and
the pumps are working well. The Ironsides North is out-
side of the Golden Mile, and it is easier for a rich man to
enter Heaven than to find payable gold outside that Mile.
Upwards of 100 cos. have been years engaged in that
undertaking, and, though millions have been spent so far,
not one has succeeded.
* * *
Associated : 3293 tons, 22530z5. Considerably
better than the last, which, it is well to remember, was
the result of 21 days’ milling. Shares about 70s. Another
rumor last week that a rich discovery had been made in
the mine. “ But, as usual, the news was greatly exag-
gerated. The find is that of a 3ft. vein worth 3ozs., and
was disclosed by a drill operating east of Tetley’s shaft at
the 300 ft. level. The ore body is, in all probability, a con-
tinuation of the Central Wpst Boulder lode, ” A drill-
hole through a vein 3ft. thick counts for very little. It
might be 3ozs. in the drill-hole and 3dwts. three feet away
from it. Development work is being pushed on in every
direction, and if some rich discoveries are not soon made
the Associated will have to join the “ Shypoo ” list.
• * * *
Golden Horseshoe : From the battery, 6786
tons, 60990z5. Cyanide, 3397 tons, 24640z5. Slimes, 3624
tons, 14780z5. Concentrates, 25 tons, 3500z5. Smelted
sulphides, 1214 tons, 31740z5. Grand total : 13,5650z5.
This must be the record yield. It is doubtful whether it
can be maintained. Well-known that the G.H. had a
large accumulation of sulphides, both above and below
ground, long before they started smelting in a small way
on the mine and sending sulphides away to Fremantle
Smelting Works.


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
62s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 60s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan y cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 60s, 65s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
PAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 0d
Fawn Beaver, 45s *
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth hogs, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
PHOTOGRAPHY! —The Season’s Joy.
Come and see our immense stock of Modern ,
Cameras, Hand Cameras, Stand Cameras,
Pocket Kodaks, etc.,
and every photogra-
phic requisite at . . .
m j
&
HARRINGTON A CO. LTD.
HARRINGTON’S
“ FAVORITE ”
OUTFIT. *
A very beautiful instrument that will
hold its own anywhere. Built of polished
Mahogany, with Double Extension Coni-
cal Leather Bellows, Rack and Pinion
Movement, Double Swing Back, Rising
and Cross Front, Rapid Rectilinear Lens,
Iris Diaphragm, Thornton-Pickard T. and
I. Shutter, Double-Plate Holder, and
3-fold Tripod Stand.
Price, J-plate. 1-plate. 1/1-plate.
£3 15s. £5 ss. £7 7s.
Extra Double-Plate Holders—i-p., 8/6:
J-p., 12/6 ; 1/1-p., 18/6.
66 King: Street,
SYDKTEY.
Branches or Agencies in every colony.
Society
These tales of Australian valour in the far-
off Transvaal begin to look almost ridiculous while
Jimmy and Joe Governor continue to rage up and
down N.S.W.,- and a paralysed population lets
these two half-caste boys take possession of the
country at their pleasure. A few days ago four
armed white men came on the pair ; two of them
immediately fled back for assistance, and the
other two did a little wild shooting without any
results. Later the pair located themselves close
to Nundle, an agricultural district with a popula-
tion of 8000 or so. Next day they called in
casually at a house only 11 miles from the town,
and commandeered dinner from the staggered
occupant. While they were dining a party of six
or eight armed white citizens dropped across them,
but the new arrivals were too much broken up by
the sudden shock to even fire at James and
Joseph, and those two energetic youths got away
as usual.
Minister O’Sullivan recently “progressed”
through some of the districts where the terror
of Jimmy and Joe is strongest. He reports
houses empty, the population having fled in
affright, cows perishing for want of being milked,
and dogs dying of starvation on the chain. So
frantically hurried had been the exodus before the
advancing army of two that there wasn’t time to
release the nouse-pup and it was left to
perish miserably. It isn’t even reported
that Minister O’Sullivan released the dogs as he
went along. According to newspaper accounts
the police are “ losing hope,” and it is stated that
one pursuing officer has decided to remain at
Tam worth till the Governors “get away from
these parts.” That is how it was put by the daily
papers. Probably his meaning was something
quite different. ‘But the unfortunate vocabulary
of the morning organ made it read as if he in-
tended to remain in Tam worth—which is a good-
sized and reasonably safe town —till the departure
of James and Joseph made the surrounding coun-
try safer for a harmless and non-resistant cop.
That officer should fall on the daily papers for a
very large apology. They may have meant well, but
their mode of expression was most unfortunate.
Premier Lyne has lost a great opportunity
—one that Providence threw into his hands at a
time when he needed an advt. badly. No one
doubts Lyne’s personal pluck, though the publio
has grievous suspicious about him in many other
capacities. And if he had left Wise and See to
run Parliament for a time while he went forth
alone into the paralysed districts where the dog
is perishing on the chain, and shot both Governors
personally without any fuss—well, the deed would
probably have got him the Federal Premiership.
It would have sent his stock up with a great
whoop. Reid might then prop up his large cor-
poration helplessly on a hundred platforms, and
look superciliously through his eye-glass, and talk
till he was dead-beat about his financial deficiency,
but the fame of the big, practical old man who
went out and shot Jimmy and Joe would be un-
assailable, If Lyne had even made a progress
through the troubled district, gone from town to
town without an escort, and taken his chance of
getting a long shot at Joseph and James, it would
have been a valuable advt.
* * * *
The boom days of Govt, rewards for the
apprehension of outlawed murderers would seem,
from the amount offered in the Breelong abori-
ginal case, to be, like other boom days, things of
the past. The man who weighs everything by
the money in it is naturally indignant at a paltry
£5OO being offered for the bodies, dead or alive, of
the murderers of nine persons up to date. In the
old days Morgan, when only a couple of big crimes
were known against him, was made worth £l r O9
AND THE FRIEND’S NAME WAS ON THE BOTTLE.
INDIGNANT SYDNRY FATHER (meeting his young hopeful in full evening-dress at about 19 a.m.
after a late, a very late , night): “ Where on earth have you been, my son?”
SON: “ At the funeral of a dear old French friend of mine.”
SEASONABLE.
DAMNED SOUL OF FATMAN (newly arrived): “May I ask why you wear
that thing on your head? I think it greatly detracts from your
dignity .”
SATAN : “ Our summer season has just begun, sir.”
cash to his slayer. Dunn was assessed at £lOOO ;
Ben Hall, £lOOO ; and Burke, £lOOO. The Clarke
gang, which murdered a party of detectives, was
lumped at £5OOO ; and the Kelly gang was made
worth to capturers or slayers the substantial sum
of £BOOO.
• * • *
In this season of wild enthusiasm over
contingents and khaki-clad heroes who return in-
valided with enteric fever,, the Australian public
hasn’t any time to attend to the Yankee troubles
in Manila — besides which the American Govt,
isn’t taking any more war-correspondents. A
private letter recently received in Melbourne from
Cavite throws a few sidelights on the true inward-
ness of the matter, and may point a moral for
those who howl for the division of China
The condition of affairs here is curious. The Yankee
forces are sick to death of the continual fever and sniping,
but the commissariat authorities, being in good odour
with the wire-pullers at Washington, stir all hell with a
pole to keep the affair on. Needless to say they are
rapidly piling up the r little dollar-heaps, and if it lasts
another six months it will be independence and a seat in
Congress for most every .Hiram M‘lsaacs among them.
Even the lowest in rank of them has a No. 10 fist in the
pie, so you can bet they will shove along on the war-
ticket. . . . The Yanks have lost over 15,000 men to date,
and about 30 per cent, of the remainder are unfit for
duty. Fever simply rages whenever the earth is turned
up for trenches—or graves. A steamer left a week ago
with 250 corpses on board, embalmed, of course. Curious
industry it is, this embalming. The Amurkan Govt,
allows relatives to cable out free of charge if they want
the body brought home. Then it’s embalmed —Govt,
pays—and consequently there’s quite a little colony of
enibalmers in rattling biz., while every boat takes away a
load of preserved Yankee. If the body has got too
lofty (and the weather here will do it in a few hours)
it has to be buried, but the ghouls don’t miss
much business if wire-pulling and palm-oil can
effect anything. A report is going about among the men
that bodies are to be sent home in the “ freezers ” before
very long, and they’re most indignant about it. . . . The
boys who arrived with the last drafts are about the
sawniest crowd I ever saw. Physique miserable, average
age about 19, unable to drill or to shoot; they get shoved
off to the front directly after landing, and accordingly die
like flies. Discipline is quite absent. The newest re-
cruit swaggers round like a brass-bound general, and will
pull his “ gun ” on his nominally superior officer without
the faintest hesitation or fear of punishment unless the
other fellow' is quicker. One young hoodlum from Ne-
braska drew a pistol on of the Culgoa (she’s a gaudy,
white transport-freezer now) for accidentally upsetting
his glass on the hoodlum’s boot in a wine-shop. was
a bit too quick with his left though, and spread the hood-
lum out. Then he took the pistol away and pounded the
Yank properly. The latter went to get his friends and —
stayed on board for several days. It was his own fault
for not going “ heeled,” as these bush-whackers call it.
We all carry guns when ashore.
* » * *
A patriotic old lady of Wanganui (M.L.)
has decided to celebrate the proclamation of peace
by presenting to the town a peal of nine bells to
be named after Roberts, Cecil Rhodes, Barnum
Powell, and other notables. Each is to have an
appropriate text on it. Barnum P.’s, for in-
stance, is—“ He hath triumphed gloriously.” The
parson who chose the texts doesn’t seem to have
realised that in changing the application of this
one from Christ to “8.P.” he has sailed very
close to blasphemy. Buller and Methuen have a
bell between them, with the text, “ Though I am
cast down, Thou wilt comfort me.” This, it is
positively stated in the local press, is a graceful
allusion to the fact that the two generals have not
been as successful as they might have been. A
touch of burlesque is introduced by giving the
commanders of the various Maoriland contingents
the smallest bell all to themselves. The tunes to
be played are as carefully selected as the text.
At 5 p.m., for instance, “Roberts,” “Rhodes,”
“Kitchener,” “Kekewich,” and the rest are to
strike up “ Polly, put the kettle on ” !
Probably a good
many men (and com-
mercial-travellers in
part) are acquainted
with one or other
forms of a certain
cerulean pictorial joke
that begins and ends
with boots—two pairs
of boots, male and fe-
male respectively.
The “artist’s” treat-
ment of the subject is
suggestiveto thepoint
of obscenity. Never-
theless in Paris—de-
cadent Paris the
boots joke is used for
a series of four pic-
tures on a post-card.
Australians visiting
the Exhibition are
sending greetings to
their bachelor friends
on this delectable pro-
duction, and present
scribe has seen at least
one of the “boots”
cards, which was de-
livered to the Mel-
bourne addressee by
the postman in an
ordinary way.
* * *
The C.E. Bishop
of Waiapu (M. L.)
complains of the scant
supply of missionaries
in his diocese, and
traces the scarcity to
the “ smallness of the
stipends offered.”
This is the diocese
from which Bishop
Stuart, brother of the
late Alexander Stuart,
N.S.W. Premier, made retreat a few years ago in
favor of an African mission.
f * * *
Items from the evidence of a returned
N.S.W. contingenter before the inevitable Parlia-
mentary inquiry—everything in Australia seems
to end in public indignation and a Parliamentary
inquiry and washing up :
He got £4 10s. on account of the Imperial pay at the
Maitland camp, and 15s. when going on board the
steamer. They were always short of money. He threw
up a billet of £3 10s. per week, and had not succeeded in
getting reinstated upon his return. . , . When he
landed in Sydney he was kept five days without any
money. He had had some money advanced since, but
had not yet got all his Imperial or N.S.W. pay.
He never got reinstated ! How many of them
hope to get reinstated ? When the warriors went
away amid the martial blare of trumpets and the
pounding of the shawm and the cymbal, and beer
and bananas were rained on them, every em-
ployer told full and complete Private Smith, with
tears in his eyes, that his billet would be there
for him on his return. In those days no em-
ployer would have dreamt of doing anything
else, and if the public knew of an employer
who didn’t promise to keep Smith’s billet open for
him while he was away Boering it would have
wrecked that employer’s windows. But time
rolled on and flattened out enthusiasm in its roll.
Jones, the smart young man who took Smith’s
place temporarily, has learned the work
thoroughly. He is up-to-date while Smith’s busi-
ness knowledge is months and months in arrear.
Jones hasn’t been unsettled by camp-life, and
bloodshed, and looting. He doesn’t want to waste
time telling Boer stories to the other clerks. And
it would be hard on Jones to sack him, for he has a
wife and children —in fact, for a humane employer
who hates trouble, it would be a lot harder to sack
Jones, which is an active injury, than to ignore
the returned Smith, which is only a passive one.
Six months ago the boss felt it would be
the pride and joy of his life to have a
returned Boer-shooter to keep the cash in
his office; now he has evaporated a little,
and thinks that, even if the war was necessary,
it isn’t nice to think that your clerk has
disembowelled any small child’s father, and gone
round 'with a gory spike making widows and
orphans. Also, the public doesn’t care now
whether Smith gets his billet back or not; it is
too excited over the Breelong blacks. So the man
who left a 70s. per week billet to go Boering finds
a difficulty in getting reinstated. Wbat else did
he expect ?
* * * *
“An Australian Native ” in Sydney Tele-
graph justifies his sweating association for chous-
ing the doctors because other societies chouse too.
But two, or two hundred, blacks don’t make a
white —if they did the two Breelong blacks
would thereby disguise themselves beyond
recognition. And the special grievance against
the A.N.A. is that it does its sweating under the
cloak of Patriotism—holding the national flag
aloft with one hand and flogging the doctor with
the other. All the same, if the A.N A. passes a
rule restricting medical benefits to people receiv-
ing under £2OO a year, the doctors ought to insist
on the Oddfellows and the rest adopting the same
rule. Of course, that would lead to a fight the
doctors don’t hanker after.
* * * *
“ M. Turlutu ” tells “ a true tale of what
may happen to a doctor under the Australian
Natives’ Sweating Association ”
A medical man in a country town had to examine, tor
the Australian Natives’ Sweating Association, his land-
lord, a man drawing over a thousand a year from landed
property. As it happened, the man was diseased ; and


£RS
Watchmakers,
Gold & Silversmiths, etc.
Large Stock of line Gold Snap
and Padlock Curb Bangles,
from 455. to £B.
Illustrations post free on. application.
SHOWROOMS —mm.
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
n
Character.
mn
Ladies’ Fine Kid Shoes, 11/6,12/6,16/6.
Gent.'s Tan Russia Leather Boots,
19/6, 22/6, 26/-
A Boot’s Character depends on the material of which it is
made as much as on the workmanship. Gloss and polish
often cover up deception.
Callaghan Boots, price for price, have
no equal as regards leather, workmanship, style, fit, or
finish. OS’ Try a Pair Now.
395 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY.
the doctor refused him. He made a trip to the metro-
polis ; was casually examined by a busy lodge-doctor
there, who knew better than to look too closely, and re-
turned a full-blown benefit-member of the association.
The landlord took an early opportunity to end the
doctor’s tenancy ; and an imported man was installed,
who shortly after succeeded to the club. During the
medico’s subsequent stay the influence of the association
was used against him in the most deliberate fashion,
until, realising that he could not fight a combination
which controlled the entire district, he gave up the battle
and left for another State, where the A.N.A. was not. To
the ordinary .clean-living man, ignorant of American
ward-politics, this may seem remarkable ; but the A.N.A.
is developing a system of dealing with recalcitrant
medicos that will .yet be worthy to stand beside the
methods used by Boss Tweed and the Tammany gang
with stubborn voters.
* • • *
The current N.S.W. Military Inquiry is
eliciting some startling facts about the pleasing
little ways of the “ amachaw ” officer. One trooper
of N.S.W. Mounted Infantry deposed that, on
board the Southern Cross :
There were no provisions of good quality supplied to the
men. The meat was bad, and the men complained,
without avail. They got no fruit, tobacco, or cigarettes,
but the officers appeared to get a lot of fruit.
Also :
Neither he nor his comrades ever got any presents from
their friends in N.S.W. All the troops were grumbling
about not getting their parcels through. An official was
to blame’for the way the men were starved.
Again :
During the fight at Abraham’s Kraal witness had his
horse shot under him. Trooper Ellis went back, with the
enemy’s fire directed on him, and helped witness on his
horse'. Ellis acted with conspicuous bravery, as all the
men knew, yet the officers never mentioned Ellis in their
reports.
And finally :
Mr. Chanter: You say your convoy was some three-
quarters of a mile away ; yet your officers, knowing you
were without food from two to three days, made no effort ?
—Yes.
Mr. Chanter : That’s a most extraordinary state of
things.
Not a bit more extraordinary than was to be ex-
pected from the way the whole business, as far as
the officers were concerned, was earwigged and
backstaired to give noodles the chance of a little
sham distinction.
* * * *
The Royal Agricultural Show at Fleining-
ton happened under dry weather conditions this
year, but the thought of the mud which might
have been and which almost always has been in
previous years was hardly less irritating than the
traditional quagmire. Melbourne townspeople
will never again be very well disposed to the
bucolic carnival until the executive can give them
glad tidings of asphalted paths and other im-
provements. The Society doesn’t lay itself out to
fascinate such as feel indiff - -ent towards fat stock
an 1 farm furniture. It makes no allowance for
the weakness of the non-agricultural classes.
Even the most festive of exhibitors seem to delight
in laying traps of information for the unwary.
Present scribe merely went to the show to
• i unate at large, but he soon found himself lured
AT THE PICTURE-SHOW.
HER: “ This one has no prie on it; how’s that
HE : “ I suppose the artist was a conscientious
man.”
to a platform by a handsome, gay deceiver who
was concerned m the manufacture of ice by means
of hot air, frozen ammonia, liquid gas, and the
action of five temperatures in a compressed state.
That’s the sort of scientific dissimulator one meets
at the refreshment bar of an Agricultural Show.
* * « *
At Mount Hope (N.S.W.) one Dunn was
found in his hut apparently dead, and the police
and coroner were duly notified. Next morning,
however, when the finder of the “ corpse” visited
the hut, he was astonished to find the defunct
cheerfully surrounding his breakfast. Of course
the resurrected is a countryman of the classic Tim
Finnigan. The case turns out to have been one of
catalepsy, the subject having presented all the
ordinary indications of death —even to the coldness
and muscular rigidity thereof.
* * ♦ *
Now touring Central Queensland, one
Bradshaw, who lectures upon the brutality
of N.S.W. prison system. Speaking from
alleged personal experience, he gives some
startling instances of ill-treatment of prisoners
by warders, and describes how one consump-
tive unfortunate was dosed to speedier death
with jalap, by what he (Bradshaw) calls a
“pom-pom” doctor, on the ground that
prisoner was a malingerer. The deliber-
ate knocking out of prisoners’ teeth and
the violation of female prisoners are acts
also attributed by
Bradshaw to warders.
* * *
The cable man
casually mentioned, in
telling of the relief of
Coomassie, that the
enemy had succeeded in car-
rying off the golden stool of
the Kings of A ihantee. This
particular bit of furniture must
pretty well represent all that is
left of the ancient Coomassie
treasures. When the British looted
the capital in 74 a large quantity of
silverplate and goldsmith’s work of great
value and considerable artistic merit was
found in the king’s palace, and peace had
to be purchased as well by the payment of
50,0000 z. of gold.
* * * *
N.S.W. Public Instruction Department
hasn’t yet got over the fit of hysteria that induced
it, when the contingents started, to send the head-
master of a suburban school to S’Africa as a full-
blown military captain, and to contribute a
number of others in various ranks. Now the soli-
tary assistant of a certain country school has been
given seven weeks’ leave of absence to join in the
ridiculous hunt for the Breelongblacks.
A prominent Australian artist enjoys the
distinction of having ventured to present an
entirely nude male model to a mixed class. Miss
Grundy, however, wouldn’t stand it; though it’s
not easy to comprehend—so long as a class is
mixed—why the male should be any more dreadful
in puribus than the female. Apropos, at the
rooms of both the Art Society of N.S.W. and the
Society of Artists, the male models wear “trunks”
while the females wear absolutely nothing.
While stonemasons’ wages rule at 12s. at
Broken Hill, the N.S.W. Works Dept, advertise;
in S. Australia for tradesmen for its day-
labor jobs over the border at lls.
Litigation was never so low in
Melbourne, two-thirds of the pro-
fession not having done a tap for
months. Nobody repines. A
lawyer is like a Maxim gun —
only dangerous in action.
THE ’ORRID CABLE-LIE.
“’Ere yer are, sirl Massacre of missionaries
China —’orrible details.”
Sydney Telegraph :
It’s a nice sort of lover you are, who cannot wait lifted
minutes.
* « * *
“ Constance Clyde ” on bones, tombs, and
sundries :
There will probably be some trouble made
because S3’dney’s Devonshire-street Ceme-
tery, after receiving the dead for a good
many years, is about to do a good turn for
the living, by supplying space for railway
extension. The. proposed removal of the
forgotten dust has already raised the cry of
“desecration.” When it was proposed to
renovate St. James’ Church the other day
there was trouble because some of the
parishioners objected to the memorial tablets
having their faces washed, the ancient dust
being too sacred to be disturbed. When a
Dunedin graveyard was turned into a recrea-
tion-ground some time ago the bodies were
all lifted and placed under one large monu-
ment in the middle. What is the matter
with letting the bones of these old settlers
rest where thev are, and letting the railway
station that is erected over them be regarded
as their monument ? Present writer would
much prefer a useful tombstone like that to
an angel on one foot, or a vase with irrelevant
drapery thrown over it. .Some of the stones
at present in use are remarkable; one or
two are shaped like low tables with legs
at each corner and weeds growing un-
derneath. Another hardly discernible
among the tangled greenery has one
end sticking out like the prow of a vessel,
while an impressive but bush - overgrown
stone surmounts the resting-place of a sur-
geon who fell a victim to his profession. He
was killed by the husband of a lady-patient
who died while under his care, husband
going mad in consequence. Among the
earlier grim and gritty memorials is one
sacred to three men, the iirst of whom died
in 1829. The monument erected over one
of the mounds is shaped like a coffin. It
was placed on each of the mounds in turn,
and when a new' arrival came to his lowly
habitation he got it over him till the next
in his turn deprived him of the insignia.
Devonshire-street Cemetery seems to have
been used as a sort of temporary habitation
even before the railway business was advo-
cated. The caretaker pointed out the spot
where did not rest the dust of a lady who
had come to Devonshire only for two years,
but over-stayed her time and did not do
her flitting to Eookwood till four years
later, surpassing the rest of her sex as being
unpunctual even in death. Devonshire-street
Cemetery is about the ugliest and most God-
forsaken God’s acre in the State. How any-
one can want to have identified for all time
the exact spot where he is decaying unbeau-
tifully is incredible, and when that spot
happens to be a place like Devonshire-street
Cemetery one would think that those w'ho
had the misfortune to be laid there would
like to be buried in oblivion as well as in the
earth.
The local authorities of the R.C. Church
in Melbourne were much gratified *ne unex-
pected rush for tickets for admission tothegreaf
R.C. Congress now being held at ot. JW.arys
Cathedral, Sydney. Not only were apphcat oM
received from the Protestant camp, but many
persons supposed to be utterly u regenerate m
matters religious also evinced a keen interest in
the doings of Mother Church. Tickets were glee-
fully issued to these, but when they were rushed
by loud-voiced men of unmistakably Hebrew
aspect, the secretaries began to wonder whethe
the age of miracles had returned to earth. Inquiry
soon showed that anyone joining the Congress
could secure a rebate on his railway-fare very
much more than sufficient to pay for his Congress-
ticket at 10s. 6d. This bright idea had! originated
with certain godless individuals desirous or
attending the A.J.C. Spring meeting, fixed tor
the same week as the Church function. I lie
dodge was being worked most successfully until
the bookmakers spoilt it by putting too great a
strain on the credulity of those m charge ot the
arrangements.
* * * *
During the present clerical invasion of
Sydney it has been noticed that most black-
stocking-cased legs are skinny or unshapely. The
Bishop of Tasmania boasts the best pair of props
in the Synod, but as a set-off there is his Dean,
known locally as the “racehorse” from the
slenderness of his understandings. Yet we see
many well-turned ankles and fine calves amongst
the ungodly. Must we believe that all really-
Christian legs are miserable, or is it the essential
cussedness of things that makes bishops and deans
run so much to knock-knee and spindle-shank ?
* * * *
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) woman took to
the local incinerator 2/- worth of rats, neatly
wrapped in a paper parcel and placed in a new
basket just purchased for half-a-crown. lhe
transaction proved a poor deal, as basket and all
were sentenced to cremation by the officer in
charge, who callously ignored protestations.
Hogg. M.H.R. (M.L.) lately waxed in-
dignant because a stolen Boer family Bible had
been placed in Wanganui public library. Chris-
tians he said, should respect each others’ Bibles.
And this particular one might have been dearly
prized by some devout family. “ Would the
Government endeavor to restore the book to its
rightful owner?” The funereal Hall-Jones, in
reply, assured the hon. member that every effort
would be made to find the owner and restore
the Bible. After Maoriland’s eager assistance
in the wholesale slaughtering and looting in
S’Africa, this is swallowing the camel and strain-
ing at the gnat with a vengeance !
EVIDENCE AT DINGO FLAT.
THE BENCH: “And what special objection had you to
dining at the Scrub and Thistle ? ”
WITNESS : “ Well — er—yer see, when a cove finds out
that the shearer’s blanky sheep-dorgs camps in the
flour-bin rcg’lar, 'e ain’t 'avin’ any, specially with
the thermometer at a ’undred and fifteen.”
JOY IN HEAVEN.
Celtic eloquence seems to rejoice and revel
in what the stolid Saxon would call hyperbole and
anti-climax. For example, the Rev.
Father T. O. Farrell, preaching at St.
Mary’s, said: “That new tribute (the
cathedral) of their praise and devotion
would be another precious gem in the
crown of their blessed Lady which would
give joy to the Heavenly Court, and
especially to her devoted client, John
Joseph Therry, who laid the first founda-
tions of the noble pile.” So runs the D.T.
report. The Heavenly Court—and John
Joseph Therry !
We would not be irreverent —
We know what Father Farrell meant—
But if this pile is but a gem
In her celestial diadem,
The blessed Lady she must be
Like city-crested Oybele.
What joy will fill the Heavenly Court
When Patrick sends up his report,
Addressed “ The Court of Heaven —in care
Of J. J. Therry.” He is there
Of course. A glad saint he will be,
And full of joy, and holy glee.
No prouder saint will, so to speak,
Be seen in Heaven this blessed week.
Archangels, glorious and grand,
Will say—“ John Joseph, sir—your hand ! ”
Small saints will chase him round in rings,
For keepsake feathers from his wings.
The Heavenly Court in glory sits—
Too great for our poor human wits
To understand —as Paul doth tell.
But Father Therry we knew well.
For here in Sydney, on this ground,
He used to daily walk around.
And now in Heaven, smiling sweet,
He flits along each jasper street.
Or saunters, when the days are warm,
With St. Augustine, arm-in-arm.
And he is sure to be at home
With Jerome, and with Chrysostom,
And Athanasius, too, indeed—
The gifted author of the Creed.
So when we leave this Vale of Woe,
And to the gate of Heaven go,
We will not Peter’s patience task—
But just for townsman Therry ask.
OREEVE ROE.
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of all the places on this earth
There’s none like Somewhere Else ;
I love the city of my birth,
But not like Somewhere Else.
I understand what home is worth,
It’s palling peace and weary mirth—
When local blisses are a dearth,
Oh, take me Somewhere Else !
For what do we so often sigh ?
Alluring Somewhere Else ; 1
I’ve been to Rome and Boggabri,
But give me Somewhere Else.
From everywhere we seek to fly,
A better atmosphere to try,
And when we’re all gone up on high
We’ll long for Somewhere Else.
NARRANGHI BOORI.


“He’s frow the Country.”
i—h—Ml
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
— Tr,u ,0 MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
fgffißC
m
SI IN Htf:
All Drapers Everywhere.
CLOSE TO have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
_ __ Sydney, September 11, 1900.
My Dear Myee,—
Two quiet weddings came off the same day last
week. Dolly Vane took the veil-with-orange-
blossoms at the Australia last Thursday afternoon
with only Major and Mrs. Rennie to support her !
Ihe fair Dorothy evidently dreaded a recurrence
of the Essie Jenyns wedding crush. She sent her
trousseau over to Melbourne a fortnight ago, and
gave her dear friends to understand that the
wedding would come off over there. An hour
before the ceremony an intimate friend called at
the Australia with a glittering wedding present,
and is now feeling aggrieved that the bride-to-be
never gave her a hint that she would be Mrs. Nor-
man Menzies in an hour. The happy couple are
now at Mount Victoria.
The other wedding was that of Miss Amy
Abseil and Mr. Lambert, the well-known artist.
1 hey were quietly married, with Mr. W. B.
Beattie as best man, at St. John’s, North Sydney,
on Tuesday, and started for London in the Persic
last Friday, farewelled by crowds of artists and
friends.
A triumphant success in ever so many ways
was our Masked and Advt. Ball. For one thing, it
showed that Society can get off its perch when
occasion demands let us say, when the charity is
a worthy enough one. Society simply tumbled
into the pit on Thursday. I don’t know what it
was. Some intangible, psychic force ? The little
room behind the green-room door ? Max Rown’s
munificent way of advertising his Charles Heid-
sieck fizz? Ihe A.B.C. Co.’s astoundingly gene-
rous supper in the basement ? The witchery of
a mask? The intoxication of a false red nose?
Anyway, the upper circles ceased to exist. Every-
body was Nobody. There wasn’t a frill in the
hall. And 1 can honestly say that I have never
seen local Snobocracy look so truly at home as on
1 hursday night, representing drapers, grocers and
candlestick-makers.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson, in a handsome yellow
vei vet, brocaded with tiny pearls, organised the
Cafe Chantant that went on from eleven till
twelve, and adjudged the prizes. The Cafe in-
cluded Brownlow, Kenningham, Lauri, Carrie
Moore, Joey Cassilis, Miss Weir and the Empire
Ballet. Although it was all Chantant and no
Cafe, that platform-hour helped the starving
galleries to get their money’s worth. How those
thousands of thirsty people sat up aloft and
endured the loud jubilant aggravating clink of
champagne glasses, is one of the marvels of
modern fortitude.
*°r truly this ball rained champagne. That
was Charles Heidsieck’s way of advertising. It
was excellent for Heidsieck, but not so advan-
tageous to other people. I hear that one young
Englishman had a very funny experience. He
left the ball (he doesn’t know when), went round
ids hotel, and thought to freshen himself up
with a bath, About eleven o’clock in the morning’
he woke up feeling cold. He reached out to draw
the blankets over him, and found himself lying in
the bath in two inches of water. That he is still
alive and flourishing speaks well for that brand.
If you ask me to pick out the six best advertis-
ing women in the room I should name them—Mrs.
Playfair, as Waters and Co., in white satin prin-
cess robe and black picture hat; Mrs. “ Monty ”
Severn, as Tattersall’s, in black satin showered
with sovereigns and gold; Mrs. Alfred Milson, in
a tan-colored frock covered with little bundles and
parcels—as Sanders and Co. ; Miss Cissie Harris,
Farmer and Co., in white satin with the drapery
shop worked in colors on the front of the gown :
Mrs. Fred. Aronson, as “Sunlight Soap,” in
accordeon-pleated vivid green silk with a rising
sun in her hair and a gold-colored cloak; Miss
Clara Manning, as the Evening News, in a short
skirt of pink satin and white satin in different
breadths, and a cardboard news-office on her fair
well-poised head. Then, too, I noticed Miss
VV mme Austin looking very pretty in powdered
hair and a black frock ; Mrs. Harry Levy, as the
Sydney Book Club, in vivid scarlet chiffon,
made with masses of frills and tucks, and
a little red book in her hair; Miss Florrie
Delohery, as the F.F. and Ice Co., in white silk
and decked with strings of eggs. Mrs. Bennett
as Pitt-street Hordern in white duchesse with
black lettering copying the firm’s usual news-
paper advt. ; Miss Winston Weir in white satin.
Miss Hetty Muret in perhaps the smartest little
frock m the hall, but a very, very little one, just a
roulade of black and white frills. This just leaves
me space to mention that Mrs. Toohey, as Jewel-
ler W. Farmer and Co., carried off a white satin
frock in fine style. She was massed with diamonds
and pearls. Hardy Bros., jewellers, were gorge-
ously represented by the richest lady in Australia,
worth two solid millions besides the thousands of
pounds’ worth of blazing diamonds she wore,
which flamed through the hall like an “ Arabian
Nights’ ” treasure-house. Dixson and Co. flaunted
the Yankee Doodle legend in the face of this loyal
community in a picturesque fashion ; while
Messrs. Lassetter and David Jones and Co. had
their fame upheld by elegant advertisements.
Mrs. Forbes Angus took the originality prize.
Her dress was pink and white and Watteauish—
the A.B.C. cafe—trimmed with cakes and straw-
berries in a most delectable way.
Wearing a mask is a thing our men don’t under-
stand—you may be surprised to hear. I believe
there was only one Adonis who didn’t take off his
disguise after half-an-hour or so. The only one
is a handsome and popular young legal man, too.
Mrs. Purves had a sixteen-set of masks and
dominoes, but even the fact of there being sixteen
of them didn’t prevent them emerging from their
disguises as soon as possible. The fact was—that
ball was too much of a spectacle to be taken
squinting out of two little eye-holes. Besides, it
gives you a lonely feeling to be stared at blankly
by your best friends, and sets Vanity pondering
on the nothingness of Life when Society doesn’t
bow.
But for once it was a joy to be an ugly woman.
A white-inoustached lawyer stepped before one of
these. “Who are you?” he asked, with gentle
gallantry. “Helen of Troy” was the answer.
“ I can well believe it,” he replied promptly, and
made a dart at the lace over her lips. But it is
wonderful how a woman will run when her face
can’t be seen. That lawyer spent the rest of the
evening hunting for his “Helen” If he reads
this I would like to break it to him gently that
she squinted and had an amiable expression.
What less can I say ?
Another mask stole up to a well-known sports-
woman. In a pale whisper she breathed one
word, “Saraswati.” And then she made off. But
the other was after her like a shot. “ Here, who are
you?” The mask tore on. The huntress tore after
her. “Who are you?” cried the panting pur-
suer. Her Australian blood fired at that horse’s
name as nothing else had fired it all that giddy
evening. “ Come here ; do wait a minute; I
want you, hi ! ” The voice was deadly earnest.
But the mask wasn’t waiting. You never know
how people will take these horse-jokes.
A few stray impressions, too feeble to be put on
a string. I saw, in a fancy set, a Jewish lady fol-
lowed by a man bearing a plate of Ham. It was
purely accidental. I heard a pretty blonde
lamenting that she couldn’t have electric light in
her hair because she was the “ Gas Company.” I
saw a local Johnnie singeing himself before such a
pretty chorus girl, as “ Black and White ” (the
English mag.) with flounces to her knees—waist-
downwards. How that Johnnie hopes now that
she won’t publish all he said ! I gazed in horrified
amaze at a prim, not to say ice - blooded and
saintly, judge, and soon decided it was a matter for
the District Court. He had broken out as “A
Troubadour ! ” It takes a Judge to think"of that.
Other men were Oliver Cromwells, Fish, Julius
Caesars, or something remotely and coldly his-
torical.
From a dancing point of view, the ball was an
awful failure. It was very late in starting. The
march of the advertisements, the Cafe Chantant,
and the A.B.C. Supper, took up the best part of
the night. People paid twelve-and-six for tickets.
Therefore, there was great disgust when “ God
Save” sounded at 1.30, and three dances were
wiped off the programme. Doubtless, the adver-
tising ones wanted to get out of their stiff clothes,
but the huge complement of public felt defrauded
by that early-closing act.
The A.J.C. had glorious weather for Derby
day. All last week, while the ball absorbed every
sartorial inspiration, women were anxiously pray-
ing for rain. Race-frocks had been forgotten in
the excitement of the ball. I saw one dressy
woman wearing her best ball-skirt, and a little
black make-shift coat, but she crowned it with a
light hat and veil, and looked nice, notwithstand-
ing. The V.R. party was quietly frocked all round.
Lady Mary was in grey foulard, with a black
toque; Lady Lamington wore a black frock and a
black toque ; Lady Darley was in black, and, as
usual, it fell to the lot of Lady Bertha to lighten
things up. She was in shrimp-pink silk, with a
cream fichu, and a black picture-hat. Two Melb.
girls took possession of the two Sydney aides.
Miss Ruby Madden, in a timid-looking floral
muslin, and a pretty straw hat, with touches of
pink on one side, did the Lawn with the Honor-
able Charlie. Miss Mary Clarke, in a pink-and-
white foulard and a trying white hat with pink
roses, was shepherded by A.D.C. Landon. One
of the prettiest figures on the Lawn was Mrs.
Alfred Nathan, in a white lace flounced frock and
a black picture hat. Miss Irene Marks aired
elbow-sleeves and long white gloves with a pretty
white embroidered gown, and a simple cream
straw hat. Pretty Mrs. Rollin was in black with
a pale blue toque, and a little tucked coatee with
elbow-sleeves over a white shirt. Mrs. Slattery
looked well in a short black velvet coat, over a
black silk skirt, a big white chiffon ruffle at the
throat, and a toque of Autumn leaves and roses.
Miss Sandford wore reseda-green gown, smartened
with a big pink ruffle and a pink chiffon-and-
feather toque.
It was the first Spring Fashion Show, and it
didn’t take long to discover that the new season is
going to be distinctive in three ways. Cream
straw hats, black crinoline hats, and, above all,
the ruffle of chiffon with long chenille ends.
Foulard was the most patronised material. After
it, muslin. A few elegant voiles were to be seen.
Which reminds me that I nearly forgot to men-
tion perhaps the smartest dress on the Lawn—a
black voile, worn by a North Shore lady, exqui-
sitely cut, and tightened with a transparent yoke
of point-lace.
In the midst of all the excitement of this
carnival-like time, a modest little show drew many
people to the Y.M.C. A. Hall last Friday. It was
the Philatelic Society’s Show, otherwise an ex-
hibition of stamps. Mr. Bassett-Hull, a slimdark
man with a black moustache and quiet manner, is
the leading spirit of the show. His ardent
enthusiasm for stamps keeps the passion well
alive in Sydney. By the way, I made acquaint-
ance with a curious book, a novel for stamp
collectors, “ The Stamp King,” exquisitely illus-
trated, and got up in fine style by Beauregard,
and H. de Gorsse. I believe this is what stampy
people read on Sundays. From the outside it
looks like Daudet’s “ Jack ” but inside it’s about a
millionaire and a girl and a rare stamp they both
wanted. Mr. Bassett-Hull’s “ History of Stamps
of Tasmania—now out of print ” —was also behind
a glass case there for collectors to come and gaze
at longingly. Herds of schoolboys, and lots of
women, filled the hall for the two days the show
was disporting itself, if anything so firmly set on
as a stamp can be said to disport itself. Anyway
a stamp can say a lot. I learned at the Y.M.C. A.
that a stamp at left corner upside-down means
positively “ 1 love you.” It makes you careful.
After 34 years and £200,000, St. Mary’s
Cathedral is dedicated and opened in all its
beauty. The solemn dedication took place on
Sunday at 11 o’clock. There was no crush. Seat 3
at a guinea, and seats where you couldn’t see
anything at five shillings kept down Sydney’s
ardent enthusiasm. Otherwise the crowd would
have been appalling. Three Governors —Lords
Beauchamp, Lamington, and Le Hunte—in full-
dress uniforms ; three A.D.C.’s, a Cardinal, many
Bishops, many Archbishops, innumerable priests—
it was a brilliant spectacle, and the
setting helped it, the stained glass win-
dows, the scent of lilies and incense, the
long dark ropes of green passion leaves swaying
from pillar to pillar about the altar, the yellow
light shafted on upturned faces, the Kyrie Eleison
stealing through the building. Two hundred
picked voices sang in the choir. Mozart’s
Twelfth Mass, familiar and beautiful, was well
chosen, and, under Mr. Delaney’s guidance, the
music was superbly rendered. Among the soloists
were Mr. Woodhouse, Miss Kate Rooney, Mrs.
Tierney and Miss Millie Wynn.
But the sermon! Talk about “ linked sweet-
ness long drawn out!” Archbishop Redwood,
from Maoriland, preached from behind a beard,
“Of His Kingdom there shall be no end.” The
people who had breakfasted early, and the priests
who had not breakfasted at all,'listened admirably
for the first half-hour, the first three-quarters. At
the end of an hour a shuffling movement crept
over the congregation. Once, a false hope
sprang up that this was the end. It seemed
as if a peroration had been completed. Every-
one moved a little in anticipation. And there
was the Archbishop—“We will now cast a
retrospect over the Nineteenth Century.” Later on
—at the end of the Nineteenth Century—the
preacher apostrophised us, “And now, my dear
brethren, what are these fears?” The look on
many faces seemed to cast back the dumb reply,
“That you are not going to stop yet.” Still, it
was a vivid address, and its effect was soon
visible.
As I have ever been brought up not to notice
what people wear in church, I was blind to any-
thing of that sort. But 1 couldn’t help noticing
what a fine congregation was there. Representa-
tive, social, official, and almost as Protestant as
Catholic, and as masculine as womanish. Also,
one couldn’t overlook the great collection taken
up adroitly as the sermon ended—for it did end
some time. Priests went by with their caps full
of notes, full of gold, full of cheques. Everyone
was bent on giving, from moneyed scions down to
poor little priests with big holes in their lace
flounces.
At last the Cardinal swept forward in his long
red robes, and said that £lBOO had been collected
in the Cathedral that morning.
This week sees the departure of Lady Mary
Lygon. She goes to-morrow (Wednesday). It is
an open secret that our Gov.’s elder sister hastened
back to Sydney simply to patch up the little—er,
—difficulties in her brother’s way. Certainly her"
presence, gentle and peaceable (but too formal for
an affectionate, loving little place like this where
everybody wants to be bosom friends with the
governoress), has healed several threatening
breaches. By the way, the musical competitions
set going by Lady Mary, but not destined to live
after she goes, I fancy, were rewarded with little
gold medals that are perhaps more characteristic
of their rewarder than anything she could say.
They are little 18-carat gold medals, simple and
slim, stamped with the legend, “From Harmony
to Harmony.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Looked at calmly and thoughtfully, a Poster
Ball is a sassiety spree at the expense of adver-
tisers, who don’t expect, as a rule, to get any
benefit by being represented in the melee, but are
not plucky enougli to say ‘No’ when asked to
assist. Where’s the value to a champagne or
whisky agent in having a silly pantomime bottle
sauntering up and down the Town Hall, with a
well-known label on the outside of the bottle and
the face of a weary johnnie grinning from within?
The poster idea is just a giddy new departure in
charity blackmail, and a good few of the adver-
tisers have not troubled to conceal their opinion
on the subject.
“ The story goes that one very important lady,
having sold her advertising space to an unwilling
customer for a certain sum, discovered that she had
let herself go too cheap. Another party was com-
paratively willing to give a higher price for her
services—besides, the costume for this other Poster
might have been made to suit her even better than
the first one she had fixed upon. So the enthusi-
astic dame went round to her original victim and
asked him to either increase the size of his cheque
or let her substitute another Poster lady for her-
self. Then the man in question waxed wrathfully
sarcastic, and told his importunate visitor that as
he had been bounced into giving her the order for
an advt. which wasn’t worth a straw to his firm,
he must decline to break the bargain.
“Melbourne’s ‘ best ’ society was more sympa-
thetic than surprised last week on learning that
old Mr. Sellar had come to the end of his illness
The widower died at his Caulfield home, and it
seems from the obituary notice that all the
members of his family—one of the sons got
married a little while ago—were gathered around
him at the finish. The ‘ M‘Culloch ’ Sellars have
never shone in the advertising world, but their
friends and acquaintances include most of the
local people whose cash or ‘position’ is backed up
by a little culture. The late paterfamilias must
have been about the first Victorian to take a par-
ticular interest in the advancement of young
musical talent, for he was chief subscriber to the
fund for giving boy Ernest Hutcheson, the pianist,
a musical education in Germany, where boy
Ernest is nowadays a professor, with a wife and
probably a baby of his own. Robert Sellar never
pushed himself into politics (he left that sort of
thing to his partner, M‘Culloch), but he had a
brother, Alexander Sellar, in the House of Com-
mons once upon a time. Also his father was
business manager, or something, for a previous
Duke of Sutherland, and this gave the family a
sort of vested interest in the British Constitu-
tion.
“ Talking of which reminds one that a signed
photo, of the present Duchess of Sutherland”was
among the various priceless treasures raffled at
the Children’s Hospital Bazaar last week. An
unwise sales-virgin started the raffle at sixpence a
member. Only sixpence for a remote chance of
winning the Duchess of S.’s portrait, with her
noble autograph thereon ! Did anyone ever hear
of such a thing ? The chief priestesses of that
stall spoke of the rash damsel’s business tactics
with Toorakian scorn. They thought the dear
Duchess should have been disposed of at certainly
nothing less than a shilling a ticket.
“At the (Exhibition) Cafe Chantant, various
hubbies moon round in vacant fashion, hands in
their pockets, making feeble jokes with the
fashionable would-be waitresses, who find a
splendid opportunity to sport their manicured
nails, hosts of rings, and ghastly ignorance of the
business.
“As for instance. One was tendered half-a-
crown for three sixpenny coffees. ‘Let me see,’
she said, toying with the coin and wrinkling her
smooth brow; ‘ how much is that ? Sixpence
each —what is it for three ? ’ ‘ One-and-six,’
answered the man, brutally curt. ‘ And this is
two-and-sixpence,’ she ruminated. 1 Then, do tell
me—l’m so mixed —how much I’m to give you.’
The man replied, ‘ Two shillings.’ But Hebe
sprang from her dazed state, and said, sharply,
‘ Indeed, no ! It is one shilling change ! ’ and
flounced off to tell the others how she was so
nearly being cheated.
“ Not the least interesting of the animals at an
Agricultural Show (at least so one concludes from
experience at the Melb. exhibition) are the farmers
and squatters. One must admire these big,
broad, brown, bearded, meaty men, who look as
though they ate six big meals a day with beef at
each. Such shows ought to have one or two prizes
for the fattest farmer, the tallest squatter, and so
on—the awards to be made by women, of course.
It would be attractive, One saw many men who
were in every way fit to be the owners of huge
Berkshire hogs and Hereford bullocks. Johnson
was right: ‘ Who drives fat oxen should himself
be fat.’ A lean cattle-man is a mistake.
“The nice young-lady relative of an exalted
Victorian Tory went up on to a platform in a Melb.
suburb to dispute about woman’s rights and de-
clare her sex unfit to take a hand in national
management. She recited the numerous unfitnesses
of womankind, and in conclusion asked her audi-
ence : ‘ Now, candidly, do you think we are fit to
exercise the suffrage ? ’ Then a grey-haired lady
on the platform—one of those nice old silver-haired
ladies witii heliotrope in their bonnets, who never
tell a lie —answered sweetly, ‘You must know,
my dear, there is a clause prohibiting lunatics.’
It was said almost affectionately, but it instantly
imparted a .Parliamentary -atmosphere to the
meeting.
“In Her Majesty’s crowded d.c. on “The
Christian’s ” first night (Sept. 8) were that big,
blonde, breezy couple, Barrister Coldham and his
wife. The latter, whose fair top-knotted hair
sported black velvet bow, wore a becoming black
satin cloak, with fur edgings, guipure lace ap-
plique, and high collar lined with fluted white
silk. The pale, slight wife of that sweet singer,
Surgeon O’Hara, brightened things by cerise
throat-band and white flowers in her hair.
Knuckle-duster sleeves of jewelled net seem still
fairly prevalent, and on Saturday one of the
■ Smartest weighed down her ear-lobes with big,
barbaric gold rings. A girl with pale-blue gloves
to match tier frock looked nice. More than one
dusky coiffure affected a pink rose. Dark hair is
debarred from many phases of ornament allowable
for blonde tresses. Artists prescribe, jet for raven
locks, because its intense black throws up the
lights and shadows of surrounding thatch.
“On the boards John Storm (Tyrone Power)
seemed rather stagey. In real life, handsome
parson-poseurs don’t throw up dying-duck glances
quite so often and when pointing a shapely finger
of scorn or clasping prayerful hands, they ‘take’
these actions at a faster tempo than actor Power.
‘The Christian’ strikes one as a misnomer for a
madly-in-love, jealous, cantankerous John. The
fact that dory, by sheer force of winning little
ways, cures John of his murderousness, awakes
regret that Desdemona didn’t try the same treat-
ment with Othello. Too horribly frightened, I
guess. Not every woman can disarm Grim Death
with a kiss.
“ Wouldn’t it be crisp to see big Nance O’Neil
and large Tyrone Power doing heavy tragedy
together ? Almost as exciting as a bear-fight! It
was cruel to see Nance throw herself on Kingston,
and that slim sufferer himself testified that when
he had to prop ‘ herself ’ up in the throes of stage
poison, he always sang inwardly the old, slave
hymn, ‘ Oh my L'awd, oh my good Gawd, keep me
from sinkin’ down ! ’ For a really cold couple, in
conjunction, Ada Ferrarand Carne would provide
rather an interesting exposition of histrionic love.
“In ‘Trilby,’ Rose Musgrove, in skittish white
muslin, red shoes and hose, made a Frenchy little
Angela. She wore crisp curls with a scarlet fillet
and love-lock meandering down her forehead.
Well-coiffured ringlets on the head of a stage
coquette came as a welcome relief after the done-
to-death fluffy mop, framing the wearer’s face.
“A well-known Melbourne johnnie, son of one
of the chiffon monarchs of the ‘ Lane, ’ has the
latest in vest-buttons. His new set are silver
ornaments having the family crest engraved hand-
somely thereon, and he wears the vorgeous in-
signia outside his digestion with the air of a Beau
Brummel.
\oura affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a.nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. §>old
by Stores and Chemists.
OitiZGDS’ljifelNurance Company limited
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Existing Policyholders exceed 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses.
JOHN FARRELL,
Rksi I IK XT Secretary.
Withdrawal of “The Times”
Encyclopaedia Offer.
Announcement is made in this issue of tne
withdrawal on Saturday, 15th September, of the
offer of The Times (London) to supply the
“Encyclopaedia Britannica” at half-price. The
sale of this work in New South Wales has been
unprecedented, and the supply of stock sent out
for distribution here is practically exhausted.
Our readers may yet participate, providing they
act promptly. The Times is in receipt of several
communications from subscribers and others
asking if they may not secure a set of the
“ Encyclopaedia Britannica,” at the present favor-
able prices, and have deliveries made at a later
date. In answer to such, we are asked to say
that those who fill in an Order Form (which may
be found in another part of this paper), and send
it to Sydney with the preliminary payment of One
Guinea, or full payment, as desired, the set of
volumes will be delivered to such address as may
be furnished, providing such forwarding address
is supplied within thirty days of the date of the
order. There will be no extra charge for this,
provided all requirements of the offer are complied
with on or before Saturday, 15th September ; after
that date no orders will be accepted at any price.
hats. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Practising medicos in N.S.W. Leg.
Council: Creed, Mackellar, M‘Laurin, Bowker,
Renwick, and Nash ; in Leg. Assembly : Graham
and Ross.
Titles in N.S.W. Leg. Council : Lackey,
K.C.M.G., Holborow, C.M.G., Renwick, Kt.,
Roberts, C.M.G. ; in Assembly: Abbott and
Lyne, K.C.M.G., Harris, Kt.
An official at Govt. House, Hobart, boasts
of having served there for 41 years and under
eight successive Governors, seven of whom are
dead, though their widows live.
Henry Mort, M.L.C. N.S.W, who died
last week, aged 81, was the last survivor remain-
ing in politics of the Parliament existing before
the separation of Queensland from N. S. Wales.
The awful Brassey seems to be still carry-
ing some influence with him, notwithstanding his
ridiculous falling-off as Gov. of Vic. His eldest son,
the Hon. Tom, has been appointed Military Go-
vernor of Pretoria.
Rev. Dr. White has been Presbyterian
minister at Singleton, N.S.W., for 52 years ;
Rev. Dr. Johnston at Armidale for 42 years, and
Archdeacon White (Anglican) has ministered at
Muswellbrook for 43 years.
Mr. Hugh Hixson, who donated £10,001)
to the N.S.W. Baptist Church, is a native of
Sydney, and just touches his sixtieth year. He
made his money out of the tobacco-trade, a busi-
ness his father started in the early days.
It is prophesied that ere many weeks have
passed, Morning, the paper of Nesbit, Q.C., will
be spelt with a“ u ” when it is referred to. At
present the most prominent letter connected with
it is “I.” Nesbit, however, was never modest.
Genial John Cleeland, South Sea trader
trom ’53 to ’5B, host at the Albion, Bourke-street,
Melb., from ’59 to ’BO, winner of Melb. Cup with
Wollomai in ’75, is hale and hearty at the age of
73, on his farm at Phillip Island, Western Port
(Vic.).
The story goes that Melb. Age proprietor
David Syme was once told by a fussy interviewer
that his editor did not believe in the inspiration
of the Scriptures. “ Shouldn’t wonder—he didn’t
write them himself, I believe,” was David’s dry
response.
Some of the “ flat broken ” of Melb. land-
boom crash of ’92 begin to emerge from their
caves. Ex-Premier Jas. Munro is to oppose Dun-
can Gillies at Toorak at the general election in
Oct., and Jas. Mirams is already in the field for
Brunswick as a candidate for the House of Repre-
sentatives.
MOSU SUCCESSFUL.
SERGEANT (to probationary constable who has been
given half-a-croivn for the purpose of detect-
ing a certain publican suspected of Sunday-
trading): “Did you catch him?”
PROBATIONER: “Did Oi catch 'im? Oi cot ’im
tin toimes, an’ Oi could have cot 'im oftener
but Oi hadn’t any more money.”
The attempt by Kethell, M.L.C., to boom
N.S.W. forestry recalls the fact that Dailey once
made the same attempt, appointing poet Kendall
Inspector of Forests. Kendall could write poetry
about the bush, but it is questionable if he knew a
gum tree from a swamp oak. The job at any rate
killed him.
Henry Mort, M.L.C., dead at 82, blent
politics and commercialism all through his life.
He was Assembly member when Queensland was
part of N.S.W., and M.L.C. over twenty years.
He was much more enterprising in commerce than
in politics. In one he was progressive, in the
other stagnant, but in both a man of fair and
honest mind.
A romantic marriage is reported from
London —Hugh Arundell Trevanion to Florence
Eva Trevanion, daughter of N.S.W. ’s much-gilded
baronet, Daniel Cooper. The pair were married
18 years ago, but were divorced in ’B7. Mr.
Trevanion subsequently married another lady,
who died, and he has now re-married his first wife.
During the past two or three weeks
four alleged N.S.W. centenarians have passed
over the Great Divide : R. T. Hooker, Singleton,
100 ; William John, Kurrajong (whose portrait is
given elsewhere), 100; J. Byrnes, Braidwood,
102; James Marsh, Hay, 104. William John was
a native of N.S.W. All four just narrowly
escaped living in three centuries.
Sir William MacGregor, who was made
Governor of Lagos when he finished his ten years
term in Papua, arrived in England from the West
Coast the other day “ looking 200 years old.” Of
late years the death rate among whites on the
West Coast of Africa has stood regularly at forty
per cent. And the A.M.P. directors are asking
for power to extend the business there !
In a letter from London ;
When the war is over, Baden-Powell will, after a spell
in England, visit Australia, and Ballarat particularly,
llis brother, the late George Baden-Powell, M.P., married
one of the Ballarat Wilsons shortly before his untimely
death, and B.P. has heard so much of the place from Gor-
don Wilson and Lady Sarah that he will make a crow-line
for Ercildoune and the Eureka Stockade as soon as he is
free for such a holiday.
A historic house in Sloane-street, Goul-
burn, N.S.W., is being demolished. It is the one
in which Hovell, the explorer, lived, and is one of
the oldest in the settlement. It was, on Hovell’s
death, bequeathed to Sydney University. Hume
and Hovell started from Lake George, crossed the
river now known as the Murray, but named by
them the Hume, crossed the Hovell, now known
as the Goulburn, and camped finally where now
stands Geelong.
“Poor Tom Mcllwraith died off quietly
in Brompton the other day, having been already
E radically forgotten, so little had he been seen or
eard of in late years (writes a Bulletin corres-
ponent from London). “Last year I met him in
the paddock at Sandown, but even then he looked
very queer and ill, and spoke hopelessly about the
prospects of his health in the future. When he
did get out at all he seemed to shun the points
where he would be likely to drop across old
colonial friends.”
The oldest N S.W. public servant is J.
R. Abbott (now in his 88th year), “Tower At-
tendant ”at Sydney G.P.O. The old man is still
hearty, and daily mounts the tower. Early every
morning also he may be seen doing his constitu-
tional run (not walk) along the beach at Double
Bay, where he resides. He winks the other eye
when the younger members of the G.P.O. staff in-
sinuate that because of the many girls who ascend
the spiral stairs the authorities deem it wise to
employ an ancient as attendant.
An old London reporter, a native of Scot-
land, who died in Melb. a short while back,
worked by the side of Charles Dickens in the gal-
lery of the Commons. The undistinguished scribe
used to say that the future novelist was a good re-
porter, but infernally bumptious, and that he
could not understand what anyone could find of in-
terest in his writings. Familiarity breeds con-
tempt, and a Caledonian training does not give
capacity to appreciate cockney humor, or what
Emerson called “London tracts.”
Net one of the numerous V.C.’s awujdcd
in connection with the S’African business is, it
appears, to come Australasia-way—an upshot
which places the two N.S.W. and M.L. troopers
strongly recommended for the decoration in a
painfully false position. As for the presentation
to Southern-Cross swashies of four scarves made
by the Queen herself, the fact that the recipients
were elected for the distinction by their comrades
robs the distinction of all military significance,
whatever value the articles may possess as curiosi-
ties in themselves.
T. H. H. Goodwin, now M.P. for Gunne-
dah in N.S.W. Assembly—his name is never
heard in connection with politics, but he has been
before the military commission as an expert in
bush saddles —was a surveyor in the Far West
when Broken Hill was discovered, and he laid out
the present town. Like one other surveyor on the
spot, Jamieson, he made lucky investments; but
the man who actually made the survey of the B.H.
mines, Dawson, only got on to the duffers. He,
by the way, is one of the local municipal council’s
valuers, and it is over his figures that the co.’s pre-
pare to fight.
Taking time by the forelock, Brisbane
Courier prints an article recounting the services
of Queensland’s C.J. to Federation and the
reasons for which the “ brainiest ” man in Aus-
tralia should be made the apex of the Federal
Judiciary. Griffith is a clever advocate, but a
bad judge; and his attitude of grovel to “the
Empire,” his later disdain of democratic opinion,
will be held by many to disqualify him as effectu-
ally as the treacherous Sammy Way is disquali-
fied. The article gave the impression that
Queensland’s Deputy-Gov. is afraid of being
left out in the cold. .
Charles St. Julian, an old-time law-
reporter of S.M. Herald, received an order of
knighthood from the King of Hawaii for consular
services in Sydney. When Chief Justice of Fiji
in 1873 and 1874, the proceedings of his court were
always reported as “ Before Sir Charles St.
Julian.” On his loss of office by the annexation
of the islands, Hercules Robinson and Attorney
General Innes (N.S.W.), arranged for him to
receive a pension of £l5O a year. But St. Julian
was not so young as he had been ; he could not
bear the reverse, and he died three weeks after his
last appearance on the Bench.
For a week or two after his return from
London C. C. Kingston appeared in-Adelaide
streets arrayed in all the radiant glory of his
SHE KNEW HIM HE DIDN’T.
“ The little man seems attracted by the large
lady.”
"Yes, that’s my husband. The dear man is so
fond of all sorts of animals.”
London costume, and S.A. trembled for the
durability of the man’s democratic principles.
But t’other Saturday reassurance reigned supreme.
At the fast and furious football match between
Norths and Souths, C. C. K. held a reception
dressed in a sac suit and villainous-looking soft
felt hat. This was not in the vice-regal box, the
full-members’ stand, or the half-members’ stand,
but on the edge of the smokers’ sixpenny stand,
in the midst of the most wicked barraclcers.
Paris Nesbit, Q.C., had a congenial outing
at Adelaide Police Court last week, when he
charged Dr. Ramsay Smith with having issued a
certificate (March, ’9B) “wrongfully detaining him
under the Lunacy Act.” C. C. Kingston appeared
with the Crown Solicitor on Dr. Smith’s behalf,
and Nesbit promptly referred to him as a
“cowardly despot,” who had himself been so mad
on one occasion that he bought two revolvers with
the intention of shooting . But at this the
Court intervened, and Nesbit had much pleasure
in saying that his learned friend did not buy the
two deadly weapons—and so on. There’s much
legal method in P.N.’s eccentricity.
W. W. Billyard, veteran Sydney soli-
citor, left England more than half a century back
with the intention of being Governor of
Westralia ; but on reaching Port Jackson
some hitch in the arrangement occurred,
and he decided to cast anchor there. He
did very well as agent for the properties
of Robert Lowe, when the latter returned
to the old country to enter Parliament
and become Viscount Sherbrooke. The .
George-street shanties in which Bob in-
vested his savings developed into palatial
buildings ; and the regular income he de-
rived from them enabled him to live in
good style for nearly 30 years.
At latest, the long-haired Vesper,
of Westralia, had turned Freetrader. He
has already been Federalist, anti-Fede-
ralist, Protrader, Freetectionist, Liberal
Conseivative, Parochial Nationalist, Im-
perial Republican, and other things, in-
cluding insurrectionary Jingo.
Postmaster-General W. P. Crick has
never collected, and declares he never will
collect, in his capacity as solicitor, a debt
for a money-lender.
Dingo : Ex-S.A. Premier Kingston presents
a curious phrenological and physiognomical study.
When passive—lack-lustre eyes, the peculiar dull-
ness of facial complexion which generally goes
with a kind of mental torpor, an ordinary-shaped
head. Not knowing the man to be Kingston
there is nothing to attract a second look, except,
perhaps, the depth of chest. Whilst looking at
C. C. K. one cannot but think that he was destined
either to “make a spoon or spoil a horn.” It is
hard to associate a course of respectable mediocrity
with such physical adjuncts.
Eyre is the oldest of retired Australasian
Governors —if a mere Lieut.-Governor of the
South Island of M.L. can be called such. At
the age of 75 he is strong and vigorous in
his Devonshire home, and has now drawn his
pension for 26 years. He distinguished himself as
an explorer in South Australia in the forties, and
in the sixties by his rigorous suppression of a
negro revolt in Jamaica. There was a tremendous
row in England about Eyre’s prompt execution of
ring leader Gordon, many people clamouring for
his blood. Carlyle was one of the few who stood
by the Jamaica Governor. “He that will not
work shall perish from the earth ” was a text that
Thomas relied on in dealing with black races.
The only surviving contributor to the
Atlas, the Sydney journal with which Robt.
Lowe and Archibald Michie were connected in
’44, is G. W. Rusden, now living in Melb. at the
age of nearly 80. Rusden was Clerk of Parlia-
ment in Vie. from ’56 to ’B4, and occupied his
leisure in writing a history of Australia and a
history of Maoriland. The latter publication got
him into trouble with Bryce, M.L. ex-Minister of
Native Affairs, who prosecuted the historian in
the London Court 15 years ago for libellous state-
ments, made in connection with the politician’s
dealings with the Maoris. Though Rusden’s
authorities were Gov. Arthur Gordon and a
Bishop, he was mulcted in heavy damages, and
obliged to re-issue his history with the objection-
able passages expunged.
When Sir
0 h a r 1 e s
Hothamwas
Governor of
Victoria, he
gav e the
guests at his
receptions
“colonial
ale,” or as it
was then cal-
led “swipes.”
Lord Hope-
toun re-
galed them
with cham-
pagne and
frozen phea-
saii t an d
salmon from
the old country.
No wonder poor
ITotham was unpopular. He
did not seek the Governor-
ship. On learning that the
British Govt, had appointed
him to the office (be-
cause he had shown
cleverness in extri-
cating a stranded
ship from an appar-
ently hopeless posi-
tion on tne coast of
Africa), he said despondingly to a
friend : “If they would only give me the com-
mand of a frigate, or put me in some position
to which I am suited, I should feel happy.”
Paris Nesbit, the erratic Q.C. of Adelaide,
has brought his new weekly safely to its second
consecutive appearance. The second Morning
lias had a success of scandal. Its most charming
feature is a page of passionate verses from Tom
Moore and others, headed “ Flowers Gathered
for my Sweethearts.” One of these poems, taken
to be directed to a local lady who is*alout to be
married, has given deadly offence. In this second
number Nesbit prints the following :
My life is made a burden to me by idiots who come up
to me in the streets and offer me advice. They make me
tired. If this sort of tiling happens again- well, if the
idiot is a foe, I shall kick him, and, if he is a friend, I will
not answer for the consequences. I shall probably kill
him.
Something of that sort would by no means sur-
prise Adelaide.
The cold “ simp ” of late August and early
Sept, swept off a number of S.. Australia’s well-
known men. Plucky little Samuel Tomkinsbn
got the most newspaper notice, chiefly on account
of his long political service ; but another, Christo-
pher Wade, deserved nearly as much—and, of
course, didn’t get it. Fifty years ago Wade, a
young Irish farmer, got, into the service of Thomas
Elder, and soon was managing Paratoo, the pro-
vince’s biggest squattage. Later on, unluckily
for himself, he stepped over the N.S.W. border,
tt ok over Mundi Murdi (the Barri r silver-field
is partly on that holding), and was met by the
THE DOG.
NERVOUS COMMERCIAL: “Your beastly dog bit
me on the stair, Mrs. Flannigan"
MRS. F. : “ Shure, ye must have aggravated the
poor baste. When ye see a slaaping dog
goin’ upstairs you should always let him lie.”
first wave of rabbits. Wade was knocked over by
the shock ; and when the price of wool began to
fall, he was never able to recover, and in a year
or two walked out ruined. During the last few
years he has been pastoral-adviser to a few finan-
cial co’s. and mortgagees; but it was not un-
natural that he should have come to take a gloomy
view of the industry to which he had given a life-
time.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors —BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking OR
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin, — Has it ever struck any-
one to ask what has been the agricultural training
of the N.S.W. Govt, experts who are paid to in-
struct “ cookies ?”— A Cocky. [The Bulletin
only knows, with regard to one of said “experts,”
formerly resident in another province, that, when
his friends.therein heard of his N.S.W. appoint-
ment, they said —“Good Lord! why he never
grew anything in his life here but wild oats ! ”]
* * * *
“P.H.C.”: To “ Pelican ” (B. l/9/’OO).
It’s very unlikely that there was any “olfactory
inconvenience ” from the corpse of the infant
carried by the gin in her dilly-bag, for the
custom of the aborigines is to thoroughly cure the
body before carrying it about. In some cases, as
about Port Moresby, the corpse is exposed to the
sun and rain until little more than the skeleton is
left for preservation. Among certain tribes the
body is flayed, roasted, and then dried on a frame
till mummified. The Isaac’s River (Q.) natives
smoke-dry the body of an infant for three days,
after which certain portions are cut off, the
remainder being buried. The relics, thus cured,
are placed in a dilly-bag painted in many
colors, and with great ceremony brought into
camp, where a corroboree is held ; after which the
bag is handed to the mother, who is supposed to
preserve the contents for the rest of her days.
• * » *
“ W.J.” : Stumbling mounts are bad
enough, but some horses won't get up when they
fall. One brute I know of pinned a parson to the
blistering earth for two hours last summer, the
heat nearly finishing him. He was alone on a
big plain, without water. The stick within his
reach failed to shift the animal; so he used it as a
reliever for his leg.
• * * *
A Sydney lawyer sent a legal document to
an out-back farmer for execution, the initials of
the executant being written in pencil where the
signature was to go ; and as attestation was neces-
sary, the usual direction—“ A.B. (J.P.) sign
here” —was also pencilled in. It was a month
before the document was returned, with the ex-
planation that there had been much difficulty in
procuring the signature of a J.P. with the initials,
“ A. 8.” ; but that eventually, in a town 100 miles
off, had been found one whose initials were
“A.G.8.,” and who had consented to drop the
“G.”
TAKING HIM LITERALLY.
All Flesh is Grass,” was the text he chose for his first sermon to this new and interesting people.
“We won't cook him,” whispered deacon Thlpingumph to elder Thackumwack; “ we’ll just
spread him out to dry and make hay of him to feed the cattle this coming winter.”
“ Yril. ’ : lie par about pigeons laying
(B 30/6/’00), I have always found that when birds
lay only two eggs for a “set,” the young birds
will differ in sex. Have also noticed, in the case
of many Australian birds which Jay only two
eetrs that if the eggs are variegated in colour, one
of them is nearly always more handsomely marked
than its fellows. We youngsters considered the
“swell” egg as containing the cock bird, and the
possession thereof was the cause of many a san-
iminarv battle
k ‘ • • •
“GJM”’ My observations, extending
over many years, have convinced me that there is
no foundation for the notion that when a pigeon
lavs but two eggs the sex of the young birds will
he different. The results are about these : Out of
every 13 pairs of eggs you will get four couples of
coc ks four couples of different sexes, and five
couples of hens. This preponderance of hens I
attribute to the fact that the female bird, being
weaker of flight, becomes oftener (in a wild state)
a victim to birds of prey ; and Nature, as usual,
endeavors to restore the balance, the conditions of
the wild state being, as is frequently the case, im-
ported into domesticity.
* * * *
Carterton (M.L.) Leader caine out one day
recentlv with no leading article, the editor frankly
explaining in a paragraph that he had been out
late the previous night and was too tired to write
anything worth reading. A noble example, and
one worth following. Judging by results, most
editors stay out late but won’t own up.
“S.S.”: Getting out of a train, t’other
day, at a small Vic. township, I found the station
in charge of a porter who could only keep upright
by hanging on to the wall. He said H’e fare for
leaving the platform was “five ai.’sh Its,” and
when I refused to pay, solemnly ai.d deliberately
gave me in charge to an adjacent tree-stump for
'' 11 tempt to fraud the (hie !) revenue.” Out-
»'de the gate, a man with a long heard was
Ring comfortably asleep m three inches of mud,
witli a rooster prospecting his whiskers. Fifty
yards further on a blacksmitli and a I taker were
bghting dispiritedly across a rail-fence the black-
simth the while hiccuping Rule Britannia,”
Over the way a fat woman, with the greater part
of her bulk thrust out of window, was squealing
“Police!” and “Murder!” but 1 found the
“foorce,” in the person of one large red man,
peacefully slumbering on a bench under the pub.
verandah. In the bar three drunks were clinging
dejectedly to the counter while a fourth was
chasing alligators on the window-pane. The
landlord looked as if lie had not been in bed for a
month, ? nd gave me-when I asked him for
English beer-a pmt of very fair champagne for
«> d - Only saw one sober man in the township,
and he was fast remedying the exception outpf a
H black bottle Am stdl wondering what was
the cause ot !lU tne
* * * *
“ H. J. Mac.”: He seagulls on Rosebery
Park racecourse, (“Def.” B. 25/8/’00). Lake
George and Lake Bathurst, about 25 miles south
of Goulburn, N.S.W., swarm with these birds,
About 10 years ago a few birds arrived, apparently
storm-driven; and from that on the increase in
their numbers was rapid and steady.
THE LATE THOMAS JOHN, of Kurrajong,
aged 100 years.
A calculation of shearers’ net earnings has
been made by Donald M‘Donnell, union sec. at
Bourke. Figures for 35 sheds showed 839,956
sheep shorn by 717 shearers. Average time taken,
21 days ; average number of sheep shorn per man,
1171; average receipts, £ll 14s. 3d. ; average
mess account (to be deducted), £3 for 24 days;
shears, combs, &c. (to be deducted), 14s. Id. Net
earnings for the 24 days, £8 Os. 2d,, or £2 6s. Od. a
week. And then there is much lost time travel-
ling between sheds and waiting for sheds to start.
A certain small Maoriland village had
suffered for years from the practical jokes of
Sullivan, the local pub-keeper, until two
sports from Wanganui decided to call on him
and try to reverse the usual order of tilings.
It was in the days of muzzle-loaders ; so one
of the sports put two charges in his gun before-
hand, and, after they bad had drinks, went
out, leaving the gun behind. Thereupon his
friend suggested to Sullivan that they should
take a rise out of the absentee by drawing
his charge, replacing it with powder only, and
then betting him that he could not kill any of
the fowls in the yard first shot. The landlord
enthusiastically caught on, and when the
youth returned, offered to let him have one
shot at the fowls, and to bet him ten shillings
and all the deceased poultry that he would
not kill anil first shot. The guileless one
accepted the wager, and an adjournment was
made to Sullivan’s back-yard, where two hand-
fuls of grain soon brought all the ducks and
chookey-hens into a cluster. Then the sport
fired, and about a dozen fowls, a prize rooster
and six ducks gave up the ghost. Their bodies
were taken on to Wanganui, and the curtain
fell for ever upon the practical jokes of public-
house Sullivan.
“ 11.M.T.” : He preservation of tele-
graph-poles. Would it pay to import and
bolt-on to lower end of pole about oft. or 6ft.
of Westralian jam or jarrah ? White ants
will touch neither of these woods- which will
last a good 50 years underground.
“Tomahawk”: lie aboriginal name
native-bear (B. 21 7/no). The darkies here
(Clarence River) call him “ Wambawdgie.”
They disclaim all knowledge of the “ab-
original ” names and terms that are to be
found in school-books.
• ■* * *
“Larrikin”: Met an old miner out at
Fermoy. Told me he had New Guinea fever in
Sud-Est once. He was weak, ill, stone-broke,
sick of being alive and determined to die. He
engaged a native for a bottle of rum, a red shirt,
and two sticks of tobacco to hang him to the limb
of a tree, being too weak to hang himself. The
nig. put the rope round his neck and yanked him
up a bit. Man knew nothing more till he came-
to afterwards, alive, deadly sick, and disgusted.
The nig. had become scared, and let go the rope,
dropped his employer in the dust, and fled for his
naked existence. I3ut he took the rum, tobacco,
&c., also the swag and all other properties. He
also took the rope, so my friend couldn’t hang
himself, however badly he wanted to.
* * * *
“Riv.”: Re bush liars (“Louis M.,” B.
7171*00). Travelling the Riverina we struck a
tank-cleaner’s camp, and after my boss had pro-
duced a bottle of whisky, walking came up as a
topic of conversation, and one man claimed to
have walked 200 miles in three days. “It was a
couple of years ago,” he added ; “My uncle died
an’ left me 400 quid, but I was to put in an appear-
ance in four days or the money was to go to the
poor. I spent a day lookin’ fer a horse, but
couldn’t find one ; so I started on foot fer Broken
Hill—that was the place—an’ got there on the
third evenin’ after startin’. I was a bit fagged
next day, but after that I was drunk for six weeks,
an’ ’ad a bad attack of snakes.” “ Speakin of
snakes,” said another, “reminds me that a snake
did me the dirtiest trick I ever ’ad done to me.
I was wprkin’ on a station up the country, and the
manager ’ad two ’orses in trainin’ fer a little country
meetin’ a few miles from the homestead. Well,
they was a well-matched pair, an’ us blokes didn’t
know which would win. One was named The
Heart an’ the other The Diamond. Well, the dajr
before the races I was riding along, and bloomm
near rode on to a snake. I gets off to kill ’im,
when, behold, I sees ’e is coiled up fair in the
shape of a ’eart. ‘’llllo,’ I says, ‘’ere’sthe straight
tip.’ Well, I let the snake off, an’ next day I puts
all my money (ten quid) on The Heart; but I'll
be entirely and completely dashed if The Dia-
mond doesn’t come ’ome first as ’e likes. Next
day, you bet, I was out lookin’ fer that snake, and
I finds ’im in the same place, but wot d’yer think?
—w’y ’e’d just twisted ’isself inter the shape of a
diamond and then died ! He was i udtin’ to the
last, an’ ’e died in that shape just to do me an in-
jury. A decent snake would have gone some-
where else an’ died in a circle.”
* * * *
“H.G.”: My boss’s old black draught
horse injured his leg recently whilst ploughing,
and became useless. Bent him down to Sydney
Zoo to make tiger-food, but he got away in the
night and wandered home—23 miles ! Boss gave
him a big feed and packed him back again. It
was my bad luck to have to take him—would
rather have lost £2O. They settled him this time
—-straight off.
• * • *
Review of the Week (English and Jingo)
publishes an English officer’s letter :
These loathsome Colonials, the more of whom I see the
m >re I detest, are clamoring against Roberts for leniency.
“ Why doesn’t he burn farms ? Why doesn’t he shoot the
Free-Staters ? Why doesn’t he hang Oronje ? What’s the
good of such an old woman ? ”
Really the “ Colonials” are getting quite a varied
reputation.
* * * *
Written by Bergt. J. J. Perkins, of
Queensland :
I must say the Australians have got a great name as
fighters. Lord Kitchener likes them as fighters, but it is
said that Lord Roberts says they are too brutal. He says
that you have a job to stop them once they start. The
New Zealanders have the best name of the lot.”
* » • »
Terawhiti(M.L-) is well-known to mariners
as a bit of a snag, the “rip” being the chief
trouble. The currents close along shore are very
peculiar. On the S.W. side of the Cape all drift
wood is carried out to sea, with the exception of
two places. On the western coast there is one
bay, Te Kamru, in which the drift wood is a
couple of feet thick on the beach. Some of- this
timber is such as comes from the Westland and
Marlborough rivers. It was in this bay the Storm-
bird, some months ago, ran ashore at night in a
thick fog. The cook at the station there heard a
whistle screech, and, looking out, saw a blue light
being burned, also a steamer’s lights. Went out
with a lantern. “What’s up? he asked, and
someone on the steamer said, “ Where are we?”
“You’re ashore,” said tie cook. “Bring your
boat alongside ” was the reply. “ Boat be hanged !
—l’m on the back-step with a light.” And so
they found he was. Had the vessel turned ever
so little to right or left in entering that small bay
she would have been smashed upon rocks. All
drift wood comes in at exactly the same spot as she
did, which goes to prove that there is a powerful
current setting in there.
MISS ADA WOODHILL, as Ida Ingot in
“David Garrick.”
Photo, by the Sarony Studios , Auckland.
“ Peter K,” : In answer to “Cairmbrook”
(B. 28/7/’00). The adult crow is omnivorous, but
young birds feed almost exclusively upon berries
and tender shoots; and, as the B. and S.W. of
W.A. are infested with many poison plants, the
hen birds get away northward for the hatching
season ; hence nests are found only in the N. and
N.E. districts of W.A.
OUR JIM MISSES THE SHEARING.
“ What troubles Jim most is the fact that he won’t get
back in time for shearing this year. He wants young
Bill to take his place at Tarwong.”- —From a Contin-
genter’s letter to a Vic. friend.
What news is this we’re hearing?
Our Jim will miss the shearing 1
No wonder then he’s troubled and growling pretty bad ;
No wonder that lie’s cursing
At the Boers’ slow dispersing,
For to miss a season’s shearing makes any shearer sad.
He knows the fogs are lifting,
And old mates are northward drifting
To the jaekshay’s cheerful jingle and the horse-bell’s
muffled clank ;
And he hears the young lambs bleating
To the travellers a greeting,
Where sunny plains and skyline meet bevond the shim-
mering tank.
His thoughts are turning ever
To tlie old camps by the river,
Where wild fowl splash and spatter in “ backwaters” still
and wide.
And he curses veldt and kopje
In language crisp and choppy,
And the war gets slow and dreary till he’d gladly let it
slide.
He’s feeling sick and sorry,
And his mind is full of worry ;
He wonders how without him we will get the shearing
through '.
So wants young Bill, his brother,
For pride of house and mother,
To take his stand at Tarwong and “ borrow ” him a few 1
To us the war seemed foolish,
But Jim was always mulish,
And only volunteered because they said the Boers were
tough ;
And perhaps we shouldn’t blame him.
Let Disappointment tame him ;
For Jim has missed the shearing—that’s punishment
enough 1
T.
JOHN DRAYMAN.


Diamonds
We stock, in large quantities, unset. We also show all the newest
and most approved designs of—
Pendants
JBrooclies
Necklets
3FLxTtx£s-s
Bracelets
Mounted by Special Artists.
Forseeing the enormous rise that would result from the shutting-down
of the Kimberley Diamond Mines, we bought largely before the rise, and
now are offering Diamond Goods at Less than London Prices.
FAIRFmX* RORFPTfi
m
Exquisite Pendant Brooch and
Hair Pin, £35.
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
Charles Arnold.
As he plays the part of the par-
son, I asked him fii'st about the
money.
“In the last 30 years there
have been only four farcical come-
dies that have produced a furore
‘Pink Dominoes,’ ‘The Private
Secretary,’ ‘Charley’s Aunt,’ and
‘What Happened to Jones.’ 1
paid £3OOO in royalties for 18
months’ Australian performances
of ‘Charley’s Aunt,’ and Brandon
Thomas, the author, made
£00,000; while Penley, the man
Yvho staged it and took the risk,
netted £250,000. At present I
am sending Broadhurst, the man
yv lio wrote ‘Jones,’ from £lOO to
£lBO a Yveek; my contract with
him being 5 per cent, on gross
takings up to £5OO audio per
cent, on gross over £5OO. So far,
iVe netted as much as £950 in
Australia in one week with
‘Jones’—clear profit. My most
expensNe week was the first
week in Melbourne; trade-ac-
counts, salaries, fares from Africa,
scenery, furniture, new dresses,
royalties, &c., totalling £l2OO.
But we took £1913 for the week
£713 clear profit. Our best
night Yvas £359.
“The profits from a good
comedy are much higher than
those from a comic opera. Wil-
liamson couldn’t possibly make
my profits. He has 125 people
to pay—the boots and stockings
for all the ladies make a bill
enough to frighten a less enter-
prising manager. When I was
playing ‘ Hans the Boatman ’
Yvith seven people, we had houses
as crowded as Williamson had
with ‘ Dorothy.’ And he had 60
people on the stage, and had to
pay Elton and Stewart bigsalaries.
In ‘Charley’s Aunt’ we had
only 10 characters, but those 10 filled the theatre
every night.
“The Palace Theatre here is not so small as some
think. It held £222 first night of ‘ Jones,’ £29
more than Yve took with ‘Charley’s Aunt,’Box-
ing night, ’94. at the Criterion. One big advant-
age in Australia is that our advertising-bill runs
to only £5) a week ; in London, where I adver-
tised in 25 papers, 1 paid £lOO a Yveek. Theatre-
rents are high there, too—that is, for good houses
—£loo, £2OO a week, but of course the capacity of
those theatres is great. Drury Lane panto, will
bring £5OO inonenigbt; the Alhambra will hold £350
to £4OO, Empire £350, Lyceum £3OO. But running
those theatres costs from £5OO to £lOOO a week.
Take the Alhambra or Empire for instance, with
a dozen variety artists each as high in his or her
speciality as Cinquevalli is in his, and the salary-
list becomes extremely heavy. Published figures,
however, concerning salaries are usually exaggera-
tions. Lottie Collins ? —well, 1 have seen it stated
in print that she has received in London as much
as £BO a week. But to come to a correct figure
regarding a salary-list. 1 am sure that ‘ The
Tyranny of Tears’ did not cost Wyndham £17,0 a
Yveek in salaries; even if he put himself doYvii at
CHARLES ARNOLD, as the Dean of Oskoloosa
in “ What Happened' to Jones.”
Photo, by Hana, London.
A REFERENDUM.
Scene: Battlefield. Boers fleeing far and wide; Bush Contingent in pursuit.
BILLY THE RISGER (to officer): “I say, boss, the majority ’as decided to stop fighting as these ’ere Boers is WET!"
a liberal figure. The story is rather general that
Wilde had more or less hand in ‘ The Tyranny.’
Wvndham, by the way, is an aristocratic-looking
man with the best-class audience in London at
his back, and it’s surprising in theatrical circles
that he has not been knighted; Another man
with a splendid social following is George Alex-
ander. His forte is the romantic-lover part—lie's
the best lover in London. Irving’s big frame is
beginning to totter, and at present the greatest
actor in London is Beerbohm Tree. His forum
scene in ‘Julius Caesar’ was the grandest
theatrical lesson from every standpoint that
I ever had. Among the women Mrs. Ken-
dal is the best. Mrs. Patrick Campbell!—
would that Nance O’Neil could see her Magda
—Magda, the woman of artistic temperament,
of tender emotions, sensitive to the traditions of
home—she made the tears roll down my cheeks.
Still, Nance O’Neil’s Magda has caught on in Mel-
bourne, and you will see many Melbourne women
with the Nance O’Neil bonnet and the Nance
O’Neil curl down the forehead. It’s really a pity
that we haven’t the old days back again when it
was the thing to wait outside and give Handsome
George a kiss on each cheek and one in the
middle.
“In New York, ‘Jones’ is a whole evening’s
entertainment ; that is, we don’t put a one-act
plai r on first there, as we do here and in London.
Londoners are late diners, and they are not
anxious to get out of the theatre early, especially
out of the Alhambra, where the grand ballet goes
along till 11.40. Other theatres close at 11.30 ;
and others again at 11.10. The N’Yorkers, on
the contrary, like to get out at 10.30. In Lnnti.n
we raise the curtain at eight with a one act for
the pit and gallery. And the swell element, the
late diners, who don’t want to run away from a
good dinner, but who want to enjoy it and their
coffee and cigars afterwards, come in at 8.45 or
nine for the piece of the evening.
“Comedies are beautifully cast and staged in
London. Of course, there, with the talent and
beauty of the theatrical profession to pick from,
the author gets an ideal cast for his play. And
thus many an actor and actress tumbles into a part
because in stature, carriage, voice, manner, and
temperament, lie or she is the duplicate of the
person whom the author had in his mind when he
wrote the play. Consequently, the player cannot
help making a success of the part, especially with
the elever or beautiful lines that are to be spoken.
“ Bob Brough with his cast does wonders, but,
of course, he doesn’t play under Loudon ad vantages.
Brough, by the way, was one of the men who
thought there was nothing in “Jones.” George
Musgrove was another; Frank Thornton was a
third; while Arthur Roberts, Charles Hawtrev,
George Gro .smith, Weadon Grossmith, Bouehier,
and H. T. Brick well would not even let nie have
a theatre to produce it in—they were all so posi-
tive that there was nothing in it. When I first
saw “Jones” in N’York, 1 thought it was a
money-maker, but when the whole elever
crowd pooh-poohed it, my opinion of
it was set so far back that I decided
to take it to Croydon, a suburb of London, where
mostly business men live, and ‘ try it on the dog.’
I got a good cast, including Ed. Sass, Mrs. Sass.
and Ada Lee, and we netted £lOO the first Yveek.
Thus encouraged, I went into London and rented
the Strand Theatre, where the play ran for 340
nights.
“ Broadhurst, author of ‘Jones,’ is an English-
man, and Y\as a clerk in a banking office at
Chicago when lie wrote his play. Having Yvritten
it, lie asked his employer to listen to a reading of
it. The employer and his Yvife both consented,
listened right through, and thought it so good that
they lent Broadhurst 2500 dol. to stage it. It YY*as
a hot season and the 2500 dol. melted pretty
quick. Luckily, cool Yveather set in, crowds rolled
up—l among them to make a contract for Eng-
lish, American, and Australian rights. ‘.Tones’
has developed very considerably since we began
with it; and now there are ICO new lines in my
part alone.”
S. A. MILLS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently'
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu -
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-•
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
M.C.M. : Proposal to call the Federal capital
“ News ”is the most barren idea up to date. Put some
bone-dust on your inventive faculties.... Ten Years Ex-
perience : Sentiments excellent, but verse lamentable...
Talus : They both nearly get there, yet they don’t quite
arrive... .Lind : Clothes item rejected... .Dan Delew :If
it were put in one-fourth the space it might go. Don’t
want a whole cataract of dictionary.... A.B.T. (Adelaide):
Good item.. .. Roughrider : Tombstone may serve....
S. : The more or less obstetrical joke again. As to
obituaries we try to keep clear of them, though we forget
CATCHING THE BREEEONG BLACKS. THE ORDER OF PRECEDENCE.
BOBBY: “ Hurry up there in front —there they are!”
our good resolution when a really beautiful obit, comes
a10ng.... J. M. Daley : (1) Believe it was suggested about
13 years ago, long before Reid's time, but not formally
offered. (2) Belfast and Dublin. (3) Can't say about
titles. A title is, as a rule, first offered privately, and if
refused the offer is not made public except by unreliable
rumor.... Yal Strange : Begins well ; ends weakly with
a hazy and purposeless suggestion of • ankles
E.A. : You ask us to assume that the girl’s story is
wholly and literally true. We are no longer addictefl to
swallowing girl’s stories whole in cases where the inevit-
able baby is concerned.... Fungus : The Society has no
legal right to act as it has done, but it would cost you a
dozen times the sum in dispute to get justice... .T.B. :
That is nothing new. It is the correct caper among the
Tory prints of Maoriland to steal extensively from Tiik
Bulletin and either make no acknowledgment at all or
put it down to “an Australian paper.” But no matter —
there is only one Australian paper... .Pro-Chow : Good
hut too lengthy. The parsonical writer never condenses.
He stalls life with the recollection that he may
have to spread his shred of doctrine over 601)0 sermons,
and he wants it to last... .Gilaomi : One weak ; t’other too
much afflicted with “B” Cl eric us (Vic.): Good
V. : You yourself err. It would he the daughter of a vis-
count or a baron who would be the Hon. so-and-so. An
earl’s daughters are by courtesy “ Lady,” though his sons
are only Honorables C.R.A. : Why not have it type-
written ? We are all too blind and busy to read such MS.
—and we don’t propose to try.... Tor M. 8.: Bulletin
wasn’t established to sing choruses unless it felt that way.
.. W.A.F. : “W. and P.” has strong dramatic power,
ait the situation is too repellent Mikoro . Now,
us, please-What has The Bulletin ever said about tne
Boer war that cannot be paralleled for what >ou call its
“violence” in many well-established and pe» f ect y
pectable ” English papers-MANCHESTER Guardian and
Westminster Gazette, for instance ? You have neyei
to England, you say. Well, present writer has hved m
England, and England is a freer country in some senst.
than Australia. Also- How, in view of your long
whang, do you account for the cable news that
the British Trades - union Congress lias jusi re-
nounced the Boer war as “ cruel and unnecessary- ...
0.5.8. : The matter of the big money "h. i ''llKiejraYe
to Mrs. Wilkie has resolved itself mainly mio an alimom
question now that Mrs. W. has got a divorce... .Corio .
The stupidity of the average military person is one ot tne
things we take for granted lim :We don t want gush-
ing pars, about theatrical and vocal mediocrities, looks
as though you had been going around in the character ot
a pulflst who could “ get things into The Bulletin, anti
collecting the sort of “ information ” this paper rehgiousiY
ignores... .Go-Back : Your story-of how John Roberts
astounded an unsuspecting billiard-marker might be told
of a hundred other professional cueists. As a matter or
fact, it lias been told of many men whose names are now
forgotten, and in almost every ease it wasn’t quite true,
we fancy. The making of a 100 break at the first attempt
on a strange table requires perfect conditions for play. The
ordinary hotel table, balls and cues are notibeyond reproach.
. ..Leo. : They are a little too savage. Try again—Outis ;
No doubt you wish us to assume the whole responsibility
of the criminal libel you so kindly send us, leaving you
safely out of the matter. How do you know what income,
the man has, or what he derives it from?.. . H. J. Mac. :
Often before pointed out in Bulletin that our so-called
“ iguana ”is a “ monitor.” Also, don’t write “ pentadao-
tylous anteriorly and posteriorly” —“5-toed, fore-and-
aft” is good enough for Bulletin readers. And, as to a
circumference of 24ft. Sin.—do you mean to give any
Australian lizard a body-thickness of 8 feet? Again, as
regards the person you attack, we give you a show on the
scientific question, but we squash your virulent personal
abuse... .23 : One too verbose, and other too malodorous.
Might try again... Ell.: No ; such a “ cross” is impossible...
Trotter : Cairns par. unprintable without newspaper
hacking Ideal: Don’t remember picture; ask the
artist W.J.H. : You’re right to choose local topics
which yon understand ; hut choose those of all-round in-
terest. And don't call milk “ the lacteal fluid.”.... I.Y. :
Rhyme and rhythm execrable E. 1. : There’s solid grit
in it; hut versification poor.. . .G.P.B. : Considering
“ Verdict.”.... A.B. : You can’t learn poetry from rules
of prosody. Read good authors, and your brains will
acquire the knowledge you want in proportion to their
quality E.G.P. : Still moral... .Intra 4 : Not up....
J.C. : Sorry unsuitable... .G.A.H. : Argus stupid ; and
you not much better.... H.T. : Too thin.... Jim C. :
Football par. anticipated by a less solemn statement of
the matter. You need to shorten, brighten, and lighten.
.... J Gough : Unnecessary, as Mr. Fitzpatrick’s questions
in Parliament are obviously founded on a Bulletin para-
graph. ..G.R.H. : Fairly spirited ; may print Alone :
“ Shot ” may trim for use.. ..Mup : Not far short of the
mark, though the idea has been used frequently before.
... T.H.M. : Two of them unusable ; will give the longest
one consideration.... Pan : Hardly up to interest mark....
Will J. : “ Prelude” great improvement; will consider....
I’.H.C. : “Magdalen” conventional both in incident and
treatment. Kitten-yarn too trifling... .Ben Sun : “ Nav-
vying” may serve. The other has some very weak spots.
. ...T.G.P, : Good enough as a hit of real life, but it
doesn’t “get any where.... Uloola : May print “Back-
ward" as having the merit of simplicity.... Mitty : Too
slight a fragment P.O’M. and R.M.lt. : The wording
of the death-sentence is “ to he hanged by the neck until
you are dead,” consequently no breaking of the rope, or
other accident, releases the condemned from amenability
to completion of the execution. Should The Bulletin,
at all events, ever come to the gallows, it will not con-
sider itself safe until the rope has broken, say, three
times. In the case of an English murderer named Lee,
the hanging was actually bungled three times ; where-
upon the man was reprieved—possibly on the ground
that, as he simply wouldn’t hang, it was a \vaste of time
to keep on trying to scrag him A.K.O. : You will
find it in Ogilvie’s “ Fair Girls and Gray Horses,”
post free from The Bulletin Office for 4s. 6d
G-A.T. : Thought and style alike barren... .G.E.M. : Not
good enough to print.. . .Dave M. : Tame as the devil—
who runs to and fro when a mild parsonic finger crooks.
V.K. : That Towns, sketch lacks humor Rei
Panes: Old as the hi 115.... Maorilander (Kiwi) Your
copy is far too hard for any busy man to decipher.
... .Geo. R.H. : Will print “ Struggle.”... .Ne’er-do-
well : That mesmerism yarn, or slight variants
of it, in nearly every alleged comic-recitation b00k....
Bobadil : You would have lost. The second largest city-
population in the I'.K. is Glasgow’s—733,ooo to Liver-
pool’s 634,000.... K. :Of course that was bosh, but The
Bulletin hasn’t time to contradict all the foolish lies
circulated about it.... Liar: Pars.no good. Yarn will
he dealt with in due course.... Lindo B. : Don’t see the
point. What has the flying of a hen over a river to do
with “ pangenesis ”?,.. .Considine : But that wouldn’t be
a cup of “ woh ! ” —it would he a cup of “ gee-up ! ” and
much “ blaiiky ! ”... .Geo. Burns: Sorry not suitable.
Don’t remember the verses Der Asra : Not up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Plymouth S. : One may possibly do T.P.C. : Sub-
mitted to. artist lI.G. : Sorry not one usable Geo.
Lav. : Received.... A.S.M. : One may serve as idea....
Unavailable : D. Bisset, N.T.G., J.D. (Black), R.H.S.D.


LANDING IMPORTED DOGS.
The third and fourth engineers on board a foreign vessel were arregtied on Mon-
day last by warrant, and charged at the Water Police Court for landing a dog from
[a foreign vessel— i.e., “ vessel trading with other countries and outside Australian
'colonies ’’ —without obtaining a permit from an Inspector of Stock. One was fined
£9, and the other £lO.
Deputation of bow-wows to the N.S.W. Premier to
protest against influx of foreign dogs “to take the-
hones out of the mouths of honest, hard-working
Australian dogs.”
INAUGURATING A LOAN FUND.
The inauguration of a century thanksgiving fund
was the most important work undertaken by the
Anglican General Synod yesterday. The fund is to
appeal to the whole of the dioceses in Australia anil
Tasmania, and that it is expected to be a gigantic
success was evidenced by a remark of the Bishop of
Tasmania, organiser-in-chief, that it would mean the
handling of “ hundreds of thousands of pounds.”
.Ah, my friends, the joy unspeakable which a good
and holy man feels in handling a Big Fund passeth all
understanding. Yea, verily 1
Jack M'Laughlin, solicitor in the celebrated
„iU extend back through a period of something 7
.V
VV«'
X? oW
N *v>
cP X^
N° <e>
<v
or
" My word, Jimmy, these
dogs are a godsend. We
were gettin’ rather short of fresh
meat ! ”
“Ha ! we are discovered ’
Poo’ pfeller ; goo’ doggo ! ”
Another
desperate T
attempt is
to be made
the advocates
of womanhood suf-
>>age in N.S.W to
get ’em.
“A CROP OF SPRING POETS.”
Mr. J. Fitzpatrick asked the Premier last night in the Legislative Assem-
bly whether he deliberately proposed to raise a' crop of spring poets by offering
from £5OO to £lOOO for an ode in connection with the inauguration of Federa-
tion 1
Premier Lyne said he had already indicated that he intended to offer A
prize for an ode, but the amount would not be anything like the sum named.
Poet (who has left his MS. with Premier Lyne) : “ I s’pose .at least' you
will pay the ordinary newspaper rates for poetry if accepted ?”
Lyni : “ Don’t know. How much is that, pray ? ”
Poet : “ From ten to twenty-five bob per column.”
“ once more unto the breeches, my friends, once more »“
SOME CORNSTALK MATTERS.


#>!%?
3 'll )tj YU*] "7
A '#
r^w
|£*W' V
wi W <^'5Cu SS ,O, !>'y
V 0*)
\s \l
y
4 M
‘>W| / V
p
%
JCC.,
J^U*.
\ l? is id Hv e
* a rfcol>io<r fai-rfo? wywfrera S 9
*e MvW Pjif r *"*
a l tjb ■ jgfjj|\
,-ls 4
&
w
s' Jr —
Ifa*
l ow l (V117I0*) p
■Slk ‘'V<-\
Ms y
4lw‘ |
Ov 'o
l
e, s§
*nJf'
' S.6.fv
/ W<^,
5*?»P o°/ (ta <n*Q»esfc»i)'•- i
_v ((
ftretfT:—
\k
\X K
\
Ih^or-leC"
nm
AT THE MELBOURNE SHOW.


Weaaing 1 ana BlrtUday Gi-lffca Ulrect from London House.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hair Brush, Pure Silver, in Silk lined Case, 30s
Monogram Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ T.emairp” l 'ipVl mid Onara (Hass, '2ss, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4
A. SAUNDERS.
Teapots, Pure Silver-plated, Various Styles of
Engraving-, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £ ', £2 10s, £3.
. Send for Pattern Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
2 Jam Spoons, or Butter, in Silk-lined Case,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s, 255, 30s.
Very Neat and Useful Present.
fern
* c
<✓- <r
v/./
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock Tea Spoons in Silk-lined Case, in
Various Patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 25s
m
m
m
Gent.'B “ Companion,” or Letter Book, Pure
Silver Mounted, X2s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Egg Cruets, Pu?e Silver-plated,
20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 10s 6d ; other
n
A WARM FRIEND.
Silver - plated, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A Nice Present.
Biscuit, Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s, 20s, 255.
r
C_
rj,
&
'' l> ~> V!
Child’s Sets in Silk-lined Cases, 10s, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s.
m
%
M
, . . HANDSOME SmffCING CLOCK.
Marble 8-Day Striking Clock, Gilt Amants, £>l ; without Mounts, 355. Useful Present.
Guaranteed 20 Years..
: /
1 :
; __A.-S'AUNOERSP=f
LONDON •& SYBNE.Y
p-n
A. SAUNDERS.
Roger’s ” Carvers, in Silk-lined Case, 20s ; Other Styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
m
Me
Kps»*
LARGE SIZE CAKE OR FRUIT
BASKET.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 255.
Extra Ornamented, 30s.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dinner Cruet, 6 Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated,
355, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Hair Brushes, Pure
Silver. 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
3 s. We do up equal to
new Discolored Hair
Brushes, 2s.
Mirrors, Pure Silver,
Velvet Back, "255.
All Silver, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Flower Stands, Silver-plated
Red Glass, 12s 6d pair.
Jams, Pure Silver-plated, Chased, Green or
Red Glass, as above, 15s 6d ; round, 12s 6d.
rnmmemß&ss&z
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Knife Rests, Cut Glass, Pure Silver Mounted,
15s 6d, in Silk-lined Case.
i O’clock Tea Set, with Covers, Pure Silver-plated, Gilt Inside,
Fi st-cl s; English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Style, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Lunch or Dinner Cruet.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 21s.
Similar Style, 255, 30s, 355.
vy
A. SAUNDERS.
Butters, Pure Silver on Hard White
Metal, 15s 6d ; large, 20s.
Vk ‘
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugars, Coal Scuttle. 16a 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Gilt Clock, 10s, 12s (id, 15s, 20s.
Neat and Useful Clock.
Butters, Pure Silver-plated, White Glass,
8s 6d ; Bound, 10s.
B
= =
Pd
m
Toast Back, Pure Silver-plated,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 18s 6d, 21s.
Call and See Our Silver-plate and Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
OR SEND FOR OUR 1900 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
POST FREE ANYWHERE.^*
mn
LEADING ART JEWELLER.
815 & 817 GEORGE ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Business Announcements.
LADIES’
AILOHING
—SRRIIMG —
NEW SELF SHADES
.IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming lvia.il boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
y
LESSONS
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. W. LAKE, Student, Hobart— “ By its aid I can
now do with ease and certainty that which was almost
impossible. I find it a WONDERFUL HELP in learning
languages.”
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas. —“ History
with its dates was always niv dread in exams., but by
your system I have gained 92 per cent, of the possible in
it. I also used it in geography, Latin, &c., with equally
good results. It is easily learned, and cannot be for-
gotten.”
Rev. W. E. BROMILOW, New Britain. —“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory. By it I learnt the
almanac for the year in about two minutes, and can give
instantly the day of any date, and vice versa. Its use
must be of great assistance to students.”
On Your Holidays
you will see many interesing per-
sons and places. To sccute pleas-
ing mementoes of these
TAKE A
KODAK
WITH YOU.
Kodak Photography may be mas-
tered by anvoiie in a few minutes.
No dark room is required for
changing the films.
KODAKS from 16s. to £7 15s.
Send for Illustrated Price List V C).
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
AUo at 1.0-don, Paris, Berlin, Bru«els, Vienna, St.
i ef r-bur , M schv, and Rochester, N.Y.
D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED IS MONTHS.
T3EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
1 ' wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to I). S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10k3 -^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anti
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
F
air girls
2nd Edition.
AND GRAY
Price 4/D.
HORS r'S.
flie C ommonu *ealth parliament
CAMPAIGN
for the
SENATE.
To the Federal Electors of New
South Wales.
Jp ELLOW-FEDERAL ELECTORS OF THE MOTHER
STATE, —Having been announced a Candidate for one
of the six seats for New South Wales in the Senate of the
the Federal Parliament, which, under the Commonwealth
of Australia Constitution Act, you "will, in a few short
months, be called upon to elect, 1 deem it my duty to
address you without delay. I wish to assure you of the
full apprehension I have of the tremendous responsibili-
ties of the great trust I seek at your hands, and of my
appreciation of the sacred and supremely delicate duties
desire to undertake. As an Australian whose highest
ambition is to be of service to his country and his fellow-
citizens, I do not feel that I can shrink from challenging
your suffrages on the present momentous occasion. lam
consciousof the heavyobligations which membership of tip
Senate entails, and I am prepared, should I he included in
your choice, to jealously guard the interests of the
parent State, and to contribute my humble efforts to the
welfare of the Commonwealth.
The Charter of the Commonwealth confers on the
Federal Parliament powers of a national magnitude, and
removes from the control of the Provincial Parliaments
almost every prerogative that does not come directly
within the scope of what may he termed domestic poli-
tics.
Clause 51 of the Constitution Act details the 39 leading
questions with respect to which “ the Parliament shall
have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good
government of the Commonwealth.” Those sub-sections
practically exhaust the list of matters that could engage
the attention of any National Parliament. And, as all
Australia and Tasmania have come into the Common-
wealth, some idea may be obtained of the serious respon-
sibility now imposed on the free citizens of Australia in
the selection of their representatives.
Proceeding now to a detailed reference to the problems
of more immediate concern, I may allude first to the ques-
tion of the Capital. You are aware that the Conference
of Premiers, in settling the terms of the Amended Bill,
recognised the natural right of the Mother State to the
Seat of Government —within territory containing not less
than 100 square miles, and distant not less than 100 miles
from Sydney—with the provision that “ the Parliament
shall sit at Melbourne until it meets at the Seat of
Government.” Having regard to this arrangement, I
strongly favor the utmost expedition in determining “ the
Se it of Government,” and will oppose any factious or un-
reasonable delay in the selection of the site, and the
completion of the necessary buildings. The Act pro-
vides that the Crown Lands for the Federal Territory
“ shall lie granted to the Commonwealth without any
payment therefor,” and sub-section XXI. of Clause 51
gives power to the Parliament in respect of “ the acquisi-
tion of property on just terms.” I therefore favor con-
siderable extension of the area to be proclaimed as “ the
Seat of Government,” and would urge the selection of
some locality containing as little alienated land as pos-
sible, with a rich soil, a healthy climate, fair seasons, and
an adequate water supply. The Federal Capital will at
once create a market, and, with the rapid and permanent
increase of population, the value within and in the
vicinity of the Seat of Government would augment won-
derfully. The Federal Territory should ever remain the
property of the Commonwealth, and all city and suburban
lots, and all agricultural and horticultural areas should be
leased to occupiers with a provision for periodical re-ap-
praisement.- With a limited Federal Territory, the Com-
monwealth would lose a great source of income in rentals,
which would fall into the coffers of private citizens, land
jobbers, or companies. As far back as 1865, I protested,
from the platform and in the public press, against the
folly of the Government of New South Wales in parting
with the Harbor Frontages, as these were national assets,
which should never have been alienated. A wonderful
opportunity is now presented for securing, in perpetuity,
to the people the whole of the rentals of Federal Territory
—and that Territory must bear a greater proportion than
100 square miles to the immensity of the Commonwealth.
Let the Federal Parliament decline to make its Ideal City
a factor in the enrichment of a few living people at the
expense of millions yet unborn.
For a second point, I submit that the Federal tariff for
the first five years at least, in order to conform to the
fiscal requirements of the various States, must, according
to expert authority, return from £7,000,000 to £7,500,000
annually. The tariff will therefore be settled “ for a pur-
pose and not for a principle.” When something like
financial equilibrium has been secured the tariff should
be adjusted with due regard to the development and
reasonable consideration of our Commonwealth industries.
The whole system of Federal finance will require to be
watched closeiy and jealously, so that there will be no
repetition, on a Commonwealth scale, of the astounding
blundering and incompetence which characterised the
conduct and management of the finances of New South
Wales under several Treasurers. There must not be any
more jugglery with gigantic loans, and no more expendi-
ture, at once farcical and immoral, on unreprodactive
works. Future loans should, when practicable, be raised
within the Commonwealth, and there should be a deter-
mination to establish and maintain a Sinking Fund for
the extinction of loans. All existing loans should be
managed by the Commonwealth, with the view not to
their guarantee, but to their conversion into a common
Stock extending over a similar number of years. With
the ultimate redemption of high-priced securities, the
Commonwealth, with its guarantee, will, in all subse-
quent loan transactions, secure to the States an enormous
reduction in interest. The existing indebtedness of the
States is about £200,000,000 in round numbers, and this
debt will, with Oommonweath management and arrange-
ment, disappear long before the new century closes, in
the reduction of interest and the operation of the Sinking
Fund.
To preserve the essential unity of the Anglo-Celtic
races, and to conserve those social achievements and
civilising processes to which they have grown after long
centuries, the immigration of alien and colored races
should be restricted, after dispassionate investigation and
judicious research.
The franchise of the Commonwealth should be on a
one-adult-one-vote basis, and one year’s residence should
constitute an elector’s qualification. I see no reason why
both sexes should not equally enjoy the first principle of
free citizenship—a voice in the Government of the
country.
A measure that should, as soon as practicable, engage
the attention of the Parliament is a comprehensive and
effective scheme of Arbitration and Conciliation. Un-
reasonable conditions of labor, skilled and unskilled, and
ruinous strikes should be discouraged and diminished by
every means in the power of the Federal Legislature.
The entire Bank Note Issue should be conserved to the
Commonwealth, and, with the introduction of uniform
Banking Legislation,, the Cash Reserves of all Banks
should be represented by not less than 39 percent, of
National Paper Currency. Such a monopoly would re-
present a permanent loan of many millions sterling to
the Commonwealth, to begin with, and would necessarily
entail no interest. With the progress of the Common-
wealth and the multiplication of Banking Reserves, the
total loan to the Oom'monwealth, free of interest, would
be enormous. The people would, therefore, reap an ad-
vantage hitherto enjoyed by Chartered Companies.
The large landed estates in rich Agricultural Districts
constitute a serious obstacle to the progress and develop-
ment of all the provinces, and these areas should, where
suitable, be gradually and cautiously resumed by the
States, to make way for closer and more profitable settle-
ment. Such a policy should receive the cordial encourage-
ment of the Commonwealth Parliament.
To encourage settlement, I would urge the establish-
ment of a Federal Land Bank, on the Credit Foncier
System, for the granting of loans on easy terms on the
security of holdings.
Parliament should speedily adopt an Old-Age-Pension
System, with a provision that beneficiaries must have re-
sided within a State, or the States, for a period of not less
than twenty years.
Consideration should be given to the immediate intro-
duction of a scheme of Federal Life Insurance, which
would largely relieve the pressure on the Old Age Pension
Fund.
It is extremely unlikely that the Parliament will con-
tinue the present system of free carriage of newspapers
in New South Waies through the post-offices, but I do
not hold with the entire abolition of the principle, which
would press with undue severity and inconvenience on
Country Newspaper Proprietors. I would agree to the
free circulation of newspapers within a postal radius of
thirty miles —which circulation should be the most potent
intellectual stimulus in the vast rural areas of our State,
and what tends to minimise that force injures the State.
This provision would encourage legitimate journalism,
and .put an end to the pernicious “advertising sheets”
and “circulars” sent broadcast through the post-offices,
an abuse of the great Postal facilities, which not only
degrades the stamina of the people, but robs them through
the Postal Revenue. As for the City Daily and Weekly
Press, their conductors have recognised that the days of
wholesale free carriage of newspapers are numbered, and
are prepared for the obligations already imposed on the
Newspaper Proprietors in the other provinces.
On one of the minor problems, exclusive power to deal
with which the Commonwealth has assumed—l refer to
the question of Fisheries —I wish to dwell with emphasis.
According to those most distinguished scientific men,
Tenison-Woods and Saville Kent, our Australian waters
are treasuries of inexhaustible wealth. Developed under
the fostering care of the Commonwealth Government—
and that Government alone can adequately deal with all
the issues involved—our waters can easily be made tri-
butary to our national wealth in a dual direction—we can
cheapen an enormous portion of our food supply, and we
can become as distinguished in the supply of food to
other nations as the “ cannery provinces ” of the United
States or Canada.
Within a limited space,l have touched briefly on some
of the questions which will concern the first Federal Par-
liament. I hope, however, to have many opportunities of
dealing at length with these, and many other matters of
higher Federal import, during the campaign.
To such of my fellow-citizens whose personal acquaint-
ance I am not yet privileged to possess, and peculiarly to
those who are unaware of my past public life, 1 wish to
say that I have ever made an honest, if humble, endeavor
to play a patriotic part in every movement that tended
to the public benefit, politically, industrially, and socially,
and, I might add, with truth and propriety, that I have
never allowed my public actions to be influenced by a
selfish thought, a sordid impulse, or an unworthy motive.
And I do not think that any trust and honor which you
may now, or hereafter, confer upon me will make me
unmindful of those principles of Australian Patriotism
and Public Duty which I have ever striven to obey and
revere.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
EDWARD TERRY
Eastwood, Ryde, 21st August, 1900.
ANY GENTLEMAN
can, by sending us his address on aid.
Post Card, have a set of the
NEW PATTERNS OF SEEING
SUIT I NOS
sent to him Free, gratis, for nothing.
For GENTLEMEN’S WEAR for the Spring.
Also, Solf-Measurement Forms, Tape
[ Measures, &c., &c.
; You can then see what is going to be worn, and
; most likely will favor us with an order.
PF" Send for them, Elease!
\ HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
- 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Publications.
ALLAN’S
m
must!
OISfliU
TWO POPULAR NUMBERS
Each a Rare Shilling’s Worth.
No. 3.—Popular Dance
Music.
Royal Irish Quadrilles
Jullien
Blue Danube Vai ses Strauss
Lancers Quadrilles
The Original
Post Horn Galop Koenig
Agnes Sorel Quadrille
Le Due
Rainbow Schottische
Kleher
Love’s Evensong Valse
Moser
Les Rats Quadrilles Pecller
Celebrated Drum Polka
Jullien
No. 4.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pieces.
The Mocking Bird
Hoffmann
Willkommen Gavotte
Kluss
The Little Shepherdess
Wilson
Les Cloches du Monastere
Wily
Silvery Waves
A. P. Wyman
Home, Sweet Home Kinkel
Nos. 5 and 6 will be published in next week’s
Bulletin.
Full list forwarded post free to any address.
•
The Australian Music Books are obtainable
at all Music-sellers throughout Australasia, or
direct from the Publishers,
ALLAN & CO. 276 Si 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
“LADIES^"
write; for valuable free book
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £'s for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this 'payer.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sjdnev.
FOREIGrU STAMPS.
mm
■>A}
S
Ifl
pHEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
4O Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d ; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ;10 Bulgaria, Gd; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
n
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
lI.X, XT STR A TBO
\\7ITH numerous anatoimcal
" colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
mn
TRICOM
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, ancl FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit bits in prose and poetrv
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap-
piness witli one you love. Ano 10-Am f. ric an Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 458 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
tlds paper when writing.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Core the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading' physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address— MALlNC REMEDY CO.,
,'iB Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
geo. Roe $ go.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
5^WW\A^
S Ki'Wiifai&l
msm*
OWNTAAi
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLANit for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Matt a lasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane a'land.
D«MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
m
n
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George S+.reet, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
No notorious usurer can possibly enter
either the Kingdom of Heaven or the Parliament
of the Commonwealth.
1 lie Russian troops,” it is announced,
“ will be withdrawn from Manchuria when order
is firmly established and the railway lines
adequately protected.” In a word, when the pigs
begin to fly.
It is thought in S.A. that Kingston will
head the poll for the Federal Parliament if he
stands, because all who agree with his local radi-
calism will vote for him, and all who think him a
provincial menace will vote to get rid of him.
' The newspapers don’t, and can’t, give any
real idea of the Sydney coast-hospital supplies-
contract row, ventilated in N.S.W. Leg. Assem-
bly by Arthur Griffith. The Hansard report of
the debate is calculated to make the public’s hair
stand on hand.
Joseph Sternberg, M.L.C., says that Vic.
Leg. Council, when it clearly sees that women want
the franchise, will give it to them. The Bulle-
tin assures Mr. Sternberg that the women do
want the franchise. They want it to help smash
the House of 48 Rich Landlords.
Philp (Q.) is the only Premier who
announced at an early stage that he will not
stand for a seat in the Federal Parliament.
Events may show that other Premiers who affect
to enter the Federal Parliament “on the nod”
ljave not the prudence of the Northern Scotchman.
’ “ Merool ” : The easy-going N.S.W. legis-
lators who so amiably pass each other’s railways
would do well to awaken when the Wyalong line
proposal bobs up in the a.m., as it assuredly will,
otherwise the interests of a very large portion of
the interior may be sacrificed to those of a rich
merchant with Ministerial backing.
The Rhodesian bait of farms to Aus-
tralians is a doubtful honor, considering that
Rhodesian farms have been going begging all over
S’Africa for years. Every inducement was
offered to Transvaal burghers to trek North, but
they “ were not having any,” and Rhodes’s scheme
for importing Chinese (vide, cable) is almost
knocked on the head owing to adverse criticism.
Failing Boei-s and Chinese, C. J.R. turns to Aus-
tralians. What an honor ! He will wind up by
importing Japs., to whom no objection can be
made by Britishers, as Japan’s friendship is
greatly to be desired just now.
A GREAT MAN.
THE CRIER: “ No. 5, your Worships, charged with being drunk,
pleads guilty. Not known.”
THE ASTONISHED INEBRIATE: “Not known! Why” (proudly) “I’m
the founder of the Rats’ Push!”
* Premier Lvrie, when in office 14 years
ago, gave his influence to establish early trains for
the convenience and profit of the Sydney morning
papers. The fiscal question did not then burn.
Premier Lyne’s influence is now again exerted
against the imposition of newspaper postage. A
couple of reasons why the D.T. nurses him.
Of the 14 retiring members of Victoria’s
House of 48 Rich Landlords who were re-elected
last Saturday week without a shadow of opposi-
tion, not one personally addressed his constituents,
or even troubled to specially visit his electorate,
and —base crime—only half-a-dozen went to the ex-
pense of advertising that they were standing for
re-election.
Notwithstanding the importance of the
Industrial Arbitration Bill, N.S.W. Assembly
was most of the time occupied by its discussion
without a quorum. The division-lists show that
less than half the members were available when
Critical points were put to the vote. The three
sections of the House were equally remarkable
for their absence.
Cecil Rhodes’ latest proposal, to introduce
Chinese labor to Rhodesia, is a startling commen-
tary on his friend Kipling’s declaration that we
were fighting to make S’Africa a white man’s
country. The stock excuse will no doubt lie
made that the country is not fit for white labor.
But why are they offering farms to the Austra-
lasians in a land only suited for Chows ?
According to Q. Registrar-General
Bananaland possesses 9983 male Chinese to 93
Chinese women. The kanakas total 8826 ; Japs.,
3063; Javanese, 298; other aliens, 2357. In the
year 1899 the death-rate among the aliens was 21-
times as great as among Europeans. Alien birth-
total—4-5- In the face of these figures it is absurd
to _ say that the Q. Govt, loves the aliens. It is
evidently killing them off as fast as possible.
Bruce Smith, Q.C., who was 12th on the
Federal delegate poll, with a score of 46,792, will
contest a Federal Division formed out of the two
Balmains, Annandale and his old constituency,
the Glebe. His opponents will be Ex-Reid-
Minister Hogue (anti-Federalist), local member
Wilks, Labor member Law, ex-Reid-whip Haw-
thorne and that absurd person, I. Reginald Cohen
(a Federalist who subsequently found anti-
Federalism).
In Vic. Assembly, the other evening, when
Duncan Gillies was finding fault with the appoint-
ment of Wages Boards in trades not yet working
under the Factories Act, the bald-faced Tory got
a nasty jar. Peacock reminded the House that
there are only three methods of extending the
provisions of the Factories Act, and Gillies has
now opposed them all. The mantle of Murray
Smith will hang gracefully upon Gillies after the
present session.
“London, Thursday.—The Trades Union
Congress now sitting at Huddersfield has, by a
small majority, carried a resolution to the effect
that the South African war is cruel and unneces-
sary.” But the resolution was passed—by the
associated British Workers’ Parliament. And
yet we are told by the Australian daily papers
that all England is unanimous on the Transvaal
question. A majority of the best of the Britis i
workers hold the thing to be a stock-exchange
war.
There must soon be big revelations over
the secret-commission practices of some depart-
ments of N.S.W. civil service. The allegation is
that certain heads of departments and their
subordinates are handsomely recompensed for
promoting the interests of certain firms. The
advertising for tenders is, in many cases, a mere
blind. There is always a large class of goods that
cannot be tendered for, as they are emergency-
orders, and there the Govt, official comes in. The
nobbling takes many forms. Gloves and boots
are even accepted by officials.
Amongst the minority in Maoriland Par-
liament which disapproved of the South African
shooting expedition was M‘Nab, the member for
Mataura. When the Mafeking celebration came
on the gentlemanly Jingoes of the beer-and-
rejoicings committee got square with him.
They first sent him an invitation to be pre-
sent, and then followed it up with a letter
withdrawing the invite on the ground that
he wasn’t a fit and proper person. Then the
Jingoes proudly hung out the red, white and blue
flag of Holland under the impression that it was a
British banner, and rejoiced exceedingly.
la N.S.W. munici-
palities, when the owner
of an allotment is un-
known and won’t reveal
himself, the municipal
rates are a dead loss,
for the Council can’t sell
or lease the land to re-
cover arrears. Some
municipalities have
thousands thus irrecover-
able, and they have
naturally to tax the find-
able landlord more heav-
ily to make up the loss
by the unfindable one.
Yet when a Bill giving
them power to lease
land on which rates
were unpaid came before
the Leg. Council t’other
day J. Want was against
it “becauseit seemed to
him they were drifting
into a state of things in
which the ownership of
land was a danger io
anyone.” One would
rather have thought that
the Leg. Council, con-
sisting mostly of sol-
vent, well-known land-
lords whose rates are
collected from them
regularly, would have
been tired of paying
extra rates to make up for the losses by small,
sneaking, obscure allotment-owners, and w T ould
have welcomed a measure which offered them
relief from this injustice. But the Leg. Council
intellect moves in a mysterious way its blunders
to perform.
Premier Holder proposes that, with Fede-
ration, S.A. shall reduce her Parliament by 26
members, Council coming down from 24 to 16 and
Assembly 54 to 36—the number of Ministers to be
at the same time reduced from six to five. Also,
it is proposed to cut the vice-regal screw from
£4OOO to £2500 without allowances. This is the
scheme which (as Parliament doesn’t take kindly
to the idea of reducing its noble self) is to be
referred to a convention of 20, to be elected by all
the Assembly constituencies voting as one.
The rejection by N.S.W. Govt, of the
Papuan land-grabbers’ claim for a refund of ex-
penses incurred in their attempted steal—the
defeated burglar’s cry for compensation for
wear and tear of crowbar —is talked of in
sympathetic circles as a degradation of the pro-
vince’s late Agent-General, Saul Samuel. Also
Salomons, when A.-G., led the London grabbers
to believe that their claim was equitable, and as
RETALIATION.
NOSEY : “She cut me yesterdee-blowcd if I'll
hescort ’er 'ome now.”
good as accepted it on behalf of N.S.W. But
Press and people showed for once they were
awake, and the Govt, suddenly grew a backbone.
Says Brisbane Progress : “ The execution
of Cardua, we are pleased to learn, was carried out
by Imperial troops. To share in Great Britain’s
wars is one thing ; to share in such executions is
another.” This is beautiful. In plain words, it
is perfectly justifiable to shoot peasant soldiers
fighting for their country in the open field, but
rather shameful to assist in the execution of a man
engaged in the dubious work of conspiracy. And
who is Progress pleased to learn that the execu-
tion was carried out by Imperial troops? Does
the Jingo organ mean to assert that this is the
woi-k Imperial troops are specially fitted for?
Quite a number of N.S.W. electorates
have already invited Barton to represent them in
the Federal Lower House. If he is wise he will
reject them all, and go for the Senate. At sena-
torial elections all N.S.W. will be one constitu-
ency, and Barton will head the poll. The only
time N.S.W. was polled as one constituency he
got nearly 100,000 votes, yet there was hardly an
electorate in the province that wouldn’t cheerfully
reject him in favor of any ignorant, pumpkin-
headed groveller with a good reputation for
getting culverts repaired or a new' fence round the
graveyard. The Bulletin trusts that Barton is
listening.
Kingston’s candidature for S.A. Leg.
Council will probably alter his whole political
career. When his Ministry was beaten last Dec.,
he pledged himself to remain in local politics
until Household Suffrage was carried. Since
then, S.A. politicians have, without exception,
offered to release him to enter Federal politics,
but the ex-Premier remains Unchanged. His
decision to go for the Council may mean the
relinquishment of a seat in the first Federal
Ministry, as there is no chance of a Suffrage Bill
going through S.A. Council this session, the
Holder Govt.’s Bill being already mutilated
beyond recognition.
Borne of Kingston’s opponents are
excitedly asking, nprows of the present Council
election, what tie ex-Premier has ever done for
his country. > Kingston’s political career com-
menced in 1881. He was one of the earliest advo-
cates of Protection and payment of members, was
a. member of the Colton Govt, which secured taxa-
tion of unimproved land values, drafted and
carried through an Employers’ Liability Act, and
probably did more than any other Australian
politician to keep out the cheap alien. Had a
Tory Council majority not blocked him during
the last five years Kingston would have legal-
ised numerous other Radical measures, but his
forward ideas were mostly rejected bv the Upper
House. There is no other politician in Australia
with as good a record as Kingston’s for standing by
the people’s cause at all times.
The Anglican General Synod, on a bishop’s
motion, resolved to ask that the Federal Parlia-
ment shall be opened with praver, as
was the case in the Dominion of
Canada. One and all should oppose
the resurrection, even for debating
purposes, of this dead-and-buried ques-
tion. What any country accepted 100,
20, 10 years ago, is of little moment to
Australia now. There is no evidence
what these countries would do were they
now establishing their Constitutions.
And, at any rate, the trail of so many
devils of oppression is over the legisla-
tion of Old-World praying Parliaments
that what they did on their knees seems
to have had small beneficial effect.
Brisbane (Q.) municipality is probably the
most degenerate corporation on earth. Some
months ago it could have bought out the old in-
solvent horse-tramway co. for a worthless ferry-
ticket. It missed its chance, and a foreign syndi-
cate, engineered by M ‘Eacharn, of Melbourne,
stepped in and installed an electric plant. Latest
div. T-l'i per cent. T’other day, the same body of
blighting municipal fools, or worse, proposed to
hand over its Order in Council—empowering it to
install a system of electric-lighting—to a private
eo. for 45 years. A few enthusiasts, headed by
Aid. Higgs, M.L.A., clamored for a referendum
of the ratepayers, and, on a recent Thursday, the
asinine electorate endorsed the recommendation
of their asinine representatives by over 300 votes.
Brisbane Council had just thrown away a chance
of putting up an electric-tramway system which
would have returned it 17). per cent. —fully 13 per
cent, over and above the price it would have had
to pay for the money. And Brisbane was so glad
that it immediately voted for throwing away an
equally valuable opportunity.
As The Bulletin indicated some
weeks ago, G. H. Reid doesn’t quite know
whether' he will be a Federal candidate.
It is amazing how much scorn,
disgust and ill-feeling has been created, even
in democratic Maoriland, by Seddon’s Bill
for the increase of his own and his colleagues’
salaries. In the matter of Ministers’ salaries
the country is as mean a sweater as any Polish
Jew who owns a slop-clothing factory. It
expects men to run the affairs of the country
ably and intelligently for about the salary
of the manager of a branch insurance
office, with the additional drawback that
about half the Minister’s salary goes to satisfy
special claims arising out of his position, and
that he is liable to dismissal without notice,
compensation or pension, while the other
man generally has a life billet. Such men
as Ballance, Seddon, Kingston, Lilley, Berry
or Turner would each have been cheap at
£5OOO a year. The country offers its chief
ruler about the pay (after the charges in-
cidental to his position are met) of a bush
banker, and wonders why the best men often
don’t apply for the billet. Perhaps it is be-
cause they want to keep out of the workhouse
in their old age.
“C.E,” : The abject humbug of Seddon’s
“unity of Empire” slush—and the big man never
rises to his feet now without saying “ grand old
Flag,” or “dear old Motherland,” or “our duty
to the Empire”—has just been shown by his
action in forbidding four Hindoos landing at
Wellington. Vet these men were “fellow-sub-
jects of our beloved Queen,” and their compatriots
were at that very moment “ fighting for the dear
old Flag” in China. In fact, Seddon as much as
declared that they should have been used in
S’Africa. But Seddon —like most “colonials” at
present—is blind to the fact that no man can be a
white Democrat and an Imperialist at once.
Premier Seddon promises at last that on
some unfixed date the Maoriland Parliament will
be allowed to debate, in an abstract sort of way,
the advisability of joining the Commonwealth,
but its decision is only to be regarded as “an
expression of opinion.” Also Seddon still declares
himself confident that the country is strongly
anti-Federal. But if the anti-Federal Seddon
fully believed what he says he would put the
question to the country and wipe the floor
triumphantly with his enemies. He doesn’t
believe it, and he fears to put his parochial policy
to the test. Forrest was equally sure that his
province was against Federation till he was driven
to take a popular vote, and then a 25,000 Federal
majority struck him all of a heap.
The Philp Govt, has a measure before
Parliament for the establishment of Adult Suffrage
at Queensland elections. It is a great advance on.
anything yet attempted in Kanakaland, yet some
taint of the old idea that voting is a crime and a
thing to be strongly discouraged still lingers. For
instance, no one is to vote on a residential quali-
fication unless he or she has resided 12 mouths in
Queensland -and three months in one electorate.
Removal into another electorate, even though it
is only across the street, is punishable by disfran-
chisement for three months. For some reason or-
other, most old-fashioned legislators are bitterly
incensed against the sin of removal. Probably it
is because many of them own Property, and are-
enraged at having the house left empty.”
A new order of titles—the Order of the
Southern Cross—is expected to be announced on
the inauguration of the Australian Common-
wealth, and it is assumed that the sturdiest Demo-
crats Avill have no objection to these brand-new
handles. But the hitherto democratic objector to'
titles who is booked by the new bait will simply
prove that lie didn't know why lie objected afore-
time, or that he is a person without consistency. It
is the principle of the Crown granting titles that
is the objection. The Crown buys a man with a
title, and soinet imes sells one to a man for cash. The
power to confer titles has been used, whether
buying or selling, to aggrandise the Crown,
whereas the tendency of modern Democracy is to •
reduce Crown prerogatives. An Australian order
of titular distinction, conferable by the Sovereign,
is every bit as evil politically as any British order.
The man who, on democratic grounds, refused a
British order and now takes an Australian one
simply confounds himself.
WHAT IF THEY WERE DEAF?
MR. KOPHS: “ Why do you—haw—hang bells
round the necks of your cows, my good
fellah? ”
COCKY: “ O, jest in case the milkers git lawst!"
MR. KUGHS: “Rut what if the poor cweachaws
were deaf? What would you do then, eh?
Law! Eh? H-a-a-a-a-a-w !!"


PALING’S PIANOS
Are Popular Pianos because they wear so well and always
give satisfaction .
MATCHLESS EXCELLENCE
LUSCIOUS QUALITY OF TONE
W. H. PALING & CO.
LTD.
Established 1853.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE.
EAST
TIME PAYMENTS.
338 George-st., Sydney.
57 Queen-st., Brisbane.
Hunter-st., Newcastle.
PIANOS
ORGANS
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
POLYPHONS
ESTEY ORGANS
PALING & CO.
LTD.
ARE
SOLE
AGENTS
FOR
Steinway Pianos
Brinsmead Pianos
Lipp Pianos
Feurich Pianos
Uebel Pianos
Ecke Pianos
Victor Pianos
Belling Pianos
BEST FOR
TONE
TOUCH
VALUE, and
DURABILITY
EVERY
KNOWN
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT
THE
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST
W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED, 338 George Street, SYDNEY.
(Branch Offices: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.)
A Safe Investment.
The man of capital, though he wields
able power and is able to provide himself with
many luxuries, does not always repose on a bed of
roses. He has to exercise much anxious care in
order to get what he considers decent interest with
adequate security. He is offered shares in all
kinds of undertakings, mercantile, banking,
insurance, joint stock companies of all kinds with
long and euphonious titles, and all promising
speedy enrichment to their shareholders. If he is
wise he will bear in mind the old-fashioned dictum
that high interest means poor security, and that if
he wishes to enjoy a sense of financial safety, he
should be content with moderate profits, and be
guided by his own common sense rather than be
led astray by inflated prospectuses. Some in-
vestors pay no heed to such counsels, but plunge
into all. sorts of immature mining and other
speculations, but in a very short time find that
their wealth has taken wings. But the rich are
not the only ones who make investments. We all,
rich and poor alike, have to exchange the circu-
lating medium for “ investments” of one kind and
another, and it becomes us to see that we get good
value for our money. If we fall sick, we “invest”
in a doctor (and when we pay his bill we some-
times wonder what value we have had) or try the
efficacy of some well recommended medicine.
Those suffering from liver and kidney complaints
should invest in Warner’s Safe Cure. The lady,
whose letter we quote, invested in five bottles, and
received as her life interest renewed health and
vigor. She found it a safe investment.
“Tulip Road, Cheltenham, Vic., March 27,
1900. lam pleased to testify to the great benefit
I derived from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure,
having used it when suffering from fiver compli-
cations and great pains in my right side. I used
five bottles in conjunction with Warner’s Safe
Nervine, and was very soon relieved of all pain,
and obtaind renewed strength.” (Miss) 0. A.
McLeod.*
—, +
Seems to be some reasonable doubt in
Melbourne as to whether that lawyer who scooted
from his liabilities two months ago is a “ mild,
medium, or full ” embezzler. The warrant issued
for the arrest of him and his clerk (he was humor-
ously reported to have gone to look for his clerk
when he first made himself scarce) charges the
erring gent, with misappropriation of friendly-
society funds, but in other business matters he is
said to have had clean hands. If the lawyer’s
“ shortage ” is a comparatively mild offence, or no
offence at all (for it takes a lot of shortage to make
a lawyer dishonest), he has a real grievance
against his “influential friends.” They appear to
be overflowing with sympathy for the lost solici-
tor. Melbourne has learned from experience that
you never know how much shortage to expect
from the man whose influential friends would have
been “able and willing to pull him through his
difficulties.” Why, the story of Mat Larkin’s
embezzlements commenced with the newspaper
suggestion that Mat was suffering from temporary
difficulties which could be easily overcome by in-
fluential friends.
S. A us. Labor party proposes to go one
better than the O’Sullivan : it has a bill before the
House decreeing that “No adult male person
employed in the Govt, service shall be paid a less
wage than seven shillings per diem.” But why,
oh why, will the Labor party persist in putting
Latin in its little bill ?
Sydney Telegraph is calling out for Protection.
In Victoria the duty on local spirits is lower than
on imported, the local article being protected to
the. extent of the difference. In N.S.W. the
duties are the same, so there is no protection.
And when the border duties come off the D.T.
fears that Victoria will flood N.S.W. with cheap
spirits manufactured under the blighting influence
of Protection which raises prices so dreadfully,
and do some damage. Of course there will be
uniform, excise duties as well as uniform customs,
but it is the stock of Victorian spirits manu-
factured before the uniform excise duties begin
that the D.T. is.troubled about. And it wants all
the N.S.W. excise duties lowered to the Victorian
level, so as to protect N.S.W. industries to the
extent of the difference between the excise and
customs duties, whereby N.S.W. may also make
cheap goods under the blighting influence of the
policy which makes goods dear, and thus hold its
own against the cheap Vic. competitor.
—♦
The true story of how the 500 Yeomanry
fell captive to the Boers near Kronstadt ex-
plains why Gen. Colville, of the Guards,
was packed off to London by Lord Roberts. It
seems that the Yeomanry got an urgent message
from Colville requiring them to join him immedi-
ately. They set out, with one day’s rations, and
when they got to the appointed place they found
no Colville. He had got away with his brigade
at. daybreak, and the Boers were waiting for the
reinforcements to come along. After three or
four days’ fighting on hungry stomachs, the Yeo-
manry had lost 78 in killed and wounded, and the
others surrendered. Some of them were hardly
able to walk.
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Blood Remedy.
VITADATIO for Poverty of Blood
and Indigestion.
90 Balfour-st, Launceston.
November 16, 1894.
Dear Sir.—For upwards of six years I have suffered in-
tensely from Indigestion and Poverty of Blood, and many
times during that period have received medical treatment,
hut could get no permanent relief. You will be pleased
to know that after taking eight bottles of your VITA-
DATIO, Indigestion has left me. I have in four weeks
gained about 41b. in weight, and have not felt so well in
mind and body for at least the past six years. I feel
quite confident in recommending it to any who may suffer
as I have. I give you this in writing to use in any way
you wish.—Yours faithfully, (Miss) EMMELINE HILL.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s (id; Small Size, 3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
tS" ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
STOP VIBRATION
BY RIDING
mn
BBWARH OR I.VIITATIOtNS.
Duniop Tyres
EXPERIENCED
CYCLISTS
15 L not , t , he miles that are travelled, but the vibration,
th. t fatigues, btop the vibration, and you lessen the work of pro-
pelling your machine fully 30 per cent. P
The Best
Tyres
for absorbing vibration— and
comfortable — are
consequently the fastest
and most
m
the material
T,, tl^ ir onß^' tio V Placing- them far in advance of all other
tyres for Road and Track Riding.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. of Aus. Ltd.,
j 160 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
nm
n
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3NT.S.-W.
|l|ont deplete Q.«|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
>74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
<2*^3
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
OEO. CROWLEY,
STABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London.
[Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M‘Millan, aT’w. Meeks, Sydney ; L. A.
Jessop, Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farqxihar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-'
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller,
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,174,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without, restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(.LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Oflice: 1 Bishop so ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NYW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNKY - 273 GItiOKGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Hayniarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAYINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAVINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
it FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ••• 250,000 ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 15, 1 p.
Leura, Sat., Sept. 22. 1 p.rn.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 15, 2 p.
-Burwah, Tues., Sept. 18, 5
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 22, 2
V? P
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 15,'2 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 22, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT i
GERALDTON 1
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, C*€cGtorS,
AND
Con>paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount) at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch ; Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ... .. ~ 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
. ames Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Business Announcements.
mn
FRINGES,
tfltoraJ Curly, from 8/8 eaek
PLAITS sod TAILS,
<fMn. lone, £/«. oil real halo,
CUTTINGS & COM BINO®
{•©rtted tip, per oz.
Vvo are the cheapeitio igp
Walla for al) Bair Work
Send Color of Hair*'
W.H/Wigzell,
\)I0 William Steeet.
comer of Palmer-street,
~ SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
■Send stamps for full Price List
fHliml atfceabion'given to Country Ordcm
m
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.)
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
■ AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable term's.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Sienm Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney, General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO TUEttd.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART* CO.
* PROPRIETART LIMITED.
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (o . Station).
10,000 pi-oes of Woollens to select from.
»
1
Our Suii to order at 42*
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds Vi-
cunas or Series, fa*t color -
is p- rfect fitting and beuu-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of ma erinl.
£3 Jfs. To measure, capital
Tr* users, very good pat-
terns, I «s. Od.
Dress Suits, to measure,
£5. Olerica. Suits, to mea-
sure, U.l.
Kid ng Kreeclies. 255.
Riding Habits. &c.
We supply readymade
Men’s Capital Tweed fruits
‘als.. 25s
Kamous Ballarat Serge
\ uits. Indigo dye, 255.
Loh ; Chesterfield Coats
all colors 30s.
Exc Ten! Tweed or Serge
Trousois. r#s. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s 6d.
Tweed Overcoats. 21s.
W. terproof Coats, full
capes 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2». Od., 3s. hd.
4s. Od.. ss. Od
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs l«s 6d., 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. 6d.,7*. Od. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. Od-. all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
T'ants Is. 9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1». White >hirts to measure.
Gents* Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6s. 9d. 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters, so don’t be afraid to a«k for any
information. Our book. “The Philosophy of Dress ami
patterns of &11 kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRES3 PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
ViGtorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports j
S.S. Warrego, Friday, Sep-
tember 14. Transhipping
at Melbourne.
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Sept. 22,
Without Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
September 14.
Best and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields. .
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenf/er A ccoimnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
tinies’ Steamers having room. Particulars on' application
to Mr. EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Kuddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“fl. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Hliluiraith,f||‘Eacharn& (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn 8c Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6?00 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Chi
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLI
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters in
the passengers for London and give them every asslstai
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Custoi
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Int
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offit
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Aifaiin( r. Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want; of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, ' ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAmEE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . and .. .
in Plain Cover.
m
m
r»
1
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rasarmissen
I dealers for the genuine
; Aljaline Remedies.
i A REWARD
i ioill be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
'A If aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S EREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSeib
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
ADVICE FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to oure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Goughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
hut most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfeot,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
hut also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant oure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the,Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s. .
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
BKTSBANE : 100 Queen-street (near Creek-street).
wFv'.T.KOnONE : 150 BourJce-street (orn>. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE: 154 Handle-street (near York Hotel).
~N\z77wELLINGIQ Y : 91 Lanibton Quay.
EEIiTII ; Hay-street (opposite YViedenbach’s).
It ALGO Olt LIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDEIi CITY ; Piesse-street.
FIIEMANTLE\ Henry-street.
The Public Works Committee of N.S.W.
is considering the advisability of relieving the
congested tram traffic of George-street, Sydney,
by a crooked line like a series of drunken Zs
along Castlereagh, Bligh, Loftus and Young
streets, with a return line along Pitt-street, these
thoroughfares being too narrow to hold a double
line'apiece. It is also proposed to pro mbit heavy
traffic (drays and the like) in George and Pitt
streets between 8 a.ra. and 6 p.m. Surely it would
be cheaper in the end. to face the real Qiniculty .
Sydney streets are too narrow for the traffic, and
when a big city has virtually only one through-
street, and practically all the parallel thorough-
fares empty into this one narrow funnel,
the said funnel is bound to become con-
gested. The only remedy is to completely
reconstruct the city ; the struggle to get two
quarts of traffic into a one-pint highway is hope-
less. The same hopelessness is visible about the
Lyne Govt.’s wharf resumption proposals ; they
are too small and fragmentary. The dray traffic
from the Darling Harbor wharves is almost wholly
compressed into Erskine-street and Market-street.
The. are both too steep, and the struggles of the
miserable horses to hump heavy loads up them,
esp-c ; allv on wet days—the slipping, straining,
flogging, cursing, falling-down, and sometimes the
complete collapse of a team are pitiable to wit-
ness. Yet, bad as these thoroughfares are, the
others are steeper and more hopeless still Mar-
gret-s reet, in particular, is as inaccessible for a
loaded vehicle as Mont Blanc. If the whole dis-
trict from Darling Harbor to George-street was
resumed, and the great hump about Wynyard-
square cut away, and wide streets made with an
easy grade from Darling Harbor to George-street,
the whole ascent then would be only a few feet.
And the additional value given to all this district
by making it decently accessible would go a long
wav towards paying for the cost. But, unless the.
land is resumed as far as George-street, no level-
ling can be done and the State s new wharf pro-
perty must remain the same almost inaccessible
valley bottom that it is now.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
tnth Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
round, cl with inflammation and swollen that when you
me s vour finger on tht inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion i if so, u ider the skin you have poison that defies all
tile remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
neu r can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
f I KS y ur knees are swollen, the joints being
uiccmtL-d; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
ma.y he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
lrai.owed to continue will deprive you of the power to
JJ/* 1 . ion may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
riZ vm? 5 ! 11 , 1 to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
JcViVc n ■} d ,°o ‘ Perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
otneis ha\e fai.ed is no reason for not now being cured,
cenuat once for
ALI ERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
ftJ Kme > Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Rn nn. l , n »• AbSLes3e8 ’ Sorc Tl > r °at, Bronchitis,
Bu.uons, and Ringworm. Of all Cliemists, Stores
M m-Sr’ ", ( ' r r? t Britain, 1/Hd. per b x. Prepared by
al™ lh mr?!l on 'c Bt, ; eet ’ London, England,
font 1 BBOs., Sydney Purchasers shou.d
1“ ® glSte Jl d mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen lalel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
V/HRT IS CATARRH ?
M EDICATOK-
CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal ear-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Rainey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
Send order direct to
Notice Catarrb C6re Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. l>4d. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
nm
GRIM AULT'S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Couahs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GftIMA.ULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Dr. Boxwell’s PILLS.
V ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish hy affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. £ Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Aorents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Druggists,
292 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Medical.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
n
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is folly
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that pan be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the,full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street. SYDNEY.
mn
Cures all BYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .'—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHES
Famous English Tansy Pills.
r UHESE Famous Pills are now universally used throijgh-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere, ss. 6d.
per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, & Co., Druggists,
272 Flinders-st., Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-
st., Prahran, Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave
me immediate relief, although I had during two months
previous tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
osis Or. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. gd. each of all Drug
Stores. _____
Sole Makers, BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd,
BRIDPOBT, England.
mn
DEAF
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head N oises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Adokess— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


YOU DON'T need to hunt for level roads
if you RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE.
“ Runs easy, and keeps running easy.”
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane. Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
The Massey-Harris Co. draws the attention of
intending purchasers of the giddy but delightful bike to
returns issued by the N.S.W. and Victorian Postal
Departments. One reports that it cost N.S.W. £917 to run
79 bikes (pillar-box clearing and telegram-delivering) for
the year, or £ll 12s. per machine. In Melbourne they
use 16 Massey-Harris machines, and the ordinary running
expenses were only about 4d. per machine. But owing
to some cheerful riding there were sundry smashes, cal-
culated to wreck a traction engine, which brought the
total cost of repair up to 11s. lOd. each machine for the
year. And the M.H. Co. points to this with some pride
as a proof that its machine is a durable implement of
great staying power.*
An Engineer Crippled.
Mr.. John Boyce, of Hunter-street, Stockton,
a suburb of Newcastle, N.S.W., writes as
follows: —■“I write to inform you of my case. I
am well known in this district. For some months
I was laid up with rheumatism, which confined
me to my house, being practically a cripple. I
suffered untold agony. I tried several remedies,
but of no avail. I lastly tried your Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, and was astonished at the
result. The first bottle gave me real relief; I
then took the second bottle, and was then able to
resume my daily work.” Mr. Boyce is a well-
known citizen, and by occupation an engineer on
the Stockton ferries. Dr. Morsels Indian Root
Pills stand alone as a perfect blood purifier, and
cure biliousness, indigestion, dyspepsia,
headache, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples and blotches. Price Is l£d
per bottle, or six bottles Gs 6d. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.* *
Important Notice.—Piles.—Mr. Frank
Buckhurst Chemist, of Mutual Store Buildings,
Flinders-street, Melbourne, has now a stock of the
famous “Cannalin” remedies for Piles. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, “Piles and
How to Cure them,” sent free on application, or
from the head dep6t, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
A 14-year-old Sydney youth, who had
been manufacturing acetylene gas “on his own,”
was killed the other day by an explosion of the
gas, which drove the oil-drum containing it
against the lad’s head so violently as to fracture
the skull.
Sydney artist Tom Roberts has just re-
turned from a six months’ absence in Victoria and
Maoriland, from which latter place he has brought
a number of scenery-bits which are rumoured to
be quite out of the ordinary Maoriland landscape
groove.
Maoriland importers lost heaps of money
through the sudden drop m duties. Wholesale
druggists were the heaviest sufferers, as it is im-
possible for them, dealing in so many lines, .to
keep things long in bond. Kemptborne, Prosser
and Co. announce their loss at £15,000 One firm
lost £5OO on kerosene alone.
There toas a time when the death of Dr.
Harman Tarrant, erstwhile clever operating sur-
geon and prominent, prosperous citizen, would
not have been dismissed with two or three
studiedly-chilly lines in the daily papers. The
doctor, in his halcyon days, not so many years ago,
held the offices of Senior-Surgeon of Sydney
Hospital, Masonic Grand Master, and many
other evidences of social esteem ; but all these
things, together with the goodwill of his pro-
fessional brethren, who in his best days esteemed
him as the bright and generous man he originally
was, he threw away under melancholy circum-
stances and made his closing years very unhappy
indeed.
. Very many Sydney people will hear with
regret of the sudden death, at Stockholm, on 28th
August last, of Mr. C. A. Falstedt, N.S.W. Con-
sul for Sweden and Norway. Independently of
his strict official routine duties, Mr. Falstedt was
a consul among consuls, inasmuch as to be of ser-
vice to a compatriot, however uninfluential, he
considered no trouble too great. Days of his
time, for instance, would be devoted to the case
of, say, a poor Swedish seaman—in trouble, after
the fashion of “shellbacks,” over a scrimmage on
board or a drop too much ashore. In this respect,
Mr. Falstedt’s Knighthood of the Grand Order of
Vasa was but a pale distinction compared with
his Knighthood of the Order of Real White Men.
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
r* -IK
-A
%
r l
*
tl
The Pride of the Commonwealth!
Best British Bicycle Built!
Imitated by Many!
Branches:
185 Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
221 Rundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
Edwa'rd-street, Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
Equalled by None!
DC- Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Headquarters for Australasia:
64 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Rand wick Spring meeting began on Saturday
under most favorable auspices—splendid weather, good
going, crack nags competing, and a crowd of perhaps
15,00 J looking on. Mo. experienced a very hot time, em-
phasised through the fact that, as a rule, he makes his
fattest hauls on the chief N.S. W. course. Most big layers
dropped at least a “ thou.” each, while few got off at'less
than a “monkey.” The loud-voiced haven’t looked so
glum after a day’s racing for many a year. Victoria made
a big inroad upon prize-money. Lancaster, Malster
Ampler and Paul Pry appropriated four out of six events
Ball was set rolling with Hurdles (about two miles three
furlongs). Vic. “lepper” Delusion (7 to 2 against) came
a cropper at first jump, and The Turk (favorite—2 to 1
against) followed suit at last obstacle. Kogarah- (Sydney)
trained Oberon won by three lengths from The Laborer
with Abedare third. Punters termed Trial Stakes (one
mile and a quarter) “Lancaster" Stakes, as Lancaster
(present Melb. Cup favorite) was top of the market all
the week in “ shops ’’—nothing better than twos being
obtainable. He went to the post at “ evens,” and romped
home, giving none of t’others a hope. Derby (one mile
and a half) was somewhat of a boil-over. Haut Brion colt
Hautboy (singled out by the knowing section as a “ cert. ’
and starting at 10 to 9 on) never had a chance against
Malster (3 to 1 against) from the moment the whips were
° uC - , During the race Phillibeg came down, and Lord
Rudolph and Yarrabee fell over him. None of the
nags were seriously injured, but two top-rung jocks—
,, *' ooc *S' a, l' e an d Steve Callinan— sustained broken
collarbones. Whole of 33 acceptors lined up for
Lpsom mile. Dandy and Reviver disputed favoritism at
eights whde Auld Lang Syne’s admirers got tens. Speedy
Gallina, Reviver and Bange were in front at different
stages as named, then Ampier (20 to 1 against) took the
lead and stayed there until the end, showing a margin of
2 lengths ’tween himself and Cyanide. Dandy and Auld
Lang Syne dead-heated for fourth. Cyanide and Dandy
were going great guns near the post. Spring Stakes (U
miles) proved a soft thing for Paul Pry, who, with odds of
6 t 0 4 a S alnBt ’ squelched the rest of the field easily.
Whilom mueh-talked-about and written-of Tarquin was
six lengths off second, and present Caulfield Cup favorite
and last season’s sensation—Mora—third. Butternut
(winner of recent “ Oxberry ”) was considered best of
good things for Kensington Handicap, and looked it, but
waSn t seen in the race and finished nearer last than first.
Well-backed Loch Clieveden (7 to 4 against) won by a head
fromStelene (20 to 1 against). Q. nag Boreas 11. was
tnird.
• • •
Malster—winner of A.J.C. Derby—is by Bill of
Portland Barley, and a beauty in every way. His win
was full of merit, and will bring him heaps of support for
Melb. Derby and Cup. As an early 2-year-old he did
nothing. V.R.O. Autumn gathering saw him annex
Hopeful and Ascot Vale Stakes, but penalty earned (9st
, 61b) proved too much in Champagne Stakes at Rand-
wick, where he finished second to Haulette (Bst 81b).
Humping 9st 71b Malster followed Hautesse (7st 121 b)
home for Easter Stakes on same ground. Malster is un-
questionably the best 3-year-old this season, and, barring
accidents, gives every indication of endorsing that esti-
mate as opportunity offers. He has been favorite for V.R.C.
Derby since last autumn. Writer cannot understand why
Hautboy was looked upon as such a “ moral,” ’specially
after Malster’s track performance on previous Thursday
when he “pulled over” Ranfurly at the end of a good
mile. Randwick trainers wouldn’t have the Victorian
because “ he wanted a race or two,” and Hautboy had a
more seasoned appearance.”
A.J.C. Derby this year was the most interest-
ing from an inter-State point of view since Titan com-
peted, and Gibraltar won in ’9O. Whilom cracks Wallace,
Aurum, and Bobadil never faced the flag of N.S.W. blue
riband, so its result didn’t much affect betting on V.R.C.
J>erby. Malster belongs to Mr. Robert Orr, and Hautboy
(second) to Mr. W. Bailey, old friends and occasional
partners in horse-ownership. St. Simon was represented
in each instance.
*»- » •
This year’s A.J.C. Derby time (2.391) went
near record. Since ’B3 it has only been beaten twice—by
Trident (2.38) in ’96, and Giorattar (2.39) in ’9o.
* * * *
Winner (Ampier) of Epsom (Saturday at Rand-
wick) landed something over £15,000 for his party. A
prominent Melb. Mo. put on latter part of “ eomm.sh,”
though first lots—as stated in Bullktin ,8/9/00)—were
secured at hundreds to one, two and three on the strength
of an alleged “ wife’s dream.” At one time sevens were
eagerly snapped up, and tuose working the thing (so that
nothing might be missed) gave the “ shops” a turn ; still
Mo. “ came ” under the impression that the game was to
make a market for that “ long-shot ” money first secured.
Week before last Ampier had a go with Sapir and shaped
so well that several waverers rallied round him, but two
subsequent gallops scared further support and set a lot
looking for chances to “ lay off ” at any price. A week
prior to the race Glenore beat Ampier badly over a mile—
Epsom distance. Excuse was Ampier’s sulky tempera-
ment, and that he carried 211bs. in excess of his Epsom
weight. Later (Tuesday last week) Ampier (with a light
boy up) and Allinga had a set-to, and latter held the
Caulfield nag safe from the home turn. Result was
Ampier went back to 100’s to 6, and 100’s to 4 and 5 were
available on the course. Those who had backed him were
compelled to hang on because there was no chance of
laying off. All Mo.’s with early books fell heavily, but
others had “skinners.” Ampier is a five-year-old gelding
by far Niente—Electric Light, and has engagements in
coming Caulfield Cup (7st.) and Melb. Cup (6st. lllb.). He
was fluked out of a sprint at Caulfield not long since, and
subsequently won a middle distance handicap in good
style. Previous to Saturday Ampier didn’t do much to
rave about in public, but must have shown something out
of the way in private trials.
“V. ”: In A. J. C. Spring Stakes on Saturday last,
Tarquin was kept so far out of the hunt that he had
virtually to make two runs instead of one—first to pick
up the 7 or 8 lengths he was behind the winner when the
pace was fast and then again in the straight. No wonder
that Paul Pry shook him off so easily. Tarquin must be
pretty good if he can be' ridden like that and hope to win.
* « * *
Metropolitan, at Randwick, Tuesday, went to
Mt. Morgan \V. R. Hall’s Reviver, who disputed favoritism
with Dandy in Epsom, previous Saturday, and
ran a great horse till well in the straight.
Tarquin evidenced how much reliability there is in
w.f.a. form when handicaps have to be considered, by
running second. Cyanide’s third demonstrated what a
consistent nag he is, as something like this, or even
better, was looked for after his second in the big mile
event on Saturday.
* * * *
S.A.J.C. meeting ended Saturday. Amount
(£9Bll 55.) that went on tote was less than last year. One
big div. resulted through Princess Louise winning Plymp-
ton Handicap (6 fur.). Total invested was £2200, and
backers of Louise got £4B 14s. each for their sovs.
* » * *
S.A. correspondent of a Melbourne weekly
sporting paper put up a record at tipping t’other day
though laboring under the disadvantage of having to do
it a week before the racing. First day of S.A. J.C. Spring
meeting was the occasion. He named four absolute win-
ners out of five. Positions of nags placed first and second
in fifth event were reversed. His first and second ran
first and third in Hurdles, first and second for Derby came
out right, ditto Steeplechase, and all three as named in
Morphettville Plate.
• * * *
Looks as though Major George intends to bring
Seahorse from Maoriland to have a try for Melb. Cup.
The beautiful chestnut was given a chance at V.R.C.
Autumn meeting, where his shockingly bad “ form ” gave
no clue to his real merits. On his ALL. records and his
racer-like appearance Seahorse is bound to be fancied
for the Cup if he turns up at Flemington in
decent condition and good health. Last season he carried
everything before him on his native heath—Guineas and
Spring Handicap at Hawkes Bav ; N.Z. Cup and Derby ;
Canterbury Cup, and Auckland Plate. That reads good
enough to win Melb. Cup with the reasonable weight of
9st. for a 4-year-old. But meanwhile the “if " is an im-
portant consideration in Seahorse’s case. The vo3’age and
change of air played the very deuce with the interesting
visitor six months ago, and probably he will “go to
pieces ” again.
* * • •
Cabled that at Kempton Park (Eng. ) ’Strah'an
bookie Oxenham’s Gozo—Cerise and Blue nag won Regula-
tion Plate, lj miles, weight-for-age, open to horses that
have not, during two previous seasons, won any one race
worth 150 sovs. or any number aggregating 400 sovs.
Last year’s winner gathered in £177. This is the first
time Syerla has scored since leaving Sydney with The
Grafter, Battalion, Sailor Boy and others. Syerla was a
hot favorite for City and Suburban, which his stable-
chum, The Grafter annexed, and over which there was
such a hubbub. Syerla performed well here, winning
four times as a 2-year-old, and subsequently appropriating
Autumn handicap and. Doncaster at Randwick, wherein
mile was covered in 1.40 J, with Merloolas second and 26
more further off.
* * * *
Our honest old Roman-nosed friend, The Graf-
ter, seems to have broken down in a race at Goodwood
(Eng.) t’other week after he had run third for the
Stewards Cup, the most fashionable 6-furlongs flutter of
the season. Report of Grafter’s break-down gives no idea
as to whether the aged warrior is done for racing pur-
poses.
* • * •
Alf. Joseph died of an apoplectio fit, which
took him as he was getting out of his morning bath.
They buried him in the Jewish cemetery at Willesden.
By the way, the cable mentioned an alarming accident to
a race-train a few days before Joseph’s death. Interest-
ing to know whether the deceased was among the many
who got a nerve-shock on that occasion.
* * * *
After all, bookmaker and money-lender Alf.
Joseph left under £72,000.
• » * »
“ H.L.” : Your Caulfield racing “ coincidence ”
is a horrible mystery in figures.
* • • •
Victorian Agricultural Society’s Show has been
putting up record attendances, no less than 40,000 going
on one day by rail alone. Mahonga cleared sft. llin. in
winning the high jump ; and the trot must have been “ a
go” worth seeing. Silver Boy won in 2min. 26Jsec.,
Osterly only getting third place in 2min. 291 sec.
• * * *
Cable published Tuesday told that Hunter
River (N.S. VV.) and Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) scullers—Towns
and Wray respectively—rowed for sculling supremacy of
England previous day, and Towns won. When details
come ’twill probably be found that Wray went off with
the lead and held it till Towns wore him down. Towns
was favorite at 12 to 8 on.
• * * *
“Leash ” : Last big meeting of present N.S.W.
Coursing season was Orange O. O’s., ended 7th. inst.
Wellington (N.S.W.) hound Spieler won Champion Stakes,
he also took chief prize at same club’s previous meeting.
Runner up (Warpaint) in latest event was subsequently
matched against Spieler for £lO, and former won an ex-
citing struggle by the kill only. Miss Hanlan, first
favorite in straight-out betting was withdrawn, sickness
being alleged. Inquiry resulted in disqualification of
owner and hitch during pleasure of committee. Some
queer things happened. Said that one dog competed
under a name which rightly belonged to another then
miles away; three altogether were “ sent up.”
« * • •
N.S.W. pigeon-shooting championship was con-
tested at Sydney Gun Club’s grounds, Friday, last week.
Eighteen faced the traps, and seven of them came from
Victoria. The successful man turned up in “ Bobby”
(Ballarat). Close of 21st round saw only three—A. E,
Smith (Melb.), the ultimate winner and A. W. Eales
(Maitland)— left in. All sta,yed two rounds longer, then
Eales missed; Smith’s 24th got away, and “Bobby”
killed and won. Previous holder Massey (Yass) accounted
for 16, and old Bill Beach (who was out of fix apparently)
retired in 10th round with six only to his credit. The
birds were “ ringers ” right through. - Conditions—2l
birds, 30yds. rise, and match was open to all-comers.
Originally only residents in N.S.W. for 12 months were
eligible. H. M. Faithful (who competed in latest event
and notched 3) won the first championship—grassing 20
from 28yds. A. W. Eales and W. Best were next with 19
each. Two years ago G. R. M‘lntosh earned the honor,
bringing 21 successive birds down. Last year the old
order gave place to present conditions with a sweep of
£lO, which was reduced by half this year. C. Massey
(Yass) came out atop—placing 20 opposite his name. A.
W. Eales a.nd “ Kosciusko” were runners-up. Last-
named has been most unfortunate, for in the four pre-
mierships decided he was second three times.
*** # •
Cable recorded last week that Madame lea
Cescu (Austrian) essayed the Channel swim, but failed,
after getting through 20 miles of it in 101 hours. About
the end of July, “Brummagem” long-distance swimmer
Frank Holmes tried the feat, and had to cry a go through
rough weather and choppy sea. He got over 14 miles in
4h. 45m. Holmes has done little else during past three
years than practise and make attempts at swimming
from Dover to Calais. Might be mentioned that late
Capt. Webb’s first effort (25 years ago) resulted in failure ;
he occupied 6h. 48m. in swimming 13 miles. A year later
Webb succeeded, and though his point of landing was
21J miles from Dover,'as the crow flies, he actually swam
39J miles, owing to influence of currents. He was in the
water 21 h. 45m. This calls to mind poor Webb’s death
at Niagara 17 years ago. He went there wrecked in con-
stitution, and played what he must have known would
be a losing game. - -
• • • *
An amateur cycle-meeting, held last week, “in
aid of the Indian Famine Fund,” on Sydney University
oval, realised some £BO as receipts from all sources.
“ Expenses” exceeded this amount, so the fund gets left.
The chief event was called the “ Amateur Mile Champion-
ship of N.5.W.,” and was won by W. Cameron, time 2min.
49sec. There was a no-account field. The bottom has
fallen out of cycle-racing, professional as well as “ open-
order ” amateur-riding.
• * * *
“Jones” Cycling Sports were on tap at Lith-
gow (N.S.W.) last Saturday. “ Jones’’--because they
were all Jones. Joneses won every sace programmed.
W. Jones got home in first heat of Half Mile, J. Jones in
third, with E. Jones second ; J. Jones secured final, W.
Jones being third. E. Jones was second in first heat of
Mile. W. Jones won next, with J. Jones second, while
positions of two latter were reversed in the final. Mile
and half saw W. Jones’ wheel in front of J. Jones’ at
finish of initial heat, and same two passed the post that
way for final. One mile scratch race was J. Jones’ all the
way.
* • » •
Gruelling inflicted by Q. 15 on N.S.W. foot-
ballers the week previously’ was intensified last Saturday
when, at Brisbane, before 8000 spectators, Q. fairly
romped over N.S.W., scoring 20 to nil. Personnel of Q.
combination was as in first match, but N.S.W. made three
changes. Victors’ forwards did all the damage ; their
opponents couldn’t live with them. Four tries were
scored. Spragg converted two and kicked a goal from a
“ mark.” Play of O’Donnell, Thomas and Joyce was
most noticeable on defeated side. The winners excelled
themselves, and had a day out. Last Wednesday week
N.S.W. met “ next 15 ” and won by 18 to 6. “ Gate ” re-
turned a handsome profit, and supplied much-needed
funds for Q. Rugby Union.
* * * •
Central Cumberland cricket - team intends
making a big effort to repeat its premiership successes of
last year. Iredale and Ooningham are additions to the
already powerful side which represented the club in 1899-
1900.
Sept. 9th was 45th birthday of F. R. Spofforth,
the best bowler Australia has seen. Way back in 74,
when he was only 19, “Spoff.” played tor N.S.W. and
took 3 wickets for 14 in his first match, W. G. Grace’s
being one ot them. “ Spoff.'s ” great performance was in
the memorable match at Lord’s when he and Boyle prac-
tically defeated England by six runs.
• « * *
Ranjitsinghi’s wonderful average of 90 runs per
innings, cabled last week, shows once again that the
Indian is a 100 per cent better bat in England than he
would be in Australia. English wickets, invariably slow
and easy, give him opportunities for making strokes
which would be fatal here. Moreover English bowlers
are poor as a rule, as we found out with Stoddart’s last
team. Ranji., when last mail left, had broken a record
by putting up 11 centuries, but little red-haired Abel
immediately established a new one with 13.
* * * *
“ C. W.” : Jessep did precious little hard batting
against the last Australian Eleven. He didn’t stay long
enough at the wickets. It’s soft bowling that makes
hard hitters.
* * * *
Inter-State baseballers met second and third
time at Sydney Cricket Ground, Wednesday and Saturday
last week. On former day Victorian Laver’s pitching
played up with home bats till they got used to it. Both
sides fielded well. Cornstalks’ diving for bases often
evoked applause. Ultimately N.S.W. came out on top
an innings and 3 runs to the good. Third match was
best, albeit home side erred badly in first two innings,
giving visitors many opportunities. Subsequently N.S.W.
overhauled and passed its opponents, finishing up with
an innings and 2 runs in hand, thus gaining the “ rub.”
and attendant laurels. Result shows that the Yankee
craze has made greater progress in Sydney than beyond
the Murray. Both teams fielded splendidly, but winners
did best work in that department.
» * • *
Details of the much-boomed World’s Olympian
Games at Paris indicate they fell far short of anticipa-
tions. Rows were frequent and discontent general.
Visiting competitors had a parlous time, as J. Crapaud
wanted things done his own way, which suited nobody
else. An international tug of war terminated in an inter-
national free fight, with Britisher and Yankee giving
others a sorry time. Prizes were most paltry and would
not be given to school-boys here. Indian champion sprinter
Pritchard ran second to the U.S. flyer Kraenzlein in
hurdles and received for trophy a pocket-knife of the
“ All-in-this-basket-2s. fid.-each ” pattern.
» * • *
Writing from London after leaving Paris Stan.
Rowley says July 22 saw close of Olympian games. He
won his heat in the 200 metres’ race, but was no nearer
than fourth in final, through, having to run on extreme
outside all the way and being blocked at 150yds , other-
wise first position might have been his. “ Course de
Nations ” 5000 metres (teams of five) only brought out
French and English competitors. Last-named couldn’t
muster required number and Rowley was roped in so that
they could qualify. Running the distance was out of the
question with him, so he walked. “ I have won three
prizes,” writes Rowley—" one is a little carriage-clock,
another is a lady’s woven-wire purse, and the third a
Stiletto paper-knife (silver).” Amateurism must be a
profitable game in France ! Rowley was to have left
London Sept. 6, and expected to be here Oct. 16.
* * * *
Rowley writes of “ Murican ” lepper Kraenz-
lein as an out-and-out marvel. Track he won
100 metres hurdles on at Olympian games was
an “ awful one,” consequently the figures (15 2-5)
were wonderful. Indian champion Pritchard (a hall-
marked good ’un) was beaten by lO.vds. In final, a fellow
Yankee, M'Clain, got 6yds. ahead of the gun, but
Kraenzlein caught and beat him by yards. Kraenzlein’s
build is remarkable —all legs and wings and no body.
• * * *
Latest anent Australian premier sprinter Stan.
Rowley makes it appear that he and best British product
—Wadsley—were inferior to all the Yankee team of run-
ners. At Salford Harriers (Eng.) Sports towards the close
of last month Long (N’York A.C.), who gathered in Eng-
lish quarter-mile laurels at ’Ome championship meeting re-
cently, beat Rowley by (fin. in first heat of 100yds. scratch
race. Time (10 1-5), seeing that a strong cross wind had
to be encountered, was remarkably good. Second heat
saw 7 Tewkesbury give Wadsley no hope. All four met in
final. Long won by Jyd. from Tewkesbury with Wadsley
l)yds. away third and Rowley almost aibreast of him.
Time 10 2-ssec. This is convincing evidence that Rowley
had too much of it —climate or running, or both. He
“did evens” several times and, weeks ago, shot away
from Wadsley in 10 2-5. Australians take a lot of getting
used to “ down under ” climate.
* * » »
Q. ’cross-country champ. C. Saundersen, t’other
day, on Brisbane Cricket Ground, tackled the task of
creating a lhr. record, and got over 10 miles 172yds. Per-
formance was put up unaided by pacemakers and on a
track none too good in places.
* * * *
“ Old-Timer ” : Saw a coming good ’un in Johns
or Reagan (not sure which, he answers to both) at Golden
Gate A. C. (Sydney) Saturday night. Jim Barre couldn’t
live with him a moment, and was sent out per medium of
a couple of stiff heart-jabs ere third round closed. Johns
pleases the eye as a pug —is well-moulded, hard as nails,
and has enough skill to go ahead, but lacks hitting power
somewhat, though much improved therein since his last
appearance. Johns works with Cribb, and so has some-
thing above the ordinary to go up against. Same night saw
something akin to what killed bruising in Sydney seven
years ago. Phillips (announced “of Q,”) was pitted
against Tucker. Neither had much idea of the game, but
former knew most, and stretched his man out dead to the
world in round two. Management looked about for some-
one else to fill the breach—lke Stewart, Weener, or any-
one —but they were not on ; meanwhile, Tucker revived a
bit, and was again sent up, still dazed, with the result
that a vimful, heavily-charged punch forced him into
oblivion, where he remained—Heaven knows how long—
as he had to be helped out of the ring. Writer thought
there was going to be a manslaughter verdict.
* * * *
Commenting in Bulletin l/9/’OO on cable re
Fitzsimmons-Sharkey fight wherein latter was knocked
limp in two rounds, writer said he “ wouldn’t be surprised
to hear that, finding Fitz too much for him, Sharkey
thought discretion the better part of valor, and went out
early so as to avoid another mangling.” Information
from Yankee files goes far to confirm this surmise.
Sharkey (asked why he thought Fitz would beat Ruhlin)
said: “ Why that fellow Fitz is a terrible puncher. I
never got such a hammering in my life as he gave me in
that ’Frisco fight four years ago. Ruhlin is quite the
reverse. I was as stiff as a crutch when I fought him and
he couldn’t knock me out. I simply died away from sheer
weariness. He must have hit me a hundred times in the
face if he hit me once.” This little speech reveals with
what wholesome respect for the erstwhile blacksmith’s
thumping capabilities the Sailor must have faced Fitz a
second time.
• * * m
Much-talked-of billiard-match ’tween champion
Roberts and ’Stralian Fred. Weiss was ratified last week.
Conditions, 21,000 up, bonzoline balls; Roberts gives
7000 start. First half to be played at Sydney, second half
at Melbourne. Stake, £5OO a-side—optional’to a “thou.”
Has the “option” ever been availed of in any match?
Revised rules of British Billiard Association, with follow-
ing stipulation, are to govern : —“ ‘ Corner ’or ‘ jammed’
cannons barred by a baulk line extending 7in. from
cushion to cushion at the four corner pockets, and only
two consecutive cannons to be allowed inside of such
‘ protected area.’ ” Roberts gets two-thirds of gross tak-
ings and Weiss one-third, former paying exes. Each
party has already posted £3OO. Match'begins Oct. Bor 9.
* * * m
“ Charles,” of Dalgety and Co., who control the
sale of ballistite in N.S.W., has a very convincing story to
tell his public. At the Gun Club, Notting Hill, Eng., 70
per cent, of the competitors use ballistite ; and 90 per
cent, of total prizes are won with it. With such facts as
these behind it, the efficiency of ballistite cannot be
questioned, and there is every proof that the new powder
will speedily occupy first place in the esteem of Austra-
lian sportsmen. Already such men as “Locksley,”
“ Warning,” “ Greener,” “ Signet,” J. W. Taylor, “ Crow-
hurst,” Matthews, Cecil Lee, A; E. Smith, L. O. Marshall,
W. Hayes, F. M. Mack, L. Brown, R. A. M’Kenzie, &c.,
&c., shoot with nothing but ballistite. There is every
evidence that ballistite throws shot closer and faster than
any other powder. Being a concentrated powder, its
ignition is perfectly uniform, therefore it never deviates
in results, and it is remarkably clean and thoroughly
smokeless. It’s an exhibition powder, too—“ Charles,” at
the N.S.W. Gun Club, will soak a charge of it in water,
load a cartridge with it, and go out to the traps and drop
his pigeon with the wet ballistite. Add to this reni rk-
able quality, perfect safety, and it will seem reasonable to
expect that ballistite will oust every other sporting pow-
der from the market.


What’s the Net Result
mmm
mS
vs
MBs
mm
mm
Of all the pushing and scrambling
for business? Is it success? . *
It all depends on the merit of the
article sold • •
QUALITY,
PURITY,
and FLAVOR
are all worth bringing under our
notice .
THE NET RESULT of these is—
DERBY Tobacco,
x 1 ~
and the Australasian public endorses this by purchasing
3,000,000 pounds annually.
The Modern Art Jewellery Coy.,
18c. Diamond and Turquoise
Cluster Ring, Price £5.
A
Jl
18c. Gipsy Set Turquoise and
Pearl Ring, Price £llBs. 6d.
18c. Diamond and Pearl Half-
Hoop Ring, Price £l6.
18c. Gipsy Set 3 Stone Dia-
mond Ring, Price £2.
18c. Diamond and Pearl Ring
with 6 Diamonds set in Shank,
Price £l2 10s.
18c, Gipsy Set Single Stone
Diamond, Price £7 15s.
187 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
telephone 3490.
18c. Diamond and
Sapphire Marquise
Ring, Price £9.
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
Landed t’other day near Mackay (Q.),
sundry Arabs whose alleged history, as given to
the police, per medium of an interpreter, was most
wondrous. Ali Salem deposed that he had left
Tangier some 12 months ago, and had been so
sleepy and sea-sick ever since that he knew no-
thing about anything. His comrade, Hadji, lent
variety to the narrative by asseverating that
he had paid 20 rupees at Port Said for a pas-
sage in a Greek ship, the name of which he
disremembered, to some part of the world
which had clean , slipped his memory. Waif
Abdullah’s sheet-anchor was “No savee.” He
was wearing a spick-and-span suit of tweeds,
which (he averred) he had bought in Tangier 12
months previously. In this same toggery he had
suffered shipwreck and a number of other queer
disasters—without in the least impairing the pris-
tine beauty of his pantaloons. . Much vigorous
Oriental affirmation and frequent invocation of
Allah failed to convince the police of the wan-
derers’ veracity, wherefore Ali Salem and Hadji
and Abdullah are still pent up by the accursed
minions of the infidel in Bananaland.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE,
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The case of Henry Styche, at Christchurch
(M.L.), charged with trying to hire a doctor for
£2OO to poison his wife, has been involved in a
new complication. Mrs. Styche, whose faith in
her husband appears to have been solid and un-
shaken all along, went suddenly mad one morning
recently, and was removed to an asylum, and as
she is an essential witness the case is postponed.
If her derangement proves permanent there may
never be any case worth mentioning after all.
The situation is this: Some one wrote to the
doctor, offering him £2OO to murder a certain
woman (afterwards identified, or supposed to be
identified, as Mrs. Styche), and informing him that,
if he would intimate by advt. his acceptance of the
offer, the woman would consult him as a patient—
and thus supply the opportunity. He intimated,
and Mrs. Styche promptly became his patient.
Now the law wants Mrs. Styche to climb into the
witness-box and explain on oath how she chanced
to consult that doctor at just that time. And
she having become deranged the case has broken
its main-shaft, and has to be towed into port for
repair.
A PROMPT SETTLEMENT.
Marulan, 7th Sept., 1900.
Mr. Robert Kerr, Manager,
London and Lancashire Fire Insurance Co., Sydney.
Dear Sir,—l have to acknowledge your cheque for £ll5,
and accept my thanks for prompt settlement of claim.
I have only* to add that should any of my friends desire
to be insured I can with every confidence recommend
them to go to your Company.
I am, dear sir, yours faithfully,
(Signed) SYDNEY WILLIAMS.
The first Victorian to start the Federal
campaign is James Mirams, of the dead-and-gone
Premier Permanent Building Society and the
memorable gamp. Most of the busted boomsters
who are not dead are looking for likely electo-
rates, among them Mirams, Jimmy Munro, Mat.
Davies and Bent —the unspeakable Bent. The
latter bear-like person was recently elected Shire
President of Moorabbin —where Brighton lies —
in place of a councillor with superior claims,
admittedly on account of the political changes
about to happen ! Which means that Thomas
is to have his path made as smooth and easy as
possible. But none of these Geebungs took any
hand in the Federal campaign, and the new
generation knows them not, while the old one
knows them only too well.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Look-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
rpo CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
1 pr- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES!
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake —saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Amusements.
Mof EUM
ART,
PHYBIOLOOY
AND
ANATOMY.
OPEN
DAILY. .
Admission,
2s.
Unabated
Popularity.
Visited
by
Thousands.
Clergy,
Press,
Public
Unanimous.
A
REVELATION 1 .
QUEEN’S HALL,
Pitt-st., Opposite
Criterion Theatre.
Lectures
Afternoon and
Evening.
Matinee Lectures,
LADIES ONLY,
Mood., VV’ed.
and Frid.,
3 to 5 p.m.
Fitzgerald bro/s circus, menagerie
AND NEW CONTINENTAL COMPANY.
A GREAT and GLORIOUS SUCCESS. Patronised
nightly by thousands of delighted amusement seekers.
Location: BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS.
(Opp. Redfern Railway Station).
The DUNBAR TRIO, MDLLE. RHODESIA, the
JANDASOHERESKY FAMILY, SISTERS WINGATE,
ROSE AQUINALDO, THE OUINEZELLAS, KARL
BROTHERS, MDLLE, KATIE AND MDLLE. MAR-
GARETTA, GUILLIUME AND AOUGUST, &e., &c.
The Greatest Combination of Arenic Talent Ever Seen
in Australia.
Matinees: WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. -
The Splendid Band of 20 Performers, under the con-
ductorship of Herr Von der Mehden.
PRICES : 45., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
T. MORRIS, Agent. F. JONES, Press Rep.
EIR MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
IQLATNHE.
In Preparation, THE GONDOLIERS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. £3? PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
-|-HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
BLAND HOLT’S
Absorbing and Fascinating Story,
HOW LONDON LIVES.
LONDON TYPES OF LIFE AND CHARACTER
by the
FAVORITE DRAMATIC COMBINATION of AUSTRALIA
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
AND THE POPULAR COMPANY
EVERY EVENING EXCEPT FRIDAYS,
11 DRINK.”
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, Last Performance of
HAMLET.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES ARNOLD
and his
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in George H. Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce
Comedy,
What Happened to Jones.
PRICES —ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
L. J. LOHR, Manager.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK-ST.* SYDNEY.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27,
In the presence of His Excellency, EARL BEAUCHAMP,
Vocal and Instrumental Recital,
MISS JESSIE KING,
The Great English Contralto.
HERR GERARD VOLLMAR.
The Celebrated Violoncellist.
65., 35., 2s. Plan at Paling’s.
J. EDWARD SYKES, Manager.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
A Real Hearty Australian Welcome Greeted
THE THREE HAYTORS.
in their original “ Me, Too, Charlie.” Great Reception
of FERRIT THE HUMAN FR33.
Unqualified Success of England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
OLAF SCHRADER, Billy M’Clain, M. Cordelia, Walker
and May, and all our Great Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Melbourne of
THE PATTERSON BROS.,
America’s Wonderful Horizontal Bar Performers.
Mr. HARRY SHINE, Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, Miss
JESSIE WILLIAMS, Mr. WILL WHITBURN, Roy
Cashin, Alma Gray, Dora Taylor, E. Brinkman, Bob Bell,
and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, LAST NIGHT of
THE LAND OF THE LIVING.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 15, return of the Universal Favor-
ites JDHN F. SHERIDAN and CRACIE W.4ITEFJR3, when
will be presented for the first time the Musical Farcical
Comedy,
A TRIP TO CHICAGO.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
The Christian.
A Carefully and Specially Prepared Cast of 33 Speaking
Characters.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Offioe.
Proprietor ■ - GEO W. ELLIS
At Poverty Point.
A certain veteran Australian manager, by a graded
series of persuasive wigs, has long silently appealed to the
public to have faith in the genuineness of his hair. The
curling locks, by periodical stages, get to their extreme
limit of length, and then there is a reversion to the care-
fully-trimmed wig once more, the process being repeated
in a most convincing way at proper and well-regulated
periods.
Prima-donna Alva, Who was out here with Adela Verne,
the muscular girl-pianist, had a short “ star” engagement
at Paris Exhibition in July. Alva can sing well enough
in her hard, operatic way, but she wasn’t the woman to
charm an Australian audience.
Nance O’Neil has had sensational advance-booking in
Adelaide, bukherfirst appearance, in “Magda,” was re-
ceived with only moderate enthusiasm. The papers speak
well of her, but reserve their chief enthusiasm for M’Kee
Rankin as the stern parent. Paris Nesbit, in his particu-
lar personal organ, says roundly : —“ I saw her in
‘ Camille,’ and I unsuccessfully tried to sit through her
performance of Hedda Gabler. Of genius, so far as I have
seen, she has not the feeblest glimmer.” Also —well, vide
Nesbit’s own paper.
“ J.A.O. ” : The “ Ophelia ” funeral-march, played at
the recent King Humbert Commemoration in Sydney, is
from the “ Hamlet ” of Franco Faccio, long conductor at
the Scala, Milan. His opera was produced there in ’7l,
and I was present at the first and only representation.
The march roused the audience to enthusiasm, and had
to be repeated, but the rest of the opera (although
admitted to be “ musicianly ”) was made a complete
fiasco by the incompetency of the tenor, Tiberini (in the
name part)—a fine artist with an inferior voice. Faccio
was so disgusted that he never allowed his opera to be
again performed, and never wrote another. He was one
of the finest orchestra directors in Europe, and when
conducting rarely referred to the score, trusting wholly to
his marvellous memory.
Wybert Reeve’s lease of Adelaide Royal expires in Nov.
and he is off to England, heartily sick of histrionics so far
as management is concerned. Wybert, ages ago, played
in the same cast as Charles Kean, and he has now been in
Adelaide for 25 years. Financially, the drama has been a
very barren field to the departing manager.
After all the talk about there having been a great trial
of voices for the distinction of succeeding Nagel as the
unseen “ Ben Bolt ” warbler in the Melbourne revival of
“Trilby,” the locals were surprised to hear a compara-
tively feeble contralto sing the old ballad with a rather
slurred enunciation. The name of the young lady has
received about fifteen times as much advt. as Nagel got
at the outset of her “ Ben Bolt,” but the notoriety will
not be very valuable under the circs.
Regina Nagel’s first appearance in London (at the
Duchess of Somebody’s house) was a very gilt-edged
event, judging from tbe dainty little programme she sent
to her people Only nine “turns” altogether. Nagel
sang thrice, Melba sang twice, and the distinguished
fiddler, Johannes Wolff, gave three solos. The other per-
former was seemingly a lady singer of such high social
quality that only the name of her song was printed on
the card. Regina Nagel in writing home said she was
engaged to appear at a Melba concert in Dublin.
The musicians of Melbourne have taken steps to form a
union, to be affiliated with the Trades’ Hall. The need of
such a union has often been demonstrated in Melb. The
union should secure Prof. Hall as conductor, and commis-
sion him to boss the business with a baton like a young
gum-tree. Writer remembers a most striking instance of
disunion in a Melb. orchestra ; it occurred at a theatre
then under a thick blight, and being run by a manager
who was frost-bitten in ten places. No pay had been
forthcoming for some time, and the orchestra was at sixes
and sevens. Ha'f wanted to strike in the middle of a per-
formance, and the other half wished to play it out. The
difference of opinion led to an unearthly tumult; then
half the orchestra dived under the stage, issuing now and
again to drag the blacklegs after them. They got the
bass-viol engineer, but a flute, two fiddlers and a piano
remained after a siege lasting through a 20min. interval—
the most enjoyable interval ever staged in an Australian
theatre.
Eloise Juno, the clever actress whose Scotch accent has
the scent of the heather, the tang of haggis, and the
color of all the tartans in its musical cadence, is to be
benefited at Melb. Town Hall under the patronage of the
local Caledonians. The Scotch in Melbourne have good
sentimental cause to admire Miss Juno, for she has taught
a small army of girl pupils to turn the mither tongue
almost as prettily as she turns it hersel’.
“Snorter” : I must beg to be excused for “ overlooking
the fact that Hedda Gabler was a part quite new to Nance
O’Neil ” when she appeared as Ibsen’s heroine in Mel-
bourne. “ Edson ” tells you it was new to the large lady,
and I don’t say he is stating other than a fact, but I do
say that many pars, and some advts. re the production of
“ Hedda Gabler ” gave Miss Nance credit for having
“ played the part with success in America.”
A certain actress well-advertised in Australia was,
before going on the stage, a story-writer, and her queer
mannerism of chopping her sentences into three or four
words with a pause between each is attributed to her hav-
ing acquired the habit in dictating copy to an incompe-
tent type-writer.
When the spurious Lo Bengula, of Earl’s Court Exhi-
bition (London), married a Miss Jewel there was a great
outcry against the iniquity of a “ white lady ” of wealth
and education being allowed to ruin herself by marrying
a savage. Judging by recent accounts it was the savage
who got the Worst of the bargain. If Miss Jewel ever had
any wealth it seems to have dematerialised, as Lo Ben. is
now grafting as a stable-hand in Capetown, and has to
devote a considerable hunk of his miserable wages for his
wife’s maintenance. The lady has returned to England,
and writes to her husband affectionately as “ Dear Black-
chops ” 1
Re the rumors about Melba coming to Australia. She
won’t come. First of all, an artist of her salary (and
standing) can’t afford time. Lastly, there are too many
mad, sad, bad dogs of her old Bohemian days in Aus-
tralia, and she meets cadgers enough in London.
When a certain prima-donna made her contract with a
certain Australian manager she asked to be introduced
by him to the stars of the co. Five minutes after intro-
duction she called the gentlemen by their Christian
names. That was all right, of course—it’s sisterly, any-
where, at any time, to call a man by his Christian name.
Within 15 minutes of introduction, however, she began to
criticise the voice-production of each member of the co.
That didn’t do. That was grandmotherly. So the stars
put their heads together and, in revenge, christened her
“ Square Jane.”
Adelaide Critic, re the benefit given by Australian
mummers in London for the war-fund : “ The list of
names of Australian pro’s reads like a catalogue of blasted
hopes.”
Herr Slapofski, director of the Grand Opera Cos. that is
to caper and cry at Melb. Princess, has arrived. Slapofski
is a fine, confident sort of a name that appeals to this
continent slap off, so to speak.
A most scathing bit of criticism befell a Melbourne
contralto the other night. She had got going, and was
well on in the first verse when an agonised voice from the
audience yelled “ Police ! ”
When Charles Kenningham was in America at a bar
having a drink, he was accosted by a bunco-steerer.
“ Sir,” said the 8.5., “don’t you come from Manchester?”
“ I do,” answered Charles ; “do you know John Roberts
there?” “ Very well, indeed,” answered the B.S. “My
uncle,” said Charles. “ Oh, yes, of course,” said the B.S.
—“ of course.” They talked on for a while, till eventu-
ally the B.S. let Chas. K. into a secret—times were
hard with the B.S. and he wanted to give Charles his
watch as surety for the loan of 20 dol. “ No, thank you,”
answered Charles; “ you know a man too many for me in
Manchester. ”
If, as R.C. Archbishop Redwood said in
his recent dedication-sermon at St. Mary’s
Cathedral, Sydney, the members of other creeds
“in their inmost hearts respect the Catholic
Church ” —it is certainly not by reason of such in-
temperate, acrimonious and ill-timed assertions as
those made by the Archbishop on the occasion in
question. Said Dr. Redwood : —
Both the Greek schism and Protestantism have rather
obstructed than promoted true civilisation. The first has
brought despotism upon the East, the second covered
Europe with blood and ruins in the sixteenth century,
and has ever since been the helper and instrument of the
worst foes of Christianity. It desecrated the home, it
polluted the nuptial bed, it lowered the dignity of woman-
hood, it devastated the school and stopped the progress
of science.
In saying also that
The leaders and founders of Protestantism, Luther, Cal-
vin, Zwinglius, &c., were notorious for their vices
this foolish cleric fell miserably short of the
dignity of the magnificent occasion, and
placed himself upon a level with the rabid
and vulgar sectarians who sweepingly assert,
on the other side, that R.C. conventual in-
stitutions are mere sinks of immorality. And
such reckless charges as Archbishop Redwood’s
came, in any case, with an ill-grace from a member
of the church that recognised as her immaculate
and infallible head the monumentally and un-
naturally vicious Alexander Borgia. Also, even
were all these virulent charges against Protestant-
ism true to the letter, it is difficult to see what good
purpose was to be served by the rancorous reiteration
of them in the presence —as invited guests, too —of
the Governor of the State, and numerous other
prominent members of that faith. No intelligent
Protestant seeks to deny to the Roman Church
her due as a mighty moral influence in the world,
but the wwintelligent Protestant is not likely to be
shaken in his contrary opinion by pronouncements
which would in any circumstances have trenched
over - closely upon mere scurrility, and were
specially unbecoming to a noble opportunity. It
is needless to say that Dr. Redwood’s unhappy
remarks have caused much regret among the
liberal-Catholic section of the community.
The Brisbane, authorities lately called for
competitive designs for the erection of the local
hospital buildings, and the first prize (£400) in the
competition goes to a clerk in N.S.W. Public
Works Dept., whose capability is graded by the
P.S. Board at some £200 a year. When quite re-
cently the services of a draftsman were required
by the N.S.W. Govt. Architect he reported that
no one in the service could do the work he re-
quired, and he fought hard to get the billet adver-
tised in England. The P.S. Board, however, ob-
jected, and applications were called for locally.
The award of the Brisbane prize, in a competition
open to all-comers throughout Australia, to a
clerk under their very noses, is a rather nasty
reflection on the judgment of the Sydney officials.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that London advises that wheat has hardened by 6d. per
quarter, but that the simultaneous rise in freight effectu-
ally knocks it on the head. Millers have sufficient stocks
to last till next crop comes home. Quotations : Prime,
2s. 9d. to 2s. lOd. ; Good, f.a.q., 2s. 7d. to 2s. 8d. Chick-
wheat, 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d.
The biter bit. From Sydney Daily Tele-
graph
A well-known Sydney lady was going home in a George-
st. tram, carrying her purse ana purchases, on her lap.
Opposite sat a stylishly-dressed man, bearing on his finger
an exceptionally brilliant diamond ring. At a stopping-
place the car was besieged by passengers, and the lady,
transferring the purse from her lap to the pocket of her
jacket and gathering up her parcels, made room. In the
stir the diamond-wearer crossed over and sat alongside
her. At next “stop” he got off the tram and disappeared;
then the lady, when called upon for her fare, found that
her purse was missing. On reaching home, she put her
hand in the pocket and found the lustrous diamond
(worth £50) worn by the man in the tram. The police
have not yet been advised by the individual of his loss.
The point of this yarn, of course, is that the thief
found in the lady’s 25s. silver-bound purse nothing
beyond the usual four coppers and penny tram-
ticket.


THE WORD
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
SergesiTweeDs
on which it is stamped.
fox’s fure Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
. FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without, this stamp are not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tt,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makars of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Ssrgss, Tweads, Tennis and Costume
cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyinent for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was foumied
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
*
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
*
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, fydney.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING- ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and inert
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
rm
T*
Thom
ons
THE, MOST COMFORT A RLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE: CHEAPEST
JV. IS. —Old Model Corsets always in stocle.
“LA. KTOBLBSSE”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. ' Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-, Ld-, London-
flre you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MULING REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
«• COMMOJS SAX SIC EAlt DRUM.”
THE
DEA
HEAB
pOMPLETELY restore the
'~ y Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing- noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dav for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
-29 Collins Street, Melbourne
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
** PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN'S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from UdLUrt u 00., f/z uiarsnce street, oyaoey.
n
BEAD
MARK
LEAKA
“ I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
by my customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S. W.
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.”
PAUL WILKINSON, Chemist,
Maryborough, Vie.
“ We are pleased to inform you that the
two National Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. & CO., Butchers,
Toowoomba, Q.
INWARDLY DIGEST!
AND
mn
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up) of the
NATIONAL
Cash Register
TO
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
m
Tue Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the World.
DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
It has been proved beyond all doubt that nothing equals
& PERRINS’ SAUCE
THE MOST ECONOMICAL IN USE.
The Original Worcestershire.
. Agents— VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
LEA
Speculative Actions.
‘ A Democratic Lawyer ” to The Bulletin :
Much has been said lately, both in Australia and
England, about speculative actions, especially by big con-
cerns and corporations which have been badly hit by
means of them. An impression, in fact, has got abroad
that the phrase is a summary of a vile form of legal
swindling, that ought almost to be suppressed by the aid
of the criminal law. Any action in which plaintiff is
without means, and the solicitor taking up the case has
to depend for payment upon the result of the trial, is
classed as a speculative action. That there are cases in
which grave injustice has been wantonly done to innocent
defendants by this method of litigation goes without
saying ; but it is quite' another thing to denounce, as is
the common practice, all speculative actions, and to sug-
gest legislative remedies for their suppression. Such
actions, when of the evil type, when entered upon for
blackmail purposes by both" solicitor and client, really
come within the criminal law as criminal conspiracies ;
and if that law were strictly administered in such cases
we would seldom hear of a solicitor daring enough to risk
gaol over them.
That there are meritorious speculative actions is obvious
to anyone who will consider the matter fairly, and such
actions will continue as long as Justice remains—as
she does with us—open only to golden keys. In
fact, the staying-power of a heavy 7 purse is so
great in legal matters that almost every action by 7 a
poor man against a rich becomes, at one possible stage
or another, a speculative one. Many Judges have con-
demned such actions indiscriminately, as Melb. Age has
recently condemned them, after having been defendant
in a libel-case in which it appears to have been unable to
gain its costs from the defeated side.
But Eord Russell, the lute Chief-Justice of England, took
a saner view of the matter than either the Age or many
of his brother Judges both here and there. In an action
tried before him this y ar a plaintiff, who was too poor to
fight at his own expense, succeeded in recovering £l5O
damages. In delivering judgment, the L.C.J. said that
“he thought it right to say 7, on the part of the profession
and the class of persons who were litigants in such oases,
that if was perfectly consistent with the highest honor to
take up a speculative action in this sense—namely, that
if a solicitor heard of a client, and honestly took pains to
inform himself whether there was a bond-fide cause of
action, it was consistent with the highest honor of the
profession that the solicitor should take up the action.
It would be an evil thing if there were no solicitors to
take up such cases, because there was in this country ”
(and the same may, to our disgrace, be said of Australia)
“no machinery by which the wrongs of the humbler
classes could be vindicated. Law was an expensive
luxury, and justice would very often not be done if there
were no professional men to take up their cases, and take
the chance of ultimate pay'ment; but this was on the
supposition that the solicitor had honestly satisfied him-
self by careful inquiry that an honest cause existed."
This judicial utterance of such an eminent Judge is a
sufficient answer to those who declaim against honest
speculative actions; and the law of criminal conspiracy, to
say nothing of the law about “ ehampertous agreements ”
(e.g., agreements to “go whacks ” in the damages re-
covered), quite sufficiently meets the dishonest class of
cases.
The danger of legislation in such matters is very great,
and its only 7 tendency can be to further restrict the pos-
sibility of a poor man getting justice. At present his lot
is hard enough. He is frequently bludgeoned at the
threshold by the doctrine of “ security for costs,” and, as
a rule, he is prevented from appealing against a manifestly
unjust or biassed judgment by the same device; he is
relegated to the tender mercies of a second-class Court in
numerous classes of cases in which he could get “ prime”
justice if he were rich enough; he is exposed" to the
danger of imprisonment for technical offences, breaches
of “ tuppeny-ha’penny ” by-laws, &c., whereas his richer
co-defendant or neighbor gets off with a fine (this whole
system of fine with alternative of imprisonment is
viciously undemocratic, and should be uprooted in Aus-
tralia): he has to put up with an inferior and more
inquisitional form of insolvency than his compounding
richer trade rival; unless his case is worth £5OO and he
can give security for costs he can’t appeal to the highest
court available ; the virtue of his wife and daughters is
assessed at a lower rate by law than that of his wealthier
fellow-citizen ; and in a myriad other wavs he is on an
inferior footing before the law to the wealthy. The
wretchedly ineffective and degrading “ in fvrim pau-
peris ” system being practically worthless except in
divorce and a few other simple, cases, it would be nothing
short of forbidding most poor men from seeking justice at
all, even the inferior species he is allowed to have, if
“ speculative ” actions were, as many Judges and influen-
tial papers wish, forbidden altogether. Until Free Justice
is, as it ought to be, the law of Australia, speculative
actions must continue, and it is desirable, in the interests
of the ordinary citizen, that they should continue. '
What is alleged to he plague has turned up
in Glasgow—of course, from the docks. But
Glasgow, unlike Sydney, is municipally efficient,
and therefore fairly clean. Also, it is cremating
its bubonic dead.
Be that most persistent Jingo lie to the
effect that the Boers had been systematically pre-
paring for years and years—for as many as 20
years some of the stories have it —to make war on
Britain, here is an extract from a recent speech by
Dr. Jameson, the leader of the Raid. Jameson is
now a member of the Cape Parliament,
and he wants to show that he is really a sane
man who went into the Raid (at the beginning of
1896) with a fair chance of success, and not a
harum-scarum fool attacking a well-armed State
with 600 men:
At that time the Transvaal was not like the Transvaal
of to-day. Apart from the rifles in the hands of indivi-
dual burghers, the whole armoury of the Transvaal was
contained in the so-called Pretoria Fort, guarded by
three Staats artillerymen, and it.) sole protection was a
broken-down corrugated iron fence. Only a few days before
he crossed the border, Judge Kotze had told Mr. Newton,
with whom he was travelling, that, seeing and recognising
the serious discontent on the Rand then, he was on his way
to warn Mr. Kruger that, in his opinion, any night 150
Randites, armed with sticks, could march across to Pre-
toria, seize the Fort, and have the Transvaal in their posses-
sion. The Rand Revolutionists had more than that number,
not armed with sticks, but thoroughly well armed, and
thoroughly prepared to carry out that very project which
was to have come off on the very day he crossed the
border.
Either Jameson is an awful liar, or else the long-
planned Boer conspiracy is a lie, for by Jameson’s
version the Transvaal oijJv started its armaments
when the invasion of its territory in time of peace
had roused it to a sudden knowledge of its danger.
John Lee Hing, having departed to his
Chinese fathers from the precincts of Balmain
(Sydney), left of his goods and chattels so much to
his brother and so much to the same brother’s
sons. _ Now Lee Tuey, the brother in question, is
claiming his sons’ share also, on the plea that in
China what belongs to the son always goes to the
father, a son in that land always being a little
kiddie, as it were, so long as his male parent re-
mains alive. Instead of declaring that this law is
absurd and no more to be allowed in Australia
than the desire that an orthodox Jew might have
to follow the footsteps of Father Abraham in the
matter of wives, His Honor is going to consider
the matter, and try and discover definitely what
Chinese law says on the question. Two Chinese
men of wisdom who were called to aid His Honor’s
cogitations declare that in China there is no law,
no law books, no lawyers, so that even if Sydney
sent out a squadron to investigate the matter in
Pekin, where they have at present other things to
consider, there would be nothing to investigate.
It is simply an unwritten rule which prevails
because, to the Chow mind, any other rule would
be absurd and impossible, so apparently the Chief -
Justice isn’t likely to get .any further forward.
Still we are a curious race, We spend thousands
of pounds in forcing our religious or commercial
opinions on the Chinaman in his own land, yet
when John comes here the law spends a lot of
money in its anxiety not to let his customs be in-
terfered with. Apparently the Chow may be a
Chow everywhere except in China.


NOW OR NOT AT ALL!
TEE LAST 01!! SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER IS.
CLOSING OF THE GREAT BOOK SALE.
A Remarkable Opportunity is
Passing.
The end of the opportunity to share in the dis-
tribution of “ THE TIMES ” (London) Reprint
of the “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNIC A”
(9th Edition) made under “THE TIMES” un-
precedented offer to residents in New South
Wales is now almost at an end. The recent notice
published in these columns that not a great many
of these sets remained was sufficient to bring in a
large number of orders from those who had been
delayed in sending in their subscriptions; and it
is clear now that the entire allotment -for New
South Wales at the present special prices will be
taken up within the next few days. Intending
subscribers are therefore notified that if they wish
to take advantage of this opportunity they must
do so on or before Saturday, September 15th. The
arrangement made by “THE TIMES,” in virtue
of which it has been possible to bring down the
prices of the “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITAN-
NICA ” to a point within the means of all buyers
of books, has resulted in an unexpectedly large
number of subscriptions. Not only does every
delay in placing an order mean a greater delay in
receiving the volumes, but it will mean that the
subscriber will be shut out from “ THE TIMES ”
distribution altogether.
It was expressly stated from the first that this
offer was limited, and when the number of sets
which was originally arranged for distribution in
New South Wales have been taken no more can
be obtained at the present advantageous terms.
But subscrioers who send in their applications at
once are guaranteed that their orders will be
filled, if all the requirements are complied with,
providing that they are posted not later t an
Saturday, September 15th. The subscriber has
simply to send One Guinea with the order form
printed below legibly filled in, or his cheque in
full if he wishes to pay for the work at once. His
name will then be entered, and his set of the
“ ENCYCLOPEDIA ” forwarded to him at once
from Sydney. If he adopts the little-at-a-time
payment plan he has no further payments to
make beyond the first Guinea until after the com-
plete work is placed in his library.
The entire 25 volumes are delivered at one
time, carefully sealed in a metal-lined case. To
make sure of participating in “THE TIMES”
extraordinary offer, readers of The Bulletin
should see that their names are enrolled without
further delay. It is impossible to accept any
orders POSTED LATER THAN NEXT
SATURDAY. Those living at a distance who
wish to MAKE SURE that they will not be
shut out from this special offer may TELE-
GRAPH and SETS WILL BE RESERVED
FOR THEM, if the order, accompanied by One
Guinea, or Cheque for the full amount, is sent by
post at the same time.
4
One Last Chance!
If for any reason it should be inconvenient or
impossible for you to send a remittance with your
order TO-DAY, or to write us, you may have a
set reserved for you BY SENDING A TELE-
GRAM reading as follows : —“ ‘ The London
Times,’ Sydney. Reserve set * Encyclopaedia
Britannica ’; remittance follows by post.” And
sign your full name and address. In this manner
you can secure a set of the “Encyclopaedia,” pro-
vided you comply with the conditions of the sale
within 24 hours following the sending of your tele-
gram, or before the offer closes on Sept. 15th.
THE OFFER
Wfot fEitm
(LONTDOIXT)
TO SUPPLY
The Encyclopaedia gritannica
—AT—
Half-Price is at an End
' -»
lv
m
SNCVCLDFEIehcvc
fJ*lllTANNil?M'BniTT«N I MeRITftNNiABR|TAHNIc]
**ITAWWJU«*R‘TTA
lit
flp
IF
m
j : : i||
THE SPECIAL BOOK-CASE.
Eor the convenience of purchasers who have not sufficient shelf-room for the ENCYCLO-
x> arTiT A TVRTTANNICA, a compact revolving Bookcase has been manufactured, which will
to puX4rs if the rfNCYCLOpJiSDIA BRITANNICA only. It will be sold
for £3in cash, or for three monthly payments of One Guinea each.
What a Guinea Will D&.
In the public mind there exists an impression,
which years of advertising could hardly eradicate,
that the “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNIC A
is a costly work, that unless a man can afford to
draw a cheque for forty or fifty pounds he had
better not think of buying it. The table of prices
shows, on the other hand, what one guinea will
do.
One Guinea is the only preliminary payment to
be made by purchasers who avail themselves at
once of the novel plan of sale adopted by “THE
TIMES” for the distribution of “THE
TIMES ” Reprint of the Ninth Edition of the
“ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA.” The
prices, for monthly payments, are only one shil-
ling in the pound more than for payment.for cash,
and the purchaser has the use of the volumes while
he is paying for them.
The system assumes peculiar importance in con-
nection with the approaching withdrawal of the
offer on Saturday next. The reader may fully
appreciate the urgency of the case ; he may wish
to add his name to the roll of subscribers before
the list is closed, but it may not be convenient for
him to send a cheque for £l7 if he desires to_ pro-
cure a cloth-bound copy, or for £22 if he wishes
the half-morocco binding. Under the alternative
plan of payments by instalments he may secure
the advantage of the present, low prices upon the
payment of only one guinea. The order-form,
printed below, need only in that case be signed
and sent to “The Times” New South Wales
Office, Sydney, accompanied by a remittance for
one guinea. There is, however, no time to lose,
las the sale of the “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA B RI-
TANNICA ” at the present low prices will posi-
tively cease on Saturday, September 15, and will
not be renewed either at the present prices or any
other price.
An Admirable Investment.
The “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA” is
an admirable investment for three excellent rea-
sons. The three excellent reasons which combine
to recommend the “ Encyclopaedia ” are these :
In the first place, it is the very best thing of its
sort to purchase. The “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA ” has been recognised, ever since
the first edition was published in 1771, as the very
best work of reference in the world. It is easy
enougii to find more costly books, to purchase a
thousand volumes instead of only twenty-five, but
that thousand would be ill chosen if the twenty-
five volumes of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRI-
TANNICA” were not among them. It is not,
indeed, too much to say that no thousand other
volumes contain so great a proportion of the whole
sum of human knowledge as do these five-and-
twenty. Here, then, is one excellent reason why
the “Encyclopaedia” is the very best thing of its
sort.
In the second place, the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA” may at the moment be purchased
upon remarkably advantageous terms. The estab-
lished publisher’s price for the twenty-five volumes
in cloth binding is £37. “ The Times ” offers pre-
cisely the same work, unaltered and unabridged,
for seventeen monthly payments of one guinea
each, or for £l7 in cash less than half-priee.
This is another excellent reason, for everyone must
wish that the pounds and shillings one spends
should do their utmost in adding to the accumu-
lated wealth of the investor.
In the third place, the purchase of the “ENCY-
CLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA” does not involve,
on the one hand, ready money, nor yet, on the
other hand, the incurring of a vague debt which the
debtor may be called upon to pay when it is least
convenient for him to do so.
A preliminary payment of only one guinea in
cash will secure the delivery of the volumes.
After the delivery has been made other payments
of one guinea each become due at monthly in-
tervals. The purchaser of the “Encyclopaedia”
who adopts this novel and convenient system of
paying for books knows precisely when his pay-
ments should be made, and knows, too, that each
one of them is so inconsiderable as to make hardly
any strain upon a month’s income.
T&7ifi%)ovcLvy Prices until September ltZtTi Only*
pr- Sufficient provision has been
made for the filling of orders
promptly posted, but applicants
who hesitate may find that the
number of sets reserved for New
South- Wales has been exhausted,
and that the offer has been with-
drawn, without further notice.
CLOTH
BINDING
17 Monthly Payments of One Guinea, each
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £37]
£l7
HALF
MOROCCO
(Which we
recommend)
22 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order ,
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £4s]
£22
FULL
MOROCCO
29 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if CASH IN FULL accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding-, £6s]
£29
Jree of Cost as far as Sydney, where stock is carried temporanly.
Subscribers who
x v x in full with the
should e he h Bank of New^SoJth 'wales; sen™to
ORDER FORM—CASH PAYMENT.
i elect to send Cheque
order have the advan-
s required. Cheques
Tub Times (London),
snouiu ue urawu w 7, a j
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
ORDER FORM—MONTHLY PAYMENT.
(Date)
To the Manager, “The Times” (London), New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose One Guinea. Please send me “ The Times ” Reprint of tiie Encyclopaedia Britannica (9th Ed.)
BOUND
IN
{
(A) CLOTH, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you may ap-
point, 16 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
(b) HALF MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you
may appoint, 21 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
(c) FU LL MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you
may appoint, 28 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
[Strike out two of the
paragraphs marked a,
b, and c respectively,
leaving the one which
names the style of
binding desired.]
my next payment upon delivery of the complete volumes, and my succeeding payments on the corresponding day of
each month following. Until such payments are complete, I engage that the volumes remain your property, and
shall not be disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforseen circumstances, of which you
shall be the judge, the volumes cannot be delivered, the return of this deposit of one guinea to me shall cancel 'the
agreement.
Please also send a Revolving Bookcase, for which I agree to make three further monthly \
•payments of one guinea each, after the payments for the books are complete. J
Strike out if Bookcase
is not desired.
[Syd. Bul. ID. 161.]
If books are
carrier (rail or boat) in
Signed
Address
to be delivered elsewhere than in Sydney, the purchaser shall add here the name' of the
Sydney to whom delivery is to be made for forwarding.


“LAWRUS” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE had from all the leading drapers a storekeepers.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
<1
QuUititU)
nm
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, & 422, George St., Sydney.
JLllenburgs* Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In Providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs. ° INFANTS from
The *« AHenburys”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
The ** AHenburys ”
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of llle.
n
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition
hot water only.
The “ Allenhurys”
Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
N.. 3 Pood is th ‘ Ajed ’ “ d ■" ” «*« «»< *“"* d,C«.«d dl, t
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot. 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
TAILORING.
Spring & Summer Suitings.
OUR Hand, my Lad. Write for
HATTE’S SPRING and SUMMER
TWEEDS and COATINGS.
You will like them. Your Sweetheart
will like them.
Real Good Suits, with extra Pair of
Trousers, Indigo, Twill, Serge, and
Tweeds, £2 2s.
A Real Clinker Hand-Made Suit, Fancy
Worsted. Vicunas, Serges, and Serge-
rettes, £2 10s.
Best Hand-Made Suit, No Equal in Aus-
tralia, £3 3s.
Our Made to Measure Trousers, Indigo,
Serges, Tweed, and Sergerette, 9s 6d.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS AND SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
O. Gr. HATT E,
NEWTOWN, BYDNEY.
NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION.
To every purchaser of
one of our famous 4s.
6d. Paraguayan 14ct.
GOLD CHAINS (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on Pay-
ment of 6s. extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED, FULL-
DA Y, PERFECT
LEVER MOVEMENT,
SHORT WIND WATCH
wound and hands set
from stem, strong and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
We guarantee entire satisfaction. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICELIST, and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10s. 6d. and 6d.
for nostagre. H. POTIER & CO., 53 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
V-* ‘A‘ X C E.~
THE Magnificent Sedan Chair and Huge
Wedding Cake used by Mrs. Forbes Angus
in representing the A.B.C. Co., Ltd., at the Ball
in aid of the Hospital for Sick Children, will
be on view (as works of art) for a short time
at the
A.8.C., 156 Pitt-st., Sydney.
s
mn
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
nergy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
V.O. 00., 539 Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
HAVEE, Medical Clairvoyante, will receive Clients
DAILY on HEALTH ONLY—Fee, ss. If at any
listance, send lock of hair to 16 HOLDSWORTH STREET
off Wilson-street), NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUK ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
WATCH MANUFACTURERS
m
n
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
ART JEWELLERS, &c.
Solid Gold Extra Strong,
Japanese Good Luck, 20s.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d; 15c., 255.
With Monogram, 2s. extra.
9c., 13s 6d ; 15c.,
Silver, 3s pair
9c., 17s 6d ; 15c., 35s pair.
i\
Real Amethyst or Topaz
Links, extra strong, 5s pair.
Smaller size, 4s.
9c., 22s 6d ; 16c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
THE WORLD’S MOST
SERVICEABLE
r ONE PIECE’ Studs
AND CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. - PATENTED. - Unbreakable.
Section
Collar Stud
ActtMLl
Size
mn
Enlarged
_ Collar j
View of
Stud.
I Actual
Section
Shirt Stud <
Size.
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece’Studs.
1. Struck from single disc of metal—no solder.
2. Elegance and absolute uniformity of curve,atuist
S.—Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease
Suite of 3 Studs, 9c. Gold, 6/6, 9/-, 10/-.
15c. Gold, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-.’
18c. Gold, 14/6, 16/-, 18/6.
9c. Gold, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6.
15c. Gold, 7/-, 9/-, 10/6.
18c. Gold, 9/-, 11/6, 12/6.
Single Collar ’
. The Public are cautioned against vamped
up imitations of these Studs—clumsy—in
pieces, soldered together, but shaped to
deceive/and sold as the “ One Piece.”
WE HAVE ALSO A LARGE
SELECTION OF
DIAMOND, RUBY, SAPPHIRE,
PEARL, OPAL, and EMERALD SET
FRONT and COLLAR STUDS.
Prices Forwarded on Application.
Wild Boar’s Tusk, Gold
Mounted, 10s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d.
Please.
Send
for
Our
Illustrated Slips „/
Latest Novelties
SOUVENIRS of AUSTRALIAN FEDERATION
° u r Registered Design.
(■; 1
i
Solid Silver Souvenir SPOONS of Australian
Federation.
We have an Immense Variety.
Coat of Arms, Beautifully Enamelled, and Bowl
Embossed with Statue of Captain Cook, 13s 6d.
m
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy,
255.
Solid Silver,
| Extra
Heavy,
7s 6d.
FEDERATION AND BROOCH
(Registered).
nm
Federation SHIELD,
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
Plain, 12s 6d.
FEDERATION
BROOCHES.
Sterling Silver .. 3/6
Enamelled Silver 5/-
Solid Gold .. 13/6
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver .. 2/6
Enamelled Silver 6/-
Solid Gold ... 12/6
MANUFACTURED
• AND
OBTAINABLE
ONLY FROM US.
Federation LINK,
Solid Gold, 25s pair.
With Name or Monogram.
Iff
Finely Enamelled Silver, ss.
Plain Solid Silver, 3s.
FEDERATION HAT PIN,
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
n
PLAIN BOWL, 12s 6d ; MOTTO BOWL, 13s 6d.
SOLID SILVER FEDERATION SOUVENIR SPOON.
Gold Boomerang and
Real Opal Heart, 40s pair
9c., 19s ; 15c., 355.
Silver, 4s.
Solid Gold, 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
mn
9c., 108 6d, 12s 6d ;
15c., 25s pair.
All Goods
Post Free
to any
Address,
Gold and Real Opal,
17s 6d ; with Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
9c., 20s ; 15c., 37s 6d
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
9c., lls 6d, 12s 6d ;
15c., 255.
Good Fortune and
Enamelled Chrysanthemum,
27s 6d pair.
9c., 17/6, 20/-; 16c., 35/-, 40/-.
With Monogram, 2/6 extra.
Uk., 22s 6d ; 15c., 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
THE ABOVE FOUR PATTERNS, 9c. Gold
I, 12s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 265.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c., 21s ; 15c., 355.
Silver, 4s pair.
Bey 20s ; 15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
ear Bulletin.—A paragraph in recent
Womans Letter” spoke of Mr. Lincoln as the
senior partner m the Melb. outfitting business of
Lincoln and Stuart. Said L. and S. has for some
years been a limited co. with a Bank in the back-
ground, and Frank Stuart as chairman and
managing director. The present Lincoln is not
on the directorate. —Tailor.
In connection with the alleged decrease
of plague, a suspicious feature has cropped up of
late m the Northern towns of Queensland.
lJoctors have been treating cases in Cairns and
Townsville of a disease which could not be
classified. It is now averred by medical authori-
ties of aforesaid towns that the said sickness is
really a variety of plague known as “minor
lt is cheerful to learn that there have
P. een many cases under observation for some
time.
Sudden Solomon had at least fair ground
for his motion of censure on S.A. Premier Holder,
and but for the fact that nobody could stand the
prospect of the Sudden One as Premier it might
have been carried. Last year Geo. Brookman
donated to the province £15,000 for a School of
Mines, and Holder, distressed by expenditure in-
curred in shooting at complete strangers in Africa,
the great idea of including it in his revenue,
and thereby changing a deficit of £12,500 into a
surplus °f £l5OO. This year, of course, the money
will have to be disgorged to build the School of
Mines, so it was only a poor little fake to make
the. accounts look square. Holder said he had to
do it in order that Parliament should have control
of the expenditure. In that case the honest course
was to include the £15,000 in this year’s receipts,
so that the expenditure would fall in the same
year.
Dear Bulletin.— Despite the “injunc-
tion” forbidding rifle - practice at Randwick
(Sydney) Range, firing has since been going on
pretty well as usual. Not a very decent thing
for a Govt, to set the example of gross defiance of
the Supreme Court.—H.S.
In a Nineteenth Century article Edmund
Barton is described as “ The Federal delegate
from Victoria.” How much these Imperialists
know about “the Empiah 1 ”
Re WalterGriffiths, M.P., who was so highly
praised by Kingston for his work in England on
behalf of the W.A. Separationists and the un-
mutilated Commonwealth Bill:
• was u t when he died. He had been seven years
in S.A. Assembly and looked the strongest and most stal-
wart, as he was undoubtedly the handsomest, of its mem-
bers. When elected he was the youngest local legislator
™ even now Lieut. Roberts (with the Bushmen in
S Africa) and editor Denny of the Adelaide Catholic
weekly are his only juniors. “ Grif ” was a straightfor-
ward, independent, kind-hearted fellow with an
innate gift of “persuasion,” and had he lived
he would have taken a very leading position. Once
he owned the Port Darwin paper in partnership
with Opposition leader Solomon, and it is likely
that his Parliamentary successor will be a present
owner of the same little weekly. Griffiths was
a bachelor who had always plenty of money at command,
and he was full of courage and energy. Twice, in con-
nection with electioneering tours, he travelled overland
between Port Darwin and Adelaide (2000 miles), and in
addition to his recent federal journey to England he had
done Japan and the East. There was genuine grief right
throughout the province at his death, and this was sym-
bolised in Parliament by a sudden adjournment on
Tuesday night, when the news became known, until
the next Tuesday afternoon—a course only previously
paralleled m the case of the sudden and tragic death of
Lands Minister Gillen.
Re the recent Sydney Italian function
over the death of King Umberto, Mr. F. Sceusa,
of Sydney, has issued a forcibly-written indict-
ment of the House of Savoy, in the rule of which
according to him, Italy has but .found a consoli-
dated despotism in place of the various petty
tyrannies which her unification abolished. Be
that as it may, there is no doubt that the present
social and economic troubles of the country repre-
sent a dreadful price to pay for the sentimental
satisfaction of calling herself “Italia Una’’and
taking nominal rank as a “ Great Power.”


NEVER FREE FROM PAIN
Till the Panacea was bought
Which soon restored his health.
The Om« of
MR. C. J. LENTON.
(by our reporter.)
Our reporter was specially commissioned
to take a journey to Redfern and find out
if the information received about Mr.
Lenton’s sufferings from neuralgia, and
subsequent cure by Clements Tonic, were
exactedly as had been stated, and on alight-
ing from the tram he walked down Elizabeth-
street until he reached No. 30, where, upon
entering, he was met by Mr. Lenton, who
good naturedly commenced a conversation
on the subject of his neuralgic troubles.
“I can trace the origin of my neuralgia to i
a cricket match in which I took part on the
Redfern Park, between eight and nine years j
ago. I have good cause to remember the ,
occasion. It was on a Queen’s Birthday, !
and a dreadful day it was for playing
cricket. The weather was bitterly cold, and
we were running about and standing at
intervals in the mud. My feet got wet, and
I sustained a severe chill into the bargain.
Those were the days when I was a member
of the Surrey United Cricket Club, which I
belonged to for about sixteen years, and had
the honour of acting as captain and secretary
for a portion of that time. But the majority
of young fellows never think of the risks :
they run of catching various complaints
when a game of cricket is at stake, and I
suppose I was like the rest of them. Those
trophies you see over there represent many
a happy hour on the cricket-field; but I
have spent many a painful one indoors
through playing.”
“ Were you attacked suddenly?”
“Yes; it did not take very long to
develop, and there was no chance of mis-
taking it for toothache, the pains being so
acute that they would dart through my head
with agonising persistence. If ever there
was a brief lull in the torturing shafts that j
I was a victim to, there was always a dull
headache instead. I was never free from
pain, and my jaws became so badly affected
that I could not eat with any degree of
freedom. That did not prove a great hard-
ship, because I was always afraid of eating
in case it might start the neuralgia at work
again. On retiring to bed at night I would
hoodwink myself into the belief that sleep
would drive the enemy away; but to my
utter disappointment and dismay there was
very little rest for me, and I would harness
myself up for business in the mornings with
great reluctance, feeling tired, weak, and
miserable. My face was a good index as to
my condition, for it became haggard and
drawn, and bore the imprint of torture on
every outline. I had always been a strong,
healthy man, and the way I was falling off
used to cause me a deal of anxiety. I often
wished it was toothache instead of neuralgia,
because I would have every one of them
drawn out, if necessary, to get rid of the
pain. It was only to be expected that
under these trying circumstances it would
bake very little to make me irritable, and I
ould not attend to the duties of a superin-
endent of an infants’ Sunday school with
is much good grace and pleasure as I do
iow. As time dragged wretchedly on, the
excruciating pains became worse, and I must
confess that I considered it was owing to
ny teeth getting very bad. I could feel
;omething forming on the left corner of my
lips, which made me feel very depressed. I
could not make out what it was, but it
added greatly to my neuralgia pains when-
■ver I tried to force myself to eat.”
“Were you making any effort to get rid
it the neuralgia?”
“Well, rather; I gave nearly every
uixture and pill I knew of a trial; but they
proved to be rank failures. Not one of
them gave me relief or ease from pain. I
could have done just as well vftthout them
—in fact, better, because they all cost
money, you know. It is some considerable
time ago now, and X am not quite suje how
it came about—whether it was through
something I had read or not; but I think an
acquaintance told me Clements Tonic
would cure me, and sure enough it did. I
was in the same state as a drowning man
catching a straw; I had in vain taken so
many alleged remedies, but all were unable
to release me from pain. I found that
Olements/Tonic would fix me up after taking
a reasonable course of it, for there was a
marked decrease in my agony when
only a few doses had been taken. I used to
take it as though I was thirsty, knowing
that it was only a question of a little time
when it would put me to rights. As the
pain became less and less I could sleep much
better; then I had more of a craving for my
food. About the end of the first bottle the
neuralgia was conquered, and the restless,
nervous feeling which had enshrouded my
existence for so long was supplanted by my
usual calm and steady disposition. In due
course I could command a sound night’s
rest, and would get up and enjoy my break-
fast in the morning. Headaches and their
depressing influences were quickly made
strangers to me, and when the third bottle
was placed by the side- of its empty
predecessors I was fit to play cricket in the
mud again; although my prudence will deter
me from running the risk of a repetition of
my suffering.”
“Have you been free from neuralgia ever
since?”
“I am thankful to say that I have ; but
the growth under the tooth which I have
previously referred to was a cancer, and last
Christmas I had it cut out. I spent the
whole Of that day in bed, so yon may
depend I did not enjoy myself. The
operation was very trying to my strength,
but a bottle of Clements Tonic soon brought
back my energy, and all that remains of the
cancer now is a feeling as though a plaster
of ice was put on the side of my face when I
go out into the cold. I can honestly say
that Clements Tonic performed a radical
cure of my neuralgia, and I may also state
that when one of my sisters was almost
paralysed through a domestic affliction
which, occurred, it was with the same
remedy that we brought her round. My
wife has every reason to speak in the
highest terms of its wonderful strengthening
atti’ibutes, for she is indebted to Clements
Tonic for bringing back her strength after a
serious mishap. When anything goes
wrong in the way of sickness it is the first
thing we go for. We have so much faith
in its reliability. I have lived in Redfern
and Waterloo for about thirty-five years
altogether, and you may guess I am very
well-known.”
“Can we publish the opinion you so
candidly express?” .
“Certainly you can; and you may publish
over the country as you desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Charles Joseph Lent on, of 30 Elizabeth-street,
Redfern, Sydney, in the colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I
have carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of four folios, and consecutively numbered from
one to four, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any wav my statements—which 1 give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
vear of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled An
Act for the more- effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affirmations taken and made in the various Depart-
ments of the Government of New South W ales, and to
substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and f °?
suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.”
CrL>>
Declared at Waterloo, this 30th day of July,
ie thousand nine hundred, J>p>
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
v*-
fPT- *
ftk
&
pV
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
hot weather,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
LA.DIBS !
—' Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales ... 1
lturbers’ Supply House '
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
US}' THIS IS TUB LATEST? TYPE I
GRAMOPHONE-0*
ZONOPHONEI
■&
J3AKUAIIND l
Coin Slot graphophone £c
Same as formerly, £lB.
Gem Phonograph, 30/-
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try !
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT!
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMiPETITIOW. -
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware of substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELIC;OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling, the
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours : —Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth,W.A.&6B, King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
m
USE
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONER’S
fn %
IWTENT LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED RIOSW
s,***%»**•»*» *+■+
t* •*»•*«
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical
n
m
W 4
7a
o
UJ
>st
f*' 2*
UJ
«.o
\fi
/2s
vs
v^\
j§\^o
2-
©
r>
i
Great Britain & the Colonies
Catharticum Pills Purely %rubic,
COACUUNE •
Transparent Cement. for ail Broken Articles
r GOUT V
PILL S.
FOR GQUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, Loudon, England. Sold bv all
chemists and stores throughout th
Australian Colonies.


“M" : Be Oapt. Hixson. Once, when a
member of N.S.W. Naval Brigade, I was pre-
sent at an inspection by that ancient mariner;
after having carefully and liberally Brunswick-
blacked the scabbard of my cutlass. Struck with
admiration at its exceeding brightness, the
captain seized it in his white-gloved hand, and
asked how I had “got it up so well.” I blush -
ingly let him into the secret, and after compli-
menting me he essayed to let go, only to find that
the scabbard had stuck to aforesaid white kid.
The Brunswick-black was wet, and for some time
after “The Naval Officer commanding” was
full of strange oaths.
“Myaringa”: Re the Boxer trouble in
China. I .asked a local Chow to testify, and said
he —“Good Chinaman alonga my countlee allee
same Englishman ; Boxer, him a , allee
same Ilishman.” A bit rough on Murphy and
Hooligan, whose morals are generally fairly cor-
rect, even if they themselves are occasionally
“ agin the Guv’mint.” Same Chink (a tobacco-
grower) thus summed up Li Hung Chang : “ Him
too muchee sabee ; him allee time tell um lie ; him
allee same The blank represents a
local dealer in “leaf,” who also makes advances
on crop at “ tenpershent ” (the Chow’s generic
term for interest). Apropos, I don’t know how
said interest will be calculated this year, which
contains 13 months by Celestial reckoning, “ allee
same lip-year.”
Field-Marshal Lord Roberts will be 68 on
30th Sept. His birth-place was Cawnpore, India.
Canon Robinson in his new book on
Nigeria, tells how the boys of St. Mary Redcliffe
School, Bristol, were asked a short time ago to
write an essay on a British colony. One of them
wrote as follows :
Africa is a British colony. I will tell you how England
makes her colonies. First she gets a missionary; when
the missionary has found a specially beautiful and fertile
tract of country, he gets all his people round him and
says : “ Let us pray,” and when all eyes are shut, up goes
the British flag ! ”
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMJEJDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful ii/'lence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chestjit.is ‘invaluable as it eecs» a 1 ® n co ™*
Soreness ID tno Attiesu, experience ucngnnui mm mmieuid.te icntii , turn lu wiiu die tu vumo wit uajo vxivov ” . 7 ~ • j. j i n •%
fortina in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Oonsump ion as
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is genera ysu cien ,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAI' HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, Emrland, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above: —
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
- “ Derghohn, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cou h has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfullv,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria."
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.’
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quiokly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
• ■
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAIIILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses. —C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody. S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
©
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS,. ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the ohild being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I hid, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QDARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G.-HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold hy Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Co» of
(M M I TED),
DA.3PTO (Lalte Illawarra), uear SYDIXTEY'
Smelting
Australia
SMELTERS,
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
rr
msemmm
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWABEA”
..BKAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER T.TIAT> BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbeiig, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Maetin Place, SYDNEY.
> “ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
food fob
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER'S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Go., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by «
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
| AND
THE AGED.


Saved from the Jams of Death.
_ '
A BILE BEAN MIRACLE.
Skilled Physicians Baffled. Patent Medicines
utterly failed. Case corroborated by
Justices of the Peace, Friends and
Neighbors.
It is safe to say that no testimonial has ever been printed in any paper in Australia or England
which gives such convincing proof of a marvellous cure being effect-- by a t l3 ’J' ® ° n , 6 we P u
lish from Mrs. Maria Weekes, of Springfield, Eugowra, New South Wales. That lady has been liter,
ally rescued from the jaws of death by Bile Beans for Biliousness, and it is the positive duty, not only
of those who are ailing, but of the medical profession, to carefully read her symptoms and perceive the
miraculous cure achieved by the world’s renowned remedy, Bile Beans for Biliousness.
The following is what Mrs. Weekes says in a letter dated May 26th, 1900
“ About thirty years ago I first commenced to suffer with indigestion. ®^ ing f^ h^® rnbl |
pains in my chest, like a heavy weight pressing down, accompaniedbya fullness 1
began to get pains in the back and side which were almost unbearable, and bursting headacheswouia
follow f tried manv remedies for these complaints, but none of them did me any good, as time
“„t on I to get wo«i end nearly Sways felt tired and
worse, and everything I would take seemed to give
me no permanent relief. I consulted the best doc-
tors in Parkes, Forbes, and Canowindra, but it was
all the same. The doctors seemed unable to un-
derstand my complaint, and dozens of times I have
been at death’s door. Everything that could be
thought of was done for me, and almost every con-
ceivable remedy and treatment was resorted to,
with the same result. Hundreds of pounds have
been spent with doctors and in medicines to cure
me, yet I was compelled to suffer on.
“I was recommended to try your Bile Beans for
Biliousness, but had little faith in any medicines,
having tried so many. However, I thought I
would give them a trial, and am now right glad
that I did, for after I had taken a few boxes I
began to feel better in every way. I resolved to take
a thorough course of the Beans, and after taking
ten boxes I passed two gall stones, and, would you
believe, after taking eleven boxes I passed over
fifty gall stones. This, accompanied by severe
liver trouble, must have been at the root of my suf-
ferings, and nothing but Bile Beans made the won-
derful change in me. I now take an interest in
life, have more energy and ambition ; in fact I fee^
(Appearance of the Only Genuine.)
/JL
M
7L/OUSNES.
Cure Headache. Constipation, inaiges
tion, Liver Affections, Dizziness, Pile*
and clear the complexion
1/1
Per Sox.
Pills A
PRICE
A DOSE-i to 3 PxllS <
at Bedtime. ...o'
© of inu
OR
each
a
,
A
SWT
-*-V
f
1
a»
(Photo, of Mrs. Maria Weekes.)
a different woman altogether, which I truly owe to your Bile Beans. Everyone in this
town can certify to my illness and cure by the Beans, and I know they will be pleased to
endorse my statements, which are nothing but the truth. Before I post this to you, 1
will ask some of the residents here to read what I have written and sign below.
“Yours gratefully,
“We can also certify that the above
statements are true — ~ •
Jg
iL-
+4Lmci ti/Ljjm
The enormous success of this
preparation the world over is the
best possible proof of its great
worth. Millions use Bile Beans
annually, and thousands say they
are an undoubted specific for
biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, bad blood, pimples, piles,
costiveness, dizziness, fullness
after eating, influenza, rheuma-
tism, debility, and for a general
toning of the system. Obtainable
at all chemists’ and storekeepers,
13|d. per large box ; or from the
Australian Depot, Bile Bean
Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
“Sandy.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* Twas silver Morn ; the Sun new-born
On damask couch slept, young yet;
While East afar the Morning Star
As pale as passion hung yet.
The Soutli Wind urged a surf that surged
Across the long reef roaring—
White flying flecks, then o’er our decks
A great green sea came pouring !
But wreck nor wraith I feared ; my faith
Was oystered to the skipper ;
No captain he from oversea,
No first mate of a clipper; '
No master bold in braid and gold,
No drawling, deep-sea dandy ;
But well he knew the game, and through
He brought her dripping—“ Sandy ! ”
A little man, whose whiskers ran
One color and another ;
With eyes sea-blue —no guile they knew—
A comrade and a brother !
The wheel hard-gripped, toshirt-sleeves stripped,
He coaxed her like a lover —
A starboard-roll—(God save your soul !)
Sky-high . . . Hull-down, and Over.'
Eh, Sandy ! when—like mortal men—
I’ve preached my last sea-sermon,
On Charon’s boat, sans hat arid coat,
I trust that ye’ll be there, mon,
To steer that bark ! and down the dark
And narrow, roaring river,
When at the bar we stand, afar,
The proper “ tweest ” ye’ll give her.
’Twill be flood-tide. My soul beside
Your brave soul may be standing;
I’ll trust in you to pull her through
And make the Heavenly Landing.
Then down the stream we’ll drift and dream
And fill our pipes together;
Surf, storm, and wind for aye behind,
In pleasant steaming-weather.
We’ll wet our “ clay ” what-time the day
Breaks o’er the Land of Wonder ;
And we’ll converse o’ bards and verse,
And ships and seas Out Yonder.
Q.
E. J. BRADY.
Convict and ex-pugilist, William King,
lately sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment, is
already in trouble again. For concealing a piece of
slate m his cell he has been sentenced in the
Pentridge Star Chamber to six months in irons
and eight days’ solitary—cumulative on the 10
years. King, mainly a result of Victoria’s un-
scientific “system,” is now a dangerous maniac,
and the infliction of “ solitary ” on such a being is
merely to turn his mania towards homicide.
Mother and the Kids:
TO BE READ QUICKLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At six in the morning mother begins : “Jack, are
you up yet? -Well, get up then or I’ll shift you
with the strap—this blessed fire—l can’t light it—
Rube, bring some shavins or I’ll break your neck.
There’s the baker—take the bread first. Bert—
Bert! —why don’t you answer me? Aren’t you
dressed yet?—hurry up then and bring some water
for this kettle. Rube ! I don’t want them now
the fire’s alight—fill this kettle and put it on the
fire. Bob, leave that pup alone and get your
boots laced or I’ll thrash you. There’s the
milk —and not a clean jug in the house! Quick —s.
the man’s waiting—get it in anything. There’s
the dipper—that’ll do. Put it on the table and
shut that door —confound it!
“jack ! Hold this pan and don’t let the meat
burn. Watch that toast and tell me when the
kettle boils. Look what you’re doing, now —or I’ll
smack you on the ear. Rube, look at that fowl
on the table —at the bread ! shoo shoo —
There !—the only butter-dish is broken ! Who
left that door open? Rube, why didn’t you
put that bread away ? Did I tell you? (“No.”)
You’ll contradict me, will you ? Take that, and
that, and that. Lay still—stop howling (biff) or
I’ll murder you —stop, stop !! (biff) —now go out-
side. Bert, pick up that broken glass and throw
it outside and don’t cut your fingers. Bob ! Bob !
Where’s that kid? Bob—l’ll make you come
quicker another time—did you clean your father’s
boots ? Take them into him then. Is that boil-
ing ? Empty the teapot then. Quick ! your
father’ll be late. Come on, Dad; sit down—
your breakfast’ll get cold. The milk’s in the
dipper. Jack, see if the paper’s come yet.. Well,
you fool— bring it in, your father wants it; shut
that door and roll up the window-blind, some of
you, so your father can see. Stick a pin in it then
—what a fool the kid is ! Back out of the
road and come down—l’ll do it myself.
Bring the teapot off the hob and don’t scald
yourself. Now find your father’s hat and tucker-
bag. That’s not his working-hat; find the other.
Now go an’ get washed the lot of you. Here,
Jack, get that letter off the mantelpiece—don’t
knock those vases down —and give it to your
father to post. It’s no good that way—get a
stamp out of the clock, and put one on it, and see
you don’t stop the clock. I dunno where the soap
is —go and look for it. Here, you boys blacken
your boots before you wash Bert, find some
paper, to wrap your father’s lunch in. Bob, how
many times have I told you not to blacken your
boots on the dooi’step. Pick up that school-book
—think I’ve got nothing else to do but buy you
books to throw about on the floor ! Take it off
the dinner-table, and put it in your school-bag.
Hunt that fowl out —shoo ! —and shut that door.
Aren’t you washed yet ? Hurry up, then, or
you’ll get no breakfast. There! your father
hasn’t taken that letter now—Jack, see you take
it when you’re going to school —don’t forget it,
or I’ll hammer you. Sit up in your places,
now, and get your breakfast. Did you
comb your hair, Bert? well, go an 1 do
it. Bob, take your elbows off the table—
Jack, don’t be feeding that pup under the table.
Have you done your breakfast, Bert ? Well, go
an’ feed the fowls. Rube, what have you got
your hand to your head for ? —let me see . Well,
you shouldn’t be a naughty boy, an mother
wouldn’t beat you. Never mind, there s a penny
to buy some crackers with. Bob, take that collar
off and put a clean one on. Rube, you get your
bag out. Jack, where’s your hat ? Have you got
that letter? All right, now—off you go to school.
It’s half-past 8, and you’ll be late again, brood -
bye, Jack—good-bye, Bert—good-bye, Bob—good-
bye, Rube (kisses him); there, mummy didn t
mean to hit you so hard. Run off to school, now,
like a good boy. Shut the front gate and don t
let the pup out. Good-bye, all. Well, 111 have
a cup of tea meself now.
“THE BEGGAR."
Works Minister O’Sullivan calculates that
N S W. will lose £lOO,OOO over the Breelong com-
mando. “Jimmy” De Wet may be responsible
for a financial panic. Already he has delayed
shearing at several sheds.
J.J.8.” :Be capital punishment. Apro-
pos the execution of the Boer Lieut. Cardua, an
article in July Sckibnek’s on “ The Boer as a Sol-
dier ” has this: “In the whole history of these
farmer Republics, no white man has ever been
executed under sentence of law.”
The committee of the Sydney Sick Chil-
dren’s Hospital (now in existence for 30 yeais) is
making a powerful appeal for funds to increase
the endowments and to complete the new build-
ing : and to this end has issued a handsome little
pamphlet, embellished by interesting photographs
illustrative of the good work the institution is
doing for the small sufferers of the community.
Of the £25,000 needed for the building-fund, Miss
Eadith Walker and Mr. Percy Faithfull have
already subscribed £lOOO each ; and towards the
endowment-scheme (100 cots at £3O a
at present anonymous, has undertaken to plank
another £lOOO. Good examples in a good cause !
Fourteen members of Victoria’s House of
48 Rich Landlords went to their constituents the
other day, and all came back unopposed. There
wasn’t a contest in the whole State. Only about
2000 male Victorians are eligible for a seat m the
House of Landlords under the strict property,
age, and other qualifications. When you deduct
from the 2000 those who don’t care for polities,
those who are too old to go out at night, those
who can’t spare the time to stay in Melbourne,
those who won’t work at politics without pay,
those who are too ambitious to go into a House
which offers no political career, those who are in
the Assembly or mean to try to get there, and
those who are too ill, there are about two men to
choose from for each seat. The House of 48 Rich
Landlords claims to be a representative House
because it nominally speaks for 130,000 electors.
This certainly looks liberal for an Upper House.
But even if every adult man and woman in the
State had a Council vote, the 48 Rich Landlords
will not be representative of anybody except
2000 Tory landlords while the choice of the elec-
tors is restricted to these 2000 Tory landlords.
Suppose it was enacted in an almost wholly Pro-
testant country that every Protestant should have
a vote, but only Roman Catholics should be eli-
gible to sit in Parliament! That mostly-Pro-
testant-elected Parliament would be just as repre
sentative of the Protestants who created it as the
Tory House of Landlords is of its largely-Liberal
constituents.
A Histrionic Hit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had just finished my morning’s hospital-work
when another out-door patient was announced,
and in walked Joe Wilson. Poor Joe! I had dis-
charged him improved, but with incurable con-
sumption, some nine months before, and had re-
quested him to let me know how he got on, should
the chance occur—more to keep up his hopes than
from curiosity as to his ultimate fate, which was
in other hands than mine.
Anyhow, in he walked—the same short-breathed,
hollow - eyed, sunken - cheeked, rough - haired,
decent fellow as before.
“Hello, Joe,” said I, “stillon top?”
“Oh, yes, still movin’. I thought as I was
passin’’ through I’d come in and report myself,
same as I promised I’d do.” And then he stopped
to breathe and make up his arrears of oxygen.
“Well, Joe, I’m glad to see you. But what-
ever have you done to keep skin and bone together
since I saw you last ? ”
“Oh, I’ve been doin’ well, I ’avewhy, I ve
been engaged at the theayter, gettin’ 25 bob a-
W 6“ Joe has turned liar ! ” I said to myself, for he
looked the last man likely to have been doing
well or to have thrown up an appointment.
“ At the theatre !” I said incredulously.
“ Yairs.’”
“ What theatre ? Where ?
“ At the Princess in Melbourne, I was.”
“ And whatever were you engaged at ? Scene-
shifting ? You could never do that.”
“ No; I weren’t scene-shifting —I was hactin !
“Acting! You! Good Lord, Joe; do you
think I’ll swallow that ? ”
“ Well, it’s quite true, an’ no mistake.”
“What were you acting, then ? ” . . , .
“Well, I wor hactin’ in them there livin pic-
tures. Them there affairs with naked wimmen
standin’ on pillors bein’ statoos and sich like.
“Joe ! ” I gasped—* 1 adecent, respectable dying
man like you, mixed up in such things ? ’’
“ Oh,” he said, “ I wasn’t in them. I had a pic-
tur’ all’to myself—one called * Down on his Luck.
There wor a scene of the bush on the stage, and a
fire and a billy—and a swag. And then I had to
sit near the fire, with my hand on my chin and my
elbow on my knee, and gaze into the nre, and look
miserable. They hunted all round town for the
most miserablest-lookin’ cove they could find,
thev struck me ; and, my Gawd ! I wos the bloke
right enough. I didn’t want no dressin just
went on as I wos, and took the part nat’ral-like.
I tell you, that wos an easy-earned 25 bob.”
I mentioned that the company had gone to
Sydney. , , .
“ Yairs,” continued Joe ; they wanted me to
go over with them, because they didn’t think there
wos such another miserable-lookin’ bloke in Hors-
tralia, but I wos afraid of the trip, and stayed in
Melbourne.”
Then Joe went away, and I met him no more.
I hope his miserableness is still bringing him in
255. somewhere.
R.I.P.


NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep!
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
WILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Pr. CLARKSON’S
RE-IN VI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
(diarged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
(rvous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts ; to
such men Electricity and the Re-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
s
V
O
m
m
Zsi
r>
y4l
©
se
v W i'
IsSP
ill
:. |l'!
si <W
7/m
m
(f.y.r
'VVS
TT FILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BOPY BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE: ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles£l
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
Call if you Can. If not, let
Call or
Apply:
mn
CUT
RATE
m
Cut-Rate Price List Post Freo on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Tragedy of a Bay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
“ How long will he live, doctor ? ”
“Possibly three or four hours.”
The speakers were standing on the verandah of
a plain wooden house in West Queensland.
Around were the usual rough buildings of a cattle-
station. It was the middle of summer and the
hottest part of the afternoon. The iron roof over-
head gave down a baked heat, and puffs of hot
wind stole in gaspingly from the outside.
I suppose, said the first speaker—a grey-
eyed, fair-haired woman of about three-and-
twenty—“it would be too soon to start the men
digging a grave ? ”
Ihe doctor he was “ doctor ” only by courtesy
—looked hard at his companion for a few moments.
Then he spoke.
Unless you want your name made a by-word
throughout the district as the woman who had her
husband s grave dug for him before he was dead,
I should advise you to postpone it awhile.”
“What do I care for the boors of this district ?
All I want is to get out of it as soon as possible.
For nearly two years have I lived in this purga-
tory ! ’’—and she waved her hand contemptuously
at the surroundings.
As to the “ purgatory,” she was right. Life on
an outside cattle-station is a purgatory to any
young woman not born and bred to such an exis-
tence. Poor Jack Sutton, now stretched on his
death-bed, should have known better than to bring
a wife, fresh from the«city, to such a colorless life.
But he was in love, and he labored under the
delusion that she was so likewise, and would
therefore cheerfully put up with a little discom-
fort for his sake. Up to the time he lay para-
lysed, awaiting death, he had fondly hugged this
delusion, although any of his old friends could, if
so minded, have undeceived him. One especially.
In reality Mrs. Sutton pitied herself deeply as a
tricked and injured woman, detesting her husband
as the cause of all her ills. She was a woman who
would always have detested a husband; she only
cared for a lover. Handsome, half-educated, vain
and sensual, but with a magnetic power of which
she was not completely aware, she had been
under the impression that scpiatters lived in
palatial buildings, embowered in orchards, with
attendant servants, carriages and horses. The
awakening was too rude.
The accident which had doomed her husband
was, like so many fatal mishaps, simplicity itself
Cantering homeward, his horse blundered on a
low ant-bed and rolled over on him. His spine
was injured ; there was no pain, but life was only
a matter of hours.
The only doctor had been hastily summoned
from the neighboring township, but he could do
nothing. Had. he been the first surgeon of the
world’s first city, instead of a man with a shady
past, earning his living in the back-country, he
would have been equally helpless.
The doctor was very much a man of the world,
and Mrs. Sutton admitted the fact and attempted
no disguise.
I suppose,” she said, “he cannot recognise
anybody. It is no good for me to go into the
room to act the despairing- wife business ? ”
“Although not fully conscious, he is partially
so, and I should advise you to go in and stay with
him until the end—it cannot be long coming.
Remember, the world is a very small place, and
scandal, even from this despised district, will
follow you wherever you go.”
She sneered, but passed into the room and took
her place at the bedside. It was truly not for
long she had to play the farce. In less than two
hours, Sutton “went on to the main-camp.” The
widow stood-up, and while watching the doctor
close the dead eyes, took off her wedding-ring and
tossed it to the other end of the room.
“What was that?” asked her companion,
starting at the sudden sound in the stillness.
Only my badge of mockery broken,” returned
the woman, holding up her bare, left hand.
“You fool ! ” said the man, in an awed whisper;
even his callous nature roused to indignation.
Pick that up and leave the room. Don’t insult
the helpless dead ! ” She shot a defiant glance at
him, but obeyed.
“ Poor Sutton ! ” mused the doctor. “ You are
better out of it. By God ! when a woman is bad,
she is all bad. Even the worst men I have met
had some tatters of good feeling left.”
He drew the sheet gently over the dead face,
then left the house, went to the men’s hut, and
told them that the end had come.
“ Only a down-hill course for you, my lady,” he
thought as he rode away. “And I guess I know
the partner you have fixed-on. Thank goodness,
it is not me. We know each other too well.”
11.
The blackfellow stood on the edge of the veran-
dah ; one hand rested against the middle post, the
other silently extended a stick split at one end,
with a letter inserted in the cleft. His lean
figure was dark against the great plain beyond,
that lay brown and bare under the summer sun,
and was ablaze with palpitating heat. When the
paper was taken from him he simply squatted
down in the hot dust and waited for his promised
dole. He was a messenger of fate, but, even if he
had known that, it would not have interested him
in the least. All he wanted j ust then was tobacco;
he was still too uncivilised for rum.
“ What’s the row ?” said a voice from an inner
room.
A bright-eved, happy-looking little woman
danced in with the note and handed it to her liege
lord of some twelve months’ standing.
He read it slowly, as though to master its con-
tents thoroughly, then he raised his dark eyes to
his wife and said, “ Lucy ! Poor Sutton is dead.
His horse fell on him. I must go over at once ;
this afternoon. He will be buried this evening. ’
A shade, but not a deep one, crept over the
woman’s face. Her happiness was just then too
selfishly complete for her to appreciate the loss of
an old friend of her husband’s, but not of hers.
“You will want lunch quickly,” was her first
thought. Then, as she hurried out to see to it,
“ His horse fell on him ! Why, that might hap-
pen to Tom any day.” And the shadow grew
deeper.
“ Mrs. Sutton ! ” And the shadow grew deeper
still. She had met the grey-eyed woman once,
and did not like her. Meanwhile, Tom, having
perused the note again, put it into his pouch and
changed his clothes.
In less than an hour Tom Banks was on the way
to his neighbor’s place, and his wife was watching
him disappear in the jumping haze of the heated
plain. The blaekfellow, having gorged himself
with scraps, sat under a tree smoking the strong
pipe of contentment; and the little woman, full
of first love and with a knowledge of a quickly-
coming event which put into the shade all outside
troubles, turned into the house to muse happily,
in spite of Sutton’s sudden death.
Later in the afternoon she busied herself putting
things straight in the bedroom. Tom’s belt and
pouch had been discarded for a better one, and,
before hanging it on its proper peg, she, with
wifely curiosity, peeped into the pouch. The
note brought by the blaekfellow was there, for-
gotten, and she innocently opened it, to see if there
were any more details of the accident.
Dear Tom.—Come over as soon as you can. Jack’s
horse rolled over him, and he died yesterday evening, so
one obstacle is removed. If we could only ; but come l
come! come quickly ! ”
There was no signature. There was no need.
There are some revelations which are so awful
and complete that not a doubt of their truth
arises. To the poor little wife, almost a mother,
the collapse of the building in which she sat could
not have been a more real and sudden shock than
the fall of all her faith, trust, and happiness. A
step on the verandah roused her, and she hastily
closed the door to hide her scared face, and
answered the woman from the kitchen in as
steady a voice as she could command. Then she
sat down again, stunned and crushed. From a
happy wife she had suddenly become “an
obstacle” between her faithless husband and a
fresh fancy; and she was too weak to feel the
injury as she ought-to. Hers was one of the
natures ready to throw up the fight at once ; she
wanted to hide, to creep away. All the shame
seemed to belong to her. The evening dusk set
in and the woman came again to ask her if she
would have some tea, but she told her “ No,” and
when it was quite dark, stole out on to the veran-
dah.
Why had her husband, handsome favorite as he
was with everybody, sought her out, made her love
him and married her ? Just for the contemptible
little bit of money she possessed. And now
he was over there, and she was left to await his
return ; and with that came the weak, trembling
thought that she could not bear to see him again?
To watch the eyes she had loved look lies; to
hear the voice that had been such music speak
falsely. Once her timid nature made her dread
the bush at night, and people its solitude with
shadowy horrors. Now the gloom of the great
plain seemed a friendly haven, waiting to welcome
and hide her. With but one thought, to somehow
get away, away from the terrible truth, she
stepped down from the verandah and followed the
beckoning of a bright star sinking in the
west.
She walked on mechanically, without any feel-
ing of fear of her lonely surroundings or of the
danger of losing herself. The sultry night made
her feel weary at last, and unaccustomed pains
cast her moaning on the ground. With one cry
of anguish to her faithless husband she lost sense
and reason.
When Tom Banks arrived home next morning
he found the woman-servant in tears and the men
hastily saddling to go in search of the missing
wife. His guilty conscience half-suggested to him
what had happened, and once the track had been
picked-up he rode on in grim silence. When
about four miles from the homestead the shrill cry
of a blackfellow arrested them, and a native was
seen at the foot of a sand-ridge beckoning and
making signs.
“’Tis all right,” said one of the men, meaning
to cheer the boss up; “the blacks have found
her.”
They rode round the point of the road to where
the native camp was formed beside a small
clay-pan of muddy water. Underneath a miser-
able shade of boughs some old gins were wail-
ing and scratching their skinny breasts with
stones, and one with a bough was brushing the
flies away from the dead face of the wife who, but
24 hours before, had been almost without a care.
The men pulled-up silently and let Banks ap-
proach the place alone. He stood looking down
at his handiwork, and when one of the old crea-
tures put her hand on his arm he turned and
would have struck her. She whined and persisted,
and he then saw that a young gin, with a tiny
piccaninny of her own, was nursing a new-born
white infant, wrapped in part of its mother’s
dress. His child, bom in a blacks’ camp; his
wife, dead there !
A passing traveller took the news across the ten
miles separating the two stations ; and when Mrs.
Sutton heard that Mrs. Banks had wandered into
the bush light-headed, and that every one was out
searching for her, she donned her riding-habit and
rode over to sympathise. She reached there
before the poor body had been brought in. Her
lover was gloomily waiting its arrival, having
ridden ahead of the buggy.
“And so” —she began when she stood by his
side.
He gripped her savagely by the arm, and
pointed across to the kitchen-verandah. The
woman there had the child in her arms, and the
gin who had been its chance foster-mother and
had carried it in was beside her.
“Well,” she said coldly, releasing herself,
“what of that?”
“ You’re a fiend, and I hate you as one
murderer hates his fellow-murderer ; ” he said.
“Put me on my horse,” she replied in white
rage.
He did so. Without caring who was looking,
she struck him with all her strength across the
face with her whip.
“You’re a coward, and I hate cowards ! ” she
said. “ Shall I ever come across a man ? ”
FELIX SLOWBOY.
When the story first reached us it came by
cable, and was printed - under scare-heads as
another proof of the fiendish inhumanity of the
gory Boer. Private Clark had been taken by the
enemy when wounded, had then been shot full of
bullets, and afterwards a Dutchman battered his
brains out. Nobody drew attention to the useless-
ness of beating out a dead man’s brains, that action
was joyfully accepted as a little familiar Boerish
eccentricity. The usual letter has come along to
spoil a popular horror. It is Yic. Premier
M'Lean's son who writes :
Private Walter Edward Clark, of the Second Contin-
gent, according to the Boer report, when shot through
the hips, dragged himself to an ant-heap and kept fir-
ing—wouldn’t surrender; so they shot him through the
head. We got his body, and buried him next morning.
Young M'Lean is imperilling his father’s position
by upsetting favorite traditions in this way. “We
got his body,” and not a mention about the brains
being battered out !


Cured Her When a Little Girl.
Cured Her Again When a Mother.
Takes Out Al! Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength; A Splendid Tonic; An Indispensable
Household Medicine
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
i
ms
m
i.
w
f
&
IMI
%
“I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla when a little girl for debility and poor-
ness of the blood. It strengthened me greatly, built me right up, and made me
well and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself very weak
and again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, and with great and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again.,
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, and is an indispensable household medicine.”
This is a practical experience which Mrs. H. A. Steinberg, of Kelson St.,
East Adelaide, So. Australia, has had with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of hbrself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family IVSedsclne. ,,
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is thin, making you pale and weak ; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build you up, made you strong and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
fiesh, rich blood, and steady nerves.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
r Takes Out All Impurities from the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS are gentle, safe, thorough.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
, until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lunge.
WHEN YOU ASK EOK
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION,
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid., 2 ft. M., 4s. (id.,
and Ms., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of ail London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
1?OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'iveness, Blotches > on the Skin. Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. IHE hi Kb I DObE
WILL GIVE RELIEF- IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box I>f these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be A
CJOHSr&A A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses Will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with (be Bosk nun ok Health i lie Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. I heso
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Bcerhqm's Pills have the Largest Sale oj any Patent Medicine m
he Viortii. Full directions with each Box.'
• PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ©£d, Is 1.;,d, and ‘As 9d each.
n
PLAIN NOME TALK.
KMB RACING
MEDICAL COIWUMCOIM SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE'" FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting: their physioian. Chapters
ate devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition, of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only ,7s. Cd.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is od post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post U 6d.
Du. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
1* ; post Is 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. Tiie
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, Sd posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love, Dress, etc. i*Cd post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aup'r. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s Gd.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets or Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Ant of Boxing, by Ned Don nelly, 40 illns. Is fid posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is (id posted.
Edith O'Gor.man’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Head Heads (.las. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chbvassb‘B Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 31)0 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mbsmf,risr, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— STK ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
th® numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of. space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
The Jolliest Book of the Year.
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6b. Post Free, from Thjc Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
mn
m
Pe/rrUME
Sen-Sen &
|FARRINGDOKAV)ENUE\
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
zP
ye
m
&
O
<t>
S'
nm
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICSNE.
NGX9NiNNOy^-JOao3o~
ssonhsjhi
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


Mr. BLANK.
Bought op
Bth September, 1900.
PERDRIAU $ CO.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
n
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AKS ...
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building. Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
... IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SPOONS is
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<she
J. & J. MAXFIELD. Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Celebra
PLATE
CTJTLE]
1
mark.
4
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“-f T=r-F2 BLOCKS
Collins Street, MELBOUEHE.
mn
m
W- C. & GO..
DYEfcS & CLEANEItS,
40 loitlv h'l lIIU'.I’, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post /rum all the colonies promptly
tiled
nm
George and
Market-Sts.
n
mn
V-'
Ss.ji.si
Mi
BUTTER
'
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has •» fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a tew, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who' will not be convinced of the value of the process : but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, "beantlflllly-fiavorcd. blitter and the
ordinary make is only id. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, SSIUCI yoiir orderS to US, and we will deliver it at your doors^
O i. i *ll
rood butter such as we have described is appreciated always, 1
The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised 1
,d butter is fear
H. PATES© N„ Manager, "
Harbors fcreet, Sydney. __
COMPRESSORS.
t—
/ 7 7
Bn person-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the-highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New Ingersoll.”
_ _
I I I
pm
‘JSLraCJXECI^SLS
on xoO aovt * aaavd
a st-s
m
ill
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L”3JT£S
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OP SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
sw A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
g | OLLOWAYS FILLS AND. OINTMENT,
fi S There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virluesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised In- thousands of suh'erers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London. J #?' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not’ 623 Oxford-street, London, they ara
spurious.
ROCHESTER LOD.6C
coiiins Place «art, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Uaß
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Modeatre. Mrs ‘ M'CLELLand,
Proprietress
