

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
.
Reids London Draught Stout.
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Mining
G. SZ CO.,
107 Kent Street:, Sydney,
—FOR—
anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining- Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WIRE
AUSTRALIA.
tST Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° 85 Mtt Btr «t, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents tor J. & H. McLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BR3ADBENPS Hydro Extractors; KIRC.tNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.^*-
THORNE'S
At WHISHT.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS >ni> LICENSED GROCERS.
sfd
y
mm
fa
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient Rote!.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
'viMi'or.ire GEORGE HOTEL, opposite s
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Bay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ili
to
Jre you Too Stout f
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
PIONEER
fa
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading J3eit of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability end Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.VV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWiCTSc SOW, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of tlxe System.”
i a RtCE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
I AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
SENT) FOE A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILD ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
*
HIGHLAND
CREAM
f
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE G-ZRELA-T > • .
CASCADE ALE
IS HERE STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOYE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
n
mu
T. C. Williams Co.’s
Manufacture.^
TOBACCO.
BEST IMPORTED DARK TOBACCO IN THE MARKET.
TRY IT I TRY IT! TRY IT !
a
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. GENNERT,
80c FAUBOURG ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ED I SWAN
economy in -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON l SVAH
United Electric Light
Co.. Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street
WYWYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 21.—N0. 1078 ,
[Saturday, October 13, 1900.
Ppys+erp at the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission hv Post - ns a TVTows^aner.


The Bulletin publications.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. 3d.; Cloth boards, 2s. 4d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Waecng.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; Gd., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Faveno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. Gd.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. .Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“'Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free.. *** “ The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
SYDNEY COPYING AGENCY
104 Woolloomooloo-St., Sydney.
COPIES made of rare unci un-
published Books iri public and private libraries.
Students’ information, literary extracts, etc., in two days.
Price according to work.
Any Book or Magazine procured at Sydney prices.
:OIOA aw ‘IVOaHI aw ‘SStfill W ioj
. . THTC . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
EC
rji-ll
m
A. The Larynx, or organ of
D. The Trachea or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drUt/ ... U
LL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland
receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
SOLD BY ALL
free on
THE BED PAGE.
The Australian in the Tropics.
DR. AHEARNE’S paper on “The Aus-
tralian in the Tropics” (most of which
was here reprinted Sept. 29) justified its
space by its interest. It stated the con-
clusions of a Townsville medico in healthy condi-
tion, with a spouting kidney and a liver not too
much enlarged, who himself shows none of the
signs of race-deterioration which He attributes to
other North Queenslanders. And the conclusions
were worth a good deal as grounds for enquiry,
nothing as final judgments.
Dr. Ahearne’s argument was vitiated by three
things : First, his untenable standpoint; second,
his inadequate, data; third, his biassed deductions.
As to standpoint, no personal fault is found with
Dr. Ahearne for being a good Catholic, and
imagining that a Scripture-text settles contro-
versy. Even a bad religion won’t hurt a good
man very much ; and a good one may make
him all the better man. Heredity and
education are enough to make anybody a
Buddhist, or a Fire-Worshipper, or what not;
and a decent Fire-Worshipper is a much more
useful and agreeable, citizen than an in-decent
atheist. But the Fire-Worshipper (or I)r.
Ahearne) should keep his religion out of his
science. What is the use of quoting exploded
Hebrew cosmogony as a basis for argument about
coloured labour in Australia ? Where is the sense
of quoting an alleged utterance of St. Paul ? And
when Dr. Ahearne wrote that
An intelligent God equipped Man so that he should he
suitable to his environments ; accordingly, He designed
that men should vary in colour and shades of tempera-
ment to fitly occupy the multiple regions of the globe—
where did Dr. Ahearne obtain the credential
to judge his god’s intelligence? and by what
right does he foist upon us, as material for argu-
ment, his assumption of what his god designed
and why ?
Dr. Ahearne compares N.Q. boys with English
boys in respect of chest-girth. He does not say
how many boys were measured; or where, or
when, or by whom ; —consequently his compari-
son may be worth much or little —nobody knows.
In respect of height, he gives a deduction from
the measurement of 58 boys. The number is not
sufficient to warrant a generalisation. And if the
boys measured were all Townsville and Bowen
boys, then nothing whatever is proved or
indicated regarding Cairns, or Herberton,
or Croydon. boys. As Dr. Ahearne puts
forward a scientific argument, he should observe
the scientific method. He should state the extent
of his statistics in proportion to the unobserved
bulk, and say when and where his statistics were
obtained. His figures hint something and prove
nothing : he has started his hare, but not caught
it.
In North Queensland I find [he says] that the mean
length of the bodies of 58 boys exceeds the mean circum-
ference of their chests by 1 15-16 ins. : that is to say, in
North Queensland a boy is two inches taller than he
ought to be.
That is to say nothing of the sort. There are in
North Queensland about 4000 boys aged from 10
to 15 years ; and you cannot judge the height of
4000 from the measurement of 58. Dr. Ahearne
must widen his logical basis before he can erect
his logical superstructure. Possibly his conclu-
sion is right; but it isn’t proven, and he should
not state it as if it were proven.
The portion of Dr. Ahearne’s paper which was
tantamount to a defence of the employment of
coloured labour was here excised for space-
reasons; and only his appeal to the Federal
Parliament not to interfere with coloured labour
remained. That appeal differed from the appeals
of other coloured-labour apologists in that it
assumed a scientific foundation. But it has been
shown that Dr. Ahearne’s scientific founda-
tion is no foundation, inasmuch as his
data are insufficient to yield a conclusion.
His argument is a suggestion, not a proof ; and his
deductions remain at present little more than the
impressions of one alert observer —interesting, and
valuable so far as they go. It still remains un-
proven tha,t the white man—when, he has learnt
to adapt himself better to a tropical environment
—will be unable to perform the hard labour
of tropical industry. .We know, as a
matter of fact, that N. Q. sugar-planters have
hitherto employed coloured labour because
it is cheaper and more tractable ; because they
will not pursue their industry under the conditions
upon which white workers insist. Given a good
wage and an eight-hour day, white men can cut
cane just as well as black. • The proof is that they
do. If the “ sugar-laborer were paid £3 a week,
with an eight-hour shift, there would be no more
difficulty in getting white cane - cutters for
an Ingham plantation than there is in
getting white miners for a hot drive at Croy-
don. Dr. Ahearne may argue that the men
would degenerate, and their children would de-
fenerate ; but that is just the thing which has to
e proved, and which is not yet proved. Gener-
ally speaking, the health of white men in North
Queensland, living temperately and employed
actively, is as good as it is in South Queensland.
It is the women indoors, insufficiently exercised
and often improperly fed, who suffer most. And
for the children, when the inland plateau is
reached, there is nothing to show that their health
is not as good as it is anywhere in Australia.
Dr. Ahearne’s argument must therefore be con-
fined to the coastal districts and to sugar culture.
And even if he could prove all he affirms, there
are much more important things than the sugar
industry to consider. We don’t want the Aus-
tralia of a century hence to be faced with the
negro problem of Southern U.S.A., because a
comparative handful of white sugar-planters
emulate the selfishness of the handful of cotton-
planters who imported the nigger to America. The
preservation of the white breed is of infinitely
more moment than the preservation of one
of the many industries by which the white
breed can live. With all his sense of the value of
a coloured race in the tropics, Dr. Ahearne would
never marry a coloured woman. Why, then,
would he degrade Australia to marriage with a
coloured race ?
These considerations are not intended to detract
from the praise given to Dr. Ahearne’s paper.
The Bulletin wishes there were more enquirers
like him. And it asks other men to send along
personally-observed facts and figures dealing with
the question he has discussed :
Is the white race able to live and work and pros-
per in tropical Australia?
Nietzsche Dend.
YESTERDAY came the elegram from
Weimar announcing the death of Fried-
rich Nietzsche. I happened to be dining
w>h Herr Geheimrath G. There was
another Herr Geheimrath at the table, a Herr
Major, a Herr Doctor and myself. The second
Herr Geheimrath, a lusty white-haired old gentlo-
man, had been relating how he and other officers
in the war of ’7O, out of sheer devilment smashed
the porcelain stoves in a Frenchman’s house by
shying full champagne bottles at them. Which,
of course, is a sign of very high-bred civilisation.
Then someone, tne major, I think, remarked that
“ poor Nietzsche ” was dead. “Ishe ? Now God
be praised ! that’s good news ! So the fellow’s dead
at last, is he ? He should have died 30 years ago !
when he was serving in the Vosges campaign with
the ambulance corps, as volunteer.” I tried to
put in a good word for Nietzsche, but I might as
well have defended the death of Hans
Cordua, shot by Roberts in the Transvaal.
The others were polite enough to turn the discus-
sion to the merits of the two long-necked bottles
of Aar wine which stood sentinel on the table.
But I went on thinking of the sad fate of this
philosopher.
There is in Germany no better-hated name than
that of Nietzsche. And with reason ! for whether
he meant it or not his system spelt anarchy. He
altogether lacked that glum balance and sanity
which has made the Germans what they are. He
hated the Reich and its military system and its
bureaucracy with all his might. He adored
Goethe for the things in him to which his German
admirers shut their eyes. He derided Schiller, and
Von Treitschke, and German beer, and German
piety, and Wagner. He bewailed his misfortune in
having to write for future centuries in the heavy-
footed snoring prose of a land so besotted with
beer and Christianity. And yet—perhaps his
greatest merit is his mastery of German style, the
new lilt and freshness he gave to German prose,
the new verve and finish and incisiveness, so that
like an enchanted sword its thrusts pierce the
hearts of his opponents, through all their armour.
Wagner said his German was Latin. I suppose
Wagner meant that Tacitus-like finish which it
has. The questions Nietzsche asked humanity
are much more valuable than his own answers to
them, perhaps.
He was the genius of scepticism. For him the
whole heaven and earth stood full of marks of
interrogation, each with its fierce tragic signifi-
cance ; and he deemed himself to be the intellect
that Nature had brought forth to respond.
“ Thousands of years hence,” he says in one of his
letters, “mankind will swear by my name.”
After all, you see, he wanted to be recognised as
the benefactor of that humanity he often claimed
to despise. “By Nietzsche ! ” Lord, what fools
we mortals be !
Yet Nietzsche’s proudest claim was to be a
philosopher, and in his ieonoclasm he flung a torch
into the olden temple of philosophy which, though
it certainly has not burnt down the venerable
building as he intended, has at least left some of
its chambers a smoking ruin. He has cast his
spell over modern European literature : poets and
novelists alike are under his ban, and hundreds
of artists and musicians let their work speak for
his influence. Modern Europe dares not as yet
pronounce judgment on him, or upon the problems
and doctrines he put forth.
That Nietzsche’s mental disease was produced
by overwork there can be no doubt, and his
writings will always remain a monument of
human will and energy, a remarkable proof of
what a titanic spirit can do even with
the shadow and darkness of madness over-
hanging it, and in spite of madness. Since
1896, when his Antichrist thundered and
growled over Europe, his works have gradually
stood forth before the world in polyphemic cham-
pionship of a new and aristocratic ideal, and his
name has gone flashing and flickering through all
European thought, burning, enlightening, destroy-
ing, quickening with its darting fire. And all
this in spite of the pumps and fire brigades of the
orthodox. Even afar off, in the hyperborean
South, 1 hear it has been shouted from
Australian housetops, and Bishopscourt, Mel-
bourne, has shuddered at the German giant. For
good dear old Field Flowers Goe (O sweet re-
membered fragrance of Wordsworth and rose-
mary-tea !) recognises in Nietzsche’s principio in-
dividualionis a kindred spirit to his church’s lost
archangel, and never hears N.’s name, it is said,
without repeating a dozen aves and a couple of
paternosters, and asking for her ladyship’s epis-
copal eau-de-cologne to rid the smell of brimstone
from his nostrils. This —this is Fame.
Berlin, Aug. 26.
F.S.D.
“ Ignotus ” discusses a grammatical point—
You lay down the law about “ who and whom ” some-
where, as if- “who” was nominative and “whom”
accusative, and that was the end of it. As a matter of
'fact, usage sanctions such an apparent solecism as “ Who
do you think I saw in George-street to-day?” There
may be here a change of construction after “which.” I
don’t know. But lam much inclined to say that “ who ”
may be used as an accusative when not right under the
nose of a preposition. I mean that you must not say
“ By who was Hamlet written ? ” but you may say “ Who
was Hamlet written by ?” Yet, remember the phrase is
colloquial. As to “ Whom was Hamlet written by ?”it is
dissonant. You must use a paraphrase in heavy serious
writing. Milton, who wrote “ Belial, than whom a spirit
more lewd fell not from heaven,” most distinctly made
“ whom ” a nominative. He would never say “My father is
greater than me.” [“ Paradise Lost ” I, 490, for “ Belial.”]
Take again Mark viii, 27, “ Whom do men say I am?”
Luke ix, 18, “ Whom say the people that I am?” True,
both these are altered in the revised version, and perhaps
for the better, but the old “authorised” version is good
enough in a matter of this sort. There is a similar
puzzle in the last couplet but four of Locksley Hall, “ as
when life begun." Of course this should be “ began,”
only it wouldn’t rhyme. I often wonder whether Tenny-
son claimed as a right the use of a form that in anyone
else’s case would be a mere vulgarism ; or whether it was
a slip and he tried long to And a better line. Cruel of me
to note it? It will jar horribly on you now every time
you see it.
“ P.”—an Australian doctor—actually offers us
free advice—
The premature baldness of bookfellows and others is,
they may be glad to hear, usually due to a disease re-
joicing in the name of Alopecia Areata. Just now Mel-
bourne is suffering from an epidemic of it which has
grievously damaged numberless sweeping moustaches
and ambrosial scalp-locks. For all who travel on their
hair the outlook is serious. Some authorities ascribe the
disease to microbic action ; others give it a neurotic
origin ; but it gets there all the same. A slightly red-
dened bald patch forms the usual beginning, situated
about the top or back of the head, or about the ears.
Later on it spreads, becoming white and smooth ; the
process perhaps extending until a regular “ billiard-ball”
scalp results. At its Worst it can make a clean sweep of
every hair in head and body in a few hours ; but this is
only after a severe shock, mental or physical, thereby
lending colour to the nervous theory of origin. The
hereditary tendencies mentioned depend, probably, upon
a transmitted neurotic frailty, such nerve conditions
almost always (like hysteria, dipsomania, etc.) tending to
descend by cross-sex influence— i.e., father to daughter,
or mother to son.
Pace the authorities recently quoted, the general health
needs first attention, with regular exercise, sea-bathing.
and massage. Bookfellows often let their abdominal
muscles get slack, their livers and other digestive organs
resenting the process with vigour. Properly used dumb-
bells, or the gentle exercises of wrestling, rowing or
boxing, are excellent for coercing a contumacious liver.
A teaspoonful of Fellows’ Syrup of Hypophosphites,
with one-sixtieth of a grain of strychnine sulphate
in it, is an excellent tonic thrice a day after meals. For
local use a little of a mixture of one drachm of chrysarolin
with one ounce of lanoline should be rubbed into the
patches night and morning, due care being exercised with
regard to subsequent cleansing of hands, as chrysarolin is
a poison of power. Perchance some bookfellows are too
deeply buried in the dust of shelves to take all this
trouble for a mere personal ornament, but even they need
not comfortably anticipate the shining pate of wisdom—
or of the orchestra stalls. Occasionally the disease under-
goes spontaneous cure, and the thatch becomes as godd
as new. All the same, if the bookfellow is a young book-
fellow, and has a girl, he will do well not to become a
bald bookfellow if he can help it.
“Notos” explains—
You say that a salary “at the rate of £636 a year” is
too much to pay Jas. Bon wick for searching the London
archives in the interests of the Official Records of N.S.
Wales. But he pays a capable and necessary assistant
out of his salary, which makes all the difference.
Probably the editor of N.S.W. Historical Records
is the only person able to measure the value of
Bon wick’s work. It does not appear that anybody
else knows its amount or quality. If B. con-
tinuously employs another man, another salary
should be paid ; and the public should know
exactly what is paid for Bonwick’s services.
“Mansfield” supplies a translation of “The
Afrikander Volkslied,” a song of the Dutch race
in South Africa, written long before the present
shameful war. It is easily seen that the original
must be a stirring poem—worthy of the Nether-
landers who rolled back the Spanish tide of greedy
aggression, or of the Afrikanders who have been
borne down by the English tide.
Each nation has its native-land ;
We dwell on Afric’s barren sand.
To u 8 there is no spot so dear,
The whole world over, far or near;
Our pride and glory to proclaim
“ South Afric’s Children ” is our name.
Each nation has its native speech ;
As far as Cape and Transvaal reach
We speak one tongue, our Taal so dear,
We need no other language here.
The language which our fathers spoke
Suits well enough South Afric’s folk.
Each nation has a right to be,
E’en though but poor and weak as we ;
There is a power which governs all,
And makes the proudest tyrant fall;
He watches those that press us hard,
But will South Afric’s children guard.
The one great God holds in His hands
The fate of nations and of lands ;
He gives to each their separate speech,
Their home, their rights, their time to each.
Who this forgets will rue the day ;
O Lord, be thou South Afric’s stay !
A SONG FOR THE UNDER DOG.
Now here is a song for the under dog, the weak
under dog in the fight,
For though he is down, and he’s terribly down,
maphap he’s the dog that is right.
It isn’t the cur who is largest, you know, whose
morals are always the best,
And a sanctified pup with a halo, I trow, might
succumb in a physical test.
If might could make right—but it cannot, you
see, and I think you’ll admit it were quaint
If a blacksmith must always the best of men be
and a bruiser must pose as a saint.
The man who succeeds may succeed as a knave
and in morals fly fearfully light,
And that’s why your sympathy kindly I crave for
the weak under dog in the fight.
The martyrs who died for the cause that they
deemed was surely the cause of their God,
From whose wounds, gaping widely, the life-blood
has streamed till, it reddened the blossoming
sod ;
The martyrs who gave—it was all they could do—
their lives for the truth and the right,
What were they, bethink you with sorrow and
rue, save man’s under dogs in the fight ?
Perhaps in the far away end—but who knows ?
And your guess is no better than mine,
For we preface our knowledge always with “ Sup-
pose ” as the great verb “ to live ” we decline.
So putting all guesses straightway to the rear, it
seemeth most certainly right
To take off our hats and to heartily cheer for the
weak under dog in the fight.
So here is my cheer for the poor under dog. He
is not the strongest, but then,
It may hap that lie’s better by far than the dog
who chews him again and again.
His stock may be finer, his loyalty proved, and I
think you will hardly demur
When I say that quite often the dog on top is the
scurviest kind of a cur.
And as the rule runs in the big canine world, so it
runs witli us humans, I knowr—
Too often some cur of a man is on top, with a
really good fellow below ;
And that’s why I’m singing as best I know how
this lame little anthem to-night
To the poor hungry devil who’s clear out of luck,
the weak under dog in’the fight.
Walter Hurd .
MARY O’MALLEY.
Mary O’Malley lives down in our alley,
Upstairs, in the rear of a flat,
With her father and mother, her sister and
brother,
A parrot, two dogs, and a cat.
Her face is a posy, her cheeks are so rosy,
Her mouth is like honey and dew ;
Your heart’s in a shiver, your lips in a quiver,
When Mary is looking at you.
O me ! O my ! O Mary O’Malley !
The neighbours all know you’re the pride of the
alley !
You’re fair as a dream, you’re peaches and cream,
You’re sweeter than clover, a thousand times over!
And would you but marry,—you dear little
fairy !
Is it single I’d tarry ?
Nay, nary !
The first time I met her —how can I forget her !
She was bringing a basket of clothes ;
I looked at her sweetly, she spurned me com-
pletely,
And turned up her beautiful nose.
She’s cunningly saucy and very criss-crossy
And stubborn, yet once in a while
Your heart gaily dances because her sweet glances
Have wrapped you all up in a smile.
O me ! O my ! O Mary O’Malley !
Your glance is the light and the life of our alley !
You’re better than gold to have and to hold !
Be done with your teasing, your melting and
freezing!
O could I possess* you I’d feed you and dress you
And love and caress you,
God bless you !
Nixon Waterman.
A SUNSET.
Adonis-Ray falls wounded through the air:
Great crimson splashes stab his robe of light ;
And from her faint-starred throne bends Venus-Night
Weeping, to hide him with dishevelled hair.
G.C.W.
Homely Verses.
FOR HER DEAR SAKE.
For her dear sake I’d have her skies
As bright as are her own bright eyes,"
And all her day-dreams warm and fair
As is the-sunshine in her hair.
The Fates to her should be as kind
As are the thoughts in her pure mind,
And every bird I’d have awake
Its gladdest song for her dear sake.
For her dear sake I’d have each dart
Grief fashions for her tender heart
Aimed at my own thrice happy breast,
That hers might have unbroken rest.
She feel life’s sunshine, I its rain ;
She steal my pleasure, I her pain ;
Her path of roses 1 would make
And mine of thorns, for her dear sake.
If she should fall asleep and lie
So still, so very still that I
Would know her soul had slipped away
From her divinely moulded clay.
Then, looking in her fair, white face,
I’d pray to God : “In Thy good grace,
O, Father ! let me sleep, nor wake
Again on earth, for her dear sake.”
Nixon Waterman.


Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S3T D TXT EY,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
\ h \,l
0 bo
V*
' ■MfLk:
hr*
'*?,]
&J 7 K
m [i
mm
iff
i
; ELECTRICITY.
y°u are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
1 Sv-^i2SI!E < l l 2 tmen *> send f° r one of Stephenson’s
' BMCTIHCAD APPLIANCES, invented by
» Sydney a Leading iaurgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
t therefore wholly an Australian invention.
\ THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
\ PPJJ°?SL DES]PAII R- DO NOT SUFFER 1
OM “ E “• lh e joys and ambitions of life can,
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly- 1
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,.
. E Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General'
lifOoihty, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. t
‘ -foey impart vigor and potency to every function ’
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and i
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted *
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and i
may be worn without the slightest possibility of *
detection. They have cured thousands* i
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 1 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attaihments. .. .. .. ..83
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 u i
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and!
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, I
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c. ' 1
All communications should be addressed to—-
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
W'hen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
MERCHANTS!
EBAD
MAEK
LEAEN
“I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
b y m y customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S. W.
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.”
PA TIL WILKINSON, Chemist,
Maryborough, Vic.
“ We are pleased to inform you that the
two National Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. <Si CO., Butchers,
Toowoomba, Q.
«kd INWARDLY DIGEST!
o: :
your Purchase
%
&
»©*i
m
K*
if.fi v.
•ftfc
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up) of the
NATIONAL
Cash Register
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINCHAM, General Manager.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brohers.
Consolidated Charge)
for Selling Wool /
2f per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming: Wool Season
21
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
ASTORAL I" INANCE II SSOC’N 1-TD.
WOOL & PRODOCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
■ “ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
of the
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :-
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.
the charge will be
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
f per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
viz " SldM ' Hid «. Ota. SPECIAL KATES will
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE,
lor Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts - SELLING BROKER, . ab»ol»tel y p^tected
r . 0± Maranpial Skins held W^iriy
MOIR’S
ANCHOVY PASTE
In Tins about 2 ozs.
Manufacturers t
JOHN MOIR & SON, MMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.
► o
C B B
7>
A Si
SB<*
sfioo
SS C ,
■ <l^.
aSffiE>
&36>*
?)V5BOB
o/l se 07
Guaranteed nor to break or born.
CERTIFICATE.— Should any of our « Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
'CBB
BRIAR
SIIDUIIMS Mill)
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GrEIO. ADAMS, Hot>art.
MELBOURNE 0. Nov. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. Nov. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
above.
Name
shares in the
Address.
MELBOURNE 0. (Special).
100,000 Subscribers at 5
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
Prices.
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
<sr
AN p
*z ***•
Vt»
Never
Look
Old
There is no need
of it. You can
look at thirty as if
you are sixteen.
Then why look as
if you are sixty ?
HAIR
Thick and glossy hair belongs to
youth. Thin and faded hair to old age.
JOS IA
jrex
fiW/ w
will make your
liair soft and,
glossy, rich,
and abundant.
It will keep
your scalp free
from dandruff,
and will surely
prevent your
hair from fall-
ing out.
It Never Fails to Restore the
Natural Color to the Hair
It gives to the hair that soft, glossy
appearance so natural to early life. For
men, this means the look of strength
and power. For women, it is the one
ornament of youthful beauty.
Remember that pimples, rashes, and like
disfigurements of the face may be thoroughly
removed by taking a course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It will make the skin
smooth and the blood rich.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
“DOW RIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
A.Js*d GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE*
Australia!) /jOtOal Providept Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P.
LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combine*
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a
more than 20% of the loan during any year
condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Svdnev.
- tttw—iinnii imii Mir
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
£ HWIUfcSV
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
S3T Send for a
Catalogue.
f
Sent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The liest and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MIiLHOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
For f|)ore pan fine Hundred Sears
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick w r ants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE
n
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE.
The Basis of which is “ MONTSERRAT " LIME=FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial, it has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Public.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
« T j/£ H J'L. WO -? DALL ’ Master in Surgery writes so far baek as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy:—
waste it in the &rlat n clbfij e " * S&UCe lt < L,me -J uice l is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGrENTS s
SYD N EY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard Sc Co
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF Alt CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
L\T.S.W Carriage & Saddlery Mianf. Comnaav
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, .15; 2-Sprinyr Sulkies, £7;
1-Spring Sulkies, 4.7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Busies from £9
'Os. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S A POLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any tirms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUU SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
af
Delivered at any Wharfs
■'.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Other Side.
Here, on this green old earth,
Which is my dwelling-place,
I share the grief and mirth
And glory of my race.
Por me the roses bloom,
For me the sweet birds sing;
1 am the Prince to whom
Their fruits the seasons bring.
1 laugh with winds at play ;
I wanton witli the wave ;
“ This earth of mine,” I say,
“ My cradle is, and grave.”
And, in the silence vast
Of night, my spirit sees
Grey phantoms of the past.
And ancient tragedies.
I am of cave-men bred
Who looked upon the Flood :
The thoughts of all the dead
Are stirring in my blood.
I come of that high strain,
The men who thought and did ,
Who raised the Gothic fane
And built the Pyramid.
O dead men, long out-thrust
I rom light and life and song—
O kinsmen in the dust,
Your grasp is stark and strong !
It draws me evermore
To banks of dusky green,
Whence Charon plies his oar
Unto a shore unseen.
And so, when daylight dies
And stars begin to gleam,
My deeds and prayers and sighs
I send across the stream.
I go no more on quests
Of profit, near or far,
My dearest interests
Across the Dark Stream are.
For day by day I feel,
Amidst this world of men,
A grander Commonweal
Claims me as citizen.
Is it but all a dream
That, when this life is done,
Across the Stygian stream
There shines a fairer sun ?
I know not, and maybe
The Only God is Chance :
Yet Charon looks at me
With strange significance.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Rivals!
.There s a little bird that warbles ev’ry morning at
my door,
And the ditty that he sings is ever new ;
’Tis a tale of tender wooing and of love that lies
before
When the nesting days are due.
And whene’er the song is over—lo ! he spreads a
ready wing
And flashes through the morning shine,
lo pour a flood of canticles that ripple up and
ring
At the window where the roses twine.
There’s a queenly one who lendeth to the song a
list’ll ing ear—
(O ! the happy throat that trembles all a-tune).
There’s a laugh above the roses, loving-low and
silver-clear
As the bells of a night in June ;
Can ye marvel, when they mingle such a melody
a-near.
If a daring dream be mine,
And I venture me a moment in the chorus dear
At the window where the roses twine ?
Will he brook me as a rival—yonder throat of
throbbing brown ?
Will he face me as a doughty feathered foe ?
He is jealous of the blossom that she brushes with
her gown,
Of the kitten she caresses with her toe ;
And well I know he guesses in his tiny loving
breast
How both our hearts incline
To be dwelling by our lady in a dainty little nest
At the window where the roses twine !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
A Settlement.
If I told you, little girl,
As you sit serene and muse,
With your red lips so compressed,
And that verse-book on your breast,
Of the flower, the rose you are—
Would you pinch me for stale news ?
If his verses please you so,
Would the poet meet your scorn ?
If he sought to lay his head
Where his verses Tie half-read—
Would he wake ycu from your dream ?
Would the rose unsheath a thorn ?
Ah, the verses on your breast!
And the book so gently nursed !
Must a poet ever make
Life a dream for others’ sake ?
Must he pour the wine and stand—
Stand for ever all athirst ?
If the song be worth a coin
(Such a coin as few would miss),
What’s to pay the soul that gave
All its best of gay or grave ?
If a song be worth a coin,
Sure the singer’s worth a kiss !
If the singer, little girl,
Pressed his suit for payment sweet,
I am sure that you who muse
Would not thrust him out—refuse ;
So . . . Ah well, that pays the debt :
And in kind ... I make receipt.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE
PLUM
a
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding- WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.I& & AITKBKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTBY.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
'T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board ok Directors : -
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARItUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
f
WOOLGROWERS! you
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence. We ask you to honor us
by supporting ns, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in New South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T ?
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
B
BB
OWN
ARE RECOGNISED AS THE MOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
S-MOKf
o„
<3j ti
LU
cos
ONE MILLION AND A QUARTER POUNDS
1,250,000 lbs. TOBACCO
Were the Sales for Dixson’s Sydney Factory for Year ending 30th June.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading* Tobacco in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
HE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING. DOES NOT CHANGE.
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
FEDERAL»HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
H. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.


The Bulletn
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21. No. 1078.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1900.
Pkicb On.
ANXIOUS TIMES IN THE COUNTRY.
Premier Lyne said at the Yass banquet that “he was the only man who knew the site for the Capital recommended by the Commissioner, and he regretted
that he must keep it to himself.”
MAYOR GUZZLEFUNCTION (of Goshen Flat, opening wine) : “ I s[?] e you don’t happen to know where the Capital is likely to be?"
LYNE: “Oh, yes, I have the plans and specifications up my sleeve, but I am not to be drawn—even with a corkscrew.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
« Australia for the A ustralians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Offio© of .theCa,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Jtl 0 0
Per Annum ... ••• ••• ** a
Half-yearly old
Quarterly
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with P<Mage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you evei y
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph,
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
« Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or Pfhor Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Blade and White .
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original hunwrous
or other topical drawings m line or wash, of sufficient
mwit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i e , 'any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotchf Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2k6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S.Australia,
Westralia : and Mnoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
vostaqe on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the .subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—new
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
2S?
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth—The
Federal Tariff Some More.
Just now the air is full of appeals to the
people of the prospective Commonwealth to
choose between Freetrade and Protection ;
therefore it is advisable to point out that the
people who thus state the case are appealing
to the public under false pretences. The
case doesn’t lie between Freetrade and Pro-
tection any more than it does between
bigamy and Protection, or measles and Pro-
tection. There are no civilised Freetrade
countries in existence, and there never have
been within modern times ; the only places
which practise Freetrade are some of the
kanaka islands, a few hopelessly savage
tribes in the interior of Africa, and possibly
the Eskimo and their like. Even Britain,
with all its boast of Freetrade, does not
follow that doctrine, and, so far as is known,
it last did so about the days when its
aboriginal inhabitants painted themselves
blue and went to war in chariots. For
a country which raises about j £22,000,000
a year by Customs alone to call itself
Free trade is one of the great jokes of the
century. And for New South Wales, with
its protective duties on wine, beer, sugar,
cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, treacle, molasses,
biscuits, confectionery, and other things, and
with a purely customs revenue of £1,300,000,
to call itself Freetrade is a still more remark-
able proceeding. The question which the
electors of the Commonwealth have to decide
is one between Revenue Tariffism and Pro-
tection ; or, possibly, between the mixture of
Revenue Tariffism and Protection which is
practised in New South Wales and the
straight-out Protection which is followed in
Victoria and South Australia. It is as well
to call things by their right names and
accurately define the position. In New
South Wales a party which calls itself Free-
trade has been in power, mostly with huge
majorities, for the best part of 50 years, and
it has never dared to practise Freetrade.
Evidently it knew its own doctrine too well.
It has never dared even to get down to
straight-out Revenue Tariffism. It has
always adopted a certain measure of Pro-
tection, and has been a poor, mean, truck-
ling Ananias, and denied that it did so ;
and while it protected a few of its leading
industries, it used language about Protec-
tion which was violent and full of scorn.
Also it has persistently pointed to any
measure of prosperity that N.S.W. has
enjoyed under its mixture of Revenue-
Tariffism and Protection, and asked the
world to look at the glorious results of Free-
trade. All the days of its life it has been a
fraud, a turncoat and a shuffler, and the
truth has not been in it.
* • •
So when the people of the Commonwealth
are invited to choose between Freetrade
(which isn’t in the question at all) or Pro-
tection, and the examples of N.S.W. and
England are held up before them as matters
that have some bearing on the case, many
points require to be considered. New
South Wales is not Freetrade by prin-
ciple ; it probably drifted towards (never into)
that policy through having a large land-
revenue. It has more good arable and pas-
toral country than any other province, and
it has chief possession of the only big river
system in Australia to water that land and
make it valuable. Also, it has a larger land
revenue through being more reckless than
some of its neighbors in disposing of the
public estate. Thus the land revenue of
the six federating States was as follow’s in
1899 :
Land
Land Revenue
Revenue. per
Inhabitant.
New South Wales .. £2,002,023 £l9 9
Queensland .. .. 575,106 1 3 1
Westralia .. .. 142,720 0 17 0
South Australia .. 175,137 0 9 6
Tasmania .. .. 68,899 0 7 11
Victoria 395,012 0 6 9
Again, New South Wales has built up
the largest debt in the Commonwealth.
It has acquired the largest deficit in
the Commonwealth. And it has used
more loan funds for revenue purposes
(£10,915,047 up to June, 1899, against
Victoria's £3,060,767) than any other pro-
vince in the Commonwealth. It has done
these things because its tariff didn’t yield
enough revenue, and because its Freetrade
rulers dared not levy enough direct taxation
to make up the shortage lest the catch-
word about “lifting the burdens off the
people ” should become a bye-word and a
mockerj 7 . When the other provinces are
invited to follow the bright and shining
low-tariff example of N.S.W. it is ne.cessary
for them to remember that that example has
only been made possible by a reckless
policy of deficits, by a most lavish stealing
of loan funds for revenue purposes, and by
a geographical accident.
* * * *
The Commonwealth being invited to
adopt Freetrade, it is well to figure out, in
the first place, what Freetrade would amount
to. The adoption of real Freetrade would
involve raising the income-tax in N.S.W.
to about 2s. 6d. in the £ and the land-tax to
about sd. in the £ of capital value, and even
this is assuming that N.S.W. goes on appro-
priating at least £700,000 a year of loan
money for revenue purposes. In some of
the other States which are not blessed with
N.S. W.’s great land revenue, and which don’t
steal the loan funds so extensively, real Free-
trade would necessitate an income-tax of fully
ss. in the £ and a land-tax. that would almost
amount to confiscation. Even the adoption
of the mongrel semi-Protective revenue
tariff of N.S.W. would involve rather
serious results. In N.S.W., unless that
State is going to continue heaping up de-
ficits and using about £700,000 a year of
loan funds for revenue purposes—a policy
that must lead in the end to great disaster—
a continuance of the present tariff will in-
volve raising the income-tax to Is. in the £
and doubling the land-tax. In some of the
other provinces the N.S.W. tariff would in-
volve an income-tax of at least 2s. 6d. in the
£ and a land-tax equal to nearly half the
income derivable from the land—say, about
sd. or 6d. in the £ of capital value. All
the brilliant conversation about how Free-
trade would “ lift the burdens off the people”
takes no account of the fact that a more
staggering burden must be put on some-
where else to make good the deficit. Very
few people realise how very little direct
taxation brings in as compared with the
tariff revenue, even in the most Freetrade of
the Australias. In N.S.W. for the year
ended 30th June, 1899, the land and income
taxes yielded £454,000, while the tariff
yielded £1,621,800. After all the deafening
corrobboree which has gone on during the
last five years about establishing Free trade
and replacing the nefarious system of duties
with direct taxation, the tariff yields
nearly four times as much as the land
and income taxes, and times as much as
all forms of direct taxation put together.
It would take about another 4d. in the £
of land-tax and another 2s. in the £ of
income-tax to make even N.S.W.—the
lowest-tariff State —a Freetrade province,
and even that would leave its finances
no more honest or solvent than they
are now. The people who propose
to replace the tariff revenue by direct taxa-
tion apparently don’t understand the full
dimensions of the contract.
* * • •
If Australia, under Federation, goes on
borrowing as largely as in the past (which is
impossible, for its credit is giving out), and
accumulating deficits as liberally as in the
past (which is impossible, for deficits must
end in insolvency some day), and selling
land as vigorously as ever (which can’t be
done, because' the best land is sold), it will
require as much revenue under Federa-
tion as it has now. And as it can’t
do the three things mentioned above
it will presently require more revenue.
Most of the provinces, if they are
prepared to face an income-tax ranging as
high as 2s. 6d. in the £ and a land-tax vary-
ing up to about sd. in the £, can get down
to the N.S.W. level, and raise their required
revenue by duties on, say, 40 articles. If they
are not prepared to go beyond, say, 9d. in
the £ income-tax and ljd. in the £ land-tax,
with the exemptions at the present average
rate, then most of them must tax as
many articles as they do now, and do it
about as heavily as they do now. So the
choice lies between adjusting the unavoid-
able tariff on a revenue basis or a Pro-
tective basis. The difference is just this:
Protection yields revenue and at the same
time it creates industries and supplies em-
ployment and wages ; also, it is alleged that
it increases prices, and, to some extent, it
may do so—for a time at least. A revenue
tariff also raises revenue ; it undoubtedly in-
creases prices; and it is guaranteed by its own
most infatuated admirers not to create a single
industry, nor to supply employment or
wages to anybody. And added to Protec-
tion (which yields revenue, and furnishes
employment, and, it is said, raises prices),
and Revenue-Tariffism (which yields revenue
and doesn’t furnish employment, and raises
prices), there is a third alternative in
enormous direct taxation, which also yields
revenue, and doesn’t furnish employment,
and raises prices. It doesn’t raise prices in
name, but it gets there just the same in
reality. To leave the wages the same and
raise the price of commodities, or to leave
the price of commodities the same and take
away part of the wages by an income-tax, is
exactly the same result in the end.
* * * *
No country ever became a great industrial
State under Freetrade unless it had cheaper
labor than its neighbors, and cheap labor
means degradation and slavery. Britain
was the wealthiest nation in the world, the
greatest manufacturing, mining, and com-
mercial nation and one of the greatest agri-
cultural nations in the world, and the world’s
greatest shipowner, before it abandoned
Protection. It didn’t gain any of these ad-
vantages under its Revenue Tariff policy,
though it has lost several of them under that
policy. Nor can any nation, in these days
of cheap freights, remain a great industrial
State under Freetrade unless it pays as low
wages as the cheapest of its rivals, or unless
its workers can hold their own by exceptional
skill. Australia is young and its industries
are mostly in their infancy. Its workers
are, on the whole, less skilled than many of
their competitors. It doesn’t want to com-
pete in the matter of wages and be one
of the cheapest-labor countries on earth.
And if it opened its ports and reduced
its wages to the level of the cheapest of its
competitors, it would carry an additional han-
dicap, for, by reason of its vast accumulation
of foreign debt, its low-wage workers
would have to pay more in taxation than the
low-wage workers of almost every other land
beneath the sun. The politicians who prate
of what can be done in Australia under Free-
trade are discoursing on mere theory. No
Australian State has tried Freetrade yet.
In this country there is not one industry of
the kind that are exposed to foreign com-
petition which has grown up without being
either protected by a tariff or (what is the
same thing) directly or indirectly subsidised
by the State.
* * * *
The example of Britain has nothing to do
with Australia’s case. That country didn’t
grow up under Revenue Tariffism. Britain,
before it abandoned Protection, was not
only the greatest manufacturing, banking,
commercial, mining, shipowning, and an-
nexing nation on earth, but it had lent
money to almost all the nations of the globe,
and that money has been piling up at com-
pound interest ever since. Britain receives
a private income, or endowment, or pension
of about £80,000,000 a year (say £2 per in-
habitant annually) from foreign investments.
Australia has to pay away to foreign lands £3
per inhabitant annually on its public and pri-
vate foreign borrowings ; the difference is £5
per inhabitant per annum, or about 10s. a
week for every family. A few centuries of
Protection and foreign conquest, the looting
of another India, and the plunder of another
Spanish Empire, might make Australia as
rich as Britain, and then it might try
Revenue Tariffism on the same basis.
But this country can’t get into Britain’s
condition, even assuming it is a wholly
desirable condition, by adopiing Britain’s
tariff policy unless it is possible to adopt
Britain’s circumstances at the same time. The
alleged Freetrade party appeals to Aus-
tralia in general to throw off the “ burden ”
of Protection ; but unless Australia is going
to file its schedule and stop payment it can
only do this by putting on an equally heavy
and less productive burden somewhere else.
Protection may not do all -that some of its
most enthusiastic advocates claim in the way
of creating industries and supplying em-
ployment ; every policy has some over-
excitable adherents. But it does much in
that way, while the other available means of
raising the wind do absolutely nothing.
Taking Tasmania as an example, the Free-
trade party in that heavily-taxed isle is
crusading with great violence about the
money “ exacted ” from the people
by the Protective system as com-
pared with the alleged freedom enjoyed
in England under its alleged Freetrade.
But Tasmania’s real burden is its debt, and
no juggling with the fiscal system will shift
that one iota. Its real trouble is that it has
to find £275,000 a year for interest over and
above the amount earned by its railways and
public works , and that this one item of taxa-
tion—the taxation it has to levy for the
single purpose of paying interest —is as
much per inhabitant as all thts taxes levied
for all purposes in Canada, Russia, Sweden,
Norway, Switzerland, and half-a-dozen other
countries. Every Australian State has the
same trouble, in a greater or less
degree. Debt incurred for unramunera-
tive purposes is Australia’s one great diffi-
culty. If the Freetrade party, which dare
not practise its own doctrines, can show that a
change of tariffwill induce the British money-
lender to accept 10s. in the £ then there
may be some shadow of reason in the promise
to lift the burdens off the people by aban-
doning Protection. But otherwise it is
merely a case of Australia paying as much
for the policy which doesn’t supply employ-
ment as it does now for the policy which
does ; and abandoning the policy which is
so good that its advocates venture to practise
it, for the one that is so bad that its own
most violent apostles have always lacked the
courage to put it into full execution.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
One Penny and Six Months.
In one and the same column of Sydney Daily
Telegraph of sth October appeared two police-
court reports, which cast a lurid glare on the dis-
graceful laws, and the still more disgraceful
administration thereof, in this great country. In
one case an old man was charged with stealing
one penny out of the pocket of a woman unknown.
A casual civilian said he saw the penny stolen, but
the woman from whom it was alleged to have been
taken wasn’t produced, so there was practically
nothing but one man’s evidence in the matter.
And the sum involved was a whole penny. The
accused got SIX MONTHS HARD LABOUR
at Sydney Water Police Court. Same day and
almost the same hour, at the Central Police Court,
two members of a Sydney push were convicted of
a brutal and unprovoked assault. One of the
victims was so badly crippled that, though 22 days
had elapsed since the assault, he still had his arm
in a sling, from which it might be fairly inferred
that he had been at least partly incapaci-
tated for three weeks, and had suffered
much more than one pennyworth of
damage from loss of wages alone, to
say nothing of personal pain. The punishment
awarded to one offender was £7 fine or THREE
MONTHS ; to the other £2 fine or a casual trifle
of ONE MONTH. As both offenders had in-
flicted far more personal loss on their victims than
the man who stole the penny, it can only be
assumed that, in the opinion of the bench, the
brutality shown and the suffering inflicted were
redeeming features, and three months were
knocked off in one case, and five in the other, on
account of the brutality. It is very nearly time
that an inquiry was held to decide whether the
average Australian magistrate is merely a vacil-
lating idiot, or a person who has a natural and
inborn sympathy for brutality, or whether he is
terrorism by the push, or whether the push pays
him a cash subsidy to let its truculent members
down lightly. On the face of things it must
surely be one of the four. At present, by reason
of the “pushes” no Australian city is reasonably
safe for a British subject to live in. The average
Australian capital is far less safe to live in than the
Transvaal was in the Oom Paul days. There are
laws in existence which might suffice to suppress
the push’s chronic conspiracy against law and
order. Buttheyareneverenforced. The magistrates
have power to give the brutal-and-unprovoked-
assault ruffian six or 12 months, but he mostly
fines him a few shillings. When things get a
little worse than usual there is a spasmodic agita-
tion for giving the magistrates power to make it
two years, or one year aud a flogging, or some-
thing of the sort; and in that case he would still
fine the assaulter a few shillings. If the law-
makers of this country ever come to be in dead
earnest about making Australian cities fit places
for a decent British subject to live in, they will
fix a minimum penalty of six months’ hard labour
for assault in company (which is already an in-
dictable and heavily-punishable crime) and make
pushes illegal organisations, mere membership
whereof shall be good for six months. A push is
as distinctly a conspiracy against good order as a
Eenian or Nihilist society. It differs from them
only in that their ultimate intentions are good
and their violence is a (possibly misguided) effort
to attain a high ideal, while the push’s intentions
are wholly bad, and it aims, by bad methods, at
no ideal at all. The Australian law’s tender
regard for its push is wholly unaccountable.
The frequent plea that no special measures
are required because Australia is, on the whole, a
law-abiding country, is mere foolishness. The
law-abiding character of every country is judged
by published crime statistics, and they only record
arrests and convictions. By this method of com-
putation, a country where there are 1000 serious
crimes in a year and only 100 convictions looks
far more law-abiding than one where there are
only 200 serious crimes and 150 convictions. Even
with the most efficient police force serious crime
can be made to appear almost entirely absent if
the country is afflicted with a magistracy which
classes unprovoked assault, verging on man-
slaughter, among petty offences, and disposes of
it along with the drunks by the imposition of a
small fine ; and petty offences may lie made to
look very infrequent if the obscene-language man
and the Saturday night pavement obstructor arc
simply allowed to curse and obstruct without
being run in. The country with the worst
criminal record can be made to appear the one
with the best criminal record if its legal system is
only bad enough.
Justice as it is in Victoria.
That recent remarkable decision by a couple of
Carlton J’s.P., when they sentenced a woman to
two months’ gaol without hearing any defence,
was duly investigated by Solicitor-General
Davies, after his attention had been drawn to it.


It was shown that a summons had been duly
served on defendant (then in gaol, and unable,
owing to the solidity of the building, to break out
and appear in her own defence), and relying on
the case of Regina v. Abrahams, cited by the
two honorariums, Davies declines to interfere.
But this case, decided by Vic. Supreme Court a
few years ago, laid it down that the Court was
competent to sentence in their absence accused
persons who had been found guilty, which is
entirely different from trying a compulsory
absentee, and so finding her guilty. If the trial
of accused persons in their enforced absence, and
without any appearance on their behalf, is legal
in Victoria, then that State wastes a tremendous
amount of money, and expends much useful bobby
in gathering up evidence against accused persons
when it is so much simpler to gaol the defendant
for seven days on a charge of vagrancy, and then
try him for manslaughter or burglary in his
absence, and sentence him to death or 10 years.
A person who is not there to upset the case for
the prosecution with objectionable explanations
can be convicted at much less expense in the way
of investigation and evidence than a person who is
there, and the money thus saved could go towards
buying Union Jacks for the State schools. And,
on tne other hand, if this kind of trial isn’t legal,
then Minister Davies is a shameless and deliberate
law-breaker. The Justices say that they called on
defendant to appear, which, as the Crown had her
securely in gaol, and she couldn’t appear, was a
thrilling formality. Also, they say that they
heard the evidence for the prosecution carefully—
that the assaulted person seemed in a pitiable state
—and that the defendant (according to the evidence
for the prosecution) was a bad lot. All of which
has no bearing whatever on the real issue. Said
issue is that for the Crown to lock a person up on
one charge and then, without producing her in
Court or giving her any chance to defend herself,
to sentence her, in her compulsory absence, on
another charge, is illegal and a disgraceful travesty
of justice. Also that the two honorary J.sP. who
did this unlawful act, and the mean and truckling
Solicitor-General who illegally covered it up after-
wards, are alike a large, straggling, black blot on
any civilised community.
The Federation Question in Maoriland*
A Maorilander writes on the above subject:—
The importance of the question of Federation with
Australia has not quite disappeared from the minds of
Maoriland politicians. Premier Seddon sought to atone
for his culpable neglect in failing to have his province
represented at the Federal Convention by attempting to
establish an Island Federation. But Chamberlain’s reply
to his request that Fiji and the Cook Islands should be
incorporated with Maoriland quickly disillusioned the
optimistic Dick, who begins to realise that, despite his
Jingo fever and tall talk about the Imperial Council with
representatives from Greater Britain to assist in framing
the policy of the Empire, the Australian Commonwealth
is destined to become the controlling power in the
Pacific. Seddon had hoped that the Governor of Maori-
land, vested with the powers of High Commissioner of
the Pacific, would rival in dignity and power the Gov.-
General of the Commonwealth. Chamberlain’s reply
clearly indicates that England looks to Australia to shape
the destinies of the Pacific, and the reasonable inference
is that the Gov.-General will exercise jurisdiction as
High Commissioner of the Pacific. Seddon refuses, how-
ever, to despair. In reply to a recent question in the
House he ventured to predict that “ the tariff of the
Commonwealth would not be antagonistic to Maoriland
interests.” Considering that every country frames its
tariff to suit its own interests alone, and that Maoriland
never showed the least regard for Australian interests
when framing its tariff, i his is a drowning politician
clutching at a straw. In fact, Seddon seeks consolation
for his past indifference in the forlorn hope that the
tariffs of Australia and M.L. will be identical, and that
M.L.’s 750,000 will be able to establish reciprocity with
Australia’s 4,000,000. Herries and Massey, representing
the agricultural districts of Bay of Plenty and Franklin,
recently asked Seddon whether the House' would have an
opportunity this session of discussing the question of
federating with Australia, and some few of the members
thought it a favorable opportunity to air their
ignorance of the subject. Mining boomster Withe-
ford (Auckland) thought it idle and unnecessary
to trouble about so trivial a question as Federation
when the North Island Trunk Railway and other
works of momentous interest were unfinished. Napier
(Auckland), assured the House in all seriousness that
Maoriland would lose her individuality by joining the
Commonwealth. Recently Chief Justice Stout con-
tributed an article to a local magazine in which he dis-
cussed the provisions of the Commonwealth Act from a
Federal point of view, and did good service by showing
the shallowness of those who assert that. Federation
means the loss of Maoriland’s individuality. He analysed
the legislation of the past three years and showed that
the States will surrender very little of their legislative
powers. In 1899 sixty-four Acts were passed by the
Maoriland Parliament; of these 33 were general, 28 local
and personal, and 3 private. Of the general Acts, only
three dealt with matters that -would come under the
pow-irs of the Federal Parliament, namely the Immigra-
tion Restriction, Pacific Cable authorization, and Shipping
and Seaman’s Acts. All the other legislative work of the
Maoriland Parliament would not have been affected by its
being a State of the Australian Commonwealth. In 1898
there were only four Acts that would have been necessary
to have been enacted by the Parliament of the Common-
wealth, namely, the Divorce, Industrial Conciliation, and
Old Age Pensions Acts, and the B.N.Z. Act, as the B.N.Z.
carried on business beyond Maoriland. In 1897 only one
Act, the Patent Designs and Trade Marks Act Amendment
Act would have been required to be enacted by the
Commonwealth. Seddon is persistently burking the
question, but the failure of all his schemes to compensate
for diminution of Australian trade may eventually force
him to tackle the question of Federation in earnest.
Death Under Chloroform.
Puyyaka to The Bulletin :
Certain chloroform-death remarks by “ Layman ”
(29/9/’00) well voice the popular notion of an important
question, but it is curious from a professional point of
view to note how neither he nor the great bulk of his
fellow laymen have yet realised that chloroform is
practically out of date as an anaesthetic, and should never
be employed in the great majority of cases. It is small
blame to them, for most general practitioners, especially
those trained in Scottish schools, have not j'et awakened
to this hard and (to them) heretical fact. Somehow or
other a notion has become deeply rooted in the public
mind that ether is not a real anaesthetic, and that its
effects are not sufficiently deep for painless surgery. As
a matter of fact it is just as complete in every way, and
in most London hospitals it is used to the almost complete
exclusion of chloroform. From the point of view of
safety, ether is more than five times as safe as chloroform.
Ormsby and Juilliard’s statistics on the subject show
that while 214 deaths occurred in 676,767 administrations
of chloroform ; 407,553 ether anaesthesias only produced
25 deaths. The figures are quoted both to show the ex-
tensive use of ether in Europe as a general anaesthetic,
and to prove that the average given is drawn from as
wide a field as can be desired by the most carping critic.
Of all anaesthetics, nitrous oxide (“ laughing gas ”) is the
safest, but the short period of anaesthesia forbids its use
for any but the simplest operations. Then comes ether —
we will leave the ethidenes and other experimental anaes-
thetics alone—and, a long way after it, chloroform. The
more apparent advantages of ether over its opponent are
as follows:
(1) Ether is a stimulant to the heart, chloroform a de-
pressent. Hence there is no risk of the sudden heart col-
lapse which causes so many of the chloroform fatalities.
(2) The deep, audible respiration sounds of a normal
etherisation give immediate warning of any tendency to
failure of breathing or intercurrent asphyxia (e.g. tongue
falling back into throat, &c.). The light breathing of a
patient under chloroform is ofteh very difficult to guage
accurately, and this has caused many accidents.
(3) A patient under ether may be safely placed in any
position for purposes of operation. With chloroform the
raising of the upper part of the body (as in the sitting-
position in a dentist’s chair) throws a dangerous strain on
the depressed heart.
(4) With ether, an overdose can hardly be given, as the
symptoms at once show out alarmingly, and recovery is
rapid on admission of air. Chloroform, on the other
hand, exercises its effects stealthily, and, more important
still, the main cause of death from it is not an overdose,
but sudden heart failure in the early stages of adminis-
tration. A rapid pushing of chloroform is the safest
method of giving it, as even the occasional admission of
fresh air, which “ Layman ” appears to think necessary,
is apt to causa either vomiting or dangerous shock from
a partial return to consciousness. Death returns show
some curious facts. By far the greatest proportion of
chloroform deaths occur in connection with the
simplest operations. Teeth - extraction shows an
especial fatality, and the reduction of a dis-
location of the shoulder is practically never at-
tempted under chloroform by an up - to - date surgeon,
owing to the extraordinary death percentage. The
majority of deaths occur between 20 and 45, more in men
than women, more in vigorous, muscular people than in
the old and feeble—owing, probably, to the great force of
muscular spasm reacting on the lowered heart. Ninety
per cent, of deaths under chloroform occur within the
first 15 minutes, 50 per cent, before the anaesthesia is com-
plete ! The fatal syncope is probably in many cases due
to fright. The drug abolishes muscular power before it
clouds the thinking centres, and with many there comes
for an instant an awful feeling of utter helplessness when
they imagine that they feel the knife, and are powerless to
resist. The horror of that moment acts on a weak heart,
lowered by the drug’s action—and another death under
chloroform is chronicled in the newspapers. Here lies
the danger of the “ whiff of ch 10.,” beloved of the inex-
perienced hospital surgeon, and often of his elders, who
ought to know better. If the writer were a coroner,
he would certainly endeavor to commit any surgeon
who killed a patient with that “ whiff of chlo.” It
spells culpable ignorance of the action of the drug. Bad
chloroform, too, is far too frequent—most of it very bad
indeed. Ether, on the other hand, is easy to test and is
well made locally. Some'medicos who are disinclined —
or perchance unable—to administer ether will speak of
unpleasant after-effects from its use. Writer has seen
many hundred etherisations and has never met any after-
effects worth mentioning, but he has known two patients
to die from the after-effects of chloroform, in addition to
numerous instances of uncontrollable vomiting, &c.
Glover’s inhaler, which provides the safest and simplest
means of giving ether, is perhaps somewhat clumsy to
carry about in comparison with the bottle and mask of
chloroform, but this is its only drawback.
To sum up— ether is more than five times as safe as
chloroform, its anaesthesia is as deep, its after-effects less
dangerous, and it is less likely to contain poisonous
impurities. However youthful the administrator may be,
or be he ever so interested in the operation (which, need-
less to say, he should not be to the detriment of his
patient) it is scarcely possible for a fairly strong adult to
come to much harm under ether. In cases of diseased
heart where chloroform is notoriously inadmissible, ether
may be safely used. One point here—the physiologically
enlarged and strengthened heart of pregnancy enables a
parturient woman to stand chloroform with less risk than
any other human being. Except under similar conditions
the writer’s advice is—take ether every time.
♦
The Brown Confederation.
More news of Premier Seddon’s fixed intention
to annex to Maoriland, if it can be done, the
120,000 niggers of Fiji keeps coming along the
wires. The Brown Confederation of the Islands
is in process of formation as a counterpoise to the
White Confederation of Australia and Tasmania.
And just here there is a fair chance to test the
sincerity of Richard of Kumara on a rather
important part. In refusing to have anything to
do with the Australian Commonwealth, Premier
Seddon has persistently assured the Maoriland
people that they won’t lose any trade by standing
outside the Federal customs barrier, for the
Commonwealth’s tariff will almost certainly be
so drafted as not to injure Maoriland’s trade. He
has almost promised that the Commonwealth will
draft its tariff with a careful eye to Maoriland’s
interests. Certainly Maoriland itself has never
drafted its tariff with the least regard to any in-
terests save its own. It charges on goods
from N.S.W., Victoria, S.A., and Westralia
higher duties than they charge on Maoriland
goods. And in any case most countries fix their
tariffs, whatever they may be, with a single eye to
what they regard as their own interests. Still
Premier Seddon assures Maoriland in general
that the Commonwealth will arrange its tariff
with an especial view to maintaining Maoriland’s
commercial prosperity, and that it can stand out
with a light heart. Under these circumstances
N.S.W. is getting up to ask Seddon a question,
It wants to know, supposing Fiji goes into the
Brown Confederation, whether the Maoriland
tariff will be extended to the islands to
the destruction of N.S.W.’s Fijian trade? If it
is not so extended then it is difficult to see
how there can be any Brown Confederation at all
(for the said Confederation must have a uniform
tariff) unless Maoriland is willing to reduce its
tariff for Australia’s benefit. And if the Maori-
land tariff is extended to Fiji, and N.S.W.’s trade
with the islands is destroyed for Maoriland’s bene-
fit, then even Seddon can hardly keep on assuring
his people that Australia will show Maoriland any
special consideration in framing its own customs
arrangements, and that Maoriland won’t lose any-
thing by being isolated from the Commonwealth.
So the White Confederation rises to ask the
Brown Confederation what it intends to do about
the matter.
The Ever-Revolving’ Wheel.
A Melbourne inventor has, it is claimed, solved
the problem of perpetual motion. The Age re-
ports on his invention with the gravity of a pauper
funeral in a slum on a wet day :
The invention, a model of which was seen by a repre-
sentative of the Age near Mr. Rose’s residence in Wright-
street, East Erahran, yesterday, relates to the construc-
tion of a gravity wheel, with concentric rings, secured to
arms radiating from the centre. These arms or weights
act as balance and driving levers, and are so nicely
arranged—those on the downward grade being two-thirds
heavier than those on the upward grade in action—that a
natural falling of the weights on the former grade ensures
perpetual motion. A cessation of the driving force can
only be effected by preventing the weights from falling,
and this is done by a very simple contrivance in the form
of a spring which acts on all the weights simultaneously.
Taking a wheel 40 feet in diameter and 3 feet wide, it ‘is
estimated that it will carry 1050 weights, and that the
driving power will be equal to 1443| tons from the centre
of the wheel. The cost of construction is about one-sixth
the cost of machinery for steam power, and it is also
claimed that the new motive power will reduce the work-
ing expenses 95 per cent. The model has been subjected
to continuous tests, and it is apparently capable, like the
brook, of “ going on for ever.”
That good old “overbalancing wheel,” as it came
to be called for brevity’s sake, has been invented
so often that to be invented just once more won’t
do it any harm. The famous Marquis of Worces-
ter exhibited a model built on something the same
idea in 1648. Orffyreus, of Hesse-Oassel, did it
again about 1715. In the 17th and 18th century
the British Patent Office was rushed by persons
who had discovered the overbalancing wheel all
over again. They all had an idea that by some
means the same weights could be made" to be
heavier or to have a stronger pull on the descending
side of the wheel than on the ascending side, but,
despite oceans of specious theory, the weight or
the pull remained the same. Out of some 200
“discoverers” of perpetual motion which the
writer has read up, about 150 went on the theory
which has just been freshly discovered in Mel-
bourne. Some others had a syphon principle—
the falling of water was to turn a wheel, and the
turning of the wheel was to raise the water so
that it could fall all over again. The rest were
mainly magnetic crazes, or worked by the
blessing of God. There are many cases in which
we have the assurances of most reliable persons
that the blessed machine did go; in one case there
is what looks like sound evidence that it went for
some months; but the great majority never
started, and all that started stopped again—and
stopped for good. The machines which started
were probably mostly worked by concealed springs.
The wildest previous inventor of the Melbourne
man’s machine was probably George Linton, of
London, in 1821. His wheel had jointed arms,
each with a heavy weight at end. The arms on
the top of the wheel were to lie close, but as the
wheel came round they were to fly out, and the
pull of the weight at the end of the flying arm
was to drag the wheel round. It was a kind of
revolving octopus with a brick at the end of each
tentacle. Linton is only mentioned among the
ruck because his machine was a specially cranky-
looking affair, and better calculated to amuse the
baby than most others. Perpetual motion is, to
put it briefly, the struggle of a man to lift himself
by his own collar by hand. James I. dabbled in
such things, one Cornelius Dreble helping him
and borrowing money off lum, and history is
strewn with names, mostly long and German, of
men who dug up the overbalancing wheel from its
obscurity for the many thousandth time, and gave-
brief spell of notoriety.
Sydney Daily Telegraph made recently .{he
remarkable statement that the people of Sydney
have in a few months given to what it calls
“charity” no less than £124,138. But of this
£41,856 13s. lid. went to the alleged Patriotic
Fund, which may or may not be “charity’’ac-
cording as you look at it (most of the donors no
doubt charged their subscriptions to advertising
account), and to the absurd Citizens’ Bushmen’s
Contingent Fund went £39,181135., which no one
but a lunatic would call charity. Then there are
Mr. Hugh Dixson’s donations to Baptist Union,
See., £11,750, for building churches and endowing
the clergy. That, though benevolent in its inten-
tion, can only be called charity by an absolute
perversion of language. Thus, out of the £124,000
nearly £lOO,OOO is not for charitable purposes at
all, and £BB,OOO is for two war-funds, which imply
the very negative of charity—not the relief, but
the infliction of suffering. So that for real
charity there remains only £24,000 —£9000 for a
Children’s Hospital and £15,350 for an Indian
Famine Relief Fund (into which the advertising
element again largely entered). And as for the
ways and means of collection, the less said the
better, as witness, among other things, the scores
of indignant letters received by The Bulletin
from public-school teachers.
“ M.” to The Bulletin :
Whence all this fuss about our men staying in S’Africa
after the war if the country pleases them and the terms
suit their ideas ? All who know anything of the men
personally were well aware when they went that “ if they
saw a good thing on ” they had no intention of returning.
And who could blame them, when they were glad to
enlist because they were either out of work here, or saw
no chance worth speaking of? The sham patriotism that
sent the contingents away is a bit late in the day in
mouthing its pretentious remonstrance about wanting
them back. The labor-market certainly does not require
them, for there are thousands of good men at present out
of work—not counting those who form the periodical
mass meetings and elect deputations to the Government.
The back-country does not want them, for the cruel
drought has knocked the life out of things.
The city and towns don’t ask for them, Heaven
knows. If the men can better themselves over-
sea it is the truest patriotism to let them remain.
It might benefit employers to have a superabund-
ance of labor to select from, but it can do good to
no one else to urge that the soldiers of fortune whom we
have sent away must be sent back. Besides, should not
these late-in-the-day patriots remember that our men
were sent to help take the country from the Boers, and,
the country having been taken, somebody has to keep it
in order ? Then why not our fellows—especially if they
get good wages and a farm to boot—as well as the men
from the Old Country ?
That sociable family party constituted for, in-
directly, regenerating the rising generation of
Victoria, and, directly, drawing up a scheme of
Bible School lessons that should be acceptable to
parents of all and of no denominations, sent in its
report the other day, with a recommendation that
a referendum should be taken on the matter at
the Federal elections. Why the question should
be delayed six or nine months when a general
election is only six weeks off passes lay compre-
hension ; if the taking of a referendum will settle
the matter with some hope of finality the sooner
the better. But no one hopes for any such sooth-
ing sequence. For, if the referendum says “No,”
then the parson will gird up his loins anew
and get himself once more into the breach.
And if the referendum says “Yes,” the most it
can do is to generally approve of Bible-teaching
in schools, and the never-ending shindy among
the sects as to what is to be taught must start
afresh; and that is just the trouble. After all,
there was some theoretical horse-sense about the
old persecutors who tried to keep the nation solid
in one faith. Where they broke down was in the
fact that they generally allowed a most incom-
petent individual to select the one creed which
was to survive, and they didn’t allow for human
nature.
Vic. Govt. Medical Officer Shields, supported
by Dr. Beattie Smith, gave a lucid explanation
of what he called “impulsive insanity,” in the
case of the man subsequently found guilty of the
Dawson (Gippsland) murder. Said Shields :
It was probable the nature of his act was not present to
his mind at the time of the murder, though it might come
upon him like a flash of lightning. There was a parallel
between epilepsy and a case like this. It might be a
sudden convulsion of idea, and then a feeling of
calmness when the impulse was past. . . . Accused had
been fond of the woman up to the time of the mur-
der ; there has been no evidence of premeditation,
and it must have been a sudden paroxysm, for he
had no time for consideration. If anyone had
stopped him before the act and pointed out to him
what he was about to do, the result would have been
different. Though at present his mind was comparatively
clear his actions and words were those of a simpleton. If
he had any consciousness at the time of the murder, it
was an insane consciousness, such as a person would have
while in a trance. . . He was not intellectually insane
but his conduct pointed to an explosion having taken
place in his mental nature at the time of the deed. He
had been overwhelmed by mental explosion.
It was further shown that the prisoner’s mother
and two brothers were of unsound mind, but the
bucolic jury could not appreciate the nicety of
Shields’ definition, and the Law promptly
ordered the victim of explosive impulse to be
hanged.
4
A striking commentary on the value of testimony
as to character occurred in the case of the notori-
ous William Buck, convicted at Melbourne, for
the fifteenth time, of serious assaults, unlawfully
wounding and minor offences. E. Redfearn, J.
Manifold and other racing men, who “ had
known him for some years as a frequenter of race
meetings,” said they knew nothing personally
against prisoner’s character. Even detective
Ward intimated that during a (treat, portion of
the time he had known Buck the man had
been well-behaved, except for a tendency to
drink and to quarrel with policemen. These
men, who, presumably, testified in the
hope of mitigating Buck’s prospective sen-
tence, “knew nothing personally against him,”
although his fame as a stousher of policemen and
inoffensive citizens is not merely local, it is all-
Australian. The testimony of Manifold and Co.
amounts, therefore, to this —that they, personally,
have (so far) escaped being “dealt with” by the
gentle Buck. In the case of men of Buck’s
order it is safe to assume that the convictions for
assault are in infinitesimal proportion to the actual
number of offences committed. Many a decent
young fellow is knocked about, and often per-
manently disfigured, but a police court case would
mean loss of a billet, or “ disgrace to the family,”
consequently the assaulter very often goes scot
free. Buck was sentenced to 18 months’ hard ;
just half Judge Gibson’s award to the (so far as
people know) theretofore-unconvicted man who
stole a ninepenny tin of baking-powder.
♦
Softgoods Sargood, who naturally takes great in-
terest in any form of loyalty, even if it is sold by the
yard or the piece, proposes that the birth of Austra-
lian Nationalism shall be celebrated in Victoria by
a general hoisting of the British Flag over the State
Schools. The Duchess of York has been nominated
' by Sargood aforesaid as the most fitting Person-
age to put his brilliant scheme into practice. By
pressing a button at Melbourne Exhibition Build-
ing she could give a telegraphic signal for each
State school to hoist its Flag at the same critical
moment or thereabouts, so that “not only would
the opening of the first Commonwealth Parliament
of Australia by the grandson of our gracious
Queen be impressed upon the memories of
our children, but, in addition, they would realise
the fact of our being part of the greatest Empire in
the world.” The Bulletin is in favor of taking
Sargood seriously. He offers to contribute
200 flags to the Imperialistic cause, and this
chance of making the windy draper pay for the
advt. of his “loyalty” ought not to be missed.
“ IJp with the Gdorious Union Jack ” everywhere
—State schools, town-halls, public buildings of all
descriptions ! Feed the sentiment of Sakgoodian
loyalty with Flag of dear old Motherland until it
be thoroughly nauseated. Educate young Aus-
tralian minds to realise the absurdity of sub-
ordinating the national emblem of this country to
the emblem of a far-away island, and a healthy
desire to assert their ingrained pride of nation-
ality will come all the sooner. Give Sargoodian
loyalty enough Flag-cord and in due course it will
hang itself.
; —♦
Melbourne’s Commission of Enquiry into the
doings and misdoings of its Board of Works until
lately meandered along placidly and casually,
J eliciting nothing of importance, but recently it
i fished up as a witness a Colliugwood councillor,
r who put both feet through the tall belltopper of
■ the Board’s dignity with great velocity. After
’ thoroughly and robustly condemning the Board
. of Works and all its doings, this terrifying indivi-
( dual wound up by suggesting that it should be
;■ elected by the ratepayers direct, members to be
s paid at least £2OO a year each. “ Under that
J system,” said he, “we should not have a chairman
1 who set up as an engineer, a poet, and a local
j aristocratic despot, nor would a district be re-
. presented, as mine has, by successively a boot-
i maker, a tailor, a plasterer, a warder, a publican,
- and an agent.” After firing this pom-pom, he
• went into details, and the further he went the
' worse he got. “Some of the members almost
3 lived at the Board’s offices. . . It was disgrnce-
t ful for any officer of a public body to keep open-
i house for the purpose of treating contractors or
. their friends, or for members to treat officers. . .
k The habitual sending home of cables was not only
7 ridiculous but a misappropriation of the rate-
payers’ money. . . I assume these cables are
paid for by the Board, as they are sent on its re-
. solutions, and the officers refuse to show me the
f vouchers, and I challenge the Board to disprove it. ”
E The witness wound up by a general statement
> that the Board should give up drinking, holding
5 expensive festivities, writing poetry, passing Jingo
; resolutions, and title-hunting ; that it should con-
; sist of paid men—for the man who worked for
| nothing was generally worth nothing ; and that it
[ should stick to business. A shocked Commission
adjourned just here, and went home to pour water
i over itself in order to find out if it was really
• awake.
+. __
Victorian M.L.C. Sachse said that he was
opposed to female suffrage because—
He disliked the idea of a woman leaving the quiet
sacred home circle and going into another channel,
putting herself practically in the position of a man,
arguing in public, and attending meetings which were
certainly not sentimental or connected with some of the
finest sentiments of life.
Yet politics (unless man has woefully degraded
them) are the science of promoting the happiness
and welfare of the whole community, and if these
are not the finest sentiments in life, then what
are ? And even the person who has a vote
seldom spends more than one evening in 100 at
political meetings. It is a common Tory theory
when woman-suffrage is on the board, that there
are six political meetings in every town every
week, and everybody attends them—but this is
hardly the case. And as for the quiet sacred home
circle it is an unhappy fact that about one-half
of city women have to live in noisy streets
where they can hardly hear themselves
speak in the quiet home for the howl of
the traffic outside, and the cries of the
family and the adjacent families playing in the
gutter, and the conversation of the adjacent fami-
lies and their cockatoos wafted through the jerry-
built partitions. And in the average Richmond
and Collingwood terrace house the family never
forms a circle because the regular living-room is so
small that if it did one member would be sitting
on the fire, and the one opposite him would bruise
his lower spine against the door-key. . It mostly
forms two straggling parallel lines, one on each
side of the room, though it occasionally resolves
itself into a cross and misshapen triangle. The
quiet, sacred home circle, indeed! Ye gods !
Glassey’s movement to obtain a Royal pardon
for the four strike-shearers- who fell within the
law in ’94, and are still gaoled in Queensland, is
characterised by a sufficiency of justice but an in-
sufficiency of reason. The Labor-party might
long ago have fittingly insisted that the case of
these men should be reviewed. In all countries it
is customary, when a strike fever has passed, to
review' sentences pronounced upon those who lost
their heads in the excitement. But instead of
moving even now along that line of justice Glas-
a Royal pardon because of the advent
of Federation. In the Middle Ages the birth of a
Royal heir was generally accompanied by the
flinging open of gaol doors. If Federation releases
shearer strikers, whom should it not release ?
Queensland public opinion, if rightly directed, is
strong enough to release these men because it is
just to do so, and an agitation in this direction
will be honorable both to the men and their chain
pions.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George Street, SYDNEY;
59 Queen Street, B7IS3ANE:
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
PRJCB 25/. TO £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses :
A
260 Collins Street,
65 Rundle Street,
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE.
HEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest find Largest International Life Company.
Haa 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
_ _ *° KFICB * « j THOMAS P. PURVES,
70 PS tt-SireOt:, Sydney. General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
it
¥
Julphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cookie Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Coid, Silver, lead, a o n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
Thu Manager, Cookie Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE, Cl BBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Mahagkr. Agents for Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ........ ** Ingomar.”
R° YAIj “ New Babylon.”
Palace “ What Happened to Jones ” and
“ An Empty Stocking.”
Criterion “ All for Gold."
T IVOLI Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “ Trilby ” (last night, Oct 13).
Theatre Royal ‘‘New East Lynne.”
Bl'OU Rickards’ Variety Co.
Athenjeum Hall Haskett Smith Lectures.
“The Penalty of Crime” duly lifted lip
its voice and screamed at Sydney Criterion last
week. The programme states that it is now doing
its fifth year in the principal dust-boxes of Great
Britain—at least the programme really says the
principal theatres, but that is surely a misprint.
The “ Penalty ” is the dry howl of a very bad
man in an impossible land. Its bad man wades
in gore on a vast, comprehensive scale, and kills,
or tries to kill, nearly everybody ; and nobody
interferes with him to any great extent, but allows
him to rage up and down with impunity and other
articles. .As in 250 other melodramas, thus very
bad man is found by the old gentleman with his
head in the safe and his legs protruding into the
middle of the room, wherefore he naturally kills
the old man, and the latter’s son is promptly sus-
pected on a strong want of evidence. That feeble
old gentleman who comes on a powerful villain
with his head in the safe is a useful but idiotic
old prop that badly wants a rest. His
utter want of strategy makes this paper feel
angry. If lie seized the villain’s feet and
held them up while he called for help, it
is obvious that the villain could do nothing but
try to walk about on his hands and swear some-
thing awful, and the old gentleman has now been
slain so often by the man whom he found with his
head in the safe that he might know enough to try
this device. Failing this, he might either upset
the table on the bad man, or throw himself on
him before he turns round, or cripple him by
hitting his feet an awful welt with his umbrella.
But he does none of these things ; he merely cries
for help in a feeble voice that isn’t loud enough to
bring any help, though it is quite sufficient to
reveal his presence and thereby leads to his own
destruction. The sad and unpleasant old joke of
the funny man whose pants are pulled off under
the table does duty once more in the “ Penalty of
Crime ” ; but that drama presents one novelty in
the fact that Miss Dampier abducts herself
instead of being carried away by the conspirator
and his accomplice. She is chloroformed, with
the usual reckless inattention to the ways and
details of that drug, and remains insensible for a
minute; after which she rises up dead and walks out
with her abductor, and isn’t seen again till she
is found with her hands tied in a public-house.
Old Edmund Holloway meets with a worse fate,
for after being twice killed by the villain he dies
through fever accelerated by frequent death act-
ing on a week constitution.
* » * *
The two best members of the company—
Dampier himself and George Buffer—are both out
of the cast. Dampier is resting, probably because
there is no part in the “Penalty” which is any-
thing like large enough for him. Buffer (a small
dry-looking man with a tendency towards an
astonishing bell-topper), whose remarkable ability
as a character actor has pulled many a stodgy
melodrama out of the mud, is struggling with an
inflamed lung in the sacred privacy of home, and
playing his part badly for the first time in his
life. In their absence the only redeeming features
left are John Forde; Benson North, who plays a
certain kind of villain with some ability, and pos-
sibly Edmund Holloway. The rest of the co.
show up the saddening commonplace of the play,
and turn the limelight on its unprofitable bones
with great perseverance. The moral of the
“ Penalty ” is that the bad man shall have a good
time and a long run for his money, while two of
the good characters die early, and the rest are left
on a selection in Australia, where the hero will
presumably grow to be another Old Dad and spend
his declining years digging dry tanks and trying
to teach the horse to live on nothing.
* * * *
“ All for Gold, or £50,000,000 ” of money
is in preparation, and this very large amount of
cash will probably be produced at the Cri. on
Saturday.
*# * *
The postponed drama of “ Ingomar, the
Barbarian,” is to appear at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday night. Nance O’Neil will be Parthenia,
as a matter of course, though Parthenia is gene-
rally supposed to have been a calm and queenly
girl, and how she will suit with Miss O’Neil’s
sturdy methods is a rather interesting problem.
Also, M‘Kee Rankin is to be the tremendous
Ingomar—the untamed and hairy young man
with the big stride and the long sword, which is
another interesting problem. Sydney remembers
M‘Kee Rankin best as the old battered German
father in “Magda,” and with that memory on its
mind the character of Ingomar doesn’t seem to fit,
somehow. Still, Mr. Rankin is a sterling and
versatile actor, and when he is found shaking a
loose and uncivilised limb in the Gallic forest it
may possibly be found that he fits remarkably
well.
** # *
The long and deservedly prosperous career
of “Jones” ends about the middle .of next week
unless the bagman reconsiders his determination
ITEM IN CARL HAGENBECK'S MENAGERIE, HAMBURG
(Under Engagement to Fitzgerald Bros.).
N .B. — The tall person on the back scat of the dog-cart is a bear.
and stays a few days longer, which is unlikely.
Ho has been a pleasing visitant, and The Bul-
letin struggles round to the Palace with Jones’s
tombstone under its arm in a rather depressed
frame of mind. It isn’t too often that such a
good, all-round company is on view ; there isn’t a
single individual in the Jones combination that
Sydney won’t be more or less sorry to part with,
unless, possibly, it is the escaped lunatic, who
doesn’t matter much. Even the smaller parts of
the cast have been well filled. Misses Hope
Mayne and Inez Bensusan have had little to do
except look pretty, and light up the home of the
crushed professor who fell into trouble at a prize-
fight and had ice put on his head when he came
home, but they have done that admirably. The
co. departs shortly for Tasmania or Maoriland,
or some other undeserving spot —at least Manager
Lohr was seen the other day making great efforts
to catch a boat for one of these places or some
place like it, which is a sure premonitory symp-
tom of departure.
This is the last week, or thereabouts, of
the brilliantly unwholesome show at the Queen’s
Hall, Sydney. Whoever desires to inspect the
figures there, and see how many diseases he is
liable to get, and how awful he is liable to look
when he gets them, is therefore exhorted to make
haste to the premises opposite the Criterion, and
get a valuable shock.
* * *• ifc
The Fitzgeralds’ Wild Beast and Trapeze
Show at Sydney (or rather, Redfem) Railway
Station (Sydney hasn’t a railway station) is drawing
to a close, and in a little while the lunch-eating
elephant, the equestrian lion, and the pony, one
of whose corners was manufactured minus a leg,
will be seen in that locality no more. The last-
named does not appear in the ring, but waits
patiently in the outside show with the tiger that
has the “korff” and other non-performers, who
remain, as it were, in the greenroom all night.
*m * *
The Georgia Magnet has been doing a
good deal of drawing to Sydney Tivoli this week.
Various distinguished citizens are called down
from the dress-circle to test the Magnet’s bona-
fides, one gentleman having to be awakened
from a heavy slumber into which he had been
mesmerised by the previous performer. The
Magnet’s ability to resist five or six men at once
is interesting in a way, and remarkable in every
wa y, yet it is just as interesting to hear of it as to
see it, and when one strong man has been
unable to lift her there seems no reason why one
should sit through the attempts of some three or
foiir other men to do exactly the same thing. Mr.
W ill Whitburn is an amusing gentleman dressed
most of the time in rags, but it would be better if
his stories were somewhat less archaic than his
clothing. However, he possesses a small dog
which gracefully concludes his farce by hanging
on to somebody’s trousers and brings the affair to
an end with eclat. The evening’s entertainment
is likewise brightened by the fact that the Cake-
Walk is left out.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the supply of
blood—warm blood—was to be turned off at the
managerial meter on Wednesday of this week.
“The Only Way” deserved t<?run longer than 10
nights, but the performance had moments of con-
vincing pathos, and Melbourne in general doesn’t
care to have its heart shaken-up three or four
times in one evening. There were complaints
that Sydney Carton, the barrister who§e
aspirations got blighted by the bottle-imp,
made people feel sad, whilst little Mimi
was quite too distressing, and this complaint
came to present writer’s knowledge from people
who paid their money regularly to witness the
alleged sorrows of a recent loud tragedienne, and
came away commenting cheerfully on her violent
demise. The one very pathetic point in “ The
Only Way ” was the silent effect of Miss Mimi
Musgrove when her hero put his lips to the sleep-
ing face of the woman whom he loved better than
old port, or life itself. The dramatist here takes
about 75 per cent, of the credit, seeing that the
Mimi character is not derived from Dickens, but
the scene depends for realism upon the person-
alities and careful self-restraint of the actors.
Miss Musgrove can be complimented on having
played the foremost figure in a remarkably fine
little picture.
* * * *
To-night (Thursday) Miss Crane’s feet are
to get another show in the Paris studio, and the
tone-deaf daughter of O’Farrell will tink of no-
thing but Svengali, Svengali, Svengali. The
“ Trilby” revival is to close the season on Satur-
day, after which Her Majesty’s closes for further
improvements, re-opening with “Rose of Persia”
on the 27th.
** * *
“The New East Lynne,” at Melbourne
Royal, is something The Bulletin hopes to be
able to bear with, for the sake of Little Willie.
At sundry times this journal has spoken harshly
concerning the other “ East Lynne ’’—the old,
original stand-by drama which has enabled hun-
dreds of despairing managements to pay the tur-
bulent orchestra a trifle on account. Now, to see
and hear the reconstructed “East Lynne” is to
know that the first offence might have been more
unpardonable than it seemed. The up-to-date
perversion of Mrs. Henry Wood’s “masterpiece”
adds insult to injury. John F. Sheridan disap-
points his faithful friend, the public, by appearing
as an Irish footman at the respectable establish-
ment of Archibald Carlyle, and what time Lady
Isabel isn’t eloping with her glossy Levison, or
coming back in blue spectacles to the
scene of her past hysteria, this super-
fluous Hibernian flunkey is mostly talking
to Gracie Whiteford. When Mr. A. Carlyle gets
chosen by the local snuffle league to stand for Par-
liament in the Joe Chamberlain interest, and
Levison the Betrayer pops up as an unaccountable
Labor candidate for the same seat, Sheridan in-
cites a mob of 10 voters to duck the evil baronet
in a horse-pond for assaulting Little Willie. Also,
Madame Isabel Vine tears off her blue specs, and
upbraids Levison on his way to the poll, and tells
him that she is now guarding her husband’s honor
against cruel attacks on his offspring. After
which Little Willie expires in a hurry, probably
from the clip across the ear that the villain gave
him, . or because his stepmother attends Papa’s
election meetings in a blue-silk gown and an opera-
cloak.
* » * *
Gracie Whiteford represents two items in
the festive portion of the agony. As a rule, she
is a trim-built parlormaid, engaged to Sheridan,
but sworn to remain single on account of Willie’s
cough. Occasionally she is her own twin sister,
who fell a victim to Levison, and is determined to
marry him as a punishment for his having com-
mitted several murders and elopements. Sheridan
and the twin Miss Whitefords are a long way out
of their natural element in any version of “ East
“Lynne,” yet the performance would certainly be
sadder if they were not there at all. The rest of
the cast, with the exception of H. O. Willard, as
Levison, likewise the intelligent damsel who pre-
tends to be Willie, amounts to a horribly con-
spicuous failure. A well-painted railway-accident
tableau is attached to the second act, and the
clear duty of Sheridan is to send his re-constructed
co. off by the Grenoble express, or whatever train
it is that comes to grief, and put them in the
carriage next to the engine, where they can’t
possibly escape their deserts.
m* * *
At the Bijou four members of the late
M'Adoo co. have come to wake up the first part
with their dusky melody and own particular
style of animation. The new quartette of
“corner” folk includes Billy M'Clain, likewise
Madame Cordelia, from Sydney side of Rickards’s,
and just as they were scoring double encores the
management got word that Melbourne’s own
Whitburn had given the Tivolians in Sydney a
good hard knock by way of equalising the ex-
change. Billee Barlow, in four different cos-
tumes, is a promising success at the Bijou, the
two Brothers on the horizontal bars coming next
in popular estimation after 9 o’clock. The bar
act is quite as risky as any of Billee’s songs, but
the lady’s changes of toilette land her an easy
winner at the finish.
*' * * *
Rev. Haskett Smith started a short career
of usefulness, at Melb. Athenaeum Hall, last
Saturday. The fluent shepherd looks as though
lecturing had agreed with him very well since his
first visit to Australia. His voice is in good
plump condition, his photographs are of the
highest moral and artistic character, and he
talks about them in a way that is interest-
ing even when it most resembles the way of a
serious-minded magazine. His first illustrated
yarn dealt with the Paris Exhibition. This week
he uncovers Ancient Egyptian mysteries, goes
into J ingo details re Gordon, Kitchener, and the
Mahdi’s tomb, and will probably have a good deal
to say about the Holy Land of plain fact, which
is so much dirtier than the Palestine of pious
fiction.
* * *- *
Melbourne doesn’t want reminding that
George Musgrove will re-open the Princess’s on
Saturday (13th) with a grand Opera co., who make
a first appearance— i.e. , some of them make it —in
“II Trovatore.” On Tuesday the other half of
the forces will mostly appear in “Faust,” and
for further particulars see next issue. The scale
of prices has been raised to three half-crowns for
the circle, where Wealth and Fashion are sup-
posed to gather: reserved stalls have gone up
one shilling, and if Melbourne can’t stand these
reasonable additions to the ordinary rates grand
opera is not likely to come again.
** # *
George Musgrove follows the policy of
MartinSimonsen in opening his grandopera season
with “ II Trovatore ” —but, Oh ! what a difference
in the mounting there will be. The idea, seem-
ingly, is to bring out the Italian tenor, Salvi, in
his most effective singing part, and impress old
opera patrons with the gorgeousness of the show
as compared with previous productions of “ II
Tro.” The “Faust” can hardly be put on more
handsomely than when Nellie Stewart played the
heroine long years ago, and Federici, as Mephis-
topheles, immortalised the occasion by dying of
heart disease two minutes after the curtain fell.
** * *
Marshall Hall did not attract big crowds
to his Adelaide Town-hall lectures during the last
week in Sept. On the first night the gross takings
were £8 10s., and on the second night but £B.
Prof. Ives, of Adelaide University, and Bryan
Wibberley, a musical Methodist parson who once
studied under Marshall Hall, were the chairmen,
and each slanged the people who came because
others stayed away. The expenses of the lectures
—including the fee paid to the peripatetic pro-
fessor—were about five times as great as the
takings.
One of Gov.-General Hopetoun’s success-
ful society achievements is a facile and effective
rendering of the Lord Chancellor’s patter-song in
Sullivan and Gilbert’s opera.
Writes Corporal Logan, of the first Queens-
land contingent:—
All through the roughest part of the campaign, out of
our company of 116 men, there were only 21 men. The
rest had all gone sick, or were knocking about some-
where. . . . About 100 of our chaps joined the police and
about 300 of us volunteered for the railway service.
For an infraction of the coal-weighing law
at Newcastle (N.S.W.), a colliery-proprietary has
been fined—in April £3, in Aug. £5, and in Sept.
£lO. The infraction was the same stubborn
offence in each instance, and the Crown pressed
to have the full penalty under the Act—£2o—in-
flicted. Would any other class of stubborn law-
breaker receive such kindly consideration ?
Queensland sugar figures for the past year
are none too lively. The South gave 612,86 ft tons
cane and 62,043 tons sugar. The North, 512,262
tons cane and 59,946 tons sugar. The Central
produced 12,335 tons cane and 1300 tons sugar.
About Mackay, the area is decreasing—that centre
showing 3007 acres less cane and 14,259 tons less
sugar. Bundaberg and Gin Gin showed a decrease
of 9789 tons sugar. Cairns, Childers, Bowen, Ing-
ham gave an increased output. Total yield for
1899, 123,289 tons—a decrease on previous year’s
production of 40,445 tons, or 25 per cent. Average
number of tons of cane per ton of sugar, 9'54,
against 9 42 for preceding year.
“NEW BABYLON.”
There’s a sinking ship and a grey-green sea
Somewhere about longitude 23 ;
And the calico waters howl in wrath
While a monster liner of painted lath
Picks up villain and hero and heroine—
The others drown in the yeasty brine.
The tale of a vessel lost and gone
Which never came back to Babylon.
There’s a hero, youthful and gay, of course,
Whose cash is staked on the wrong brown horse.
With a tall, bright hat and a troubled face
He lays his beans on the coming race.
He leaves the girl that he ought to wed—
The maiden with hair of golden red ;
And the girl he loves—she cuts him dead
When the horse that all his cash is on
Is licked in the race in Babylon.
There’s a rusty dame who thirsts for gin,
And some cows are inserted this drama in ;
There’s a girl who has lost her identity ;
A detective, a Chow, and burglars three.
The beginning is neither there nor here,
And the ending is very far from clear;
But the bad folks die or disappear,
And in act one-hundred-and-twenty-one
The good ones get married in Babylon.


The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table
installed at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating mill at the Conrad mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without recrushing. The result of the Wilfley
test is a high-grade concentrate, and tailing-waste show-
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual now ranks amongst the
very best life assurance offices in the British Empire, both
as regards security and benefits and in the moderation of
its premium rates.*
The quantity of sulphides now treated per week
at the “ Barrier” compares favorably with the output of
any silver-lead mining field in the world. The difficulty
in treatment of sulphides is being successfully grappled
with mainly owing to improved systems of mechanical
“dressing.” In this the Luhrig Vanner plays a very
prominent part. A large number of these machines are
now in use there, and fresh orders are still being given to
the agents, Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. The
South Mine people are remodelling their mill on up-to-
date lines, and will install twelve or more Luhrig Vanners
of the 1900 pattern. The British Co. is also erecting more
of these superior machines.*
* * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creer.v, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* • * «
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * • m
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
♦ • * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
» * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, flumimr, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
» * * »
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimvvade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* • * *
Associated Gold Mines, Sept, output: 2518 tona
sulphides for 23600 z. Not quite an ounce a ton, and not
good enough to pay for this extravagantly-worked con-
cern. A week ago shares over 80s. ; now just over 60s.—
a drop of nearly half-a-million. Purely a market-mine,
but the truth will deal with it at last.
* * * *
Kalgurli Sept, production: 1512 tons for 22600 z.
About the usual average. Made up of sulphide and oxi-
dised ores ; extraction only 91 per cent.
• * * *
“ Hainault has been looking poor for about a
fortnight, but the faces of the drive at the 400 and 500 ft.
levels now show a decided improvement.” Rich for a
day and poor for a fortnight is the distinguishing weak-
ness ofc-the Hainault.
ISSgfi
"wlf '
II -Sir
*
m
“DRINK it
WR HEALTH
Anbyou Derive
ftEJjSUip
DRiKKIT M
fORPIEASURt
Ahd You Acquire,
Health
ZETZ SPA Proprietary ijhiteb
SYDNEY.
1
THE
CREAT
AUSTRALIAN,
NATURAL
MINERAL
WATER.
‘fcbaeeett
1
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAYY AND WAR OfflCE.
imr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS. IN THE WORLD/'
Cope Bros, & Co,, Ltd,, Liverpool. Agents; M, Rutty & Co,, Sydney,
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax/ Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 8170
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; CS Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eayle-street,
Briab. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NX. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent
pure), Blasting: Powder, Oaustio Soda; Minina
Requisites, Candles, eto! ’ 8
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Under the new N.S.W. Municipalities Bill,
municipal councils are given power to recover rates on
properties the owners of which can’t be found, by leasing
them for not more than seven years. The proviso seems
utterly worthless. If the property is a small suburban
allotment—and that is the kind of property that the
trouble is usually about —it can't be let, as a rule, for any
purpose except for building on (it is too small and barren
for cow-grazing), and no one would put up anything save
the worst kind of weatherboard hutch when he only had
a seven years’ lease. Very few people would put up even
that. What is wanted is power to sell the property for
unpaid rates. Nothing else will meet the difficulty.
* * * *
The State revenue and expenditure accounts for
last financial year are now all in, and, subject to some
small adjustments and alterations in one or two cases,
the results are as follows :
Revenue, Expenditure, Surplus,
1899-1900. 1899-1900. 1899-1900.
Maoriland .. £6,580,386 .. £5,140,128 .. £440,258
Westralia .. 2,875,396 .. 2,615,675 .. 259,721
Victoria .. 7,450,676 .. 7,318,945 .. 131,731
Tasmania .. 943,970 .. 871,453 .. 72,517
Queensland .. 4,588,207 .. 4,540,418 .. 47,789
Deficit.
S. Australia .. 2,765,858 .. 2,779,317 .. 13,459
N.S. Wales .. 10,223,392 .. 10,341,293 .. 117,901
Treasurer Holder, of S.A., turned his deficit into a paper
surplus by reckoning as ordinary revenue £15,000 donated
by Brookman to build a School of Mines, which was a remark-
able piece of sharp practice. The school not being built
yet, there is no corresponding outgoing, and Holder’s
accounts thus look £15,000 better than they really are.
Premier Lyne of N.S.W. turns his deficit into a surplus
by not reckoning £242,436 of war and plague expenditure,
which, for a man who is so solid on the Cash Basis idea, is
rather astonishing. He puts these sums into the
accumulated deficit without passing them through the
expenditure account, which makes his accounts look very
much better in his own mind. Premier Seddon makes
his surplus look larger than is shown above, by annexing
650,400 of sinking-fund moneys and putting them into
revenue. As far as is known, N.S.W. is the only State
where the war expenditure wasn’t paid out of current
revenue. If any other Treasurers have smuggled it into
the deficit or the loan fund it has been done with great
secrecy.
* « * •
Six provinces have also issued their estimates
for the current financial year :
Estimated Estimated Estimated
Revenue, Expenditure, Surplus,
1900-1901. 1900-1901. 1901-1901.
Tasmania .. £1,040,107 £926,364 £113,743
Queensland .. 4,594,370 4,571,968 22,402
N.S. Wales .. 10,360,899 10,357,420 3,479
S. Australia .. 2,869,377 2,867,857 1,520
Estimated
Deficit,
1900-1901.
Maoriland .. 5,410,200 5,441,523 31,323
Victoria .. 7,482,350 7,563,263 80,913
Maoriland’s Treasurer turns his estimated deficit of
£31,323 into an estimated paper surplus of £21,477 by
including as revenue £52,800 to be annexed out of the
sinking fund. This is a regular device in Maoriland,
nevertheless it is a most objectionable one. Seddon
deliberately proposes to wreck his revenue this year by
the abolition of a number of revenue-producing duties.
He isn’t struck by necessity, or unforeseen disaster, or in
any way a victim of circumstances. He has devised, de-
fleliberately, a scheme for reducing the actual revende
below the expenditure, for abolishing the wise practice of
-paying part of the cost of new works out of revenue, and
for driving Maoriland back to the old.folly of depending
wholly on loans for its new public works. And why he
did it Providence only knows.
Also Treasurer Shiels, of Victoria, has turned
his prospective deficit of £80,913 into a prospective sur-
plus of £lOB7, by proposing to pay about £82,000 of this
year’s expenditure out of last year’s surplus. By this
notable device the £82,000 won’t appear either in this
or last year’s accounts, and the two surpluses will look
like £132,818, when there is really only a joint surplus of
£50,818 on the two years.
As for Premier Lyne, of N.S.W., he did exactly
what this paper, some weeks ago, suggested that he would
do. The Finance Committee, by whose advice he pro-
mised to stand, made, among others, three important
suggestions. It proposed, though not very forcibly, that
there should be a thorough cleaning up of all the various
deficits, and that, among other things, the Superannua-
tion Fund shortage should be made good. It proposed,
very forcibly, that the war and plague expenditure should
be charged to the deficit (not to ordinary expenditure).
And it proposed, as a counterpoise to fchis latter, that the
annual payment in reduction of the deficit should be in-
creased from £150,000 a year to £400,000. Lyne fell in
with the second idea so far that £117,901 of the war and
plague expenditure is left to add to the deficit, but he
didn’t increase the payment in reduction of the shortage
to £400,000; he simply left it at the old £150,000. And
for this year he also leaves it at £150,000, though there is
talk of a Bill providing for annual payments of £400,000
hereafter. Also Lyne leaves the bankrupt Superannuation
Fund to slide. There was room to make a name as the
Treasurer who Cleaned Everything Up, but Lyne has
failed, so far, to seize the opportunity. He simply joins
the ruck of Treasurers who Let Things Slide.
Tasmania, Westralia and Queensland all used
their surpluses honestly in reduction of the old deficit—
Westralia’s deficit being now wiped out. And for the
present year Tasmania stands out conspicuously as the
one State which is making a big courageous effort to clear
off the rest of its shortage and get square.
The most startling thing about the estimates is
the Queensland Treasurer’s assumption that he will get
£6OOO more this year than he did last. So far one-fourth
of the financial year has gone, and his revenue is £43,033
1 ss than it was for the September quarter of 1899.
“0.T.E.” (Parragundy): (1) Institution is
Quite sound. (2) Premium for £lOO with profits at age
EB, ± 2 4s. sd. (3) Depends on age at entry. Entering at
age 25 the minimum surrender value after 10 years would
be about £7 ss. though it might amount to a good deal
more. (4) Bonuses are only declared every third year.
» * » •
The Provident and Industrial Insurance Co.
(Maoriland) completed its eleventh year on 30th June,
1900. Its progress during the last three years has been
as follows:
Loss on first eight years (to 30th June, 1897) £509
Taken from
Revenue. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1898 ... £8,673 ±2,530 £7,837 £1,694
1899 .. 9,177 2,835 6,462 120
Added to
Funds.
1900 .. 9,797 2,936 6,195 666
Forfeited capital added to Assurance Fund 60
Loss on business in 11 years £1,597
The Provident and Industrial Insurance Co. has, however,
certain quaint methods for making its accounts look
better on paper. In 1898, when things were far from
well, it suddenly wrote up the value of its premises from
£1268 to £4soB—in other words it put £3240 on to
the nominal value, and alleged that the office had become
worth 3) times its previous price. As Tiik Bulletin has
said on several similar occasions, as regards other like
institutions, the thoughtfulness of the office in thus more
than trebling its value when the assistance was so badly
wanted can’t be too highly commended. But this paper
has very little faith in the sanguine view that a co. takes
of its property just when some outside assistance is badly
needed to paint the haggard countenance of the accounts,
so it prefers to estimate the position of the Provident and
Industrial with the office property at its old and perhaps
more reliable figure. In addition to this, an alleged asset
of £2599 consists simply of expenses not charged, but
carried forward to be written off at some time when the
paper aspect of the co. can better stand the shock. This
sort of thing is held to be allowable in the early days of
an industrial life concern, but one that is 11 years old
should not have such dubious features in its accounts.
* * * *
So The Bulletin estimates the position of the
Provident and Industrial Insurance Co. thus :
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital paid up ..£4,765 Fixed Deposit with
Less apparent loss 1,597 Government .. £5,000
Property .. .. 1,268
£3,168 Furniture, Outstand-
Advances and De- ing Premiums, &c. 1,479
posit (apparently Cash .. ... .. 17
money borrowed) 4,086
Sundry Debts .. 510
Assurance Fund ' .. Nil
£7,764 £7,764
The best feature in the case is that the Provident and
Industrial has, in the year just closed, so far reduced its
expenses as to save £666 out of a revenue of £9797. But
there is no evidence that the liabilities under its policies
haven’t increased during the year by over £666. The situa-
tion of a co. which, in its eleventh year, and after making
great economies, still spends 63 per cent, of its total
income in expenses, is very lamentable. The P. and I.
is liable under its policies for insurances to the extent
of some £200,000, and towards meeting this it doesn’t
seem to have really accumulated a copper. It
rather seems to have lost £1597, leaving as its certain
and reliable funds only the £3168 remaining out of its
paid-up capital, and even that is represented to some
extent by the office chairs and tables —assets that are
liable to shrink a good deal in realisation. What the pre-
sent value of the Provident and Industrial’s liabilities
may be this paper doesn’t know, but it seems reasonably
probable that they are more than £3168. On paper and
by its own peculiar methods of accountancy the Pro-
vident and Industrial has an accumulated assurance fund
of £4243, and the board speaks of this with some pride ;
but this alleged sum is only represented by the expenses
that haven’t been charged yet, and the alleged sudden
increase in the value of the office. And yet this concern
pays 5 per cent, dividend to its shareholders ! Why any
decently-governed country allows such an institution to
do business passes comprehension.
* * * *
The South British Fire and Marine Insurance
Co. (Maoriland) :
Gross Profits. Dividends.
1893 .. .. £29,951 10 per cent. = £6,463
1894 .. .. 35,504 12J „ = 8,078
1895 .. .. 31,999 15 „ = 9,694
1896 .. .. 11,060 15 „ = 9,694
1897 .. .. 27,612 17J „ = 11,310
1898 .. .. 5,930 17£ „ = 11,310
1899 .. .. 27,560 17| „ = 11,310
1900 .. .. 39,487 20 „ = 12,926
£209,103 £80,785
The difference (£128,318) has gone to various reserves. In
1892 the total reserves of the South British Co. were
£95,325 (reserve fund, £30,000; reinsurance fund,
£58,890, and undivided profit £6435). They are now
£223,643 (reserve fund £120,000; reinsurance fund
£BO,OOO ; and undivided profit £23,643). This is a most
remarkable record of progress, especially in view of the
very handsome dividends which the shareholders receive.
The South British has a paid-up capital of £64,628, so its
reserves are equal to nearly four times the capital.
Maoriland is the only province of Australasia where they
grow fire insurance companies like this. In Australia the
one ambition of the shareholders is to sell the business to
the first English company that offers an advance on the
market price of the shares, and a number of insurance
companies which might have grown into 20 per cent, in-
vestments sold out in this fashion at a low figure just
when the business was becoming profitable. Then many
of the shareholders put their bit of the purchase money
into bogus banks, and finished up in the place best suited
to persons of their limited intelligence.
* • * *
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) shows, for the year ended 31st July, 1900, a
certain apparent improvement, though even in its
improved state things are very bad :
Loss on Loss on
Ordinary Property Total
Business. Sales. Loss.
(Deposit interest about 5 per cent.)
1893 £7832 £4138 £11,970
1894 15,809 511 16,320
(Deposit interest 2J per cent.)
1895 8107 3931 12,038
1896 7439 1906 9,345
1897 6946 742 7,688
189 S 6910 397 7,307
1899 5479 169 5,048
1900 3061 3,061
£61,583 £11,794 £73,377
At 31st July, 1892, the Victorian Permanent Building
Society had a reserve fund of £63,276. It transferred
£10,333 of forfeited capital to reserve in 1897, and after
deducting the above losses £232 still remains. The ap-
parent trading loss has been growing smaller every year
since ’94 ; still, for the 12 months to 31st July, i9OO,
ordinary income was only £5849 against ordinary ex-
penditure (even with deposit interest at the very low
figure of 2£ per cent.) of £B9lO, and with such a huge gap
still to fill it seems certain that there will be losses for
some years yet, and the Victorian will have to commence
eating away.its capital (£231,490—5ti1l intact on paper).
And though the Victorian, when this paper last heard of
it, was supposed to pay 21 per cent, interest oh its de-
posits, it certainly does not seem, from the accounts, that
it pays any such amount; the sum due on deposits,
mortgage and overdraft is set down as over £300,000
(fixed deposits alone are £240,000) and the alleged actual
interest payments for the year are £4llO, which is un-
accountably small. The Victorian has assets of a nominal
value of £645,000, and the gross income is £sB49—less
than £1 2s. per cent. Assuming that the assets earn
even the very small amount of 4 per cent, gross on their
real present value, they are apparently worth £146,225,
at which rate the capital is wholly lost, and there isn t
enough to pay 10s. in the £ to depositors—unless, that
is, a large proportion of the mortgage money has been
advanced on vacant land which may have a value though
it yields nothing at present. On the whole, it is a most
hopeless-looking situation, unless by some means or other
the return from the society’s properties can be about
trebled, and even then it would look none too good.
* * * *
The Colonial Finance, Mortgage, Investment,
and Guarantee Corporation (Sydney), which got to the end
of its 12th year on 31st August, 1900, is a relic of the boom
which has made tremendous efforts to keep out of liqui-
dation and pay everybody in full. The following is its
record for the past three years :
Losses at 31st August, 1897 .. £124,318
Ordinary Working Trading Loss on Total
Incom’C. Expenses. Loss. Properties. Loss.
1898 .. £760 .. £4,841 .. £4,081 .. £2,799 .. 6,880
, 1899 .. 987 .. 4,167 .. 3,180 .. 4,356 .. 7,536
1900 .. 629.. 4,068.. 3,539 .. 1,351 .. 4,890
Accumulated losses to date .-. £143,624
Any ordinary concern would have collapsed ■ long ago
under these conditions, but the Colonial Finance, Mort-
gage, Investment and Guarantee Corporation (Bruce
Smith, chairman) has a very unusual body of share-
holders who are evidently resolved to wind up their
disastrous concern honorably, and pay everybody, except
themselves, to the last cent. At 31gt August, 1898, the vi-
sible accumulated loss was £131,198 and the paid-up capital
£127,859, so there was a visible deficiency, as regards out-
side creditors, of £3339. In the next two years further
losses were made to the extent of £12,426, and to cover
this the shareholders paid £18,947 in calls, so the accu-
mutated loss is now £143,624 and the paid-up capital
£146,806, leaving a surplus of £3IS2 for the protection of
outside creditors. As already mentioned this is a very
unusual kind of company ; it seems to have almost the
only conscience in Australia just now.
* » * *
The announcement of .T. C. Moulden, manager
of the Junction, that pyrrhotite (magnetic iron) occurs
in the ore in that mine has attracted a good deal of
notice, though the discovery does not appear to be new ;
the Australian Metal Co., which runs the Broken Hill
zinc-works on the magnetic separation principle,
announces that it has been long aware of the existence of
the metal. But the Metal Co. isn’t in the habit of telling
people what it knows ; hence the value of Mr. Moulden’s
find. The presence of pyrrhotite explains why the re-
covery of silver by concentration is so small (while 70 per
c?nt. of the lead is obtained, as little as 35 per cent, of
the silver is won by some mills); for much of the silver is
found in association with the pyrrhotite, whose
specific gravity is only 4.6, so that it is not
saved with the lead concentrates. Of course,
the discovery of the mineral does not solve the
sulphide problem ; but anyhow it indicates more pre-
cisely the difficulty to be overcome—or, at least, one of
the difficulties. Also, since pyrrhotite is susceptible to a
weak magnetic field, it seems to suggest that most
success will be along the path of magnetic concentration.
All the same, the Metal Co.’s magnetic separation works
(the Australian Metal Co. is an offshoot from the Frank-
furt-on-Maine Co.) are almost idle, the explanation given
being that it does not pay to give the high prices for
freight now asked—that, in fact, it hardly pays to ship
the zinc concentrates except as ballast or for stiffening
at a nominal rate Incredulous people are not, however,
swallowing the explanation whole.
* * * *
At the Broken Hill Consols the vein of almost
pure silver cut into is only 6in. wide, with 2 or 3ft. of fair
ore on either side. These deposits occur in pockets con-
nected by an indicator ; but the present one is the richest
since ’9l.
* » * *
Great Central Freehold, the Mt. Hope (Cobar
district) show, which a strong Melb. crowd has got hold
of, is to be put under the management of J. O. Armstrong,
who leaves the B.H. Prop.’s 5000-ton mill to take it over.
Armstrong is a thoroughly good man, experienced in both
concentrating and smelting work. The.mineis6o miles
from railage ; and the idea is first to inquire into the
feasibleness of smelting, and if that is out of the question,
to concentrate. The B.H. Prop.’s present total mill
capacity is about 8500 tons a week ; when the new mill is
fully running the total will be close up to 11,000 tons.
The present difficulty is shortage of a uniform ore supply.
* * * *
N.S.W. coal. —Says the Sabbath tipster :
“The success which has followed the advice we have so
repeatedly given in regard to coal-shares has been gratify-
ing to our readers, and we are glad to know that many of
them have participated.” Then he tips Stocktons—says
one of the shrewdest men on ’Change bought ’em by
the thousand, and asks his readers to imagine the divs.
Stocktons will pay when coal is sold at 11s. a ton. Now,
though the Stockton colliery has an immense area, it has
perhaps the most precarious seam of the district. Be-
sides that, it has entered into a three years’ contract with
Melb. Gas Co. to supply 160,000 tons of coal (the bulk of
its output) a year, commencing—ominous date ! —lst
April next, at Bs. per ton. That is why Stocktons have
not risen like other coal-stocks—and a very good reason,
too.
• * • •
Peak Hill, N.S.W. —“The smelting furnace
resumed operations, but after running three days a mishap
occurred with the blast-pipes and the repairs will take a
fortnight to effect.” Seems that this concern is just
starting its troubles instead of ending them as many of
the call-paying shareholders had hoped. Smelting is an
excellent thing if you have the things to smelt with ; if
not there is the devil to pay, as witness the Overflow and
other N.S.W. amateur-run mines.
• * » *
N.S.W. Dredging.—“ Shares continue very life-
less.” No wonder, considering the many mistakes
already made. Clarence River dredge’s first returns have
been so unsatisfactory that shares have dropped right out
of the market. One enthusiastic big holder in this con-
cern often declared that it would be worth £5OOO a year
to him alone. Federal Centrifugal, near Braid wood, had
a good return last month, a very poor one this. Another
call, the 15th. Bad sign, shares ss.—less than half
what they were a few months ago. The Turon
has had a spurt—“ appears to have entered upon
the profitable mission predicted for it on its
inception.” The returns are suddenly doubled.
Now, if a dredge works for many months at a certain
average return that is suddenly doubled, which is the
more likely—that it will go hack to the old average or
keep up to the new? No newspaper anticipates the
former, which nevertheless may happen. All the same,
the Turon people have shown themselves good stickers
and deserve all the luck they can possibly get. In most
other instances all sellers, no buyers. So far, the failures
and mistakes in N.S.W. dredging largely outnumber suc-
cesses, and have effectually squashed thie boom.
* * * *
N.S.W. Ironworks : £lO,OOO placed in N.S.W.
Treasury as a guarantee for the erection of ironworks
provided Govt, will undertake to take 209,000 tons
steel rails within a certain time. Many people and news-
papers have jumped to the conclusion that this has
something to do with the Careoar or Wallerawang iron-
deposits. ' Nothing of the kind. The owners of an
enormous iron-deposit within a few miles of Emu
Bay, Tas., have determined to ship the ore
to N.S.W. for smelting purposes, probably to the
Illawarra district, where coal is cheap, and have put
up this money as an evidence of their bona-fides.
There are what look like extensive iron deposits in
N.S.W. Western district, but it is quite doubtful if they
are as big as they seem on the surface. First
appearances are most deceptive in re iron outcrops. In
nine cases out of ten at least they are simply floating
deposits, disappearing or becoming sihcious at d*pth-
Too often this has been found to be the ca.se whe P
specting for iron flux. Writer heard recently of a place
where ft had been determined to tunnel through «nai
appeared to be a hill of ironstone. The tunnel had no
gone far ere it got into country-rock, a od "hen it was
examined by one of the the boss
was asked why he turned the tunnel into •
only reply was—“ Well, I thought it best to follow the
iron, si P r!” Which illustrates the position of most
N.S.W. iron deposits. # ,
InvereU, N.S.W.* » Recently 100 Kinf Conrad
shares paid-up changed hands a *; e f c . h Tnverell
value of the mine at £300,000.” It takes an InvereU
correspondent to put the best everything.
Australian Star talks at large about
Chillagoe. “ Instead of there being ll f a :™ U “f n 8 ■
ore in sight as stated in the co.’s reports, 3,e30,000 tons is
stated to be nearer the mark.” Yes ; it is quite theusual
circumstance for a mining officer to overlook 3,00C,0UU
tons of ore 1 “In the Ruddigore, which will shortly be
placed on London market as a separate co., there are at
least 3,000,000 tons of 4% copper ore.’ Thus given “
understand that Chillagoe Co. is about to float as a pup
the mine that contains five-sixths of the ore-reserves of
the whole group ! That, too, is quite a customary thing,
we all know ! “ The Griffiths has 250,000 tons of G/ a ore,
the Redcap 200,000 tons of the same value, and
the Ti-Tree 180,000 tons worth between 4 and lu/„.
In the Girofla mine, which is yielding principally silver-
lead ore, the lode is 75ft. wide, and the manager states
that he is not yet through it. The lode was worked fora
width of 103 ft. by the old co., and the present value
varies from 25 to 60 per cent, lead, 250 z. silver and 4 per
cent, copper. There are enormous outcrops every-
where, and where they have been tried bv the old co. by
trenches and pot-holes copper was everywhere found, but
unless it went from 15 to 25 per cent, the material was
not considered worth working.”
* * * •
Great Fingall Consolidated. This is the old
Dav Dawn mine on the Murchison ; it has had a
development within the last few months. Has <O,OOO
tons ore reserves above No. 6 level, and another large
quantity will he exposed within the next few weeks.
Average value in a big lode, over 2oz. to the ton, and a
big mine established bevond doubt. Shares doubled in
value in less than a month. Market valuation to-cla,y
upwards of a million, and likely to go much higher. This
co. has, in addition, 23,276 shares in the Sons of G walla
mine, W.A., which is making from £ll,OOO to £12,000 a
month profit. After a very bad time the firm of Bewick,
Moreing and Co., the founders, are now having a good
one in W.A. Whether they have really earned it is quite
another matter.
Fraser’s*Gold Mine, Southern Cross, W.A., is
taken over by the Australian Gold Recovery Co., at a
price which will pay 10s. per share, and the new owners
will put up £30,000 for machinery and mining improve-
ments. The tailings-heap was the great inducement for
purchase. It averages just under 4dwts. per ton and
that should mean about half-profit, even in so dry a camp.
( Continued on page 24-)


a
OUTFITS.^
AN ORIENT BOOT^
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
• 63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
... IN THE ..
“Orient To measure’’ Clothing
PRICES-'
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
<a*orgt 8< Barrack Sts., Sydney.
f
A COMPLETE
PHOTOGRAPHIC
OUTFIT for as
5/-
THE FEDERAL CAMERA
(takes Picture 2J x 2i inches)
Comprising Camera and Lens, Plates, Chemicals, Dishes, Printing Frame, Printing
Paper, Card Mounts, Tube of Mountant, and BOOK OF INSTRUCTIONS.
Suitable for Portraits, Groups, Landscapes, etc. Sent complete, carriage paid, for 5/8.
CAMERAS from 5/- up to £5O, and EVERY PHOTO REQUISITE from
HRRRIRGTOD k CO. Ltd*
Branches or Agencies
in every colony.
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
Nobody seems to have noticed the resem-
blance of the “ Breelong Blacks” case to one
imagined years ago by Mark Twain. He supposed
a white elephant escaped in the U.S., with the
police after it. Every day it passed through some
village, doing much damage or little. Everyone
had seen it except the detectives. Finally, Bar-
num made a large offer for the privilege of paint-
ing his advts. on its side “ until the police find it.”
It ultimately wandered unseen into the detective
office, went down the cellar and died. The ’tecs,
only found it a month afterwards, when the odour
of six tons of very bad elephant became so
obvious that even the force couldn’t overlook it.
When this was written the satire seemed exagger-
ated and severe. It doesn’t now.
* * * »
It is more than probable that Jacky
I nderwood—recently death-sentenced over the
Breelong slaughter—acted under fear of being
himself murdered by the masterful Jimmy
Governor. The real facts of the case will pro-
bably never be known, but it almost looks as if
the man the police caught will have, in some sense,
to suffer for the men they can’t get hold of.
Re the outlawing of the Free-long blacks.
The summons commands them to appear, etc.,
“ under penalties mentioned in the Felons’
Apprehension Act.” Much Jimmy and Joe
know of the terms of an Act of the very existence
of which the Government itself was ignorant till
a few weeks ago ! Why not say at once “under
pain of being shot at sight ?”
Dear Bulletin. —Re N.S.W. Education-
Minister’s alleged intention (on account of the
Breelong affair) to withdraw all female teachers
from outlying districts. A recent Govt. Gazette
advt. invites applications from persons (male and
female) desirous of being appointed to charge of
small schools in isolated parts of the State. — Fair
H.
* * * *
The Melbourne Saturnalia is connection
with the visit of the Duke of Edinburgh in ’6B
Was something like Mafeking-night continued for
several weeks. When Micnie, Q.C., afterwards
lectured on “ Loyalty, Royalty and the Prince’s
Visit: Victoria Suffering a Recovery,” he coun-
selled the people to moderate their transports if
such an occasion occurred again. But there will
be a much bigger drunk when the Duke and
Duchess of York arrive.
• * * »
“The engraving we give of the Duke of
York is in the simple and unpretentious uniform
of a captain in the Royal Navy,” said Melb.
Paunch, the other week. It is a melancholy fact
that the illustrated Jingoistic press, the press
which talks eternally of Britannia Ruling the
Waves, and refers to the gallant Boys in Blue as
the Empire’s most particular glory, and so forth,
can actually offer a sort of apology for publishing
the photo, of a prince in an “ unpretentious ”
R.N. uniform which he is only about half-qualified
to wear. The Duke of York knows that the rank
of Navy captain is several sizes too large for his
actual nautical self; the ordinarily “loyal” pub-
lic knows it; even among the 0.1. p, there is a
pretty general feeling of contempt for the policy
that confers unmerited distinctions upon the acci-
dent of birth. A prince is entitled to princely
“orders ” —ribbons, stars, &c. —as long as he is an
item in the monarchial system. They are
“ honors ” only in the sense that a Crown of State
is an honor to its hereditary wearer who doesn’t
pretend to have won it by personal effort. Yet
the Paunches of this world have the impudence
to suggest that the Duke of York is unpreten-
tiously attired when he masquerades as a first-
class mariner and a responsible fighting man.
* * * »
N.S. Wales’s most garish M.P., Dan’l
O’Connor, recently asked in N.S. W. Assembly if
Lord Roberts had been invited to attend the
Federal celebrations, and when Arthur Griffith
inquired whether Paul Kruger had also been in-
vited Dan’l said that Griffith had “an ignorant
and vulgar mind.” A good many people will
probably think that Dan’l’s mind is also of the
vulgar order. Roberts is a weary old man of
nearly 70 years, who doesn’t advertise and hates
display. To be brought out here in the hot
weather, and dragged about from one common-
place entertainment to another, and made to
swelter in public places while thousands gazed
and gaped and yelled at him, and taken to weary
banquets where tawdry, yawping, blaring Daniels
made dreadful speeches at him by the hour about
Demosthenes and William Charliss Wintworth,
and Daniel Hinry Deniehy—to be blighted by the
glare of Reid’s eye-glass, and to be introduced to
hundreds of perspiring nobodies—think of the
misery of it! Also think of the cruelty of it!
Roberts doesn’t want to see our Daniel! The
grand old warrior is doubtless the lion of the hour,
but that animal had one Daniel thrown into his
den already and he probably doesn’t desire any
more. The man who has lived in the limelight
for 20 years isn’t likely to yearn after the penny-
candle glare of D. O’Connor; and Roberts has
heard so many languages that even Mr. O’Con-
nor’s perfectly new variety of “Frinch” would
hardly interest him. Kruger might be invited.
His political day is over, and if he perished in the
seventh hour of Daniel’s great speech he would
leave no perceptible gap. But to expose a valuable
man like Roberts to the brassy boom of our fatal
O’Connor would be grievous folly. If Roberts
does come, the bearded Tribune should be exiled
to Thursday Island till the visitor is safely away
again.
* * * *
Maoriland Jingo Govt, has perpetrated a
weird mistake. It made great and costly pre-
parations for the Declaration of Peace, and voted
a large sum of money, never dropping to the fact
that there can be no formal making of peace, be-
cause there is no Boer Government to make it
with. The Boer country having been annexed
the war must just flicker out, and it can have no
definite ending. Chamberlain has now explained
this fact, and the M.L. Ministry, finding itself
with a perfectly useless celebration on hand, has
decided, by way of a lame and impotent conclusion,
to let off its fireworks on the Prince of Wales’
THE RETORT NASTY.
“ Say that again, Sarah Jones, and I'll pull your
hair out.”
“You just try, and I'll pull yours off.”
AT A BALL.
MRS. SILVERTYLE: “Your husband made quite a fortune since he came to Australia, I believe?”
MRS. BUNGAREE : “ Begorra, thin, yez may well say that. I mind the toime when he hadn't a
sate to his trousers, and now he's got a sate in Parliament.”
Birthday instead. It is to be hoped it won’t
repeat the dreadful mistake of previous Jingo
celebrations, when the insulting Dutch red-white-
and-blue flag was hung out all over its cities.
Half the people either actually didn’t know the
British banner and hung out the enemy’s flag by
mistake, or else one half the community was play-
ing a horrible game on the other half’s ignorance.
Chamberlain’s cabled hint that no formal
declaration of peace is possible, owing to the fact
that Britain has “annexed” the Boer Republics,
will greatly interfere with the proposed rejoicings
already elaborately prepared for in several quar-
ters besides Maoriland. At the Military Offices
in Sydney is stored a huge assortment of gas-
devices, piping, &c., intended for use when the
declaration was made. The unsightly scaffolding
by the Queen’s Statue, erected at Mafeking time
for a bandstand, can now be removed.
* * * *
Cabled that as the train with Lord Hope-
toun steamed out of Charing Cross station, “the
Governor-General, standing with bared head,
ejaculated ‘God bless you all!’” God bless us
all, indeed ! when it is considered necessary to
cable such abject taffy as this. The cabliar we
can manage to stand, but the cablidiot is quite too
awful for anything.
* * * *
A literary proposal industriously seeking
patrons among the gilded circles of N.S.W. ■
“ Australian Loyalists.” The idea is to give a
brief biography of all those Australians'who “by
voice, money or example ” proved themselves in
sympathy with the late Transvaal gold-grab.
* * m *“
Federation matrimonial would appear to
have a close connection with Federation political.
The Carty Salmon-Harris, Downer-Russell, and
several other unions originated in the going-about
necessitated by federal politics.
* * * *
The Medical Bill which has passed both
N.S.W. Houses is mainly a Medical Titles Bill, a
Bill which surgeon Fortescue advocated in Sydney
over a quarter of a century ago, and which would
have been law long ago had not the local medical
fraternity overreached itself. In one respect the
present Bill, as passed, creates an anomally, inas-
much as it acknowledges foreign diplomas gained
after three years’ study, while insisting on five
years’ study for a N.S.W. diploma.
* » . ,
Concerning death-under-chloroform :
Ed. Bulletin,—Your correspondent “ Layman ” writes :
“ More than 50 years have elapsed since chloroform first
came into general use, and doctors have not yet learned
to administer it to patients with safety. The number of
deaths under the anaesthetic has greatly increased durin«-
the last few years in Australia.” This is hardly fair to
the doctors. “Layman” forgets to mention the extra-
ordinary increase of late years in cases where an anres-
thetic is administered. Antiseptic surgery has proved so
successful that the fashionable surgeon is to-day a bigger
man than the physician, and surgery without anaesthetics
b , a ? be „ come incomprehensible. The administrations of
e blorofor ™ must total much more than 100 per week in
major and minor, performed in the Sydney hospitals
during 1899 only one case that resulted fatally can be
attributed to the anaesthetic, and in that case death was
9 ue fco . ar ? obsf;l / re condition of heart-disease practically
impossible to detect pre-mortem. Accidents, of course,
happen occasionally, and sometimes an inexperienced
medico may make a mistake ; but it is a sweeping asser-
tion to say that because a few patients die on the
operating-table, doctors have not learned, etc. Of course
£ octor . s are not infallible, and never will be. Driving a
ho^ s ® ls a s ™pler business than administering chloroform,
and the world has been learning it for some thousands of
y ears longer. Yet the cart-practitioner hasn’t vet
learned to drive a horse with safety. Nobody has
learned to do anything with absolute safety,
*-* * *
The split in N.S.W. medical ranks, caused
by the onset of the A.N. A., seems widening. The
right has the doctor who attends an Oddfellows’
lodge (without income restrictions) to cry “ Black
sheep” to the doctor who attends an A.N A
lodge (without income restrictions)? At present
the medical dog’s in an illogical manger. By the
way, the Sydney A.N. A. has got hold of a doctor
who, in a short letter to the daily press, t’other
day, twice alluded to himself as “a medical
gentleman.”
*** ■ *
A nurse, who had done some months of
hard work among Sydney plague patients, was
enjoying a well-earned rest witli her relations at a
remote Vic. township, when her experience made
her suspicious of the state of a little girl in the
house, and she advised calling in a doctor. The
medicine-man, after examination of the small
patient, called in sundry professional brethren
with the result that the case was found to be one
of veritable plague. The important point is that
ltis hereby seemingly demonstrated that Death
may be carried on the clothes of “contacts” with-
out themselves developing the malady ; and this
despite disinfection and fumigation, for it is to be
supposed that the nurse in question (who is
deemed to have transported the germs from
Sydney) underwent both processes before leaving
that city,
*
He that plot of land to the caretaker-
ship of which N.S.W. ex-Speaker Abbott is said
to have appointed his servant at £l4O a year.
Said plot is worth thousands of pounds and is
portion of one of the very best sites in
all Sydney. Half of it is used for drying the
excS 1"f™ 8 fr ?™ a l hui ?P y or two at f lO baok <
Lept a comer winch has been commandeered by
f ome P erson as a stable for his horse. The balance
bas been appropriated for a bowling-green and
tennis-court for M’s.P. And it is not even a good
bowling-green. Hundreds of pounds have alreadv
been spent on it, and in the opinion of the bowlers
THE POLICE ARE IN PURSUIT.
Oh, hard on the trail of the Breelong blacks
The police are in pursuit,
Thro’ ti-tree swamps, o’er mountain tracks,
They stick to the niggers like cobbler’s wax—
The police who’re in pursuit.
If they strike the remains of a smouldering fire,
The police who’re in pursuit
Will stop with a caution we must admire,
From the nearest station then quickly wire—
“ The police are in pursuit.”
The Breelong blacks have been most unkind
To the police who’re in pursuit.
They’ve called them asses, and left behind
Insulting notes for. the traps to find—
The police who’re in pursuit.
Some day, perhaps, those blacks will die,
The coppers will follow suit,
And the wand’ring swaggie with startled eye
Will see their ghosts come hurtling by,
The police in full pursuit.
JING LE.


HARDYBR O TH£RS
SHOWROOMS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Cx Himalaya, Large Shipment of Ladies
TOILET requisites
In Sterling Silver, comprising- Hair Brushes
Pin Trays, Pin Boxes, Toilet Bottles, &c.
Gold & Silversmiths,
ETC., ETC.
31
s t
s*
&
Inspection Invited.
*•-
m
m
\
Those Shapely Callaghan Boots.
THEIR MERITS MAKE THEM KNOWN.
HONEST WEAR
IN EVERY PAIR.
Men’s Tan Russia Calf Balmoral
Boots, 22s 6d, 255, 28s 6d a pair.
395 George St., Sydney.
in the House a lot more, money will be needed ere
it is a tolerable green. The idea of acquiring a
recreation reserve for Parliament was not thought
of until recently. With the absolute certainty of
a decrease in the numbers of both Houses, and a
diminution in importance of the local legislature
in the immediate future, this outlay seems, to put
it mildly, unnecessary. Surely members are elected
to work, not to play !
• * * *
A quack-doctor named Fitzgerald, who
recently toured N.S.W. and lectured and sold his
obscene book, was stopped in Queensland soon
after crossing the border, and fined for selling
indecent literature. His stock of books was also
confiscated. Rather rough on N.S.W. !
The Indecent Advertisements Act lately
passed by N.S.W. Parliament will not hit home
for some time. The obscene traders, anticipating
the carrying of the Bill, flooded the country, as
far as directories enabled, with leaflets on their
precious practices, and an appended note to apply
to X., Box so-and-so, for further particulars. The
Govt, must obtain power to supervise the G.P.O.
boxes before the intention of Parliament can be
adequately realised.
m • * •
Every holiday the railway officials on the
Illawarra (N.S.W.) line curse the short-sighted
policy of the past, which only saw the necessity
for a single line of rails over Como bridge. The
delays caused to trains both on holidays and ordi-
nary days must have figured, within the last 10
years, twice over what duplication of the bridge
would have cost.
-Parson Gladstone, of Nathalia (Vic.),
backed out most ingloriously from his undertaking
to name a long list of local females who have been
“ ruined ”by dancing since ’93. When the Sun-
day came for Gladstone to put his unholy threat
into execution he stated that he had never meant
to do it. He had meant to say that lie knew of a
number of ruins which he “ain’t a-goin’ to tell.”
So Nathalia, which was lately said to be maddened
b/ the prospect of Gladstone’s scandalous allega-
tions, is now feeling more wild than ever because
he didn’t allegate at all. It serves Gladstone
r'ght for talking of matters which he knows com-
paratively little about. He is notin the confidence
of the local dancing community. Now, if he were
to start an open Confessional for the purpose of
revealing the names of maidens who have gone
aitray at Sunday-school picnics Gladstone’s minis-
try might he a good paying concern. Picnic !
The very sound of the word has an immoral ring
in it. Think of the hundr eds of almost despairing
spinsters who have joyfully met their fate ere
returning home in the van with the author of
their “ s-shame !” Here the paragraph dissolves
into tears.
* * • *
A Melbourne suburban resident who had
fought the subtle bottle-ho-man for years,
and had been beaten badly every
time, recently derived an idea
from reading how the nigs of Cen-
tral Africa trap big game. He
accordingly duga trench 6ft. deep,
filled it with kitchen offal and
slush, covered it with laths, and
over these spread earth and grass.
Then he stacked a heap of bo'.ties
in a corner, and left the back
gate open. In the early morn-
ing he arose and watched.
Bottle man arrived, looked over
fence, sighted the boodle, entered
to attach it, and went plug i.ito
the hole. Householder calmly
approached. “Hulloa ! what’s
you doing there?” “Help me
out, for Gawd’s sake ! ” said the
bottle-man, “me bloomin’ leg is
broke.” And it was, and house-
holder had to scrape his enemy
down, send him to hospital in a
cab, and “part” £lO damages.
And now if anybody mentions
the fact that an Englishman’s
house is his castle the suburban resident calls
him a liar, and says that an Englishman’s house
belongs to the bottle-man.
* • » •
“Silas”: More coincidence. Be that
Sydney D.T. story of the valuable ring dropped
by the pickpocket into the pocket he was picking
and “ Vulcan’s ” corroborative detail, I know the
story to be a chestnut, and have a vague idea that
I created the incident and sold it to The Bulle-
tin years ago.
* * * *
Woman’s everlasting search for a man
under the bed was rewarded in a Melbourne
suburb one night last week, when a “married
lady,” whose name is rigorously suppressed, took
the usual precautionary peep, and discovered the
man, who was lying low in the expected place.
The result was a series of piercing shrieks, and a
wild struggle in the darkness, the masculine in-
truder having extinguished the candle in his initial
rush. A lady friend reposing in the next room
spread the alarm by rushing into the street,
attired in a blanket, and uttering irrelevant re-
marks in a loud voice. Three men and a constable
entered the house, not quite sure what had hajJ-
pened, fire, murder, ghosts, burglary, or an ex-
plosion—and found the “married lady” still
struggling with the wretch from under the bed.
They were restrained from interfering by reason of
the lady’s admission that the marauder was her
own husband, from whom she had been parted for
two years, and who had resorted to strategy with
a view to the assertion of his privileges as a hus-
band and a man.
* * * *
“Confession,” according to the Bishop of
Ely, “is certainly lawful in the Anglican Church,
as also the burning of incense—if not ceremonially
used.” Anglican clergymen, it is added, are not
bound to obey the Thirty-Nine Articles—which
are merely statements of doctrine. What a howl-
ing this will raise in the Evangelical camp !
THE DEBUTANTE.
FLUNKEY : “ Miss Horsetralia!”
How do the Mafeking sham-siege shriekers
feel now? “I could liave slipped away at any
time with my garrison,” declares Barnum-Powell
per cable ; “all that I did was to divert a few
Boers from Natal.” And a siege where the be-
sieged can escape at any time is hardly worth cal-
ling a siege at all. Brand Mafeking bogus and
bury it in oblivion as quickly as possible, ye Jingo
donkeys!
* * * •
The proposal to establish a Sydney Univer-
sity or Technical College bursary in memory of the
late Henry Parkes is languishing for want of
Government subsidy. N.S.W., in fact, is only
liberal through its Treasury. It is public-spirited
only out of the public pocket, and though it takes
a lively official interest in the memory of Parkes,
it isn’t going to part up any of its private cash
over a mere matter of sentiment. Thumping sub-
scriptions for any object indeed in N.S.W. nearly
always spell simple advt., and when anything of
the sort is proffered without published name of
giver, it’s safe to bet that the anonymity will be
short-lived. Rumor is sure to credit the “ munifi-,
cence ” to the wrong man, whereupon, “injustice
to himself,” the blushing donor is fain to peep
from behind his veil. Tell us—when was there in
N.S.W. a really anonymous charitable gift of large
amount ?
* m * *
“Brisbane Govt, house,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “had better
“HE FELT TOO PUT OUT TO STAY.”—
Extract from a novel.
have a new flag and a fresh coat of paint ready
for the arrival of two Royal guests fresh from
Windsor and of irreproachable breeding. They
are two fine black Berkshire pigs specially
selected for export from the Prince Consort’s
farm.” By the way, the Q. bacon-industry is going
ahead by leaps and bounds. For pig-raising pur-
poses, Queensland is unsurpassed, perhaps un-
rivalled, in the world. Two factories alone near
Brisbane will between them shortly be handling
something like 150,000 pigs per annum. This
rapid growtli of demand will no doubt lead to the
raising of countless thousands of hogs on the rich
river-lands of the North, where pig-food, such as
maize, pumpkins, lucerne and sweet potatoes,
grow? so luxuriantly.
* * m m
From recent Sydney D.T. :
FOR SALE, 10 Ducks, 1 Drake, all laying.
• * * *
In response to a persistent demand,
Maoriland Parliament has at last legalised mar-
riage with a deceased husband’s brother. Maori-
laud is one of the very few places on earth where
the old man is such a success that his wife is
inclined to try another from the same family—or
else it is one of the very few places where a lady
can stand her brother-in-law’s inspection. It can
be taken both ways.
♦ » • *
There lately died in out-back Tibooburra
(N.S.W.) a woman 38 years of age who had given
birth to 10 children, the eldest of whom is a
daughter, now 23 years old, and the mother of two
children.
* * * *
At a Vic. R.C. church (St. Ambrose,
Brunswick) meeting, t’other day: “Oi propose
that we whitewash the schoolroom green.”
Carlton
(Vic.) Police
Court was,
t’other day,
terribly
shocked at a
16 -ye a r - old
boy who, when
asked where
he would go
to if be swore
to a lie, re-
plied “to gaol,
s i r.” The
beaks were
absolutely hor-
rified. Isn’t it
time that the
ancient bum -
ing-supersti-
tion was wiped
out of the
Courts? Why,
even the
holiest of the
little Bethels
don’t now-a-
days go so far
as to say that
you will be
burnt up in
eternal Hell
if you tell a
lie. It is only
if you don’t believe in their particular little
doctrines that you will be damned. Why should
the Law Courts be behind the Bethels? And in
Victoria you don’t go to gaol for telling lies in
court, provided you tell them for the prosecution.
• * * *
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Re Sydney University Library. Before any Parliamen-
tary Committee recommends any expenditure for a new
University Library it should thoroughly inspect the pre-
sent library and accommodation, which is ample for the
next 10 or 15 years at least. Sydney U. Library and
branch rooms are three times the size of Melbourne ditto,
yet want of room is complained of. Why not remove all
useless volumes—then there would be ample space for
requirements, if there is not already sufficient. It would
be a scandalous waste of money to build another Uni-
versity Library, when dozens of productive public works
are urgently required. Further, the “ Varsity ” Library
is only used by about 300 people—mainly students and
professors, the public not being permitted to enter same.
Also, why do the “ Varsity ” authorities waste money on
expensive works and then let same go astray ? At present
there are over 1000 vols. out, some having been borrowed
over 10 years ago—yet none are ever written for. As
Govt, grants a large annual subsidy, it should see that
dishonest persons are not allowed to deliberately retain
expensive books. Let a new University Library wait
until it is really wanted.
* * * *
Afc the annual Melbourne Diocesan Festi-
val, Lieut.-G-ov. Chief Justice Madden, who pre-
sided, gave a layman’s views of the reasons for the
diminution in devotion to the Church. “He
asked, where was the old devout clergyman,
simple-minded man, single of purpose, full of
faith and devotion, such a man as was a friend of
the household, and into whose ears the head of
the family poured all his griefs with as much
sacredness as to the Almighty ? Such a man was
never met with nowadays. He seemed to be
swallowed up in the psychological, sociological,
political, physical, controversial clergyman. Yet,
after all, if they minded not these things, and
preached only Christ’s simple, loving message, a
humble and contrite heart, they would do much to
bring back the loyalty and devotion of which he
had spoken.” Where has that good old clergy-
man gone? Well, he has gone to keep company
with the nice, fat, silver-haired, pink-cheeked,
honest old family solicitor, three generations of
whose family had never, never, never had a single
penny short in their trust-accounts.
♦ * * *
Old (iron)St. Stephen’s Church, Macquarie-
st., Sydney, which until lately served as the home
of the lending branch of Sydney Free Public
Library, is again in ecclesiastical use. After being
pulled down it was re-erected at Itookwood
Asylum, and now serves as a place of worship for
the old men inmates.
Daring a recent
divorce case before
Vic. Chfei Justice
Madd e n, Purves,
Q.C., sought to elicit
from a medical wit-
ness that respondent’s
condition of health
might have been due
to other causes than
“ immorality.” The
witness would not
back down an inch,
whereat Purves in-
quired : “Then Adam
and Eve were in this
condition ? ” The wit-
ness started to think,
but ere he could reply
the C.J. leaned over
and said, blandly,
“We have no evi-
dence, Mr. Purves, to
show that Adam and
Eve were not.”
* * *
At Wellington
(M.L.) recently a
stalwart woman in
navvy’s attire, who
was charged under
the “ vag.,” said she
wanted work and in-
tended doing coal-
heaving on the wharf.
The Bench imposed
a month’s gaol, the
gay masquerader exe-
cuted a clog dance be-
fore making her exit.
“D.J.” offers a suggestion :
Sydney has reached a critical epoch in its history. In
all probability the course of events during the next is
months or so will decide for many years if it is to continue
a conglomeration of hovels and dog-boxes, or become tne
great gem city of the South Pacific. There are few cities
in the world with such natural advantages, and it lsdouot-
ful if there is any white man’s city built in the last two
centuries where indifference and want of taste have clone
so much to neutralise those advantages. The streets are
narrow, and stumble about at all angles. The houses are
badly built, and you can find miles of them without a
trace of beauty in either design, construction or surround-
ings, so far as these latter are artificial. The result is
that a large section of the population is growing up with
warped tastes, and prefers to live in dog-boxes, and unless
reform comes quickly, the future Sydneyite, or an
ever-increasing portion of him, will be an object bvmg 111
the kennel by preference. The upheaval of the bubonic
plague led to the destruction of the City Council clique
responsible for this state of affairs. It roused the public
to a sense of its danger, and the vacillating Premier was
moved for once to play the stat small in a sort of a way.
The spasm of reform commenced to (lie as soon as it began,
butere it went right under, it brought about the resump-
tion of some awful slums and signed the death-warrant
of the Council aforementioned. Now, all that is re-
quired is a good, strong leader with energy and imagi-
nation who has some idea of how to make a
city beautiful and healthy. The new franchise
will be a splendid weapon forged ready to his hand. A
strong City Council could soon move the Ministry to
submit the question of referring the creation of a Greater
Sydney Council, with powers analogous to those of the
London County Council, to a referendum. But at pre-
sent there is no leader in sight. In the interests
of quick reform it is very desirable that Loyd
Beauchamp should stay 7 in the State and devote his
municipal experience, his unquestionable taste and
talents, to the great work of re-constructing the city. It
is a great opportunity, and Beauchamp may not have
such another in three life-times. Why not offer him a
special engagement as Mayor at £5OOO a year ? By a few
years’ devotion to the work he loves he can leave behind
him a monument of fame in the shape of a beautified and
re-constructed metropolis. He would succeed as a
reform leader where another would fail. Opposition
would simply wither away ; the inborn tendency of aider-
men to grovel would make them follow his lead, and he
has had experience in an up-to-date British municipal
government, and has some idea where to lead. This idea
would actually make grovel a useful thing. Think of
that!
* * » *
“ M. Turlutu ” to The Bulletin :
There is a slight error in the statement that the Vic.
detective Mercer owed his life to the turning of a bullet
by a regulation pocket-book. As a matter of fact, he
really owed it to the careless loading of the thief’s pistol,
a 32-cal. cartridge being used in a (probably) 34 or 36-cal.
“ squirt.” The track of the ball was a curious one.
Striking him in the throat, just below the chin, it slipped
round the neck under the skin, and was extracted from
just over the apex of the left lung ! Bibs often turn the
course of a ball. Years ago writer saw a man who had
been struck by a heavy revolver bullet, fired from a few
paces distance, just over the heart region. The bullet
passed out close to the spine on the left side, apparently
traversing chest and heart. The man was much col-
lapsed and both wounds bled pretty freely, but in a week
he was about again. The ball had slipped round a rib
and had never entered the chest cavity at all. Again,
saw a Kanaka who had attempted to carve a white man
with a cane-knife. Latter pulled a ‘450 Colt, hitting the
nigger plumb in the centre of the forehead. The man
fell senseless, but lived to serve a term of gaol. The
bullet, having been deflected by the hard frontal bones,
had slipped along under the scalp to the back of the head,
and to the end of his life that Kanaka will haye an almost
perfect “ parting,” the hair-roots having perished along
the track so formed.
* * • *
“F. 0.” : The wholly outrageous “ boots ”
Eicture on French post-cards appears to
ave originated in an etching by that unclean
master of black and white, James Gilray. His
collected caricatures, in 2 vols., political, and mis-
cellaneous, for long adorned a shelf in Melb.
Public Library, but the officials of that institution
have grown sadly moral of late, and the miscel-
laneous volume can now only be seen on special
application. Even then it is mostly “out.”
Seems as though members of theY.M.C.A. and
Purity League go religiously for the Gilray book
to keep it from the gaze of the sinful multitude.
* * * *
Miss Sutherland, the outspoken Melb.
philanthropist, in a fierce mood, talking of the
youngsters at her Children’s Home: “Let me
tell you how much the Church cares for the
children. My children have been going to the
Presbyterian Church for six years, and not a
single person has spoken a word to them during
all that time.” Suffer little children —provided
they are strictly within the law, of course.
AHEM!
CHOLLY: “Looks like a triumphal procession, don't it?”
CHECKS : “ Yes, she’s a woman who always makes the most of her
opportunities.”


“ He’s from the Country.”
LIB
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY'S success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing 1 ~
MARK FOY, SYPNEV.
Same prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
fSEEEJ
m
on
%
-
gnwm
All Drapers Everywhere.
CLOSE TEAS have WO Equal,
AtcllCrl °y & I)awson limited, 257 George-st.. Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Mr Dear Mm- S?d ” r ’ ° cloW! ’’ 1000 -
As Commonwealth Day approaches, and the
nrst of January looms hotly near, Sydney begins
to realise that the art of making thoroughly joyful
in wide, loud, comprehensive and exhaustless
national numbers is not the simple agreeable thing
it sounds. lo work up all this hundredweight of
joy requires an innumerable string of committees
—committees of artists and architects to decorate
trie city ; committees of theatrical and amusement-
making men to titillate the public mind by night
as well as by day ; a committee fifty strong to set
the above going ; and so on until there is scarcely
a public man in the place who has not got to go
on some committee or other so as to be thoroughly
amused when the Commonwealth comes along.
Of course, when the great day arrives, all mis-
givings will disappear, and the historical Great
Burst will roll on greased wheels, and we'll all be
joytuJ in a spontaneous and irresistible way that
will emanate from our heart’s core, and steal out-
wards through our eyes and lips and pockets. If
anyone on earth knows how to take his pleasures
madly !t « the Australian. Which recalls that
last Bight-Hours Day no less than 10,000 people
tluTriy 1 - Wn "^ a^ to go picnicking on
But yet, looking ahead three months to a time
when we have to be merry for a week, the awful
(or, perhaps I should say, merciful) limitations of
the human animal rise up and refuse to be denied.
As a poor millionaire with a lavishness becoming
m a poor millionaire once put it: “No matter
what s in your stables you can only ride one horse
at a time. And no matter what the occasion we
can only make a limited amount of noise. There-
fore, there are several light-hearted people who
feel an anticipatory clamminess at the thought of
the required Pre-eminence in—well, after all
perhaps it will not be necessary to change the
historic word.
I lie swearing-in of the Governor-General takes
place on January Ist. You will be glad to hear
that it mat) happen in the Centennial Park—
Parkes Park. Could there be a more graceful
setting ? I pray fervently against the narrow Quay
where thousands crush, and only a few hundreds
see anything. But great, broad Centennial Park,
with the trees of Parkes casting slight shades over
its young slopes—young, a little crude, but typi-
cally Australian, and trying bravely to grow' up
and be a blessing to the city—surely that is the
place above all others where Federated Australia
might most fittingly begin its first toddle.
Among the doings spoken of are free theatres
all over the city, a Great Art Exhibition, and a
Horticultural Show. While on the subject, what
a chance to rejuvenate our Gardens and Domain
m the Continental fashion! Music and little
tables Or should I put it, little tables and
music? We want them so badly. We are so tired
of our long summer evenings, the Gardens locked
up, and no chance of hearing music except in
sweltering halls under bright, brutal lights that
effectually dissipate nine-tenths of the artistic
joy music can transmit sometimes. Surely among
all the innumerable committees there is someone
who will give us our open-air music and little
tables, and bless us in a way that will bless him
some day.
Speaking of music, our Amateur Orchestral
Society would scarcely overstep the limits of
truth if it now dropped the first epithet and
leaned wholly and hard on the second. The
houses become larger and larger, and the Amateur
becomes less and less obvious. Witness the fine
performance of Tachaikowsky’s Symphonic Pathe-
tique, last Thursday. The A.O.S. played this
sonata last year ; and played it with added affec-
tion the second time. On hearing it again, the
great soul of the Russian loomed through all four
movements, Russian beyond disguise. To me
this work is full of Steppes and snow, the illimit-
able patience of the Russian nation, its profound
sufferings, and, above all, its future, with its
mighty promise, lschaikowsky, as a composer, is
a long way after Beethoven, whose breadth he
emulates, but he soars high as a philosopher,
in spite of the comments on the A.O S pro-
gramme that still persists in alluding to one chord
as the fateful gong, ’ this work breathes out the
highest metaphysics, and leaves one with the
ardent desire to hear it again soon.
• Mis s Fanny Bauer was the vocalist of the even-
mg. She wore a pale blue silk frock, and was
well decorated with floral tributes. Her first
contribution, “ Piano Piano,” (Weber) proved too
piano for the Town Hall, but the sweetness of the
voung singers clear, light soprano tones had a
better opportunity in “ Mia Piccirilla ” later on.
By the way, Miss Bauer’s facial expressions while
singing detract considerably from her natural
charm. To appear to do a thing easily-that’s
one of the fundamental secrets of everything great
and a soprano who warbles as if her notes were
teeth being extracted should not, in kindness, be
allowed to go unwarned.
Socially the great event of last week was the
Harris-Salmon wedding. The lively, dark-haired
brides popularity had a high tribute paid it last
Wednesday, when the streets near St. Stephen’s
yhurch were lined with dense crowds, who burst
into cheers as the bride drove through with her
bridesmaids. As a wedding, this was a great
success, even to the onlookers. The church went
into a wealth of white wedding-bells. A special
programme, printed in silver on shiny paper be-
u -j he tedlou ? time in the vestry, and while
the bride was writing herself Nance Salmon for
the first time, Sydney Hoban played the organ-
accompaniment to his new “ Wedding Song ”
the words of which were written by Mr. Edwin
Brady and sung by Miss Aarons in a pale grey
suit. From the organ-loft also wafted songs by
Kate Rooney and Henry Weir, and from the
closed doors of the vestry wafted—but no, I can-
not say wafted in this connection. Let me say
rather, rattled the notes of one of the most famous
sounds in Australasia, the laugh of the best man.
In fact, that laugh was the dominant note of
that wedding. At the reception in the Town
Hall afterwards people gathered in little groups
to gaze at L' Homme Qai Rit. Everything said
about that laugh is true ; moreover, everything
has not yet been said. Every time I heard it I
started, thinking a table and a lot of glasses had
fallen over and smashed. Then came the long ha-
ha-has. Indignant at being deluded, everyone
said at once : “ Mr. Peacock again !” As it is a
public property—but an asset to its owner, I am
sure—l feel justified in giving you a minute de-
scription of the famous sound. First a loud—in-
conceivably loud—report. An instant’s silence ;
then a series of shouts, uttered almost as if in
pain. All the afternoon, all the evening, that
laugh permoated the Town Hall, and the bravery
of the average bridegroom was multiplied over and
over by the courage of Dr. Carty Salmon (who,
by the way, is tall, fair-moustached, and inclined
to be stout) in choosing a laugh and W. J. Pea-
cock to give him so loudly away on his wedding-
day.
n *' e la y° r Mayoress certainly did things
well.” At the afternoon reception refresh-
ments were delightfully served, and the bride
and bridegroom shook hands in a white bower
leading up to a magnificent display of
wedding presents. The gifts, by the way, were
guarded by ’tecs, and included everything, from
the wedding-cake given by Mr. and Mrs. Baumann
to an abnormal display of fish-knives and carvers
—out of compliment to the bride’s new cognomen,
possibly. One never knows what insanity prompts
the burden of fish-knives and butter-dishes that
weigh down the early years of married life, and
the above sounds as senseless a reason as any
other.
Atthewedding, Mayoress Harris was f rocked in a
becoming pale-pink brocade, with a toque trimmed
with dull green and purple grapes and leaves, and
a showy bouquet of roses. At night, the Mayoral
Bill filled the hall with low frocks, the Mayoress
wearing grey brocade and a fresh bouquet.
Since my first mention of it, I have had time to
thoroughly examine the “Twentieth Century
Cookery Book,” and now feel justified in highly
recommending it. The compiler, “Thalia,’
is a Sydney pen-woman, who has made a study of
the House, house-keeping, house-decoration, and
cookery, and tiie only fault I can find with her
book —which departs from the ordinary class of
recipe and has troubled to find some attractive
novelties—is that the chapters on Home Decora-
tions are all too brief. Mrs. Panton, who wrote
“From Garret to Basement,” has treated the sub-
ject exhaustively for English homes, but condi-
tions are so altered in Australia that a special set
of ideas is necessary here, and these will be found
in “ Thalia’s ” book. Mr. Souter supplies some
vivid illustrations.
Mrs. Bland Holt’s last At Home in Sydney, for
a year, filled Needs Rooms on Friday with a
mixed society and theatrical crowd. The vivacious
hostess received her crush in a pretty grey frock
with turquoise ornaments. The “What Hap-
pened to Jones ” Co. were largely in evidence, —
Boy Denton with the excellent stage laugh,
“ Professor ” Sharp, in black clothes, dainty little
Dot Frederic, in black, and Mrs. Thomas, —Agnes
Knight,—also wearing black. I was glad to
have an opportunity of hearing little Violette, a
fair-haired child with an oldish face, play her
mandolin.
Mrs. Holt’s “At Homes” have been quite a
feature of the season, the only disappointment to
local “ perfesh’’-hunters being the absence of a
certain fair-haired Star whom everyone is dying to
meet personally, but who is never to be met except
on tive-three-and-one terms. •
Madame Adelina de Lara’s concert had been
preceded by so much talk that I was not surprised
to find the Centenary Hall well filled last night.
In the street, Mrs. Kingston looks a carelessly-
garbed young woman, with a swarthy skin. On
the platform, in an evening gown, she transforms
into a lovely Spanish - looking creature, with
glorious shoulders, melting black eyes, and a
highly artistic ensemble. She wore at her concert
a dead white satin and a rich lace polonaise, one
red rose at her waist, another in her black hair
dressed low on her neck. A long string of big pearls
hung loosely round her throat, and 1 never saw a
piano-player so fascinate a house with her personal
attractions. Even Mark Hambourg’s mesmeric ugli-
ness paled before Mdme. de Lara’s dark charms.
The galleries stood up and craned. And the
house resolved itself into a series of opera glasses,
steadily levelled whenever that bewitching
Spanish vision appeared.
As a poem, as a picture, the pianiste was an
immense success. As a pianiste? Well, she is a
pupil of Clara Schumann, and has a London repu-
tation. All the same, she lacks sensation and
virility, and lacks, in a marked degree, the
capacity of losing herself in her work. Perhaps
she is too much of the pretty woman, and too
conscious of it. Her black eyes wandered
over her frock, over the house, here,
there and everywhere. In the Kreutzer Sonata
she was quite ‘outside,’ playing mechanically,
with an eye on her patrons. Now and then there
were hints of a warm temperament. Her touch
is delicate and springy. In a concerto by Arensky,
a Russian, she played with more spirit and
abandon than in her solos, and Stael and Volmar
lent valuable aid with fiddle and ’cello. My im-
pression of the new player is that she could give
a much better account of herself. The concert
was finished off by Miss Jessie King in an orange
frock, under two lace overskirts, with touches of
brown on her corsage. Miss King warbled four
ballads with matured art and delightfully clear
utterance.
I would like to draw your attention to our
Varsity’s production of an Ibsen play, “ The
Enemy of the People,” at the Standard Theatre
next Thursday, Oct. 18th.
Also, I must ask you to admire the balance-
sheet of our Poster Ball. It cleared £2020 7s. Id.
Every ticket was accounted for. Not a single
ruffle disturbed the abnormal harmony of the
working committee. Expenses were kept at the
low figure of £224, which included the rent of the
Town Hall. Those directly responsible for this
happy result were Miss Eadith Walker, Miss
Martin, and Mr. St. Vincent Welch. They had
perhaps learnt a thing or two from the unhappy
recent experiences of a certain unselfish but com-
mercially-untutored worker in a similar field.
A well-known homoeopath who died last week
was Dr. Benjamin Simmons, of Alberto Terrace.
He was a dreamy old gentleman, very popular
among his patients. His (second) wife is well-
known in musical circles, and a son of liis is a
well-known Sydney medico.
I have been thinking over modern jewellery,
and have come to the conclusion that it suffers
from a deadly monotony. What do you think?
The same old bauds and shields of gold, with the
regulation number of red, white and blue stones
gleaming, according to price. Certainly the opal
is a thing of beauty for ever; with its delightful
variety of fire it reminds one of miniature sun-
sets. But even miniature sunsets want a little
variety of setting. Our brooches are the everlast-
ing doves set with pearls ; or hearts gemmed with
sparks of diamonds and opals or set with rubies.
But hearts of gold—it was ever so—don't appeal
to one; they conjure up stories from the
dissecting-rooms, and call to mind the dreary
lectures on physiology at school, and 1 hail
with joy signs that a good time is
coming, and that in the near future designing
jewellers will pay good prices for suggestions for
tasteful and original jewellery. Paris, of course,
is responsible. In Paris, one Rene Lalique has
brought about a revolution. The whole of the
jewellery in the gay capital is being recast. His
designs are marvellously artistic. He has now
attained such fame that he is altogether occupied
executing orders for kings, emperors, millionaires
and other councillors of the earth. Naturally, no
one who is not a millionaire can lay hands on his
beautiful creations, but a vast school of imitators
is springing up, and in a few months we may
begin to see the work of some of these imitators
in Sydney and Melbourne. And then
For instance, what do you think of this for a
brooch ? A big dragon-fly, natural size. Its body
is made of three amethysts, cunningly jointed
together, the outspread wings are a marvellous
filagree of iridium, blackened silver, and cloisonne
of opal, amethyst, and chrysoprase; they are
jointed to the body with little gold springs, so ad-
justed that, pinned on the breast, with every
respiration the beautiful creation lifts its wings
and undulates its body. Oh, Ouida ! Is the chance
too late for you ? A comb for the backhair is an
ivory nymph clinging to a tree of brown horn,
looking, with a terrified expression, down from
the dizzy heights of her lady’s kopje. A beautiful
locket is a profile of ivory, surrounded by a cloud
of hair made of blackened silver, that streams out
as though floating on water over a spray of red
coral, from the end of which gleams a tiny emerald
that gives the whole creation an atmosphere of the
sea. This is supposed to represent Sappho beneath
the waves. Lockets are made of tiny landscapes
of gold and enamels, and flowers are formed from
all manner of rare and beautiful stones and
enamels. At present, this wonderful Rene is
engaged in designing and building a new Im-
perial diadem for the Czarina of Russia, and has
refused all other work till that is finished.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Now that show-season is safely over for
another year, one ventures to hark back to its
horrors. At the time, it seemed best to sit right
and say nothing. Girls, take a straight tip from
me, and out at the Show Grounds don’t e 0,0, -on
male country-cousins to inquire in your heading
why ‘Rosalie, the Prairie-flower,’ prize-cow of
former years, failed to score this season. Disap-
pointed backers are over-prone to technicalities
laying special stress on the fact that the four-
footed fair m question would have been ‘ deco-
rated ’as usual but for her own folly. Just before
her interview witli the Judges her custodian was
called away for a moment, and ‘blow me if the
blooming mad cap didn’t lay down for a snooze ’
with the result that what-ealves-like all settled to
one side, and the culprit faced the examiners with
her symmetry ruined pro tern.
Also, dear friends, while leading back-blocks
kinsmen, on a round pf city sights, omit that
black - man - turned- white from your series of
curios. He’s a-good sort, but his well-meant con-
versational overtures are caviare to mixed audi-
ences, treating, as they do, of the various hues of
the phenomenon’s children, brought by the angels
before after, or simultaneously with Dadda’s
color-change. One little treasure is white, another
black, a third —but, at this stage, scribe’s com-
pamon-hearers coughed in chorus and cursed
Uty Dust; so no more, at present, from yours
truly. Men are twice as squeamish as women.
1 hat s easily seen at theatres when stage-sentiment
burns blue. Watch male escorts of petticoated
onlookers wriggle uneasily, unlike their unruffled
comfs 68 ’ WH ° COmplacentl y la P U P whatever
“To return to that black-white human raree-
show. Did you observe, a week or two ago
that his latest little stranger was described in its
birth notice as ‘ born white ? ’
‘The nice girls who started that co-operative
tea-room a while back have sold their venture Ar
the outset, a pretty nurse, counted upon 'as a
draw, withdrew from the firm. Now another of
the founders, the attractive sister-in-law of a
Sees ia&astF , ” ,trira ° nr '
“Towards the close of the recent Children’s
Hospital Bazaar there was much laying together
of heads and whispering over the discovery that
from one of the most fashionable stalls had been
sold a number of made-in-Paris pipes, which were
late in the day found to be-well, somewhat equi
vocal in their way, and unsuited for the hands of
innocence How the article got into the bazaar is j
still a mystery.
“ The old story ! Before sailing with the onety. j
oneth contingent, a smart young officer introduced
his sobbing girl to his best chum. ‘ Look after
her,’ he implored brokenly, ‘she’s a tender-hearted
little woman.’ Then the two men shook hands
warmly, silently, in the close grip of friendship,
and parted with the best of intentions. The tear-
ful girl was tenderly escorted back to town, and
Tommy’s chum began his campaign of kindness.
He hugged her by proxy, kissed her as deputy,
and embraced her under power of attorney.
Result, a brisk engagement.
“Gorgeous wedding-cards in purple and gold
are out for the wedding of a Melbourne widow
who is to be hitched up with a fashionable tea-
merchant in the first week of Dec. The affair
threatens to be most uncommon. Two months’
notice is given the guests to prepare for the treat.
“An interesting Sydney musician has been
lionised by the Chopinesque school of Melbourne
matrons. His fierce and mad style at the piano
and a handsome profile did the mischief. There
were a chorus of regrets at an At-Home the other
day, when it was learnt that the dear creature
had to fly back to Sydney.
“ Nellie Stewart spent most of her time on the
trip out yarning with the clever little daughter,
whose witticisms were recently recounted in
‘M.A.P. ‘ Little Nancy is vivacious and quick-
witted, and in many ways a copy of Nellie herself.
The opera-people, it seems, did not see the
Arcadia on fire. Joseph Tapley was the most
popular spirit. All the others dressed, talked,
and acted like so many members of a suburban
needlework-society, and their co-passengers, who
had prepared to be enlivened or shocked, or both,
were completely taken aback. At last they came
to the conclusion that the ‘ stars were trying the
rest-cure.
“ For the average woman, the prevalent dress-
notions seem to be skirt, tucked downwards,
bodice tucked on the cross, chiffon boa, under-
sleeves of muslin or chiffon displayed by * bell-
sleeve ’ and tulle-heaped hat. Some people wear
two chiffon boas, white and black respectively,
tied at the rear-waist by tiny ribbons. Pink coral
and amber are in favor for trinkets.
“A Victorian backblocks Anglican parson tells
this story:—He has a hall attached to nis church,
and he was asked to allow the place to be used
once a week for a dance during the winter. He
saw no harm in the lads and lasses having a hop,
so he consented. But the Wesleyans denounced
him from the pulpit in scathing terms. Dancing
was unholy, said they, and it excited the passions
unduly. After a while, however, so many of the
young folks went to the C. of E. in consequence
of the weekly dance that the Wesleyans got
alarmed, and determined to start a rival institu-
tion in their hall. They wouldn’t encourage the
ungodly and exciting sport of dancing, but, on
the suggestion of a lay preacher, they hit upon an
alternative amusement. So, during the last
winter, once a week at the Wesleyan Hall, kiss-
in-the-ring and hunt-the-slipper were played.
‘ What do you think,’ asks this paper, ‘of kiss-
in-the-ring as a more godly exercise than
dancing ? ’
Yours affectionately, Gouli-Gouli.
Late Finland papers warn readers against
the blandishments of Queensland emigration
lecturers, alleging that Finlanders will have to
compete, if they go to Queensland, with Kanakas
and half-castes.
' On Monday evening last a neat little
“send-off” supper was given at Power’s Hotel,
Sydney, to J. A. Philp, well-known journalist
and frequent contributor to The Bulletin. Mr.
Philp, who goes to take up a position on the
Brisbane Courier, was entertained by a gathering
which, though naturally chiefly composed of
brother ink-slingers, embraced enougli repre-
sentatives of other walks in life to show the esteem
entertained all round for a straight-goer and real
good fellow—the general opinion about whom was
as hereunder happily voiced and versed by Victor
J. Daley:—
“FAREWELL, PHILP.”
Read at the A. J. Philp send-off, Oct. 8, 1900.
We march along the road of life,
And each his own small tune is humming,
But could we hear a merrv fife
Sound clear above the dull humdrumming—
Would we not wish the fifer gay
To march with us upon our way ?
The road is rugged at its best,
A dusty road, and long, and weary;
But if a man with quip and jest,
Should make us almost think it cheery—
" owld we not try to keep that man
A member of our caravan ?
Behold our guest, at sight of whom
Black care runs headlong to the forest.
His countenance with smiles abloom
Is like the window of a florist.
We want to keep him, but— eheu !
They want him up in Queensland, too.
Alas ! When on the road we find—
As we for sympathy are yearnin'* —
A comrade to our heart and mindr
He leaves us at some sudden turning.
We drink his health to hide our grief
And wave a hurried handkerchief.
Farewell, Jim Philp ! Our hearts to-night
Mould blither be to give you greeting
Mayhap m Melville’s “ Land of Light ” g
We all shall have a braver meeting.
We wish you, with a cheer and sigh—
Good health, good friend, good luck, good bye !
Victor J. Dalev.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling r.id soothing in hot
climates. VVar. a:.ted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland's articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
OitiZ6ns’[ife]|ssaranee Company Limited
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
E3tl3ti’ag Policyholtiers exceed 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves. Annual Bonuses
Moore and Castlereayh Streets, JOHN FARRELL,
Sydney. Resident Secretary.
SoreTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M O.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
CONDY’S FLUlD”oanbepnichasfdof
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitatMr.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Suppose John Norton is Mayor of Sydney
next year when the Yorks arrive ?
In the last batch of N.S.W. J’s.P. is one
man who can neither read nor write.
Gilchrist, Watt & Co. is said to be the
oldest Sydney firm, having started in 1828 under
the style of Gilchrist and Metander.
Dean Vance (Melbourne) gets every day
more and more like Bishop Goe. Advice to poor
dergymen: “Goe and do likewise.”
Remarked a smart woman at a very
impressive recent wedding : “Not often do
you see such suitable alliances of gold and gram-
mar,”
The “ splendid poem ” which Rudyard
Kipling has written for London Times on the
birth of the Commonwealth is not considered by
the Australian associated dailies good enough to
cable.
S’Malkum M‘Eacharn, Melbourne’s Mayor,
has returned from England a confirmed believer in
municipal Socialism. He is a great friend of
H. H. Champion, who doubtless prepared the
ground for the conversion.
Death notice from Maoriland paper :
M'Piierson. —On sth September, at —■, Earl
Transvaal, infant child of John and Ada M'Pherson,
aged 8 months.
Earl Transvaal M'Pherson ! Poor kiddy !
Persistently stated that Seddon contem-
plates coalescing with the M.L. Opposition, so as
to crowd out the more advanced section of his
party, led by Hogg, Collins, and G. W. Russell.
The latter begin to find that Imperialism and
Democracy are incompatibles.
In the event of Sam. Griffith quitting
Queensland Chief-Justiceship Rutledge and Real
will try for the post. Real, who had his mind
made up to go to Europe for a trip, suspends the
resolve till the Griffith cat jumps. On behalf of
Rutledge there will, no doubt, be whipped up a
variety of influences acidulated against Real by
recent sectarian events.
Maoriland Chief-Justice Stout took the
ohair the other day for Ike Selby,
a converted Freethought lec-
turer, and the question natur-
ally arises, as Stout is also a
frequent patron of Sal-
varmy functions, and
always the host of
“General” Booth when
he visits M.L., how far
he himself has “ ’verted ”
back to his original Scotch-
byterianism. Time was
when he was a deacon of
Knox Church, Dunedin,
and was shifted from
office for heterodoxy ;
then he became editor
of the agnostio Echo,
President .of the
Maoriland Free-
thought Associa-
tion, and leader of
the Freethought
Lyceum. The
zenith of his unor-
thodox career was
reached in his ex-
pulsion from
Scotch Masonry
(of which he was
Provincial
Grand - Master
for Otago) on
account of his
becoming Mas-
ter of Lodge
“La Verite,”
under what is
called the
“ Atheistical ”
Grand (Orient)
Lodge of
Franc e—
though it is
only atheistic-
al in the same
sense that a
Druids’ or a
Foresters’
lodge is, in
that it leaves
out all men-
tion of the
name of God.
The sight of
Stout sitting
in the chair
for an anti-
Freethought
lecturer
would have
been suffi-
oient to
make John
Ball anee,
could he have
seen it, turn
cold. Forßallance,
even though he knew
votes depended upon
it, refused to take the chair at a temperance mis-
sion by Matthew Burnett unless the religious
portion of the ceremony were either dispensed
with or got over before he arrived. What is
Stout s game, anyhow ?
If Douglas Story’s account of how Kruger
commandeered all the available gold at Pretoria
is correct, Kruger has evidently missed his career.
He should have been an Australian bank-director.
Ex-Minister Joe Cook, erstwhile N.S.W.
Labor leader, sneeringly jibed Premier Lyne the
other night for “consulting” the Labour party.
Joe was of the Labour party one time, and was so
successfully “consulted” by boss Reid that he
took to the Govt, benches and £l5OO a year.
When N.S.W. Bushmen’s Contingent
was going away Sam Hordern, Junior, strongly
urged his father to present £lOO,OOO (mind the o’s,
please) to the fund. Sam, Senior, however, did
not approve of the idea. Young Sam evidently
has vim and ideas. Old Sam has experience.
Chamberlain’s froth about the “reptile
press belittling great men ” comes with a very bad
grace from one the journals of whose party have,
ever since Gladstone’s death, consistently alluded
to him as a “ madman,” and talked of his “ senile
decay,” “cowardice,” and “cheap magnanimity.”
From Premier Lyne’s budget speech :
“ I am happy to say that the action taken by the
colonies in connection with the South African
war is being generously recognised in divers
ways by her Majesty the Queen and the Imperial
Parliament. (‘Hear, hear.’)” To wit—Lyne,
K.C.M.G.
While collecting the electoral-rolls in a
N.S.W. country district t’other day a man con-
fessed to the policemen that he entertained a
desire to become a voter, and asked the date of
next election. He had, he said, a second name,
and after a little persuasion explained that it was
“Ananias ! ”
Seeing that Jimmy and Joe Governor are
as much white as black, why shouldn’t the Euro-
pean half of them get some of the credit for their
crimes? In common fairness they should be
called “the Breelong whites” quite as often as
“the Breelong blacks.” Why not use the two
terms turn-about ?
The present Mayor of Sydney, though a
University graduate, often addresses his council
as “yous.” There are points about the word
“ yous.” When you look towards two people and
say “you,” you may really be addressing only one
of the pair. But when you say “yous,” there is
no doubt about the inclusion of both your auditors.
Julian Ralph complacently observes :
Of gallantry, as we Anglo-Saxons know and appreciate
it, the Boers have not a trace.
Just as well for the Boers, if Anglo-Saxon gal-
lantry is consistent with lying about women as
Ralph did about Mrs. Cronje. The American
posing as an Englishman was ever a spectacle for
gods and men.
According to Hobart Mercury, a resident
of that place has received a letter from Baden*
Powell in which that warrior says :
The Mercury account of the Siege of Mafekitig is the
best compressed account of it that I have seen, sp much
so that I have put it by in case it should so happen that
some day I forget the history of the siege and want to re-
call some of it to my mind.
Now, whose leg is being pulled, here ?
In a certain big Sydney restaurant the
walls are decorated with excellent frescoes by
Joe Wolinski. If Joe keeps on improving as
he has in the past year and goes to Paris
and makes a name for himself, as he is not
unlikely to do, those frescoes ought to be
valuable by-and-bye.
“A DEAD CERT."
THE LADY: “And is your father working, my
little man?”
THE LITTLE MAN: “I s’pose so, mum. The
Judge said ’ard labor.”
Melbourne Argus had already communi-
cated with Kipling, asking him to execute, to
order, an Australian Federation yawp, when lo !
London Times snapped the thing.’ Editor
Willoughby, who has a slight stammer, said it
was d-d-damned d-d-d-disap-p-pointing.
Byron Moore, the 'V.R.C. secretary, is a
man of many tastes, and makes excursions
into nearly all the arts. He dabbles as
an author and figures as a musi-
cian, but amateur photography
is his favorite relaxation.
THE REAL ARTICLE.
SNORKY : “ Well, Stousher, what d’yer tink of
Alfred Dampier in ‘ Drink?’”
STOUSHER: “Not much. ’E’s nuthin ’ to my ole
man when ’e gits boozed.”
Characteristic story told in Canada of the
late Duke of Edinburgh. A flunkey in some
excursion made the pointed remark: “I had the
honor to act as guide Prince of
Wales over this path, and he presented me with
this magnificent gold watch.” “Ah, indeed!”
replied the close-fisted Duke, “that is more than
he ever did for me.”
The report that Princess Henry of Pless
was the author of that charming book, “Elizabeth
and her German Garden,” is now contradicted,
but London Chronicle announces as a verified
fact that the authoress is “ The Countess Arnim,
an Australian, married to the son of the famous
ambassador.” But who is the said Australian
lady, and what part of Australia did she hail
from ?
Labor member Trenwith (Vic.) is now a
cockatoo squatter. He holds an estate in the
Mallee, of over 1200 acres, and tells in the House
about “ my experience ” in the cultivation of the
soil. Up to now this has not shaken his belief in
the rightness of the land nationalisation theory.
“We’ll start by nationalising your own land,”
say his squatter friends. “I’m i-eady,” answers
Trenwith ; “ let’s do it together.”
Sydney’s old acquaintance, Gilbert Parker,
the novelist, author of “When Valmond came to
Pontiac,” lias been elected to the House of Com-
mons for Gravesend division. When Parker first
came to Sydney he joined the staff of S.M.
Herald under the name and style of the Rev.
Horatio Gilbert Parker. When he left Australia
he went to Yankeeland and married the gilded
daughter of a millionaire trader in Japanese
curios.
Mr. “ Bob ” Pennefather, Attorney-
General of Westralia, is mentioned for the vacant
Justiceship in that State. Mr. Pennefather,
whose bar-call at Melbourne dates 1873, is in the
East best known as the counsel who defended
Cordini, before Judge Windeyer, for the murder
of a hawker near Deniliquin; and who, after the
conviction, addressed the press strenuously ex-
pressing his belief in the man’s innocence. Cor-
dini died denying the crime.
Touching Tas. Premier Lewis’ suggestion
that the Australias should unite to send a cablegram
to Chamberlain praying for the success of the
Tory party at the British general elections, in
order that the results of the Imperial S’African
victories might bear full fruit, what would Pre-
mier Lewis say if the Imperial authorities, during
the progress of a general election in Tasmania,
advised the voters of that somnolent island to
stick to Braddon and drop Lewis ?
Somebody’s London correspondent appears
convinced that Malcolm McEacharn (who has
Federal Parliamentary ambitions and longs for an
organ of his very own) really means to start a new
evening paper in Melb. The Bulletin presumes
that S’Malcolm has heard the story of the man
who sold his soul to the Devil on condition that
the latter would manage a daily paper for him ;
the end of the thing being that after trying the
billet for a week the Devil gave back the soul he
had bought and cried off his bargain.
Old Hurtle Fisher, once owner of Mari-
byrnong estate and stud, and long one of Vic-
toria’s foremost and straightest sportsmen, ap-
plied recently for the license of an obscure South
Melbourne hotel. He imported the great Fisher-
man, and bred and raced Fishhook, Seagull,
Angler, Lantern, Charm and Sylvia, among others
But the rose-and-black has not been seen on the
turf for many a day. The land boom dissipated
most of Fisher’s pile, and now the old sport sells
beer where he once drank fizz.
The self-satisfied “ Seppy ” Stephen's
resignation of his seat in N.S.W. Leg. Council
will not seriously impoverish the legislative power
of that Chamber. Mr. Stephen’s enthusiasms
were not with politics. Like most of the Stephen
family, he believed in official as opposed to demo-
cratic rule. A few months back, in a lecture he
delivered in London, he reiterated his old belief
that N.S.W. obtained Responsible Govt, at too
early a date—“fully 20 years too soon,” lie
solemnly informed Lord Jersey and others at the
Colonial Institute.
A certain ineffably-pompous Aus-
tralian official fancied his long-looked-
for title within measurable distance
when, in reply to his latest message ot
sympathy or something to the
he received a reply signed Vic-
toria.” Previously his greasy con-
dolences and sich had been acknow-
ledged by the Secretary of State,
through the local Governor, and the
message from “Victoria"’ caused an
appreciable shortening in the odds
about the official's chances of an im-
perial bauble. The cable, in a large
gilded frame, took a place beside
other similar mementoes that en-
cumber the walls of his office.
But it has lately been whispered
that a certain well-known Aus-
tralian racing man, now in Lon-
don, hearing of the condolatory
message sent by thetitle-hunter,
thought to perpetrate a joke by
wiring a bogus reply “from the
Queen.” Anyhow, the framed
cable message has disappeared
from the place in which it was
Brstwhile semi-publicly exposed.
When Gov Darling (Vic.) got
into trouble with the Imperial au-
thorities over the legislative deadlock
of 18G5, and it was rumoured that he
had been recalled, an Aegus reporter
had the cheek to call at Govt. House
and ask Hi.s Ex. if the rumour was
correct. It was correct, but Sir
Charles only answered, .“If I
had known that was your mission,
you would not have entered this
room ; leave it! ”
Lady Randolph Churchill seems to be
much gone on her new husband, who is somewhat
younger than her son, Winston, or perhaps it is
that latter has been snorting at the union. Any-
how, she took the trouble to announce, through
the London papers, that her name is now Mrs.
George Cornwallis West.
Should Chief-Justice Way be translated to
an Imperial Court of Appeal, it is likely that
Senior-Judge Boucaut will get his place on the
local S.A. Supreme Court Bench, and that Insol-
vency-Commissioner Russell will fill the other
vacancy. Attorney-General Gordon hopes other-
wise, but it would be a public scandal if Russell
were passed over, for he acted as Judge during
the absence on leave first of Way and then of
Bundey, and he filled the position excellently.
Reported that Henry Lawson has “ settled
permanently ” in England, and has made a good
beginning with sales to Blackwood’s Magazine
and elsewhere. The Bulletin sincerely hopes
that he will maintain his standard of work, and
not drift out of Australian recollection like others
who have gone before him. In no English-speak-
ing country is there a keener reading public than
in Australia ; and the unanimity with which they
drop an old favorite, when his work deteriorates,
is amazing.
Purtell, the Melbourne bard, who gets a
living by having his “ poems ” hawked round the
street at a penny a time, is not, as might be sup-
posed, an elderly crank, but a young man of, say,
30 years, who wears beautifully-barbered love-
locks, an exquisite moustache, a magpie tie,
irreproachable linen, and a most impressive
boutonniere. Purtell has cold-bloodedly adopted
“ poetry ” as a profession—has organised the dis-
tribution of his works on the milk-walk principle.
He has just “dreamt ” Cornquist as a winner of
Caulfield Cup, and has set forth his vision in a
penny rhyme.
Broughton Chapel, about to be transferred
bodily from Liverpool, N.S.W., to the Theo-
logical College at Newtown (Sydney), was built
over 40 years ago as a memorial to Australia’s first
Anglican bishop. The Duke of Wellington picked
up Broughton in the first instance, giving him a
curacy in England and afterwards the arch-
deaconry of N.S.W. Bishop Bioughton’s son
died in Sydney, but he himself died in the house
of ex-Gov. Gipps in England and was buried in
Canterbury Cathedral. Broughton spent his
early life as a Govt, clerk in the Treasury in
London, and all through his career exhibited a
good deal of the manner and style of such officials
at that date. He died at 70 years of age, and the
chapel now in question was erected to his memory
by voluntary subscriptions.
“ The washing of the blood-spangled
khaki,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “has already been begun, with the
world looking on. Discredited General Warren,
immediately on arrival here, blamed Buller firstly
and Thorneycroft secondly for the Spion Kop
disaster —which really was a first-class muddle.
T.’s clique took his part and retorted, and now
Warren asserts he ‘ never said a word ’ —for pub-
lication. They never do, these ‘ stood-down ’
Generals. There is a hot time preparing for
Buller, despite the smearing of glory his recent
efforts have brought him, and it’s only * that
circus-man,’ 8.-P., French and one or two other
colonial leaders whose linen is not yet khaki-
colored. One grand, good thing, ‘ Bobs ’ as
C.-in-C. means the War Office’s requiem.”
Maoriland Premier Seddon is far from
being the man he was. Things are being left
more and more to Ward, who seemingly looks
after as many departments as Seddon used to, and
works at the same terrific rate. Seddon, too, has
apparently lost some of his backbone. His tariff
proposals were completely revolutionised by the
“Boxers,” as the malcontents were termed, and
he did not complain ; and now he has introduced
his Technical Education Bill without providing
assistance for the R.C. schools, although last year
he withdrew it rather than pass it in its emascu-
lated condition. No one will be surprised if, at
the close of the session, he does finally decide to
take the place of W. P. Reeves in London, where
lie believes, that his howling Jingo policy, as em-
bodied in his last-man-last-shilling offer to “the
Empire” will secure him a vociferous greeting.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Aboriginalities.
Dr. Ahearne’s theories re the influence of
Northern climatic conditions got a nasty knock
t’other day from the neighborhood of Trinity Bay.
Wrote a woman to Q. Lands Department :
If you would come up and see what women do on a
selection you would not be against women taking up land.
Two women I know have fallen several acres of scrub.
One woman cleared several acres. I saw a woman and
her 14-year-old daughter harrowing coffee three weeks
ago, and another woman, a widow with six children,
sows corn, plants potatoes, keeps coffee clean, and the
other day killed her own pig. Some of the men about
here lie about reading all day and leave women to look
after the land.
And this comes from Cairns, the most sweltering,
oppressive hole in N. Queensland, the city of
Oriental preference, the Paradise of the cheap-
and-nasty alien, the town of the Yellow Back-
bone ! Apparently, the virility that has oozed
out of the soul of the Cairns white man has gone
to stiffen the other sex—in some cases, anyhow.
A woman who could buekle-to and fell several
acres of Cairns scrub is a heroine who should
rank with Boadicea and Joan of Arc. The writer
of above letter got the concessions she clamored
for—and one feels glad she did. All the same,
would not that other grafter who “killed her
own pig ” be a heavy responsibility as a life-long
partner ? She mightn’t stop at that.
* * * •
44 Puy.” : Chatting with a travelling
photographer (a well-educated German) the talk
turned on certain Australian peculiarities.
44 These beeples are very strange,” he said. “Last
week I struck a small town und did goot biz.
Just as I go to pack up and make for the hotel a
small girl come running up to me in great ways.
4 Will you come and take mother’s portrait, she is
dying,’ she say. I say, 4 Why does she her
bicture taken want that she is dying, what is it
that she is dying of ? ’ 4 She has an abscess on the
heart ’ says the liddle girl 4 and an abscess on the
liver and inflammation and a lot of oder tings and
doctor says she will not live till to-morrow.’
‘Very well,’ I say, ‘I will then come.’ So I go
and there is a woman, sick, very sick, and I take
two goot plates and go away to the hotel. Next
morning joost as I finish developing my plates dot
liddle girl coom running oop to me again.
‘Mother says will you show her a broof,’ she
says. 4 The doctor says she will not but a little
while live and she vant to see a broof before
that she is dead. ’ So I say very well, and make a
rough broof and take it along to the sick woman.
4 It is not a goot picture at all, ’ she whisper when
I show it her; 4 it make my gomplexion look all
muddy.’ Then she tell me I must take another in
brofile this time—and I could see she vas joost
about to die, but Igo to get my gamera. Before
I got back she was dead, und ven I ask the
• hoosband for the money he say 4 O go to blazes !
she has enough money cost me already,’ and trow
the picture in the fire. They are a funny people
these Australians.”
* * * *
“T. Mac ” : Where did Gov. Phillip bury
his horse (B. 6/10/’00) ? This probably refers to an
old Sydney-schoolboy lark. In the Domain, over-
looking the Harbour, is a very steep grassy incline,
any spot at the foot of which is pointed out to the
“green’un ”as the last resting-place of the gee-
gee in question. At the same time he receives
a sudden shove behind which either sends him on
his nose or compels him to rush top-speed down
the slope in order to avoid falling.
* • • *
Again the mosquito. An important recent
scientific discovery is that the parasite causing
elephantiasis is a habitant of the proboscis of the
mosquito. Aforesaid parasite is a small worm
which lives in the lymphatic vessels and occludes
them. At this rate there’ll soon be a big boom in
mosquito-curtain.
* • * *
Journalese in Bunbury, W.A. :
When the streets of the town away from the main
streets were seas of mud, and when the infant moon had
not the ghost of a show of casting the feeblest ray through
the umbrageous canopy which vaulted the heavens, not
a single municipal lamp was lighted. The writer urges
that the lamps should be lighted longer in winter than in
summer, so as to give the baby Luna time to grow strong
enough to light the dark places.
* *. * *
In wayback news-offices where the editor-
Eroprietor is also comp, and galley-hand, pub-
shmg night is a time of fear and trembling until
the marvellous sheet, with its “literals” and
turned letters, is rattled off at the rate of 250 an
hour. Thus does Avoca Free Press vent its
indignation because a local meeting to discuss the
commonage question was convened for the even-
ing of going to press :
To hold it at a time when our limited staff is otherwise
engaged was a paltry trick, and one which is but too
frequently indulged in on occasions demanding fair com-
ment in the public interests. In this instance, no matter
what the inconvenience may be, our reporter, at least,
will be there, if for no other reason than to watch the
manoeuvres of the President-elect in his efforts to gauge
public opinion and sail with the strongest crowd.
has neither natural nor acquired ability to deal with what,
in some respects, may be called an abstruse question. He
has hitherto relied on his gift of low cunning to humbug
those who at one time thought he was fairly capable of
doing efficient work, but he has been weighed in the
balance and found wanting.
• * * *
“Tomahawk ”: N.S.W. Big Scrub timber-
getters have often to scaffold a big tree to down
him, leaving a stump of perhaps 20ft. high. The
Moreton Bay figs and spurway trees have spurs at
the base which render it impossible to fall them
stump-high. The faller, therefore, cuts steps up
the spurs until he reaches the barrel of the tree,
in whioh a notch like a mortice-hole is cut 10 or
12in. deep, and the platform is inserted. This
consists of a board about sft. by Bin., by 2in. thick,
having a horseshoe-shaped piece of iron bolted on
to one end. The iron has in the bow a clip, turn-
ing upwards, which bites into the top of the notch
mentioned, while the bottom of the board rests on
the bottom of the notch. When the faller mounts
his weight keeps the platform in position. I have
seen a man step from his platform on to the stump
of a scrub-giant to which he had given the coup-
de-grace, and calmly watch the monster’s crashing
downfall. Nerve, eh !
“Ne’er-do-Weel”:
The mild-looking little
angel again. Camped
on the Condamine a
short time ago, with
some bullockies and
horse-teamsters. There
were two teams very
heavily loaded with
wool—top tiers over-
hanging the lower. One
bulloeky had his wife
with him, a quiet-look-
ing little woman, but
when a dispute arose
over some trifle and
words ran high, the
lady took a leading part
in the proceedings, and
finished by suddenly
grabbing a tomahawk,
jumping on the pole of
the adversary’s wag-
gon and cutting the
belt-ropes, so that down
toppled the bales —her
opponent just clearing
in time. Her husband
calmly sat on his heel,
smoking. 11 Ain’t she a
holy terror?” he said.
“ But it’ll all be over in
a minute, mates —take
no notice of her.”
“That’s all blanky
fine,” said the owner
of the other waggon,
“but look at my load 1
why don’t yer take a
spreader and lay her
out?” “For God’s
sake, don’t talk like
that,’’said the husband,
excited for the first
time, “or she’ll stiffen
the whole blanky lot of
us !”
* * *
H. J. M‘Cooey:
Re intestinal worms in
wallabies (“ Wat T., ”
B. 4/B’/00). Such worms
are quite common in all
the Maeropodce, hares
and rabbits being also
much infested with
them. ’Possums and
native bears, however,
are, in my experience,
very free from such
parasites, though all our
snakes and large lizards,
our eels and many spe-
cies of fish are worm-
infested.
Clancy, the cattle-man, struck the pub.
and asked a “stool-pigeon” that was in the bar
to have a drink. Then they had another, and
another, and the stool-pigeon bore up every time,
but when the fifth drink came on, cattle-
education came to his rescue. He had a “Jimmy
Woodser,” and remarked to the stool-pigeon,
“ Old man, I’m going to wean you.”
* * * •
“ Rito ” : Re savages reverting to their
original instincts. About 30 years ago a backblox
squatter lost his way, and, coming to the junction
of three tracks, did not know which to follow. A
dirty aboriginal in a filthy blanket sauntered out
of the scrub at that moment. 4 4 Which fella for
Coonema ” (the squatter’s station) asked the man
of wool. The blackfellow struck an attitude and
replied with dignity : “ In medio tutissimus ibis
—(the middle course is the safest.) The querist
nearly fell off his horse with fright, thinking he
had “got ’em”; but the explanation was simple
enough. The dusky denizen of the forest had
been educated at a Sydney college, and had gladly
returned to his native lair.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —“P.H.C.” (B. 25/8/’00)
is absurdly wrong in stating that “the dingo was
brought to Australia by the Dravidians of
Southern India.” Fossil remains of the dingo,
discovered about 10 years ago and exhaustively dis-
cussed by the late Prof. M‘Coy, prove the animal
to be strictly indigenous. For further con-
firmation of this fact let “P.H.C.” refer to J.
Douglas Ogilby’s “Mammals of Australia,” re-
viewed some years ago in The Bulletin by me.
— M'Cooey. [What about the possible fossil
Dravidian who brought the fossil dingo to Aus-
tralia ? —Ed. B.]
* • * *
H. J. M‘Cooey : Re “Yarrum ” on water-
lizards (B. 18/8/’00). It’s quite true that 44 Leseur’s
Lizard ” can’t climb down a vertical object; but
he can travel down any incline not greater than
25 deg. Upon level ground this reptile is the,
fastest of all our 200 species of lizards, running
upon the hind limbs only, with the body almost
erect and tail off the ground. Living or dead-and-
preserved specimens of this lizard (precisely,
Physignathus leseuri) are much desired by both
Sydney and Queensland Museums. Though, in
1890, I collected over 600 lizards, I never suc-
ceeded in getting a specimen of Leseur’s lizard,
notwithstanding that 1 had over a dozen shot-gun
negotiations with him. Is it possible to shoot
this reptile while “on the wing”? What saith
“Yarrum ” ?
* * * *
“Quiet N.” : Was taking about 30 head
of cattle round the coast, near Cape Terawhiti
(M.L.), and, from the start, two big bullocks—a
red and a yellow—fought for the lead, there being
only a narrow track through the boulders and
heavy sand. Eventually, the red beast shoved
t’other off the track, whereupon the yellow got
sulky, and made a rush for the sea. Swain con-
siderable portion of the distance to be traversed,
which was four and a-half miles, and landed ahead
of the mob ; then coolly waited till they caught
up, and took the lead again. Never gave it up,
either, though his flanks and quarters were bleed-
ing when destination was reached. Near same
place, also, I was once with a team of provision-
laden pack-horses. One horse objected to making
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.—TWO YOUNG LADIES
FROM BULLOO RIVER.
Photo, by Tosca, Brisbane.
a start, and nothing human seemed likely to move
him, but, just when we were about to give up in
despair, the brute made a beeline for Cook’s
Straits, and swam out about a mile—bread, meat,
and all. Then he swam back, and took to the road
like a lamb.
* * * •
“F.” : The “manna” mentioned in 8.,
8/9/’OO, can be found at certain seasons beneath
the gums in Western Victoria. On the Barwon
(N.S.W.) a different kind of “manna” can some-
times be found on the leaves of box-trees; but
this seems to be the covering of an insect and is
much thinner and more leathery than the Vic.
substance.
* * * *
“ F.H.” : Calcifer (N.Q.) had at one time
six private houses—and three
Now there are only three private
houses—but still three pubs. Two
constables are still stationed there
to keep order at the three pubs, and
to mind the three houses ; and though
the gentle “ two-up ” has been played
in the yards of these pubs, regularly
every Sunday for ages past, only one
arrest has been made within the
memory of man—when a big bettor
was found using a “grey” ; but even
he was shortly let go again without
serious trouble. And all this in the
face of Queensland’s sweep-abhorring
morality.
♦ • * •
DearBuLLETiN. “Gobung’ (8.,
18/8/’00) says he “stumbled on” a goan-
na duel. Probably he did “stumble”
a good deal before coming across two
goannas, 6in. and 9in. respectively.
This district is fairly overrun with the
black and black-and-yellow iguana,
and yet I never saw one less than 15in.
“on his own.” Commonest length is
from 3 to 4ft., and as a matter of
fact the goanna must be nearly 6in.
long ere it sees daylight. As for the
9in. chap settling t’other in one act—
this is rot, for, like most Australians,
the iguana is a “hard die-er.” Even
after its head is chopped off it will
wriggle about and try to get it on
again! Also, unless “ Gobung ” hails
from a warm part it could not be very
“recently” that he witnessed this
deadly conflict, because the iguana’s
curfew rings when the cold weather
begins, and he has a snooze in a hollow tree until
Spring is fairly set in, before “settling on the
land ” again.— Wallan Dooly.
* * * *
“G.”: Struck Innainineka Bill a few
hundred miles north of Adelaide. He was knock-
ing down a big cheque. Asked him why not go
to Adelaide and spend his money there on the tit-
bits of civilisation. “Adelaide be d d, and
many other things,” said 1.8. “They’d feed
me on cabbige and pertaters and things like
that down there. Me innards couldn’t stand up
to it. I’ve touched nothin’ in the way o’ vege-
tables but marsh-mallus for the last two year.”
“W.M.F.”: Black sheep may be “hardier
than white” (“Eller,” 8., 8/9/’00), but a black
sheep in a mob of white is almost always the last
sheep to fatten. No experienced person will
touch a “nigger” in picking “fats” for market.
A station near Walgett had, two years ago, bred
almost the whole flock black, and the wool brought
more per lb. than white wool of same quality and
condition, on account of requiring less dye and
consequently producing a stronger and more
lasting fabric.
* • • •
Re massacres of blacks. Died last year
at Bonshaw, Dumaresq Riyer, Q., “Ashby .Tack,”
the only survivor of what was called the Sovereign
River Nigger-liunt. He was then a child, and
was saved by a squatter called Ashby. “ Ashby ”
went sometimes by the name of “ Mineral Jack,”
because he showed to Snider the Texas copper-
mine which led to the discovery of the Silver
Spur.
• * * *
The annual report of N.S. W. Aborigines
Protection Board for year ending 15th Oct., ’99,
shows that there were then 3203 full-bloods and 3689
half-castes; a total of 6892. Among full-bloods
there were 139 deaths and 79 births; half-castes,
161 births and 61 deaths. The real aboriginals
are gradually dwindling, as in ’B2 there were (>540 ;
now there are but 3203. On the other hand—go
down blackfellow, jump up whitefellow !—-the
half-castes are increasing ; there were 2379 in ’B2,
now there are 3689.
* » * *
The manager was enlightening the raw
“ colonial-experiencer.” “ These are some of my
own stud-rams, Mr. Newchumley, the finest in
the colony.” “Haw!” said the youth. “And
these are stud-ewes —100-guinea ewes, sir, each of
them.” “Haw!” repeated Chumley ; and then,
to show his interest and newly-acquired know-
ledge, he added, “And—aw —wheah do you keep
—aw —the stud-whethaws, Mr. Blank?” And
then Blank justified his name and blanked.
* * * •
“ Mac.” : Re opossum “ naturally minus
the hind-legs” (“Index,” B. 4/8/’00). Could
“Index” state the sex, and were the genera-
tive organs deformed or normal ? Malfor-
mations, though very rare among Australian
mammals, are by no means unknown. Some
years ago, near Wombeyan Caves, I was shown a
dead native bear (p. cinereus) in which the two
hind legs were amalgamated into one very stout
limb. This was quite well-formed, and the foot
and claws, though exceptionally large, were per-
fect. The animal was an aged male, and had
evidently been geueratively efficient. This is the
only malformation I ever met with among Aus-
tralian mammals. Has “Index” or any other
Bulletin reader ever met with an hermaphro-
ditic Australian mammal ?
• * * *
“ J.T.1.” : To “P.” (B. 4/8/’00). Had a
dog once in Cook District, Q., which would wake
me during the night when lie was soruffing a
dingo, and could not kill. 1 used to go out with
revolver and light to assist, and usually found
dingo down and dog on top. At 2 o’clock one
morning I found a dingo down flat and apparently
dead, so called dog off. He came reluctantly a
little way, when off went the dingo again with
dog after him. Followed up and found dingo
spread out again. Thought to make sure this
time, so I stooped down, placed pistol muzzle
against the heart and fired. Result, dingo got up
in such a hurry that he hit me in the face and
knocked me flat on my back. When I arose I
found the dingo lying across my legs, and this
time he was real corpse.
FAITHLESS.
LEAH THE FORSAKEN : “ An’ I guv Mary
Smithers a lump o’ chewin’-gum for him only
yesterdee!”
“H.S.”: Re size of iguana. In a long
and wide bush experience I have never seen any-
thing approaching 6ft. A 3ft. 6in. “ goanna ”is
not small, and a 4ft. 6in. one I should consider a
monster.


FASHION
IS TINGED
af
with England’s martial ardor. The
latest in BROOCHES are Sword
designs of exquisite art treatment.
ggp Another large shipment just opened. Cold Brooch, set with Whole or mar Pearls, 755.
The Best London Gold Work, set with Turquoise and Pearls or Diamonds—Prices from 50s. to £olss.
Worn large they can be used also for the hair, and look very distinctive.
Plain Figures.
Cash Prices.
Fairfax * Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellere, 23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
According to Gabriel, Q. Inspector of
Distilleries, the following liquor adulterants are in
vogue in the North: —“Aniline dyes, sulphuric
acid, oil of vitriol, olive oil, and copperas. A wine-
maker of Bundaberg had doctored his wine with
aniline, logwood, copperas, and sulphuric acid.
While making tests at an hotel near Brisbane
Gabriel saw a publican pouring contents of a
vessel into another containing spirits. Some of
the liquid was spilt on the publican’s cuff and
burnt holes in it. Once he came across a cask
containing Blb. of solid matter to 11 gals, liquor.
The solids consisted of tobacco, cigars, cloves,
pineapple, fibre, and pieces of straw.”
Singleton’s (N.S.W.) six-legged cow has
increased her owner’s herd. The calf is a quad-
ruped.
• • • •
Harry Stockdale on saddle-slipping by
bucking horses: —
“ H.G.” (B. 18/8/’00) says : “The bones of the horse’s
withers are 3in. higher than the remainder of the dorsal
vertebrae, and the projecting elbows are in the same line
with the withers, thus it seems impossible for girth to be
misplaced in manner stated. And what has belly to do
with girth ? ” Well, take any average healthy man and
note his power of expansion and contraction in stomach
and chest. But, as the two must act together—so it is
with the horse. Also, many horses are so devoid of
wither that it is hard to keep a saddle off the neck with-
out the animal bucking at all. Further, as all saddles
have a hollow space from pommel to crupper-D (some-
times 2in. high) this would assist an animal possessing
ordinary withers and make the feat of saddle-slipping
still easier to the horse possessing low or virtually no
withers. I can, in any case, assure “ H.G.” that it is by
no means only the low-withered animals that are capable
of this feat, which is, in my opinion, chiefly due to power
of muscular expansion and contraction. Wither is of
much less effect in keeping a saddle in position than
depth of brisket, between and a little back from the fore-
legs. Here, unlike the narrow shoulder-top, there is
great substance, and to this part girth and surcingle sit
tight, whereas the pommel of the saddle rides high and
clear of even the fairly-withered horse. It can, however,
be noticed when a horse is bucking, that the forward
position and rigidity of the front legs, coupled with the
position of neck and head, do reduce the size and alter
the angle of shoulder-resistance, the brisket resistance
being also affected.
* * * *
The dingoes are playing havoc in S.W.
Queensland. What the drought has spared in the
way of sheep is now become the prey of the wild
dog. Bransberry station reports losing 4000
sheep out of 5000 from dingo ravages in twelve
months, and other stations are in a bad state.
The drought killed off great numbers of rabbits,
and the wild dogs were driven consequently to
raid the more settled districts. When they have
luck in the West, they do have it—with a venge-
ance. A big part of the population of W. Queens-
land lives on tinned-dog just now.
♦ * * *
“ Brew” : Horses will, in sand-fly season,
travel miles to get into the smoke of a
fire, but when no fire is available they
pair off, head tptail, and mutually dis-
pose of the fob. And—here’s the
point—a bob-tailed nag is always a
“ hatter,” a fly-bitten outcast who
makes overtures to every member
of the mob in turn, only to be re-
pulsed by ready heels. There’s
no silly golden-rul e business about
horses in fly-time.
* * *
H. J. Mac. : Re “Bushie’s"
statement (B. 18/8/’00) that 100
eggs were never found in the
nest of a brush turkey (Talle-
galla). Gould himself speaks
of finding over 200, and I once
found in the Bland district,
N.S.W., 122 eggs and 16
empty shells in one mound.
A Q. bakblox pro-
visional school-teacher who
was transferred still further
back, and at the same time
got notice of an increase in l .
salary of £5 for extra cost of
living —in acknowledging the
departmental bounty, stated that
“ his cup of joy was now full to the
brim.” The official censor severely re-
plied that hyperbolical metaphor was out of place
in official correspondence, and the teacher meekly
answered, disclaiming the use of either hyperbole
or metaphor, but pleading guilty to the employ-
ment of irony.
* * * *
“EL”: Was recently in a Mt. Malcolm
(W.A.) pub. when in rushed a storm-beaten
wreck. “Been drinking three whole days !” he
exclaimed. “Nushing t’eat—give us breadun’-
cheese.” Having swallowed a mouthful, he hung
himself sideways on the counter and embracing
the company in a thick smile said, “ Did y’ear it
splash ? ”
• * • •
“Lar” : Once sent a nigger across to a
timber-clearer’s camp to borrow a cross-cut saw.
He forgot the name of the thing en route, but his
native wit served him. “ Say, boss, you lend ’em
my boss that big pfeller yan-and-come-back-
again—yan-and-come-back-again ? ” and he hissed
through his teeth —“that the which way, boss.”
He got the saw.
SHE DOUBTED HIM.
HE: “Darling! I worship the ground you tread on!”
SHE (squatter's widow): “ You forget, George, my ground ends at that fence; this is Crown land.”
Concerning a bush race-meeting :
“ H.G.” : Attended an outback race-meeting once, the
chief event of which, the “Quart-Pot Handicap,” was a
decided novelty. Prize, a half-guinea bridle ; distance,
twice round the course (about 5 miles) ; winner of gallop
to haul a ton weight once round immediately afterwards.
If first horse failed to do this, then second to have a try,
and so on ; successful hauler to be declared the winner,
even if last in the race itself. Entries, “ draughts ” and
wiry bush-hacks ; course, mostly up hill, thick with red
dust and dotted with stumps. The winner turned up in
the local butcher’s crock, which, however, after putting
the ton round the course, dropped dead from exhaustion.
I had my money on an old grey paek-ncddy that led to
within 10 yards of the winning-post (a tree), when the
rider of the butcher’s moke suddenly leant forward and
dealt my fancy a slash across the nose with the greenhide.
The grey lost bis stride and threw his head back, allow-
ing the other to “ pip ” him on the post by a few inches.
The rival jocks had a fight afterwards, but there was no
official inquiry, though the blood was streaming from the
unfortunate grey’s nose. Judge and stewards had backed
the winner and gave a verdict of “ two lengths.” The
only cash event was interesting, inasmuch as the club
pocketed three times the amount of the prize-money in
fines. The racing wound up with a spin in total darkn •■■■
THE ADULT LUNATIC.
HIS WORHIP (self-made , addressing the school-
children on the necessity of attending to their
books, Ac.): “Forty years ago I kem to this
town a poor idyit boy, and what ham I
now?”
for two quarts of beer, resulting in the killing of two
horses, the half-killing of one man, and such general con-
fusion at finish that the last horse (the judge’s) was de-
clared winner.
• * • •
Be the pukaki or pukeko :
Dear Bulletin. —Your contributor “ Pukaki’s” pen-
name should properly be spelt “ Pukeko,” meaning the
“ blue-bird ” or “ swamp-hen ” of Maoriland marshes. The
Union S.S. Co., however (which makes a point of giving
aboriginal names to its vessels), also uses the incorrect
form “ Pukaki.” The pukeko, by the way, is known in
parts of Australia as the “ baldcoot,” and there is reason
to believe that it crosses the Tasman Sea. Anyhow, it is
on record that one boarded a steamer 400 miles from the
Maoriland coast.— Kiwi.
There’s an essence of tobacco
In the land of Joe Kanaka,
There’s a swill that’s half of copperas and half of aniline ;
If you like your liquor placid,
There’s a blend of gentle acid
That would make a corpse remember what a drunk he
might have been.
It’s a lovely sort of lotion
Is the tropic pint o’ potion,
Where the sulphur juice is tempered with the dyes of
aniline;
It can buzz behind your forehead
Till you drop to regions torrid
In a condensation vivid of the benders that have been.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
J.S. : But should not “miner’s asthma,” con-
tracted in the mine, be regarded as a permanent injury
under the Mining Accidents Bill?... .H.W. (Hal.): Call
that a poem ! it’s a whole Chinese war Waste Paper :
“ The girl turned her toes up, which was very improper ”
—and lest she went further we hastened to drop her
H.D. (T.) : Yes, it is true ; but it isn’t a story ; and as
truth it isn’t well enough told Excalibur: Too hot
for B. ; send it to someone who is above the libel
law... .M.M.W.: Never saw so many clothes in a yarn
before. It’s a maze of galatea suits, shot silk, and crinkly
crfipon I. Samuel : None of the existing border-duties
cease until the Federal Parliament has fixed up a Federal
tariff. That may take a year, or more, or less, after the
meeting of the Federal Parliament—no one knows.
Everything depends on the size of the fight T.R. A. :
Has Kipling any special license in such matters, except
that which is given him by his ramping Jingoism ? Of
his “ blasphemousness” no one complains—merely because
he is Kipling E.W.D. : We heard of it for the first
time only the other day. The “ Daughters of the Em-
pire ” is another kind of Primrose League ; its objects are
the promotion of Jingoism and the cultivation of a feel-
ing of reverence for princes, lords, dukes, earls, knights
and so 0n... .O.S. : “Your friend can’t predict worth 2d.”
Edgar M.D. (M.L.) : Very good. Will print Rollo:
Don’t like “Mac.”—it is such a usual sort of story....
In : It is desirable that the balance of political power
remain in che hands of those who despise from their
hearts all men who are ready to quarrel about religion
Tambo:Yes. Lord Salisbury, when Lord Robert Cecil,
did visit Victoria—in ’52. He got as far inland as Ben-
digo, where he dined at the Gold Commissioner’s camp,
there meeting Mr. Panton, P.M., now of Melb. The
future Premier of England was travelling for pleasure.
He was not given to advertising himself, and has left
almost as few traces of his movements as Roger Tich-
borne, if that unfortunate scion of nobility ever reached
Australia Ohy : Oh, yes ; Tennyson was a “ satirical ”
poet. He was specially addicted to poking fun at women.
For instance, he wrote “The Lord of Burleigh,” in which
a village maiden breaks her heart and dies, on discover-
ing, after marriage, that her husband, the “ poor land-
scape painter ” who wooed her, is a nobleman with a vast
rent-roll, and not the poverty-stricken artist he treacher-
ously represented himself to be R. Wyche (M.L.): We
are prepared to let your looal editor keep it—every line
of it Peter: Pooh, Peter! Uriah: Condense—con-
dense ! Don’t write “60 per cent, of the masculine
portion of the pupils,” when you mean “ half the boys.”
X.Y.Z. : Sorry can’t inform you on either point. The
army-list, in any case, would not give the names of rank-
and-file D.B. : “ Wanted, a stupendous tax on all dogs
and fowls kept within city boundaries.” The Bulletin
says ditto—but never expects to see it....Scire-facias :
Too much introduction to too little snake H.B. :
“Passing Dreams” only the shadow of half nothing in
particular. “ Beyond the Grave ” too bulky Brown:
Account is correct as drawn up. You supplied £25 worth
of labor and Smith £43 worth of goods to the partnership
of Brown and Smith. You must get your £25 in full out
of the joint funds if he gets his £43 in full Spies:
“Red Mike” is a poor but honest and hard-working
“ pome.” P.A.: We just love “ His Uncle’s Luck.”....
Snowy : Don’t let that correspondent mislead you. We
don’t pronounce “ morn” maum here Yerrawin : You
haven’t brains enough for verse or imaginative prose ;
just describe a piece of life under your nose, and make
your words live 0. Will: “ Phosphorus” is the noun ;
“phosphorous” the adjective C.R.8.: But this paper
wants to hear of “ a really witty thing ” said spontane-
ously by any Australian Judge now sitting Ambrose
T. : Anyhow The Bulletin advts. are cleaner than those
of any other weekly paper of any circulation. The noble
scribe in question who has so much to say about dirty
advts., and who so indecently exposes his mind to
the Sydney public once a week, prints advts. which
The Bulletin consistently refuses at any price
8.8. (Dunedin]: Your communication a profound mys-
tery. Send us something plain and coherent —we
don’t want small matters dealt with by instalments
Paul 0. : 0. Waldron, 179 Walker-street, Redfern, Sydney,
has a 10 years’ complete file of Bulletin for sale, beside
loose copies dating far back.... Peter K. : Received
J.H.G. : “Ph.” returned with note 8.8.8. : Can’t
print such long and dreary rhymes Horsey: Not bad
idea; but you haven’t skill enough Mentor: Too
vague and 510 w... .C.L.R. : Not enough method in your
gush... .Camolin: Can’t see said improvement... .M.H. :
“ Reason ” not good enough Wilcogbar : Jerome-and-
water R.C. : Batch of echoes received Olga: Ghost
of Capt. Cook, being summoned, denies all knowledge of
it... .Diogenes B. :No interest... .Arthur S. :It takes a
cleverer man to write a good ghost story... ,«T.M. (Vic.):
Drivel... .R.T.: He’d take it as flattery, and swell bigger
than ever Cockie : Sorry, but we don’t know enough
about the subject to risk an opinion Spiral: Oat yarn
too complicated for illustration... .0.A.5.: Unusable....
Oosmo : Crushed again... .Gune : Note posted... .Black
Swan :No rare bird about y0u.... A.W. (Geelong) : Some
promise; not enough practice... .F.H. : Returned....
Waratah : Thanks... .G.P. (Omeo): Nothing amusing in
it; such ignorance is merely sad— Robert G.: Thanks, but
a photo, of the Ruse grave-stone was printed in Bulletin
years ago... .Hallelujah : Mere drivel... Mrs. M.S. : Too
slight for Bulletin. ... YV. Brenta : “ Photo.’’deftly done.
Will print... .Frank Lyle : Better write to N.S.W. Regis-
trar-General for the information. (2) It’s getting on all
right, but we don’t remember y0u.... Hugh M‘o. : Sorry
to say suggested alteration too late. But it will do very
well as it stands.... Francis Mac. (Japan): Thanks, but
right off Bulletin track. And we never even try to read
“manifolded” c0py....A.0. : We are told that the
alleged specimens of moa footprints on soft rock in
Christchurch museum are not genuine. They are said to
be the work of a local humorist... .E.W.G. : Sorry no
time to discuss the merits of matter which the writers
“of course” know isn’t suited to Bulletin Imray :
Australia’s best fish-authority is Mr. Douglas Ogilby, of
the Australian Museum, Sydney. Specimens should be
forwarded to him Viator : Some exaggerated bits
made us throw out all Excelsior : Hardly enough in
it A.E.H. : Nothing in it! Hedge: Yarn malo-
dorous—and ancient.... Ex-Territorian : No time for
such faintly-written MS Pan. : A small joke evi-
dently goes a long way in your parts.. . .Burwood : Versi-
fication pretty good, but otherwise hardly quality enough.
.... Henry O’B. : A truly fearsome production. Repent—
while it is yet time !... .Max: Not distinction enough to
carry such a well-worn line of thought H.F. : You
“ hope it’s readable.” Well, it is just that—-but we want
something more A. D. E.: Not finish enough 0. A. B.:
Annotated and returned A.F.H. : Not force enough—
Elmore: No, thanks Towri: Neither Leonidas:
“Task’’weak Leigh K. : Unusable E.M. : That is
a very old discovery—the value of kangaroo-tendons for
tying up fractured bones.... V.C. : Hopeless spelling—and
the “ cobler ” story is not new Ken. : Please give the
“returned heroes” a rest!....Ben Sun: None of ’em
near the mark.... John Carew : Has a good lilt, but is
otherwise conventional and mechanical Myra K. :
Rather feeble and rambling... .Mid : Stiff in style and
incoherent in story... .South O. : Try us on better paper
We can’t interline on such spongy stuff Richd. M. :
Far below mark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ettie S.: May possibly use it F.E.S. : But there
are practically no thatched roofs in Australia.... .T.R.
(0.) : A bad drawing and incomprehensible subject. Re-
turned Rose M‘G. : It is a very bad little drawing in-
deed. Unavailable: 0.G., W.J.L.
Mrs. Fawcett-Story’s “Australian Eco-
nomic Cookery-Book” (price Is., published by
Kealy and Philip, George-street, Sydney) differs
from any manual of the kind The Bulletin has
hitherto struck in that it lays down as a pre-
liminary precept that “no collection of recipes
will supply the place of experience and observa-
tion in the production of a wholesome and palat-
able meal.” As far as recipes can go, however,
this little book is copious, up-to-date, and lucid in
its directions.
The Bulletin prints this circumstantial
indictment for what it may be worth, and sincerely
hopes it isn’t true: —
Sydney is admittedly dirty; Brisbane is far dirtier.
No hospital in Australia could possibly be in a worse sani-
tary condition than the General Hospital, Brisbane. Take
ward No. 15, and we find that it contains 20 beds, which
are nearly always occupied, that a side door opens into
the lavatory, which is also the pantry, and that this com-
bined pantry and lavatory, which is 8 x 10ft., opens into
a closet containing two pan-closets and a urinal. The
doors of the closet are always open, and the effluvia that
arise therefrom and pass through the pantry into the ward
are simply horrible —no words could convey any just idea
of the effect on a sick, nervous patient. More than this,
the combined pantry and lavatory is used by patients as a
smoking-room, and, consequently, the floor is always
covered with spittle. These are simple facts, told without
prejudice. The food supplied is plentiful, well-cooked,
and the very best obtainable. But Black Death sits in
that combined pantry and lavatory, and probably rejoices.
THE LESSER EVIL.
SONNY: “ Maw says you are to get ready to go
with her to see the Smiths, Sis.”
SIS: "Bother! What would you do, Son, wash
your hands or put gloves on? ”
Announced by the British Govt, that per-
manently-disabled soldiers will receive life-
pensions from Is. 6d. per diem. Where does
officially “permanent disablement” begin. The
loss of a finger is a very permanent disablement,
as far as it goes, but the lopping of at least a leg
or an arm will be necessary to carry the pension in
question.
Patents for Inventions— Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.


® Pr «la»,—The fact of the Breelong blacks being in the district has given
rise to some excitement, especially on the Upper Manning and at Krambach. *But
considering that the Government has increased the reward to £lOOO apiece for their
it should not be long before these notorious outlaws are shot or caught
Complaints are made of the amount of red tapeism in operation. As thin™ are 6 it -
xr.»d“ zzzzr p ~“»"»» 4-***
declared o b utTaws haVe ° fficially °* Ued Up ° n by P™ la ™tion to surrender or be
Orttesft Mobuhty: "That’s might, Murphy.
You cover the blayguards wid yer rifle while I ruft
back to the police-station and get. permission iqr
yez to pull the thrigger 1"
fheTrinee of Wales was not present at Hopetoun’s farewell banquet.
tie pleaded another engagement.” ’
The Sydney ferry companies yesterday formed an
Association to protect themselves against the NaViea-
*tibn Act. ■
Fatman (at meeting of shareholders ): “ Why, if we
safeguard the lives of our patrons as the Act j
requires, it will cut down our dividends to /
at least |d. per share.” /
(Groans and cries of “ Let's tie up the boats.”) /
London, Thursday.—The Kaiser’s reply to the Chinese Imperial edict
has been warmly praised throughout Great Britain and the Continent.
The latest indications are that a fresh German proposal will be made.
The idea seems to be for the Ambassadors to inquire into the pro-
posed punishment of the instigators of the recent outrages, and superin-
tend its infliction, after which peace negotiations might be commenced.
Unless the punishment is carried out on Chinese lines it will not be understood,
and therefore have no effect.
JLS.W. Minister for Education Perry save that if • . . ,
Societies do mot kiss and make uo. theXfinn * th ,??? nvaJ Art
them will be withdrawn. R £Bo ° "Mr between
Tableau—" My Lay lost brother J *
THINGS IN GENERAL.


EOS OR TER OLD FLAG
TO THE EDITOR 01> THIS AOE.
. Sir,*—When passing through Canada in
( I was aurprised and delighted to sec
the Uninn Jack (the eujblem of the'great
British Empire) flying over oil the Do-
minion State schools. Upon ji.qttiry. I
found that the regulations of the Education
department provide for the hoisting and
lowering of the flag end. day by a ,r flag.
oflicci'," and that 'tim privilege of holding
this position v.’fts keenly competed for by
the boy*. The result of my observation
and inquiries 'was upon my return' men-
tinned by n»e to our then Minister of EJOg«-.
lion. Mr. J'caoock. ontl subsequently W
his sueresaor, Mr. bulmun. but both Minis-
ters, while warmly approving m the utoa.
were unable to take any praoiiv-al steps con*
sequent Upon want of luAiis. and hence the
matter hod to remain in abeyance. ,
Lsul it appears to n:e thul Che present is
a very favorable nine to revive the subject,
seeing that in a few mont h-, the first I'arlkv
inenl of the QOlumoilivroiltli will he nperned
with much eeiemimy by hii Royal lliglinesa
the Duke of York. (.i.coifipfinicd by the
Duchess of York), and that tips would be a
very suitable means of enabling our btatc
scliLfol children to Lake part in the general
rejoicings. This desirable result-could wco
be at tamed by arrangements being made u>
that on that day the Union Jack should be
hoisted fJinultunc-ousiy over the btatil
Achonte tlnoUghont Victoria.
' TT>. Meantime, m order to start the
scheme, J have pleasure in offering, on be-
half of T.ndy Sarcood and myself, to present
200 Union Jacks of the >*e mentioned
above, and shall be gWI if you will consent
•to receive promises from those who ap-
prove of mv proposals and arc willing ttf
assist. For the information of such 1 may
state that the cost of the flag will not
•\-tecd 20/v—Yours. &c.. , _ *
lst rw.«)i/»r
sg
/
IDOLATRY.
Following up Sargood’s “Dear Old Flag” proposal, The Bulletin, in view of the mild agitation for religious teaching in Vic. State-schools, begs to suggest a loyal lapse
into non-sectarian Paganism.
TEACHER (addressing Ist class in Loyalty): Now, children, fix your minds upon the image, saying after me: ‘When Britons first at Heaven s command'"


f .. ; ” £" I
Jfl(<
yp\
SHRHO
hrW
((\f\OEUUO
h rf
L
Dou&u J
flu
KlfDEYfl
The
Lw >G&Lei}
DwmmY
%
J/\rtDRS CHEV^r^
|e pyinG
Dumb^
1 PfY E
i T^e
n (oftfisl V|orjO-- R,
a CjOie
J °^
1e [joEfi f|(J
f f'
f m /„
\
IjjflT ymj
pu.c^ofijH
nof^
Who/i
AT FITZGERALD BROS.’ CIRCUS, OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


A
Watchmaker & Jeweller.
THE FINEST AND BEST ASSORTED STOCK OF WATCHES, 3 EWEItERY, AND Slt VEB PRATE IN
J SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK. ALL ARTICLES REGISTERED POST FREE. >
AUSTRALIA*
'. S \UNDEBS.
Stri-ng. Cheap ' eliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20a ;
Silver, &5» ; Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever,
25b ; Sliver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
to i VJ la otuun, single or Uoubte, £* 10b,
£3, £3 los, £4, £4 10», £5. 16c. Solid Gold,
£5 10b, £6. £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure SUrer,
1)b, Its 6d. 16b, Sob. , _ ,
Send lor Price Illustrated Boole.
A SAUNDERB’ 2-Bird and Heait Brooch,
8s «d. Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, 13s 6d; 16c. Gold, 255.
90, Gold, 2 Ix»ve Birds, Chain and Heart,
10s. Special Value.
MVHSEN
ZK
MW
"-fir
A. SAUNDERS.
old, 2 Ivy Leaves and Heart Mizpah
B-ooch, 12s 6d. (Six similar patteinß.)
A. BAUADERB.
Gold Good Luck Brooch, 10b 6d.
16c. Gold, 21s.
16c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with It J
Leaves, 255. Very Cheap.
POST
FREE.
mm*
: m
i IS
A. SAUNDERS.
Special-made Gold Walttaiim, i Keyless Lever,
20jeai»’ Kuar nteed, £1 4s ; 14c., ditto, £5 ss;
2 > years’ sru raniee. extra jewelled. hi}{li‘g ra de
viorks, £6 10s ; Pure Silver, £2 10s, £3, f Per-
fect Tiinelct e p eis Kxtra stror g, Sold id. 68
10b, £lO 10b, £l2 10°, £l5, £2O.
POST
FRED.
• A. SAUNDERS. .
Registered So. Gold Amethyst Broooh, 17s 6a,
15c. Gold. 80s ; 18c. Gold, 365.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
00. Gold, Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
#-B«r, Red Stone Centre, 20b ; 160. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Diamond-out Amethyst. 22s 8a ;
16e. Gold, £2. Very Strong and Pretty.
A. BLUNDERS.
Large Size 2-Bar Gold Brooch. Diamond-cut
Amethyst, 25*j 160. Gold, £2 fie.
A. SAUi' D BBS.
150. Gold. Bird 2-Bar Ruby and Diamond, Sss.
Send for Illustration.
9c. Gold 2-Ear Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s ; 16c., £2.
A. SAUNDERS. ,
2 T*'st Told Brooch, Bell and Chain, 12s 6d.
Heart Amethyst, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar Gold Scroll, Pearl Set. Red or Blue Stones, 90s.
160.
A. SAUNDERS.
BoHd Gold Pur© Diamonds and Sapphires «
Rubies, £l2 10s ; all Diamonds, £l6.
A Nice Xmas Present.
Pure Silver-mounted Purses, 16s, 80s, 88s
Cheap styles, 6s, 7s fld, 10s.
Gold Heart Locket.
Plain, 8s 6d j
Chased, 10*.
A.SA.UN DEBS.
Amethyst & Pearlai
Heart. Charm,
17s 6d ;
15c. Gtold, 255.
af
A SAUNDERS' Pure Solid
Silver Matchboxes.
Gold-mounted, 10*, 16s,
17s Pd;
Silver, 4b Bd, 8s Bd. 10s.
Links, 9c. Gold, 21s ;
16C. Gold, 36 and £2.
Silver, 4s od.
Other style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, Bs.
HAT PIN.
Pure Silrrr, Parisian Dia-
mond!, 4s 6d; Turquoise, Bs.
Any Initial. Latest style.
Heart and Dumbbell Gold
I duke, 10s 6d ; with Initials,
12s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9c. Ooldi 10s 6d; 160. Gold,
26a.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. SaUnDKBS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £2. Splendid Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Beoiet Brooch, 268 ; 16c. Gold, £2.
Diamonds, £2 10a and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. S-AUNDEhS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d
160. Gold, 265; Silver. 4s 6d.
A. bAUNDERS.
Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst Brooch,
17s 6d; 16c. Gold, 80s ; 180. Gold, 86s.
bend for Pattern Book.
A. BAUNDKKB.
Now Name Bracelet. '2ss. Any name or Initials Free.
16c. Gold, £3; narrower, £2 and £2 10s.
90., 17s 3d, 20s, Bus, 22, Post free.
Gold Horseshoe.
Mirer, Be:
Locket, 20a and 26a.
SiWtr and Gold,
7a 6d and 10s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
160. Gold ‘2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and
Sapphires or Rubies, £2 10s.
Very Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
180. Gold, 4 Diamonds, Ruby, and 4 Pearls,
£3 5s ; .') Diamonds, £4 4s.
SEND FOR PATTERN BOOK OP RINGS.
Ladle*’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
265,80a,35*. £2 ss, £8;
150., £2 10a, £B, £4,
£4 10s, £6, £6, £lO.
Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
Beziatsrod “ Gold ” and Smay Broooh. 18 Pt*rl»,
® Ruby or Sapphire, and Diamond, 2to.
Wilhout Diamond, fid. Tj»twt Ladies Rags,
Diamond-out Amethjat Gold Bangle, 30*.
SEND FOE
OUR
COMPLETE
BOOK
OF
JEWELLERY
A. SAUNDERS,
9c. Solid Gold Raised Flowers, 6s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6(1.
A. SAUNDEFS.
18c. (Fold, Diamond, 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
Hand-made, 18 '. solid
Gold, 6 i pals, £2 10s;
largei, £3 10s.
18c. Gold Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sauphire,
£2 ; 3 Diamonds, £3.
BH
Pure Diamond Band
fiinsw, lbc., 30*;
18c., £2. £2 10s, £3,
£3 10-.
Curb Rings.solid Gold,
lbs, 20s, 258.305, £2.
Price t<> quality
of Gold.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£6;
Larger, £6 Bs, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s bd, 15s;
16c., 80s, 36s J
iBc., 265, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies.
4 Diamonds, £8 and £4.
Send for size card.
9c. Gold Rim?,
Pearls and Red Stone,
10s;
160. Gold, 15s 6d.
for
Solid Gold Charm that
charms, 10s 6d.
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird with Bell, 6a 6d ; with
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDEKS
Solid Sold, 30a. 35a ;
16c. Gold, 365, £2. Monogram on,
2s 6d extra.
Solid Silver, ss.
90. Links, 10s 6d and 12s 6d ,
15c. Gold, 21s and 255.
Silver, S* fid and 4s fid.
alt, article post pres.
-Watch Retails Guaranteed.
Alt Guaian’eet.
Ladle.’ Short-wind Keyless OM*
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, e 2 lt»,
Key. 265, 30<, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless £4, £6-
Superior Quality. £", £J. £ B * £l ®*
All guaranteed.
Otitm
A. SAUNDEKS.
8-Bar, 4 Diamonds and Ruby, 20«.
Very Neat and Pretty.
e Gold, 12s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 22s 6d. Set Pearl,
and liubie., 20.; lte. Gold, 85».
16c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and
Rubies i £2.
. Gold Wishbone and Forget-me-nots,
only 16».
A. SAUNDERS (Registered;.
Secret Name Brooch, 16e. Gold, Diamond*,
10b and £3. Any Name or Motto Free.
Six diffeient patterns, similar
A. SAUNDERS.
fold, 2 H< a t* and Ivy Leaves Brooch, 12. 6d
(Six similar patterns.)
SAUNDERS’ i~uv».y Wishbone and Arrow
Gold Brooch. 12s 6d ; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
a. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, ?s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Go
16s ; extra heavy, 26s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : ex
heavy, 30s, 365, 40s. Send for card.
Quality of Gold and Finish First-clasg.
For size cut hole in cardboard.
A. SAUNDERS’
ROTHEREAMS ] ROTHEREAMS l
STRONG, RELIABLE ENGLISB LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-oapped English Levers, £8
iOs. Strongest, cheapest, and best timekeepers
ever made. Extra quality, £4. £4 lOs. £5, £5 10s,
66. £7, £8—3,4, 5, and 6 years’ written guarantee.
Silver Hunting Key or Keyless, £2 and £2 10s,
Open Face, 28s and 30s. Khortwind Keyless, 7s 6d,
10s 6d. 12s 6d, 15s Extra quality, 20s, guaranteed,
Gold, £4 4s, £6 ss, £7 10-. £8 10s, £ 0. £l2 P's.
£l5, £2O. Direct Agents for ltotherhams and
Waltham Levers, fcend for Price List.
A. SAUNDERS,
HIGH-CLASS LEADING JEWELLER & SILVERSMITH.
- DISPLAY OP XMAS PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS.
815 GEORGE-ST., nearly opposite Railway Station, Sydney.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A Utitrcflo/Ktan ttcprexentatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
af
B 'fore booking 1 your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map -
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-c J , Sydney; 2C9 Collins-st., Melbourne.
3 :-i
&0 TO HELL-
•• KiOI.ANH) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st„ Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
Yor Station ami Out-door work our SILK S>TRIPi
Mattalassk and oilier Unshrinkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by i>ost throughout
A listtuil in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
D?MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society
S. Harvey, Ltd.
Loodoa Bdge S.E
cmVj
tnp ortant Announcement to our City and Country*
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY' * CO.,
i'tivnituve and Fine Art A aclioncers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georga Street, Sydns/;
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, connected by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sates Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-et
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Victorian Assembly has decided that
a politician shall not be allowed to sit in the State
and Federal Parliaments simultaneously, and now
it is about “up to ” N.S.W. to follow suit.
The report of the N.S.W. Commissioner
concerning the site for a Federal capital is now
in Premier Lyne’s possession. The Premier in-
dicates that Bombala isn’t first favorite. A good
many people are guessing Blayney.
A Melbourne commercial traveller on the
Vic. House of Landlords
I have made a point of inquiring wherever I have
gone, and I find that, in nine cases out of ten, the people
in the country do not know the names of the men who
are supposed to be representing them in the Council.”
The Victorian Leg. Council rejected the
womanhood suffrage measure because Wrixon
told them that it would mean giving to women
to be elected to the Federal Houses.
Ihink of our wives being sent to sit beside us ! ”
gasped one legislator.
If Samuel Griffith wishes to enter the
Federal Parliament, let him come down from the
Bench and do so with the pluck of a patriot.
Apart from Queenslanders, he will be welcomed
by Australia. But if he hobbles into the arena,
leaning on the crutch of an unconstitutionally-
manoeuvred pension, he will be suspected and dis-
trusted from the start.
The N.S.W. Old Age Pension system is
again promised, but the fulfilment is postponed
till Ist July, 1901. Whether it will happen then
or not nobody knows, but the job of finding the
money is put off for another year, anyhow. It
isn t likely that Lyne will know any better how
find the money then than he does now, but
sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.
Reid’s dead- and - forgotten promise to
amalgamate the two N.S.W. Saving Banks is
again heard of. It will probably eventuate this
time. The parochial Lyne is horrified at the idea
of the N.S.W. P.O. Savings Bank being handed
over to Federal control along with the Post Office,
and proposes to make it a part of the Barrack-
street institution in order to avert that calamity.
In Victoria there are now over 50,000
women with votes at municipal elections. No anti-
suffragist proposes abolishing woman’s municipal
vote, because that vote is exercised mainly by the
female with Property. It is the horrid idea of
enfranchising the propertied and unpropeitied
female alike that makes the few grey hairs of the
Upper House staud up like the tail of the grat lied
cat.
THE REASON WHY.
IMPORTED LEAD: “Did you notice how tie
audience wept at that death-scene of mine ”
IINDIGENOUS COMEDY SUPPORT : “ Yes, they knew
you still lived!”
S.A. Leg. Council contains 13 Conserva-
tives and 11 Liberals, or, with Baker in the chair,
a dozen stiff-necked Tories. Yet, by means of
this majority of one cemented together by the
powerful cement of selfishness, the Party of Stagna-
tion sets the Assembly and the country, with its
150,000 Assembly electors, at defiance. Truly, a
new reading of the democratic principle of maja-
rity-rule.
The “Chinaman’s luck” of the Boodle-
wraith has again got it out of a very tight corner.
The report of the Royal Commission on Q. Works
is an awkward document, and now the Works
under-secretary dies suddenly, thereby making
most of the criticisms quite harmless ; for the man
who’s dead will got his full share of the blame,
and at least a little over. The Ministry’s luck is
simply appalling.
The Westi’alian Government proposes to
make it compulsory for every civil servant to
I '‘ s i u . vt j his life for a sum proportionate to his salary.
Which is good enough, save for one thing only : No
Govt, should compel a man to insure his life
unless it supplies a State-guaranteed office for him
to insure in. Compulsory State insurance should
he accompanied by a State guarantee that the
policy will be paid on maturity.
Some of Queensland’s new immigrants
from northern Europe are blamed by the kanakas
on farms and canebrakes with causing a reduction
in local wages. Many kanakas have levered up
the wages scale to about £1 per week, but the
new-chum immigrants, brought out by the Boodle-
wraith s hired agents and liars to what is de-
scribed as a Paradise, and then driven to cut-
wages through sheer hunger, are buckling-to at
15s.
The Referendum has come to stay. It is
the only sure method of getting at the popular
opinion on any one subject. The General Election
method tangles up 20 subjects and the personal
merits of 100 or 200 candidates together till no
coherent verdict is given about anything. The
latest proposed application of the Referendum
is m Westralia, where it is proposed to submit
the question of Payment of Members to the people
at the coming election.
An amusing phase of the Jingo develop-
ment is the Tasmanian Govt, proposal that the
Australian should endorse and jointly cable to
London a resolution of the Vandemonian Parlia-
ment, enthusiastically approving of Judas
Chamberlain and all his works—this to help the
lories at the British general elections. Just as
there is nothing so terrible as the rage of a sheep,
so there is nothing so ferocious as a Elyspeck when
it is once thoroughly aroused.
In obtaining the consent of N.S.W.
Assembly to the despatch of the China Contin-
gent Premier Lyne assured the House that as Great
Britain was bearing the cost the House need not
allow the question of money to influence it. Still,
a trifle of £15,000 appears on the estimates for ex-
penses in connection with the jaunt. As the
money has gone, Parliament can only protest at
the item. And even the mildest of protests will
come as a surprise from the present obsequious
House.
Times are changed with a vengeance when
the Irish Home-Rulers are looking to the Tories
for success. The casting of the Irish vote for the
Tory candidates in certain English constituencies
“is expected to increase the strength of that
party by at least one-third.” Expediency indeed
is the god of the Milesians if they vote for Cham-
berlain and Co., after Salisbury’s brutal avowal
that England’s experience of a Home-Ruling
1 ransvaal had confirmed her in her opinion as to
how Ireland ought to be treated.
The scheme for syndicating the Adelaide
tramways is causing much bitterness, and the
advocates of Nationalisation openly accuse poli-
ticians, press and municipal councillors of having
been bought with a price. The Councils in-
terested not only refuse to unite to municipalise
the trams, but they are casting all possible
obstacles in the way of their purchase by the
State. And Premier Holder does not seem very
anxious to push the Nationalisation scheme, which
finds its chief friends among the Labor-party.
South Australia gets out of a great diffi-
culty and saves much expense by making its State
one constituency for the election of members for
both Federal Houses. As a result, it will send in
members who will represent the interests of all the
country, while in the Federal Lower House
N.S.W. and Queensland and Victoria won’t be
represented at all—only the detached fragments
of them. The S.A. Representative will say, “ I
embody the will of the 370,000 people of S.A.”
And from the N.S. W. crowd will come the small
voice that says : “I speak for 50,000 people in
Pyrmont.”
If the little game in the interests of Sam
Griffith be carried out, and that worthy functionary
succeed in collaring a State pension of £1750 per
year plus £4OO Senatorial salary, it will then
remain to Bananaland to settle an immediate pen-
sion on Hugh Nelson, President of the Leg.
Council, so that his “ unrivalled experience in
legislation ” may also be at the disposal of Aus-
tralia. There are, besides, several other influential
citizens in Queensland of much public experience
and much soaring ambition who might likewise be
pensioned for a similar reason. Let us be logical,
and carry out the thing to the bitter end.
The Federal States of Australia now pay
£30,500 for Governors in direct salaries. In most,
extras are allowed. N.AW. grants £1374 extras
and Queensland £l3OO. S.A. and Westralia each
gives £4OOO salary, but the former no extras and
the latter several. A Governor-General on the
top of this, with £lO,OOO, shows Governors’
s daries alone amounting to over £40,000 a year.
Incidentals and extras added bring the item to
nearly £50,000 a year for ornamental head-pieces
for 4,000,000 of people. The necessity for cutting
down these State salaries is therefore obvious, and
the cutting down should be no timid paring.
Melbourne Argus, in its issue of 29th
Sept., made the wonderfully unusual statement,
re Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords, that it
would “regard‘anyone who objected to a large
substantial reform of the Council as the worst
enemy of the community.” It is one of the signs
of the times that many Vic. Tories talk like that
now. But when it comes down to particulars,
they all draw the decayed whale of subterfuge
across the scent by advocating a great widening of
the Council’s franchise. And that will do no
good whatsoever. It is the absolute abolition of
the property-qualification for M’s.L.C. that - is -
wanted. So long as the people are only allowed
to select their M’s.L.C. from the same little hand-
ful of rich Tory property-owners, the Council
suffrage might be extended to every man, woman,
child, dog, and deadbeat in the land, and the
Upper House would remain the same as it has
always been.
Tasmania is struggling with
the periodical renewal of its
Electoral Act. By some strange
craze there is no permanent Elec-
toral Act in that island; the
statute merely gives the people
the right to elect M’s.P. in certain
ways for a certain number of
years, and if by some accident
Parliament dissolved, forgetting
to renew the Act, the whole
machine would presumably stop
until the British legislature
authorised Tasmania to start
afresh. There are great chances
for a democratic Assembly in
this system, if Tasmania ever
had such an Assembly. When
the Act is about expiring it
could introduce a new one on the
basis of adult suffrage for both
Houses, and throw on the Coun-
cil the responsibility of accepting
it or leaving Tasmania without a
Parliament—going back to chaos,
so to speak. The Upper House
has much property, and property
is apt to get lost in chaos, so it
would probably cave in ; but the
chance has always been missed
somehow.
Kingston, having con-
verted Svmon, Q.C., to a be-
lief in adult suffrage for the
S.A. Council, is now doing his
best with “Paddy” Glynn, M.P.,
who shows signs of grace. Glynn
has just told the Assembly that
there is not a Constitution in the
world under which the Second
Chamber so persistently and so
impudently thwarts the will of
the people as expressed by Refer-
endum and in the Assembly as
does S.A. Leg. Council.
No wonder, as telegrams
from the Northern Territory re-
port, the folks there are kick-
ing against the country being
made the plaything of specula-
tors ! Last year, according
to the Government Resident,
no less than 153,472 square miles of country
were applied for, of which, apparently,
not a single acre was stocked. One crowd—
the Lands Development Syndicate, Ltd. —acquired
119,860 square miles in various parts, paying
merely a few hundreds for the concession. The
Resident says “ there is little doubt these lands
have been acquired for speculative purposes.”
Apparently the jumps in the wool and stock
markets led to the huge grab.
Both the candidates for the Northern Ter-
ritory—the election taking place at the end of this
month—are solicitors. C. E. Herbert (who once
resided in Sydney) is a Soloinonite, and Mitchell
(who was formerly in partnership with Nesbit,
Q.C.) is a Kingstonian. Herbert has for many
years lived in Port Darwin, where personally he
is much and justly esteemed, but Mitchell has
never seen the constituency he seeks to represent,
which places him at a disadvantage. At the
Referendum in 1899, the Territory declared in
favor of Household Suffrage for the Council, and,
if it is consistent, it will vote for Mitchell now.
The S.A. electoral law provides that every
advt. relating to a man’s Parliamentary*candida-
ture shall be authorised by somebody whose name
and address must be printed below. But since
the advts. are mostly “authorised” by profes-
sional advertising-agents, the intention of that
part of the Act is defeated ; for it is just as im-
portant to know who authorised the agent as who
authorised the newspaper. For instance, in the
Kingston-Parsons’ Leg. Council duel —the warmest
the province has known for years—the principal
advts. on both sides, in some cases one answering
the other, were “ authorised ” by the same agent.
The Westralian Government has intro-
duced a Bill for the abolition of the meat duties,
yet in introducing it the Treasurer gave it as his
fixed opinion that it would not reduce the price
of meat in the least, and considering the ways of
the Perth Meat Ring this seems quite probable.
In any case, the meat duties have nearly abolished
themselves. Under their influence local supplies
have increased so rapidly that the duties on im-
ported meat dropped from £59,737 in 1897 to
£14,460 in 1899, and this year they promise to be
only about £BOOO. If it is a case, as the Treasurer
alleges, of abandoning the advantages of Protec-
tion, and losing at least a little revenue, and
gaining nothing in cheapness, then, by his own
showing, he is a fool of a Treasurer.
“Kanuck” sends The Bulletin some
Canadian facts and figures of interest:—
Province of Ontario—Population, 2,112,980 ; Governor
Sir Oliver Mowatt, salary, £2OOO. Province of Quebec—
Population, 1,488,586 ; Governor, Judge Jette, salary
£2OOO. Province of Nova Scotia—Population, 450,523 •
Governor, M. B. Daly, salary £lBOO. Province of New
Brunswick—Population, 321,924 ; Governor, Abner Reid
M‘ol elan, salary £lBOO. Prince Edward Island—Popula-
tion, 109,078 ; Governor, Peter M'lntyre, salary £l4OO
Manitoba—Population, 200,000; Governor, James Cole-
brook Patterson, salary £2OOO. N.W. Territories—Gover-
nor, A. E. Farget, salary £l4oo.—Top salary, £2OOO.
Governors all Canadians ; two, Jette and Farget of
French descent. Only one “ colonial ” knight in the ’lot
Population figures are as per census of ’9l ; probable
average increase of 20 per cent, in the decade. The
salaries given are the figures to-day.
“A British schoolboy,’ it is printed,
has written from King’s Lynn, Norfolk, Eng., to
“the Premier, the first Federal Parliament,” c/o.
the Vic. Premier, suggesting Albury as the
site and “ Phillipsburg ” as the name of the
Federal capital. Steamy Albury isn’t likely to
be chosen, and as to the name suggestion, the odds
are overwhelmingly against its adoption. “As
America honored her first great citizen, do like-
wise by your first Governor by naming the
Federal capital Phillipsburgh, and thus add
dignity to the great and coming nation of the
East,” says the “ British schoolboy.” But George
BARBAROUS.
TONSORIAL ARTIST (rubbing customer's head): “Getting a
bit thin on top, sir?”
CUSTOMER: “Yes.” (Irritably.) “Goon.”
T.A.: “ Tried my patent chloroform hair-wash , sir?”
Customer (crushingly): “No! it wasn't that —it came out
on its own account.”
Washington was truly a great citizen—he wasn’t
the custodian of a moral dungheap, the keeper of
a quod. Tne U.S. didn’t name Washington after
its first British Governor.
Westralian Assembly, while cordially en-
dorsing the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in a
general way, decided with emphasis that it should
riot apply to civil servants. This is a ridiculously
illogical attitude. The Forrest Govt, says that it
is fair and just to establish a tribunal with power
to compulsorily settle trade disputes, and that
both employers and employes should be subject
to its decisions. And it refuses to give itself (th©
biggest employer) and its servants (the biggest
mass of employes) the benefit of its own Act!
Does it know that its own methods as an employer
can’t stand investigation by its own court ? Or
doesn’t it want to prevent railway strikes, though
it is so anxious to abolish other strikes ? The
individual who advertises an article that should be
m every home, while he indignantly kicks it out
of his own, is an anomaly.
Already a Westralian M.L.A. has arisen to
propose that every member of the W. A. Parliament
which passed the Federal address to the Queen,
should have a free railway pass for life by way of
celebrating the event. The average politician has
strange ideas of celebration. The Westralian
people (largely disfranchised by the system which
gives a member to 42 electors and many cattle in
one place, and a member to 3,000 or 4,000 electors
in another) had to fight their pocket-borough Par-
liament for a year or more before they could get a
chance to express an opinion on the Federal
question. They had to kick their legislature
into passing the Enabling Bill. And now the
Parliament which resisted the people’s will to
the very last proposes that it should be specially
rewarded at the expense of the people on the
ground that it did the whole business !
Softgoods Sargood has evidently devoted
much of his valuable time to thinking out his
blessed scheme for putting all the Vic. State
schools under the immediate protection of th©
British Flag. He says, among many other wise
remarks on the subject—
An important point will be to ensure the simultaneous
hoisting of the flags. . . . It may be urged that this plan
can only be carried out in such localities as have telegraph
stations, but this difficulty can be easily overcome by a
pre-arranged chain of signals which could be seen at long
distances.
At the present moment, probably, Sargood is
seated with a damp towel round his head, ponder-
lng oyer the Imperial importance of so arranging:
the signal system that a great wave of infant
‘ loyalty ’ will sweep across Victoria at lightning
speed the moment the Duchess of York, in Mel-
bourne, presses a telegraphic button, or puts a
royal penny in the slot.
Education Minister Drake bids fair to be
remembered as the man who did the most of all
m the way of breaking down the secular side of
Queensland’s education system. Recently (conse-
quent on a Parliamentary motion) a notice was
gazetted to the effect that State School Scholar-
ships might be enjoyed in certain Catholic insti-
and at the present time candidates for
Govt. Scholarships from Catholic schools are pre-
senting themselves for examination. The Pro-
testant denominations, jealous of these advances,
are protesting more or less vigorously by deputa-
tion and otherwise. At the same time Protestants-
should remember that by agitating for the intro-
duction of Bible-reading into State Schools they
are giving the Catholics some justification for
their counter-action. Bible reading is another
name for practical Protestantism. If the State is
to subsidise (indirectly) the one cult it may as well
go the whole hog and subsidise the other —or all
th© others if need be. Honesty doesn’t dwell in
half-way houses.


mm
E=j?E=r , l=i=li
,
VP
/
s£z_s£z_x£z_x£z _s£z„x£z
Jt J»
7^sr7^sr-^sr7^sr7^sr-^:
t tXTXX
mmi rmrxi ram
' nryni rtTtiitynn niii? '
j .~:?.^3.it.tprrprvurppjyfflH ►
< s£z_s£z-x£z_x£z.-x£z..x£z>
&&&&&&
Arz^T^s.-T^sr^jsri^srT^
l
\
t
S
e
/ ■■*. \
W. H. PALIN6 & CO. LIMITED.
ANOTHER SHIPMENT JUST ARRIVED, AND THEY SELL FASTER THAN WE CAN GET THEM.
world famous.
EXQUISITELY PURE & SWEET TONE.
GENUINE LIPP PIANOS
Rich, Lipp and Sohn.
PERFECT MECHANISM. UNSURPASSABLE STRENGTH.
W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED.
338 6EORCE STREET, SYDNEY,
- STEIN WAY PIANOS
THE STE P ™?°rp ORIGTN AL CREATION, WHOSE HIGHEST STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION'S!! “ BUILDINa OT A KEW P£EFEOT
w. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED
Have PIANOS by all BEST MAKERS
BETNC- THE LARGEST BUYERS OF PIANOS IN AUSTRALIA, AND PAYING CASH AT THF E tttev
THE FIRST CHOICE OF THE WORLD’S MARKETS, OBTAIN PIANOS VERY MUCH CHEAPER THAN * OTHER
OB EOE CREDIT ™ US ENAELED T 0 GIVE BETTER Va£uEFORYOURMON^EmiER^EOR^cS!h
THE BELLING AND VICTOR PIANOS.
MOST WONDIEFDiSy GOOdT&K™EOE THE P vLY C L^’pEI A cls E AS]£m SSES ’ AIL LAIEST mPEOVEIIENTS -
W. N. PALING & CO. LIMITED
Guarantee for Five Years every instrument they supply.
PALING * CO.
RESPECTFULLY INVITE
INSPECTION
OF THEIR IMMENSE STOCK
OF
Violins, Guitars, Mandolins, Polyphons, Accordeons,
Concertinas, Flutes, Cornets,
ALSO and evenr known MUSICAL. INSTRUMENT, STRINGS and FITTINGS.
The Celebrated ESTEY ORGANS.
> SHEET & BOOK MUSIC.
The Trade supplied on Best Terms .
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
VITADATIO
The Greatest Blood Purifier
of the Century.
Little specks of fever, little chills so bland
Make the mighty graveyard, and the angel band.
A little of VITADATIO, taken now and then,
Makes the handsome woman, and the healthy man.
A Real, True, Genuine . . .
BLOOD PURIFIER „„
SKIN MEDICINE.^
THE BEST IN THE WORLD FOR THE
COMPLEXION.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.—Dear Sir, —It is with great
pleasure that I add my testimonial to the many others
you have received about your wonderful herbal remedy,
Vitadatio. For nearly two years I have suffered from an
Eruption of the Skin, and I have tried all sorts of
remedies without avail. After much persuasion I resolved
to try a course of Vitadatio, and I am thankful that I
ever did so, for the result has been beyond my expecta-
tions. My friends cannot fail to notice the change that
has taken place in my skin. Hoping others may benefit
by this,—l remain, yours sincerely, MAY SMITH,
40 Finlay-st., Albert Park, Melbourne.
July 15, 1899.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s (id; Small Size, Ss (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s Gd.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
/ Bunlops >
fIRST IN 1555
foßenosT
evei^
S. since y
Be Sure and Specify
a
When ordering your cycle, and thus save all tyre
troubles, Resides ensuring Safe, Comfortable
and Speedy Riding.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Melbourne, Sydney Adelaide, Pe th, Brisbane and Christchurch NZ.
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS.
Duuiop Tyres
are only genuine when
the cover and tube are
embossed with
f
this
TRADE
MARK.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ■ *
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
The woman who recently, in Sydney,
poisoned herself with the phosphorus obtained
from'six boxes of vastas, selected for herself a
cruelly-painful ending. The Bulletin’s one-
time “Hints to Young Suicides” had practical
humanity behind them.
President Baker of S.A. Leg. Council was
thrown from his horse on Sep. 29, and so much
injured that he could not take the chair when the
House met again. Parties are so equal in the
propertied Chamber that no one from either side
would agree to temporarily fill the vacancy, so the
Council adjourned for a week to allow the
President to get well. If he had been killed the
Tories would probably have desired to adjourn for
ever as their ranks are dwindling.
S.A. manufacturers look upon it as
peculiar that although Premier Holder has for 13
years drawn all his political emoluments and
his Ministerial office which amounts to
years out of that period—from the Protectionist
party, he now announces that he will run the
Federal elections in the Freetrade interest. He
posed when elected for the Burra in ’B7 as
a Freetrader and a Land Nationalist, but
he has allowed both those aspects of his political
character to lie perdu ever since. Holder being
anxious to know which side his bread is buttered,
butters it on both sides.
Vic. R.C. Archbishop Carr raises the
same old protest against the new commission’s re-
port on religious instruction in State schools. To
adopt the report, and give the lessons recom-
mended, is, says the Archbishop, in effect, to pro-
nounce sentence of exclusion upon Catholic chil-
dren. And as the State schools are for the
whole community, Protestant and Catholic and
heathen, Vic. Govt, must leave religious instruc-
tion to the priests and parsons, whose business it
is. Up to now, the parsons seem to be too lazy
to attend to the business of teaching religion to
children ; so they seek to make the State do their
work.
Concerning the lost Cobar-Wilcannia rail-
way bill:—
Seldom has such a fight taken place in N.S.W. Leg.
Council as over the Cobar-Wilcannia Railway Bill.
Headed by Dangar and Want, M’s.L.C., the Tories, with
some Freetrade members, fought the Bill desperately.
The second reading was carried by 2 votes, and the Bill
only got through committee by the concession to the
opposition of £lOO,OOO off estimated cost. This amend-
ment led to a constitutional quarrel as to whether the
Council had the power to amend a money-bill. Having
got past this snag, the Bill came up for the third reading.
When the question was being put the Dangar party
quitted the chamber in a body, leaving the House
quorumless. This nearly led to a crisis, for Vice-President
Suttor tendered his resignation to the Govt. Things
were, however, patched up, and the third reading came
on again. Suttor, however, finding the Bill party in a
minority, postponed the notice on the business-paper.
Dangar and Co. had got all their side together and so,
naturally, stormed round the usually placid chamber.
But the anti-Bills could not go so far as to take the order
of business out of the hands of the Govt, representative,
so Suttor merely smiled and went on with the next item.
For four successive days did this happen. When the
motion was called Suttor postponed it. On the fifth day
he thought his chance had come and, postponing all
other business, he started to bring on the Railway Bill.
Want, Dangar and Millen vigorously objected to this at
sufficient length to enable their men to arrive. Suttor
had no option but to go to division, and lost the Bill by
24 votes to 22.
Dear Bulletin. —Kingston’s 271 majority
for the Central District seat in S.A. Leg. Council
was a great victory—not the small affair which
some correspondents would suggest. What King-
ston told these electors was, in effect, this: “ I
am the enemy of your exclusive power to elect a
Chamber which represents your interests only.
You are a privileged class. You have the same
voting power, so far as concerns the Assembly,
that other citizens have, and you have an extra
vote that they haven’t. I propose to reduce you
to the level of your fellows, and to destroy your
special privilege and monopoly. So far as it is
concerned lam here as your enemy.” And such
was Kingston’s influence that the monopolists
elected the enemy of their monopoly, and threw
the friend. Parsons, into outer darkness. Try and
imagine an uncompromising Protectionist carry-
ing a purely Calico Jimmy electorate. That was
what Kingston did.—J.


THE
RINGLEADERS
AUSTRALIA.”
Lucky Shamrock Charm
set with 2 Amethysts,
or 1 Topaz or Obsidion,
4s ; smaller size, 3s.
af
Solid Gold Good Luck
Charm, ss.
With Pin and Chain,
8s 6d.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SHEETS OF ILLUSTRATED NOVELTIES.
it f
6 Lovely Diamonds,
from
£lO to £4O each.
Smaller Stones,
from
£3, £4, £5, £7 ios.
Solid Gold,
set with 5 Lovely
Opals,
Solid Gold and
Lovely Opal, 15s.
Solid Gold Signet
Ring, set with Blood
stone or Sardonyx,
Pc., 25s ; 15c., 37s 6d
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire,
Kubv, Opal, or Pearl,
£3 15s.
2 Diamonds
and
3 Rubies or Samphires
from
55s to £lO.
Solid Go’d, set with
5 Turquoises, 10s 6d,
or Pearl and
Turquoise, 12s 6d.
5 Opals, 15s and 21s.
Curb v hain Ring.
9c., Ida, rus.
15c., 22s Cd, 27s 6d.
18c., 27s 6d, 355.
«• POST FREE. **»
Our QUERY RING
(Note of Interrogation)
18c. set with 11
First-Water Diamonds
£8 and £9 10s.
14 Diamonds
and
Ruby or Sapphire,
18c. Gold,
£7 10s.
Solid Gold and 3
Opals, 255; Solid G old
and 1 Opal, 15s.
ALL WIDTHS IN
STOCK.
18c. MARQUISE.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby, or
Sapphire, Emerald, or
Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
18c. TWO HEART.
1 Fine Diamond,
with 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, 355.
2 Diamonds, 455.
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 10s.
Our Wedding Rmgs and Keepers- 100 patterns in stock.
ARE ADMITTED TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
ALL RINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH HALL-MARK.
9c. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths, 5s 6d. 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d each.
15c. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d each.
18c. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths, 15s, 20s, 255, 32s 6d each.
18c. LA PARISIENNE.
2 Fine Diamonds, ,£5.
1 Fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl, £4.
18c. uri-aiT.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£2 ss, £3, £4, to £lO.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals or Pearls,
£llss, £2 ss, £3.
Fine Diamond,
18c. Gold, £4;
15c., Ruby or Sap-
phire or Opal,
21s.
5 LOVELY OPALS.
10c., 42s ; small size, 35s
15c., 50s ; small size, 45s
18c., 55s ; small size, 5Cs
ISO., 1
and
2 Rubies, or 1 Diamond
and 2 Sapphires, 455.
Smaller size, 80s.
a/■■■• ; jjijji
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
from 55s to £lO.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds,
£7 10s ; smaller
stones, £i, £5, £6.
18c. BAND RING.
1 Pine Diamond, 40s,
60s to 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl,
255, 40s, 50s.
6 Patterns.
18c., set with 1 fine
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £6.
18c. Novelty CROSS
RING, 21s ; with
7 Lovely Diamonds,
£5 ss.
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s
15c., 20s, 22s od, 27s Gd
ISc., 21s, 255, 30s.
With
Any Name or Motto,
Is extra.
ISc. Single Stone.
1 Fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller Stone,
£‘d 10s, £5, £7 10 i.
18c. TABLET.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
27s 6d.
3 Fine Diamonds, 50s.
Any Name or Motto.
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6tl, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
5s extra.
II
Lovely Opal.
9c. Gold .. 255.
15c 30s.
18c. ~ .. 355.
(■olid Gold, 10s, with Any Initial, 9s ;
Amethyst Pendant, without ditto. Vs W
We can Make any Style of Ring. Estimates and Designs Given,
&
OTE^
Our Only
Australian
Address:
A
90 KINS STREET,
_ SYPHEY.
NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep !
Dr. CLARKSON’S
ELECTRIC BELT
fin your Nerves with Electricity every night while you sleep, and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S RS-INVI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will feel the dawn of new life in every organ of your body.
All the Nerves will be charged with renewed energy, and your heart will beat stronger with the
fladness of youthful vigor. To men who are Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless, Despondent,
iosing Memory, Wasting the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys ; who
notice a weak general collapse of all vital parts ; to such men Electricity and the Re-lnvigorator as
I apply, it will bring happiness and health. Its effect on Weak Nerves and Organs is truly
wonderful. ITS TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
IT FILLS the Blood with the fire of youth, and gives new vim and confidence. While it is on
the body, the Nerves teem with vitalising warmth, and within a few weeks the full vl«>r of
man is restored.
MY €L€CTRK BODY B€LT
has been brought to the highest state of perfection by twenty years’ study and experiment. It is
unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger than any other body appliance
made. It is guaranteed for one year without any expense for renewals or repairs.
Price—Electric Beit, 10/-; Re-Envigorator, 7/6 Bottle—3 Bottles, £l.
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not, let
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong 1 .
Call or
Apply:
OWL
CUT
RATE
a
Cut-Rate Price List Post Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Maoriland is trying its hand at a large
order. It has been decided to adopt penny post-
age all round—not only inside the province but
also with England—and in view thereof Post-
master-General Ward instructed an English artist
to plan out a design “ emblematical of Maoriland
diffusing the benefits of reduced postal rates
throughout the civilised world.” This seems a
pretty considerable lot to get on one postage
stamp, but P. M.G. Ward said the occasion was a
special one, Maorila’ud “ being the first colony in
the British dominions or in any other country to
go in for universal penny postage,” and the
emblem had to get on the stamp somehow, even if
it was a trifle crowded. Nobody will know, till
the first consignment of stamps arrives, what kind
of horror the province is committed to, and nobody
can guess what the emblem will be like ; it may be
a full-length portrait of Henniker Heaton in that
belltopper and frock-coat; or a naked Maori with
a Id. stamp on his back standing on the steps of
the Bank of England. Meanwhile Ceylon kicks
Maoriland firmly with a naked brown foot, and
points out that it adopted penny postage with
England long ago, and that its inland postal rate
is actually less than a penny. Therefore it says,
very reasonably, that Maoriland’s emblem *is
bunkum, and that it, not Maoiiland r diffused the
blessings of reduced postage. Therefore, if
P.G.M. Ward doesn’t feel foolish, he ought to.
The best thing now is to drop these stamps over-
board, and get up somediing as quickly as possible
with a scantily-clad brown girl on it.
A lady tells of life on board a German
liner :
Everything happens with a band. We dry our tears of
farewell to the tune of “ God Bless the Day,” and eat our
dinners to the “ Emperor's Hymn.” On Sunday our
songs of praise are accompanied by the brazen trumpets
of a German orchestra, and at any crisis whatever the
vessel is liable to break into melody. In the various
dishes sours and sweets are indiscriminately mixed to-
gether. Turkey is eaten with cranberry sauce and
plums. These latter pervade many dishes, and are
poured over your meat or into your soup, while
sour-cabbage goes with strawberry jam, and is
served last in the feast. We eat slowly, steadily, from
6 a.m. till midnight, no one article of food by any
possibility harmonising (until you get used to it) with the
one with which it is intermingled. In my own Australia
we have two breads, brown and white ; but here we have a
conglomeration of half-breeds, the genuine nigger black
gradually shading from every tint of brown and grey to
genuine white, each with the favorite taste of sour and
sweet. One dish that caught my fluttering appetite and
later ruined my reputation as an excellent sailor, was a
mixture of odds and ends of steak, green corn, haricot
beans, oil, butter, parsley, -garlic, and dried peas. There
is one child on board this vessel ; we know it for a
“ kind ” by the tucks in its dress, otherwise we should
think it a miniature woman, so frau-like is its aspect.
The tucked dress is meant to last eternally ; by means of
these reefs to be let out. The “ kind ” is as stolid as a
table. Its face is 20, but its tongue proclaims itself four
and a-half.
“ P. Malthus ” tells about a dog :
On a trip from Sydney 1 shared a deck cabin
with Brown. One of our fellow passengers was a
hard-faced woman of uncertain age. She had a pet pug,
an unhealthy-looking sore-eyed little beast. She had
somehow got round the skipper to allow her to keep it
on tne saloon deck, where she dossed it in an elaborate
box lined with pale blue silk, and furnished with a large
supply of wadding. At night it was secured to its box
with a strong silken cord. The box stood near our cabin,
and the first night it kept us awake for two hours with
its whining. Most likely it suffered from overfeeding.
Next night it started again, and its moans made our flesh
creep. “By G ,” said Brown, “ I’ll stand no more
of this. If it doesn’t shut up in ten minutes
I’ll deal with it.” And he did. Ten minutes
later there was a pug swimming in the Tasman Sea, and
peace. Early in the morning we were awakened by a
woman’s screams, mingled with a shower of blows on our
cabin door. I looked out, to find myself confronted by
the owner of the dog. She appeared mighty dangerous,
and was armed with a piece of stiff-looking rope. “Is
this the man?” she screamed to one of the crew who
stood behind her. “ No,” said he, it was the other
chap.” (It appears the sailor had witnessed the midnight
episode, awl'when tackled had given Brown away to save
his own skin.) “Inhuman wretch!” she screamed,
“ come out this instant, or 1 shall come in.” Brown went
out looking haughty and independent ; but he no sooner
saw the look in her eye than he made a dive for the
cabin. He just got in and locked the door in the nick of
time. It took us two more days to reach port, and
during that time Brown never stirred out of his cabin ex-
cept for a little while at night, when I assured him the
coast was clear. As we steamed up the harbor he said to
me : “ Look here, old-man, 1 want you to look after my
luggage. I must give that old virago the slip. lam
going to make a holt as soon as we touch the wharf. I
know a farmhouse a few miles out where I can hide until
you send me word that it’s safe to come back.” By dint
of good luck and agility he gave her the slip, and got
away. Next day I saw her in the street, and from the
look in her eye and the bit of rope she still carried, I
knew that she still wanted to see a man about a dog.
Chief Secretary See has not yet intimated
his intention of introducing a Bill to help the
authorities in making the well-to-do relatives of
the inmates of N.S.W. Govt, institutions assist
the State in supporting them. Sunday Brunker
intended to grapple with the delicate subject, but
the downfall of Reid prevented him. It is a
delicate subject. Not so long ago a N.S.W. legal
light made some caustic remarks from the Bench
on the fact that time and again he had seen orders
for the admission of persons into these places,
whose relatives, he knew, were well able to sup-
port them. Soon afterwards a brother of this
very legal light, a ne’er-do-weel whom he had lost
sight of for years, drifted into one of the institu-
tions, and, for all the trouble the 1.1. took, might
be there yet.
When General Knox was industriously
chasing De Wet over the veldt he one day blun-
dered up against the wily one’s homestead. His
horses were knocked up, his men were reeling
with fatigue, and the comparatively fresh Free
Staters were just disappearing over a ridge about
four miles distant into the gathering night.
General Knox was angry ; he flung a good hearty
curse at the vanishing Boer commander, and set
fire to the homestead to light him on his way. A
week later Knox was back in Kroonstad and re-
ceived a letter:
Dear Mr. Knox.—You burned my house last week.
Well, it was only worth £6OO, but it will cost you a mil-
lion before I have finished. Hoping to meet you soon.
Yours respectfully, Christian De Wet.
Up to September De Wet had run it up to about
half-a-million, and was still going strong.


HeYr RASSMUSSEN’S alfaline herbal remedies
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALPALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
222™. Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, aud
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADYIOE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders —Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil —Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts ~ Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 100 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBO URNE ; 150 Bourhe-street (opp. Eastern Markets),
ADELAIDE ; 154 Bundle-street (near Yorlt, Hotel).
N.Z., WELLIN GTO V : 91 Lanibton Quay.
BERTH: Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s),
BOULDER CITY ; Piesse-street.
ER EM A N TLE ; Henry-street.
Lord Roberts has scored another point in
the affections of the “ Tommies ” by giving them
the chance to draw “Kruger quids” instead of
British gold for their pay. The “Kruger quid”
will represent much more than its face value as a
curio if Tommy holds it awhile, so the teetotal
Commander-in-Chief practically advises the men
to keep sober and hang on to their coins of the
conquered realm.
Six months or so ago N.S.W. Govt., under
Parliamentary pressure, appointed a Board of
three high officials to report upon the subsidised
Agricultural Societies. The report came to hand
some weeks ago and, without any beating about
the bush, advised the Govt, to withdraw the
subsidies from all. The Govt., some members of
which are officials of such societies, announces
that it rejects the advice tendered.
The greatest curse of War is the poems
that are written about it. This, done by a
Masterton (Maoriland) citizen, and distributed
along with the bard’s photograph and a few
London steal-papers to the members of the second
M.L. contingent, is something extra:
Reading matter when at rest —
• Always do your very best.
Although the Second Contingent
To the first always be contingent.
N.Z. for New Zealand stands—
So do you !
N.Z. for Noble Zeal stands —
So do you!
Boys, I’d like to go with you ;
Yes, I’d go in a minute.
Can’t, I am seventy-two,
Still, am with you in spirit.
Stand firm to your Flag,
May your energies never flag,
Fulfil your duties faithfully
With best wishes from yours faithfully.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
roundrd with inflammation and swollen that when you
sinnVYf'i 1 ll " 8e , r °>> till inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted you
£ou er < Perl!»T Ver ’ bUt , S ° °" suffering till death releasee
. , h i\P s yolir ! inees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wa.k Yon may have attended various hospitals and had
medu al advice, and been told your case is hopeless or
CU V RK d VOII Ub i 11 i t am P ,,tat , 10n i but’do not, for I CAN
others h» OU f 1 d ,°" 1 say ierha P s i but I WILL. Because
?endatonce,or " D ° reBS ° n f ° r " 0t " 0W
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lees’
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisomd
Hands, Tumours Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis 1
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists Siores,’
AI BFRT ’ 1 5 r " am ’ FRd, per box. Prepared by
ALBKRi, /3, Farringdon-street, London, Eneiand
htnk'fn ’.{p-GOTT BROS.,.Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green-label on each box; (Regd. copyright). ”
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
{“'IATARRH is inflammation of the
v - y lining- membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, ‘breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
n
El
LAa
MX,
M EDICATOrt.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Norpe Catarrh CGr€ Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & GO., Manchester
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAiLT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Dr. Boxwell’s
F,M !!£SILENT PILLS.
AJ ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, B£ON OHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Ghlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days' Trial.
f
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
ARP LI A NCES-
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Steeet, SYDNEY.
ay
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Xjambeth Rd., Lonuon, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
r should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering
EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing* full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY -
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
HPHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, 5s 6d ner
*l 0 *; Wnte to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran’
Melb. says: Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
dmte relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
£*SWSSj
H
I
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases.
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples.
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Stores’ 03 ' Pnces IS ' and 2S - 9 d - each of all Drug
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT Ltd.
BRIDPO rt, England.
beat
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
'RICHMOND, VICTORIA
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z
DON'T be left behind on a “Good enough
A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
is cheaper in the end.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wale* Headquarter*—Sydney
Branches— Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Aeenojas almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
<A rA
-3K -A
That every Trick Rider, of any merit, appearing before the public In Australasia, does his
Tricks with a RED BIRD Bicycle. ——r
The COOLD BICYCLE CO.,
Ed ward-street, Brisbane, Q.
Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vio.
Branches:
/ Rundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
\ Victoria-street, Wellington. N.Z.
Headquarters for Australasia
64 King-st., SYDNEY.
W.A. gold-producers for Sept.—lvanhoe, 6117
tons for 41460 z ; 3173 tons tailings cyanided 1803 oz. ; 4614
tons slimes, 16680 z. ; 30 tons sulphides, 102 oz. : and 65
tons concentrates, 5900 z. ; total, 83090 z. More tailings
and slimes treated than ore crushed, as usual.- Gt.
Boulder, 2198 tons oxidised ore, 20230 z. ; 2239 tons sul-
phides, 21990 z. by amalgamation and 23090 z. by cyanide ;
6079 tons oxidised tailings, 41590 z. ; total, 10,7200 z.
Noticeable that if the sulphide-plant has been running
all the month at its fullest capacity it is not doing
nearly the work expected! Boulder Main Reef,
1089 tons sulphides, 14660 z. ; 558 tons slimes, 2790 z. ; and
4400 z. from concentrates—total, 21550 z., an increase of
nearly 200 oz. on Aug. yield, and the record production of
the mine. Brownhill : Oxidised ore, 4898 tons, 203!0z. ;
sulphides, treated at the Hannan’s Star by Diehl process,
1867 tons, 45540z.—t0ta1, 65840 z. Oxidised ore now giving
less than lOdwt. per ton, so it is .evident that the good
ore is gone. Sulphides, over 2ioz. —good enough, if
there was an unlimited quantity, which there m not.
Hannan’s Reward : 302 tons, 2960 z. Worked principally
by tributors, who make good wages for themselves and a
little profit for the co.
* • * *
Croesus Proprietary: Has had one more develop-
ment ; bulk assays going over an oz. per ton ; one assay
went 4oz. sdwt., and “ the assayer was instructed to take
out any free gold showing.” Other assays were good,
while the boss was “careful to send stone showing no
visible gold,” and reports : “ The lode, in my opinion, is
a middle-class body of ore, with gold shoots, and rich
veins and bands which can only be proved when opened-
out and driven upon,” and he does not advise this until
the 500 level is reached. The Croesus Prop, was always
a duffer, surrounded by duffers. In the very early days
some gold was got on it from surface veins. Same tlVng
can be said of scores of other leases which have nothing
to warrant their being called or developed as mines.
• * * *
The Murchison revives a little, chi fly owing to
the activity at the Great Fin; all. An ear .v-uay show
much thought of but long abandoned, the Trenton, has
been taken up again.
• • » *
A far Northern correspondent : —Manager
Provis, of Woodlark Proprietary, was over in Cooktown in
Sept, recruiting cheap mining labor—at £4 per Week.
He picked up 15 men in Cooktown and another d ei
came up per S.S. Arrawatta. Fancy £4 a week in ; p ice
where for six months out of the 12 you are suffering rom
fever ! Cost to “ live,” 255. ; another 10s. for medicine,
and a life-long complication of diseases thrown in. And
considering the expense of getting to a dece’ll wn, £6
per week is next to nothing. But they don t seem I o
want practical miners—they are picking up seamen, fire-
men, and all sorts. ... At Cooktown they a e trying to
get men to go to Noble Island '3O miles north) for 1 3 a
week and find themselves ! I saw a man off* rtol et big
money that they couldn’t show him a ton of wi lfram on
the island—which offer may or may not have been bluff.
• * * *
N. Queensland’s biggest tin mine, the Vulcan,
at Irvinehank, which owes so much to John Moffatt’s
nursing, has got into good lode stuff at 750 ft.—believed
to be Australia’s deepest for this metal.
* • * «
North Chillagoe mining scandal. A Northern
politician puts it that it was an attempt to prevail on a
Govt, official to exceed his duty in assisting to deceive
the public, and a Minister has declared his intention to
sift the whole business and to punish the responsible
person. Even if a swindle, it is a very meek and mi’d
little affair contrasted with the Taranganbar, Last Call,
and other big “ haves ” of Bananaland.
* * * •
On dit that that hang-fire mine, Vesuvius,
Charters Towers, may shortly blossom into an English co.
The late legal manager and two of the Board, with power
of attorney, are now in London with an eye to business.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent re Ebagoola (N.Q.)
goldfield (about 40 miles from Port Stewart and 200 from
Cooktown) :—“ The population is fluctuating, and rarely
exceeds 500. There have been some good finds, but where
one gets it 30 get nothing. From an alluvial point of
view, things are not over satisfactory. Some lucky ones
get a slug from loz. to 4oz. One party recently got
40oz. in 11 days by the dry-shaker, another a slug weigh-
ing Boz. 6dwts. On Sept. 10th I saw a 16oz. slug un-
earthed, followed by several smaller pieces. Next day a
131 oz. piece was found in a paddock near the main road,
and during the week the party won 70oz. The field is
scattered, the various patches being a few miles apart.
Want of water is the drawback, and the dry-shaker is
much in evidence. The reefs look fairly well, and some
good crushings will take place when the battery is ready.
The All Nations, Trafalgar, Golden Treasure, Caledonian
P.C., May Queen, Hit and Miss, Last Hit, and others all
have stoneatgrassshowinggoodgold. At the Trafalgar (re-
ward claim) they have large blocks of stone placed outside
the tents for seats; these are dotted all over with gold and
weigh about a cwt. each. This lot, when crushed, will
realise handsomely. The ‘ Trafalgar ’ has 500 ft. along the
line of reef, and has three shafts, the deepest 60ft. The
‘Last Hit’ sent 4 tons to the Coen, which gave 940 z.
smelted gold. The new township is being surveyed on a
good site, but a mail and telegraph service is badly
wanted. Freights from Cooktown to the field are high ;
wharfage rates at Port Stewart £1 per ton on goods
landed and stored, freight from Cooktown £2 per ton, and
to the field £5 10s. per ton. Passage from Cooktown to
Port Stewart, £l. Provisions are dear. Gold of poor
qtialitv realises £2 14s. on the field and £3 at the Mint.
Up to date 10,n00oz. has been won in six months. The
end of Nov. will be time enough to g0. —W.M.8., Cook-
town.”
* * • *
Wallaroo and Moonta, S.A.’s big copper pro-
ducers, now amalgamated, yielded 24,405 tons ore in the
last eight months, Wallaroo giving 15,906 tons 6f this.
The refined copper amounted to 3405 tons. The co. now
carries on a pretty big custom smelting business, too-
treated 10,500 tons in the last eight months. Men em-
ployed—Wallaroo 931, Moonta 926, smelting works 668.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. — Dredge-carpenters on the
M.L. West Coast do not get 18s. a day; 12s. being the
average for all ship-carpenters’ work, except for bosses,
who run up to 15?. per day. Further, one-half of the
carpenters here are not employed.—M.W., Westport,
M.L.
• * * *
Bit of valuable information from Sydney Tele-
graph's financial column (9/10/’00) :—“ On the nine
months the Tasmanian revenue has been £1,152,569, an
increase of £145,573.” Little Tasmania never yet
managed to raise quite £1,000,000 revenue in 12 months.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved.
By taking Row’s Bucnu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Maoriland is about to try an interesting
light-railway experiment. Line is to be built from
Stratford to tap the fertile Ohura district. A 2ft.
guage, a speed of 8 to 10 miles an hour, and an
engine that can go up 1 in 27.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney season’s first grade cricket opens this
Saturday. Four or five best (on paper) will meet in
initial round. Most interest centres in Cumberland-
Paddington and N. Sydney-Waverley matches.
• • • •
Best joke in Sydney cricket circles just now is
against international and inter-state man Harry Donnan,
who took a hand in second-grade t’other day—playing for
St. George—and was out first ball, a creaser.
* * * •
Looks as if present cricket season will witness
the advent in inter-state matches of another of the
always-coming Gregory family—young Charlie, to wit.
He’s in great form just now, and promises much better
later. His Eight-Hour Day’s innings of 124 was almost
flawless.
• • • • •
Sydney second-grade cricket has a coming top-
notcher in Herbert Deery, son of deceased metallician
Jack Deery. He isn’t quite out of his teens yet, and is a
well-built boy of over 6ft., who inclines to vigorous play.
On opening day of second-grade matches he totted up the
biggest score of the afternoon —129, in which there were
six s’s and seventeen 4’s.
• * * •
Frank Iredale is now finally included in North
Sydney Cricket Team. Central Cumberland claimed
him as he lives midway between the two districts, but the
association decides in favor of N. Sydney. Waverley is
compensated for his loss by the addition of A. G.
M'Kenzie and Chas. Gregory.
• • • . •
Melbourne Cricket Club’s membership-roll has
closed with 2590 members, and over 100 applicants are
waiting to get in. Want of room prevents their admis-
sion. As a solution, the Australasian seriously proposes
that a list be opened for 100 life members at (say) £5O
each, the money tooe used in increasing the club’s accom-
modation. Fancy such a suggestion to the trustee-
managed Association Cricket Ground ! The Sydney body
regularly advertises, in July of each year, that new mem-
bers paying the stereotyped £4 4s. will be allowed the
three months, July, Aug., and Sept., without extra
charge. The reason of the disparity would seem to be
local. The V.R.C. just as completely eclipses the A..1.C.
as the M.C.C. overshadows other Australian cricket orga-
nisations. Indeed the V.A.T.C. with its Caulfield course,
£ll,OOO reserve-fund, and roll of 2500 members, is quite as
important as the Randwick Club.
* • * *
Lawn Tennis premiership of N.S.W., contested
at Strathfield, (Sydney), Saturday, went to Rice, who beat
Poidevin, 6-3, 6-2. Rice’s fore and back-hand volleying
shone out, while accurate side-play and correct serving
were Poidevin’s strong points, but he showed no dash.
Neither was brilliant. Rice might have been but for
anxiety to be safe, still his game was sound and confident
all through. Winner now owns the Challenge Cup
absolutely having secured it thrice in succession.
• »
Some of the things that happened at Fleming-
ton last Saturday have given new interest to the big
Caulfield meeting which opens next Saturday (13th). The
easy defeat of Sagacity, Kinglike and Co. by Fleet
Admiral, who went out at 20 to 1, suggests the probability
of more surprises to follow. Sagacity meets the winner
of the Stand Handicap on better terms in Caulfield Cup,
but all the same there will be many good judges with a
fancy for Fleet Admiral's chance now that the handsome
horse has shown them a fairly handsome performance.
The Stand Handicap “ form ” is worth considering, for
last year La Carabine pulled off the race from Ballistite.
• * • •
Hautboy took the October Stakes brilliantly.
The son of Haut Brion has won three races in succession
since he lost the A.J.C. Derby to Malster, so it seems
more than possible that he didn’t show himself at his
true speed in the classic event. Anyway there is a doubt
about Malster’s present condition, whereas Hautboy,
being evidently in the best of health, looks a good invest-
ment for the Caulfield Guineas.
• «• • *
Barbarossa carried money again at Flemington
last Saturday, and finished nowhere. After one or two
more failures it will be time for punters to abandon Ike
Earnshaw’s nag as a hopeless case.
* •» • *
■_ Grandmaster —First Love gelding Chillagoe,
which annexed Paddock Handicap (6fur.) at Flemington
on Saturday, has been long fancied by punters. Correct-
ness of this estimate was evidenced in the easy' manner
with which a good field, made up of (among others)
Songbird, Dozon, Phillibeg, Lord Rudolph, and Yellow
and Black, were beaten. Chillagoe had heaps of admirers
when sold as ay earlingat Randwick in ’9B. Mr. Sam Hordern
gave 340 guineas for him, and, a little later, when break-
ing up his stable, got rid of the gelding at same figure.
Subsequently the then purchaser, without giving his nag
a fair trial, passed him over to present owner, Mr. Gore,
for 250 guineas. Judging by appearances and the fact
that Chillagoe was the most-promising looking colt
Grandmaster had sired for a long time, it seems a big loss
to the turf that he should have been added to the list.
* * • *
The Caulfield Stakes entries include, as usual,
all the makings of an interesting event, but for some
undiscoverable reason the Stakes “ form ” is very apt to
prove a delusion and a snare. Last year the over-rated
Australian Star went out a hot first favorite and won in a
canter from Contrast, Dewey being third. This year
Kinglike—presuming, that Hautboy is saved for Guineas—
promises to be the best of the youngsters in the Caulfield
Stakes. Some of the old ones ought to beat him. All the
likely ones among the top-weighted Cup horses are
possible starters, and whether they come out on business,
or merely for an airing, the 9-furlong race should be an
interesting display. Seahorse, from Maoriland, may go
to the post. If the long voyage and the change of air
have not upset the beautiful Maoriland “crack,” this
scribe reckons that he should win the Caulfield Stakes,
and perhaps capture the Melbourne Cup indue course.
. * - » * •
The Toorak Handicap (600 sovs.) looks a pretty
good thing for Fleet Admiral, “ on paper,” supposing
that his owner lets him start for the one-mile event, and
run the risk of a further 71b. penalty in the Cups. This
is usually a jostling struggle, though. Fancied horses
are very subject to interference, and a strong, rough out-
sider stands a better chance of getting comfortably into
the straight. Present writer would have a weakness for
the big grey gelding, Reaper (at long odds), in a race like
Toorak Handicap.
Among latest comers into Caulfield Cup betting
is Strathjoy, on the strength of a win last week. Four
years back Strathjoy’s form attracted notice, and an offer
of £5OO for him was’ refused. He did no good afterwards
till t’other day. Writer doesn’t hanker after long-striding
nags like Strathjoy for Caulfield Cup, but, being an old
’un, 6.9 should be a treat to him.
* * » *
Last year’s Caulfield Cup sensation, Mora, has
been freely backed in Melb. and Sydney, and there’s
ample indication that the right people are on, that they
fancy her chance much (despite additional 171 b. up), and
that this time there will be no shortness of work through
a desire to keep her powers dark. But the mare couldn’t
be allowed to go along without some mystery surround-
ing her. Report says she’s been sold to a Sydney pen-
ciller. All the same, Mora has gone over in charge of
E. Knight’s trainer—Dick O’Connor.
• * * *
Another closely-kept Kogarah “sure thing” in
Irene, by British Lion from First Love, went down at
Canterbury (Sydney) Saturday in Park Stakes. Heavily
backed by those in the know from an outside price to first
favorite, ’ she was among the last to get going, as the
result of a bad start, and, though making up much lost
ground in the 6 furlongs, her chase was hopeless. The
winner. Theorem, carried little money and was ridden all
the way by L. Kuhn in most pronounced Tod Sloan
fashion—so much so that to the unaided eye the nag
seemed riderless for some time.
* • • *
Queensland Labor member Jenkin3on’s Bill
restricting use of tote in that State is exciting much
interest amongst sporting men. Measure provides that
one club may only use machine 12 days in the year. As
Q.T.C. races 18 days ihis will probably be amended, for
’tis plain only proprietary clubs (which race every week
in the year) are aimed at. Brisbane Jockey Club has
been particularly referred to in newspaper controversy.
This body is made up of a syndicate of five, who run
races every week at Albion Park, and attract big attend-
ances. Prize money for the year totals £6OOO or there-
abouts.
• * • •
“ J.J.H.” (Prairie, Q.): Fastest mile trotted by
Maud S. was 2.8 J. Record is now a shade under 2min.
* * * *
“Q.”: See W.A. Tatts. consultation man (J.
Charles) advertises a long list of numbers of tickets
representing a heap of unclaimed money for Jan. to June
this year. Why not give ticket-holders’ names—he has
them. Any odds most tickets have been lost, otherwise
they’d have turned up in due course.
* * * »
The meeting between Melb. sable pug Pluto
and “ Cocker” Tweedie, of Sydney Rocks, at Gaiety A.O.
(Sydney) Friday last week was anything but a match.
Tweedie lOst. (every oz.) —though his poundage was
announced as 9.3—loomed up huge alongside t’other, who
was inches shorter and at least 281bs. lighter. Also the
Sydney man was in pretty good fix while the Vic. couldn’t
have been much worse. AH Pluto’s vim petered out in
first 3mins. Perhaps 1000 people paid to see the thing,
and every man of them must have gone home “ full up.”
Initial round saw Pluto make a good show, next round
“ Cocker ” got all over the black and had him anyhow
before “corners.” Third round was a farce. Pluto
could barely stand up—though there had been nothing in
the way of vigor or pummelling—and while in his corner
he skied the rag. Pluto certainly didn’t show that he
had trained an hour, and evidenced a blissful carelessness
of possibilities that called for some explanation.
« » * •
Quite 1200 people saw the match between
“young Nathan ’’ (Melb.) and Frost (Sydney) at Gaiety
A.O. (Sydney) Monday night. It was scrap, rush
and grunt from beginning to close of 21 hot
rounds. Nathan did clean work all the time, but
Frost fouled often, though never badly enough to give
the referee a fair chance of intervening till Lhe last
3min. He punched in “holts,” gripped Nathan round
the neck and sort of jerked him to the boards (upper-
cutting the while) dozens of times, till Nathan staggered
under the roughing but still came up game as a bull-
terrier. Frost once deliberately gripped Nathan round
the back and tried the wrench act. The crowd was
in a constant state of howl through like infractions
of rules. Nathan, undeterred, battled grind}' on,
swung a heavy right over Frost’s left eye, and, later,
treated the other optic similarly ; then he jabbed a stiff
hotly-charged left on Frost’s nose, sending latter’s head
back to the verge of kink. Frequently Nathan was up
against the ropes, and Frost tried all he knew to force
him through. Frost was full of the tricks of the trade.
Field-lighting, where he could do as he liked, would be
more in his line. The “ house” was boilingly excited for
fully an ho ;~ and a-half. At the end of 20th round
referee O. 8....; couldn’t separate the pair on points
(though writer would have had no hesitation in picking
Nathan), and ordered another round, during which Frost
lpst his head and fouled so badly that the fight was given
against him.
• • * •
“X.” : Re recent all-black bruising struggle at
Golden Gate A.O. (Sydney) between Starlight and Ike
Stewart, when latter won. Rather peculiar, isn’t it, that
Starlight should have been Jim Barron's tutor, and Barron
Ike Stewart’s? i
• * » •
The defeat of Mick Dunn by Otto Cribb sug-
gests a match between the latter and 13st. Melb. Fred
Preston, who fell before Dunn a few weeks back. On
paper, the fight looks a foregone conclusion for the Maori-
lander ; but fights are curious things, and the prevailing
opinion in Southern pugdom is that Preston would have
bustled Dunn considerably had he been in form. Again,
Hegarty made a draw with Cribb, and to pit him against
a man of Preston’s weight and hitting power appears
utterly ridiculous to Melt), eyes. Anyhow, the mill will
be a willing one, and, if Cribb chooses to cross the border,
large masses of shekels and enthusiasm await him.
• • • *
“ Old Timer ” : Looks as if Mick Dunn and
Cribb will meet again. Former suggests it and latter is
not unwilling. Writer’ll have the Cribb end this time as
latter fought the first battle handicapped with a big gash
on inside of left thigh and consequent stiffness, caused
through a bike accident. Besides, good and all though
Dunn may be as a boxer, he doesn’t own the fighting-
instinct of which Cribb has such a big helping. In their
previous mill though the “bigger man “ drew ” Cribb 20
times, he couldn’t make the most of the situation. Dunn
“ draws ” from the waist up instead of with the feet, as
did Foley and Jackson. Consequence was that when
Cribb came over he was almost on top of Dunn—much
too close for latter to do anything effective. Had Dunn
acted the master and treated Cribb as a rough pupil, the
result might have been different.
* * *
South Melbourne miniature giant Jack
M‘Gowan and lightweight premier of Australia Peter
Murphy meet at Melb. Democratic Club Monday next for
title named and £lOO purse. Each will be up against
something tougher than he ever met before. Murphy
•ought to win, but M’Gowan ’ll give him a great go. Cribb
wants to meet the winner as soon as possible.
* * * *
Whilom Westralian Tommy Cox, a very inflated
personage, who—a heap taller and heavier —barely beat
“ the Kaffir ” in Sydney last year, has had his second
fight at ’Frisco with one Irwin. The thing lasted 20
rounds and was very dull. Reports tell that Cox forced
the pace and landed at least as many as the other man,
but referee McGinley (an ex-Australian amateur) gave it
to the local bruiser.’ ’Frisco Chronicle says “ possibly
McGinley saw through the eyes of the gallery which was
distinctly pro-Irwin. At best the bout was a better dis-
play of dancing than boxing."
* * * •
Details of match between Australian Tim
Murphy and Californian Tremble at ’Frisco (Aug. 23) are
here. ’Twas an exciting battle all the way, and looked a
cert, for the Yank up to round 13, when one of Murphy’s
dangerous swings landed on the point, and Tremble was
down for seconds over the regulation 10. Said that
Murphy has gone back in form and skill since his first
and only previous battle in the States.
* * * *
“Old-Timer” : The showing of Tim Murphy
(champion middleweight of Australia) in U.S. gives us a
line on the quality of present-day Australian pugilism,
which is evidently none too good. Tim has been long on
t’other side of Pacific, and had only two fights, mainly:
because he didn’t “ take ” in his first with Neill. Neill
beat him handily, and subsequently went under to one
Moffat. ’Tis said that Tim evidenced deterioration in the
match with Tremble, and but for a fluke would have suc-
cumbed again, as Tremble hit him almost any time and
anywhere he wanted to. Writer never thought Murphy
a champion as the term used to be understood here. He
is a hard hitter who depends on landing a knock-out
punch more than jabbing, and leaves himself very open
every time he whirls the right, which is often. Hear that
Otto Cribb talks of going to Yankeeland. Hope he won’t,
as he’ll find a wide difference between the inferior article
we have with u? now and the class he is likely to run up
against there. The club promoting Murphy-Tremble
affair lost considerably over the venture, and as Tim is
hardly likely to get another show soon, he’ll probably re-
turn early. !
* * • *
Veteran pigeon-shot Mr. Fred Gannon, at
Tempe (Sydney), t’other day, undertook to “ grass ” 50
inside boundary within 20min. A big crowd went out to
watch. Birds had to be thrown up 30yds. from shooter,
who was allowed both barrels, as many guns as he liked,
and what birds he could shoot at in the time. Four guns
were availed of, and two attendants looked after loading
and unloading. Two men handed birds to a third, who
threw them up. A strong wind caused the birds to act
very erratically, hut the gun was deadly for some time,
and many clever kills resulted. Towards the end, the
strain told. Required 50 were brought down in 13)min.,
and, as 46 got away, 96 were fired at. This isn’t a record
—the best is 9£min., put up by same shooter. Said
that the “ book ” who laid against the gun is prepared to
wager evens that the 13iiuin. is not beaten by anyone
else.
• • » *
Editor Bulletin. —Your issue of 29/9/’OO gives
a portrait of the champion pigeon-slaughterer of this
canting, snuffle-busting, Boer-baiting country. Shame on
The Bulletin for soiling its pages with the portrait of a
man who can extract keen pleasure from the pain and
torture of harmless birds. I once lived near a brute who
bred pigeons for the gun-trap, and I have often seen
wounded birds return to the pigeon-house with bills
blown away, others with legs shot off or mutilated, poor
mute martyrs to the inhuman cruelties of brutal men.
Has The Bulletin so little sympathy for suffering
birds that it cannot find a word of protest and
condemnation for a fiendish sport which encourages
so much the lust for blood and destruction, now strongly
permeating the devil’s spawn who left these shores to
destroy their fellow-creatures in South Africa. The Bul-
letin also opens its pages to recitals of flesh-batter-
ing exhibitions called boxing-contests. Will it deny
that these contests serve no other purpose than that
of calling together an aggregation of rascality, thugdom,
and scum which is a menace to good order and a disgrace
to a community whose supersensitive sanctity revolts at
the mild insinuation that its glorious Protestantism was
cradled in kingly lust and wet-nursed in polygamy.—
John Maclaciilan.
* • • •
Westralian Amateur Ped. Premierships were
decided at Perth Harriers’ Sports t’other day. Previous
holder of 100yds. (Law) gave others no hope, and snapped
the worsted 4yds. to the good in 10i. Last year he showed
just as fine form, and in lacrosse players’ 120 yards
supremacy led a dozen others. Five miles cross-country
event saw Syd. Smith go down for first time since running
in W.A. Quarter-mile champ., Reg. Burt, finished 10yds.
ahead after a game struggle all the journey. Time, 3om.
10 l-10s.
* * * *
A late letter from Australian crack swimmer
Fred. Lane says he leaves London middle of Oct. Other
Sydney top-notcher Jack Ilellings comes about same
time, and so does Lindberg. This swimming season
will he full of interest, as “ Mud ” Bishop, Dick Gavili and
Bob Craig will set-Fred and Jack a lively go if they don’t
actually beat them. Lane got the 200 metres world’s
championship at Paris. At Jersey', on the way r back to
London, he won a 220yds. race, and, subsequently, at
Guernsey, a 100yds. event—both off scratch.
# ■ - * * *
League of Wheelmen’s Annual Carnival began
at Sydney Cricket Ground last Saturday, and will finish
this Saturday. Attendance didn’t reach expectations by
a long way and demonstrated that, as is the case all over
the world, the popularity of cycle-racing is waning fast.
Sixteen lined up for chief event —the five-miles’ supre-
macy of the continent. Final struggle was between
Sydney champion (Joe Megson) and Melbourne’s crack,
the dusky Gordon. Midway in last lap Gordon,
sprinting brilliantly, went to the front with a
two-lengths’ lead, and a little later it seemed as if the
race was surely his. Already scores of throats yelled,
“ Gordon wins ! ” but Megson, spurting phenomenally,
wiped off the intervening space inch by inch, and just
pipped the colored man on the post amid intense
excitement. Hunt (M.L.) was a good third. Time,
11.7 2-5. Last lap (J mile) was done in 32 2-ssec. Many
riders (notably Walne, Martin, Beauchamp, and M'Donald)
didn’t reach previous form through winter’s inertia, but
intervening week may make some difference.
• * + *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union 50-miles road race for
Massey-Harris cycle was contested by a big field on
Parramatta course, Saturday. R. Lawrence (Bm. 30sec )
won, his riding time being 2h. 52m. 16s. W. Marr (7m.)
was second, riding time 2h. 50m. 48s. —an amateur record.
* * * »
M.L. premier cyclist Sutherland at World’s
Championship meeting in Paris, writes that the Fiench
style of riding is a crawl, with a 200yds. sprint. He
enthuses over Jacquelin, owner of world’s professional
mile supremacy. Sutherland did no good himself—
Yankee cracks McFarland and Cooper gave him 70yds.
in a mile. Letter says these two may come to Australia,
per Britannia (which left London 20th ult.), and compete
at Austral meeting.
• * • *
Mr. C. A. Proctor, secretary of the Dunlop
Tyre Co., arrived back in Melbourne from London early
this week. Mr. Proctor, who looks well after his flying
visit to the Old Country, secured for his company the De
Dion Motor agency for the majority of the Australian
States.
An Engineer Crippled.
Mr. John Boyce, of Hunter-street, Stockton, a
suburb of Newcastle, N.S.W., writes as follows:
“I write to inform you of my case. I am well
known in this district. For some months I was
laid up with rheumatism, which confined me to my
house, being practically a cripple. I could not
lift my hand to my head. I suffered untold agony.
I tried several remedies, but of no avail. I lastly
tried your Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and was
astonished at the result. The first bottle gave me
real relief ; I then took a second bottle, and was
then able to resume my daily work.” Mr. Boyce
is a well-known citizen, and by occupation an
engineer on the Stockton ferries. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills stand alone as a perfect blood
purifier, and positively cure biliousness, indiges-
tion, dyspepsia, headache, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, and
blotches. Price, Is lid per bottle, or six bottles
6s 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. They are packed in amber bottles, and
the full name blown thereon.*
Mrs. Wilson, of the Blue Mountains Hotel,
Lawson, who is 82 years of age, lately tripped and
fell against a piano, receiving a serious wound.
She has held a license on the mountains for 62
years—a record, surely.
Evidence by prosecutor in a recent Sydney
assault case:
Accused then jammed witness on to a couch, and,
catching him by the throat with both hands, attempted
to choke him. While he had witness so held, accused
caught hold of his nose three times with his teeth till he
succeeded in tearing it off, at the same time punching
him till he became stunned.
The affair occurred in a pub., and a constable
afterwards picked up on the spot the severed nose.
The defence was the “ remember nothing about
it ” one, and accused goes up for trial at quarter-
sessions.
Piles and their Cure. —Mr. Frank Buckhurst,
Chemist, Mutual Store Buildings, Flinders-street,
Melbourne, lias now a stock of the famous
“Cannalin” remedies, so successful in the treat-
ment of the worst forms of this complaint. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles
and the Way to Cure Them,” sent free on applica-
tion—or from the Sydney depot, 257 George-st.


V
A “SPANKING
Good . . .
Tobacco I
af
Be sure
you ask for it
j
IT BEATS THEM ALL.
13'
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.
Sterling Silver Mounted Snake Pattern
Scent Bottles.
Price, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, 21s, 27s 6d.
Others from 3s.
187 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.,^
. . . Telephone 3490.
SILVER
PRESENTS.
Sterling Silver-Mounted Photo Frames
in all Varieties.
Midget Size, 4s ; Cabinet Size, 12s 6d ;
Panel Size, 27s 6d to 40s.
Do Your Eyes
Trouble You ?
WRITE TO US ABOUT THEM.
NO CHARGE FOR TESTING THEM.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS
(Opticians by Appointment to the Walker Hospital,
their Excellencies Sir Robert Duff, Admiral Bridge,
etc.), vice-Regal Jewellers,
London Prices. . . 23 Hunter-st., Sydney-
HATS. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes litted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE,
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Otlioe.
Proprietor ■ - GEO. W. ELLIS.
|J<O
CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
pr- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES!
« IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops. y*
« IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Mode! Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines. .
J. F. MoDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Banjo” Paterson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
■ I asked “ Banjo ” Paterson what is the sound of
a bullet at close range.
“ W’sh-sh-sh-sh ! the force and pace of the
bullet gives you the feeling that it would have
gone through the side of a house. Oh-h-h ! you
never get used to it; the men who say they do
are liars, I think. And when the bullets hit the
ground near you ! —Rp-rp-rp-rp ! —you imagine
they are screwing themselves right into the earth.
It does frighten you ! it’s worse than the bullets
going overhead. I was standing holding a horse,
when a bullet shot past my shoulder and gave him
a smack as if he were hit by a hammer. It struck
him through the hips. It puts the fear of God
into you when you hear that whistle and that
fearful staggering blow. No, it didn’t bring the
horse down ; a bullet seldom does. They rode
that horse the rest of the day. It takes a good
number of bullets to bring an animal down unless
you hit him just right; I’ve fired 15 bullets myself
into a buffalo in the Northern Territory before he
dropped. And over in Africa I saw a man with
10 bullet-wounds —the entrances and exits of
five bullets in his arms and legs—and yet
he got all right. A bullet doesn’t kill a man
unless it goes through his head or abdomen, and
not then always. I was standing a couple of
yards away from a Major —a friend of mine—when
a bullet hit him a fearful whack. He cried,
‘Oh!’ and staggered. I caught him. ‘Have
you got it?’ I asked. ‘Yes,’ he replied, ‘through
the liver—l’m a dead man ! ’ I held him, and
called a Tommy who was passing. He came, and
helped me to carry the Major, and we took him
along 100 yards; then the bullets were coming so
thick round us that we had to put him down.
The three of us made too big a mark for them to
fire at. We lay beside him and looked after him
till the ambulance took him. He was shot
through the stomach, but he got quite well again.
I was hit myself when we were to the west of Pre-
toria. A bullet glanced from a rock and hit me
a rousing bang in the ribs. It frightened me
horribly. I fancied I could feel the next one
coming through my back. Osborne caught me as
I reeled in the saddle. But I wasn’t really in-
jured ; the bullet bruised me badly—though it
did not enter it shook me up properly. I wouldn t
let them class me as wounded, as I didn’t want to
scare people over here.
“ When first I went under fire I was excited
with the novelty of the thing—the novelty over-
masters you. Hm-m-m-m-m sings the first bullet
high and wide. ‘ Oh ! ’ you say to yourself quite
cheerily, ‘that’s a genuine bullet!’ But after-
wards, when you’ve seen fellows smashed up
ugh !—the more you’re under fire the less you,like
it. It’s the sense of utter helplessness that s so
distressing—the feeling that away over there be-
hind a rock some fellow js_ lying down in
security and carefully sniping you. And
after being under fire you come out very over-
strained, and very limp. It’s a terrible
feeling—that helplessness under fire ! Whish.
whish ! —the bullet goes so fast! —and one with a
bit of loose lead on it!—you can hear it squealing
long before it comes and after it passes; no
gammon, it’s a nerve-smashing thing. Some of
them make the noise of a small express
train. And every wsh-sh-sh, rp-rp, hm-m-m of
the bullet says to you: ‘ You’re only a target
here ! The sooner you get out of this the better ! ’
But I wouldn’t run, when the troops didn’t. I
used to go up with the men in the firing-line—
when other men go into fire, you go too. And
our Australian fellows seemed cool under
the very hottest fire. All the time I was
there I never saw one man on the British side cut
it without orders. I had the sentiment of comrade-
ship for all the troops on our side, but I used to
get very excited and anxious when the Australians
were going in. A feeling of horror shook me
every time one of our men or horses dropped.
And all the time I’d be watching them I’d be say-
ing to myself: ‘There are the English, the Irish,
the Scotch ; the bullets have got to hit somebody.
There are plenty of fellows beside the Australians
to be hit.’
“ The grandest picture of war that I saw was
the charge of the Seaforth Highlanders. My
God ! it tightened your breath to see them go
across a quarter-of-a-mile of open. There are no
bugle-calls in battle now. You see the men lying
prostrate on the ground—the bullets squealing and
humming oyer them. When the officer rises—
that’s the signal for the men to rise and charge
with him. And these fellows, led by a subaltern,
6ft. 4in. high—a big Highlander in his kilts—rose
with him in a flash. There was no waiting, no
watching, as with a bad regiment, for someone else
to rise and first draw the fire. They all sprang up
and dashed forward. It was a cruel thing to
watch—all your nerves were saying: ‘ one of
those men will go down any moment, any moment,
down ! ’ And they went down ! down ! down !
pitching heavily, helplessly forward, for all the
world as if their feet had caught in something and
they hadn’t tried to save themselves from falling
Oh ! every feeling—even the admiration for their
heroism —was lost in the feeling of horror ! But
they rose and dashed forward ! rose and dashed
forward ! rose and dashed forward ! and the Boers
never waited to give them their revenge.
“Each man has his own set of emotions in
battle. Some men get excited and laugh, others
get very white and grim. Some again say noth-
ing; others again talk volubly. And when a
man’s hit he drops, as a rule, silently; too dazed
with the blow to cry out. The shot jars all his
nerves and he lies there helpless, conscious only of
a numbing pain.
“From what I could learn, a soldier in action
knows extremely little of what is going on. I
found a chap one evening lying exhausted after a
day’s fighting. He was asleep in the dust and I
gave him a nudge and said ‘ Hey, wake up! you
don’t want to be here, whoever you are.’ He
opened his eyes, shook himself, sat up, and after
staring at me for a second or two in semi-
unconsciousness, opened his eyes still wider
and said, ‘ Good Lord! it’s Banjo Paterson.’
Then I had a yarn to him about the fight. He
said : ‘We were ordered up to them hills and we
kept getting up and running forward and burying
our heads in the sand till we got where they
wanted us. I couldn’t see any enemy. But I
knew there was a rifle fire going on ; and after a
bit I said to myself, ‘ Well, I’ve lugged this rifle
a devil of a way. I think I ought to let her off.’
So I ups and at the hill. Gawd ! she brought so
many bullets back that I waited half-an-hour
before I decided to have another shot at the hill.
Then I let her go again. This time a bigger
volley came back, and I nearly got hit by several.
And while I was thinking hadn’t I better lie quiet
there, an officer comes along and, standing near
me, said, ‘My boys, the Boers have retreated.
You have behaved very bravely ! ’
“Out of that nine months’campaign, crowded
every day with new experiences and fresh im-
pressions, the faot that impressed me most of all
was the absolute self-reliance of ‘the old man.’
Roberts lifted up, promoted, or destroyed the
army generals—men as big almost as himself in
the public mind—as if they were little children.
Fancy sending a full-blown general Home without
a word of explanation ! Yes; Roberts had des-
potic control of 200,000 men and £70,000,000.
“ Another thing that impressed me was that no
actual battlefield in the slightest degree resembled
the battlefield of the painter and artist. In a
picture, a gun is shown as it appears on the
stage. The gunners are all posing. The officer is
there in a heroic attitude, with his mouth wide
open. In a real action, you will see fellows lying
asleep beside the gun, while their mates carry up
the cartridges quick and lively, load and blaze,
while their officer is walking up and down very
rigidly. And when the bullets are coming at them
fast, you can see that the men are thinking hard
about the hotness of things, but they say nothing.
They do all their work quickly and quietly. And
a battery coming into action is a very different
spectacle from the artist’s conception. There is
no flourish, no style about the reality. The
animals are broken and jaded ; and you will see a
driver nursing one wretch, and chopping into the
other, to get the gun along.
“ The soldiery didn’t bother looking after
women ; they were looking for something to eat
all the time. Some of the hard-blowing fellows
boasted of their conquests, but I’m certain that the
gayest thing they did was to make passing love to a
Kaffir woman, and that’s all the romance that was
let into the soldier’s life in South Africa. The
gaiety of war belongs to those who stop at home.
Thus Mafeking day with the nation was celebrated
by champagne festival, brilliant pageants, and the
love and sparkle of pretty girls. But for us
over there in Africa —we didn’t rejoice—we ex-
pected Mafeking to be relieved. And the day we
got the news we didn’t even have a rum ration.
“I was struck with the English horses over
there. They are very fine. And the English
soldiers look after their horses very well ; it’s part
of their discipline.
“ I was surprised at the number of Australians
there were in the Afrikander regiments. Very
often I was hailed from their ranks. * Hey!
Paterson ! Hullo, Banjo ! ’
“ I didn’t get enteric fever, even at Paardeberg,
where the fever mowed men down in hundreds
and hundreds. I’d had typhoid pretty badly over
here, and the doctors told me that that experience
would, in a great degree, make me immune. I
didn’t hear that if a man has a weak spot in his
organs a battle will find it out; but I’m sure of
this —that the strain of being under fire badly
affects the heart. I don’t know whether I have
any special soldier-instinct in me, but my grand-
father was a captain in the Indian Mutiny, and
was mentioned twice for bravery.
“From what I saw of the Boers, it was clear
that they could not fight a trained regiment in
the open, though that’s a matter of discipline
more than pluck. And they very seldom waited
for close quarters.
“ The effect of the campaign on the Australians
will be to make them 50 times more English than
before. I’m sure that the bulk of our fellows
would, after a few months’ spell, assist in any
other English war, out of a feeling of comrade-
ship. And another effect of this war on the Aus-
tralians is, that it has killed inter-State
jealousy among them, and caused them to regard
Australians as one people with one destiny.”
S. A. MILLS.
At Poverty Point.
The three prima-donnas of Musgrove’s grand opera
venture have their juvenility vouched for by the manager.
They are all three of them under 24 years of age. Hiss
Lorraine, who studied under Marchesi, is an American
with a Oovent Garden “ star” reputation. Miss Crichton,
from Chili, has made her successes thus far in the South
American republics; and Miss Lilian Coomber is best
known for her Covent Garden performance of Michaela
in “ Carmen.” It was as Michaela, by the way, that poor
little Flo Graupner scored her first important hit during
Martin Simonsen’s unfortunate season at Melb. Opera
House —the season which ended in awful ructions.
Nellie Stewart, according to all the interviewers, looks
years younger than ever. Those whom the gods love die
young because they never grow old.
“ The New East Lynne ” staged by Johnnie Sheridan at
Melb. Royal on Saturday, was notable for an interesting
re-appearance, Emma Bronton, for a long time leading
lady to both Brough and Boucicault and Williamson and
Musgrove, popping up again in the character of the comic
aunt. Sydney ought to remember Miss Bronton as the
creator of the bright, particular female in B. and B’s.
farce, “ The Solicitor.”
The value of competition in things theatrical is shown
by the fact that the Martinettis had splendid houses at
Rickards’ Tivoli in Adelaide, while Nance O’Neil was
crowding the Royal every night. The former are still
going strong. The latter ended with “ Hedda Gabler,”
and held the crowd spell-bound (puzzled though it was)
while she shot herself “ beautifully.”
The outside of Melb. Princess’s, now that the painters
and gilders have done with it, gives an idea of the lavish
style in which the interior was treated. The chairs in
stalls, d.c., and boxes are re-upholstered with electric-
blue plush, the special patent velvet carpet to match
having an old-gold bordering to set it off. Way up in the
amphitheatre the seating accommodation has been
Axminster-carpeted and provided with backs for the first
time. Always beautiful, the Princess's is now more
gorgeous than ever. Pitt, the architect of the building,
did the redecorations, the whole scheme of upholstery
and so forth being carried out from specifications and
instructions by Wihnot Fink, who, though not an archi-
tect, appears to have supervised the work with an expert’s
eye.
Haskett Smith, the massive parson who found lecturing
more congenial than preaching, told an Argus interviewer
in effect that there was as much chance of settling the
Jews in Palestine as of establishing an ice-cream foundry
in Sheol. He said his friend, Lawrence Oliphant, had
once approached Baron Rothschild for support of a scheme
of this sort. The millionaire didn’t seem very enthusias-
tic, so Oliphant pointed out delicately that, as a good
Jew, he must believe in the ultimate rising of the Messiah
in Jerusalem. “ Yes,” said Rothschild, “ but 1 hope
when He does come. He’ll appoint me ambassador in
London.” Among other interesting things that Haskett
says is a grave assertion that the arrival of ihe Colonial
troops in South Africa, “and especially the Australians”
was practically the turning-point of the war. The Bulle-
tin wonders what Mr. H. will do when he gets on his
Canadian lecturing-tour.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent: “ ‘ That |fine
figure of a woman, Miss Florrie Forde, who, both as
regards appearance and voice, might be described as an
Australian Harriet Vernon,’ quoth London Referee —and
it is accurate in every word. The flat-chested, ‘ early-
grave ’ girl who used to comatose the spiders with ‘ I am
the idol of Melbourne (or Sydney) town’is now a fine,
imposing-looking woman. Harriet’s legs are as graceful
as an Arab steed’s neck and as solid as Tattersall’s sweep,
so it' is a great compliment to Florrie, and her legs
deserve it.”
A Bulletin Melb. notice of Miss Crane as Glory
Quayle referred to her Trilby as a “stone” deaf young
woman. The “s ” was only another instance of the com-
positor’s masterly foolishness. The copy had said “ tone ”
deaf.
Marshall Hall, speaking as President of the Orchestral
Musicians’ Union of Australia, protests against the need-
less “ rehearsal ” work demanded of theatre orchestrians
in these parts. The men are liable to a “ call ”at 10 a.m.,
and have, in some cases, to stay at the theatre for many
hours, with nothing better to do than an occasional tutn-
tum accompaniment for a comic song.
Irrepressible Clifford Ferley Is, nowadays, aulte •
serious-minded pusher of provincial shows. Ferley has
been associated with a record-breaking achievement, it
seems. He was business representative for .Anderson’s
co. at Broken Hill, where "The Ladder of Life’’ran six
nights at a stretch. The longest previous run for any
piece at the Barrier was five nights.
Wybert Reeve, whose lease of Adelaide Theatre Royal
now expires, states that he has paid £38,000 for
rent and lighting during the 10 years of his management.
He complains that since the inter-State railway to Mel-
bourne has been opened, Adelaideans have grown so fas-
tidious in dramatic entertainments that they will not
patronise any but the very best shows, and thus the ex-
penses of management are always greater than the pro-
fits. Then in the very hot weather they will not go to the
theatre under any circumstances.
A perky little actress guying her audience the other
night put a rather scarlet query point-blank to a Sullen
man in the stalls. “ Ask your youngest son ” was the
biting reply.
An interview with Cecil Ward in Melbourne’s latest
little weekly’ is rather amusing. Says the interviewer to
Cecil—“ 1 remember you as a slip of a lad some 13 years
ago. Have been delighted with your Tom Jones, &c., &c.
You were Armand D’Arcay in 1 The Village Priest Cap-
tain Hugh Ardale in 1 Mrs’. Tanqueray.’ I have nc for-
gotten the many, many others, but time is too short to
remind you of them.” Perhaps Cecil Ward did . play
Hugh Ardale in one of the revivals, but an interviewer
who forgets that he made his “ Mrs. Tanqueray ” success
in the part of Sir G orge Orreyd, the boozer with a genius
for breaking old china in a “ gentlemanly way ” by drop-
ping it on the floor, doesn’t pay much of a compliment to
the actor. And says Cecil to the interviewer —“ If I play
Napoleon later on it will be my first appearance in any-
thing that gives me a chance this season,” meaning the
Crane-Power season. He ignores the fact that the parts
of the two Defarges in “ The Only Way ” offer a good
chance for a strong melodramatic actor. Clever Cecil
Ward fails in this because he can’t curse his adversary
in the prologue, or play a gloomy-character part in the
play. He gets the chance all the same.
The internals of the old Melb. Opera House have now
disappeared, and the building of the new theatre, to be
ready by 14th May, 1900, will be started as soon as pos-
sible. Differences of opinion between the original joint
architects—Backhouse and Backhouse, of Sydney, and
Pitt, of Melbourne—threatened to delay the work inde-
finitely. At last the ground landlord grew restive, and as
Pitt was the architect he had nominated on his side, and
Pitt’s plans were already passed by the Board of Health,
the whole architectural job fell to Pitt, the local man.
Rickards had a natural leaning to the firm who planned
his beautiful Sydney Tiv., but all the same the architect
of Melbourne Princess’s seems good enough to swear by.
However, there is going to be a law-suit over the matter.
It was funny to see two old mummers of another
co. sitting gloomily through a matinee performance (at
Melb. Princess’s) of “ Manoeuvres of Jane,” or any
other bright comedy by the Broughs. At the end of each
act those two unappreciative old stagers would ask one
another what they thought of it, and each would drearily
reply, “O, I don’t know ” with an elevation of the eye-
brows that meant “It ain’t acting.” From their point of
view it really wasn’t acting. Nobody had been violently
unnatural.
Seems that the bank-’oliday cockneys who relieve their
feelings in song are now regarding the fruits of Patriot-
ism from a melancholy point of view. Their favorite
ballad is “Break the News to Muvver.”
Recent newspaper notices of Miss Eloise Juno’s career
must have surprised many young playgoers who had
never seen the old favorite until she played Nannie, in
“ Little Minister.” Miss Juno’s first engagement was
with Bland Holt’s father, at Dunedin, she says, though
she had previously been a pupil of Mrs. NVyndham, in
Edinburgh. Coming along to Australia, she took impor-
tant parts (“ with songs,” as the programmes used to say)
for the Harwood, Stewart and Hennings management at
Melb. Royal, and was engaged to support Charles
Matthew’s and Walter Montgomery. After a while, Miss
Juno went to England, and w r as leading lady to Creswick
in a round of Shakespearian plays ; then she toured “ on
her own ” with a co., and finally returned here with
Jenny Lee, figuring as Lady Dedlock in the first Aus-
tralian production of “ Jo.” Of late years, this admirable
actress has seldom had a place on the Sydney and Mel-
bourne stage, and the few characters she has touched
were almost invariably Scotch. Nowadays, one thinks of
her only as a specialist. Her pupils are comparative
experts in Scotch accent, and her recent Melbourne
benefit concert was arranged by the local Caledonian
and “ Thustle ” societies, but the record of Eloise Juno is
that of a good all-round player.
“F.” “Because Hall Caine’s, ‘The Christian’ is a
gloomy novel with an unattractively amorous fanatic for
the hero, and an impossible Glory for heroine, the men
who built a fairly strong drama with moderately good
material have got little credit for their work. Bernard
Espinasse presumably was principal part author of ‘ The
Christian ’ in its stage form, although Wilson Barrett’s
bigger theatrical name takes first place on the bill. Let
Espinasse, the local straggler, have his due. The play he
adapted from ‘ The Christian ’ compares favorably with
many adaptations of novels that gave the dramatist’better
chance. Hall Caine’s dialogue is poor stuff for the most
part, and the adapter had no forcible speeches provided
for him. One remembers nothing in the novel that has
been unwisely omitted from the play, whereas the play,
in the first act, is an ingenious bit of plot manufacture.
Again, John Storm’s interview with the Holy Gethsemane
person at the Hospital, likewise the girl’s signing of the
music-hall contract, are matters that had to be jammed
into the second act, and they seem to happen more
naturally than some of the important events of melo-
dramas which come to us from London. The fourth act
could have been improved, perhaps, by the addition of a
scene showing the outside of Glory Quayle’s domicile, and
the departure of the fleshly apostle therefrom at 3 a.m.,
‘ spotted ’ by the mobsman who subsequently leads the
attack on him. As for the last act it might easily locate
John’s decease within the tabernacle instead of out in the
street, and Polly Love could be sent to fetch Glory just
before the scene changed from the street to the tabernacle,
and Glory might come as a penitent music-hall vocalist,
not as one who had taken up slum salvation work at a
moment’s notice. But it is easier to make such suggest-
ions than to turn them into improvements. ‘ The
Christian,’ as it stands, is an effective, payable show,
admitting of more effective assistance than Miss Crane
gives it. Henriettta Watson played Glory Quayle in far
stronger style.”


Banking, Public Companies, fto.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Se cur ity.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
■ss
&>
IK
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
IKT.S.-W.
|||ont deplete |. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
f SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
e^vs
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
OEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
THT3->
Colonial Mutual I.ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600 —assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital (23 4,’001 .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager ; Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London. Office: 1 ffishopsf/ate Street Within.
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NtW SOUTH wales:
y YDNEK - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
1! nymarket, Gosford ("with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
HE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The Bank of Oorth Queensland
LIMITED.”
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 260,000 ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 13,1 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 20, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 13, 2 p.m.
-Konoowarra, Tues., Oct. 16, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 20, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 13, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturdaj', Oct. 20, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carg'O
booked throuarh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €xcc6torS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Soupy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE”
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers — £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
BcmJe of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors;
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ It has increased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. C. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter —
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinary memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company , Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SE It VICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the'cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Leave
Auckland.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.
Arrive at
- San
Francisco,
29 November 16
26 December 14
24 January 11
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide Co., Brisbane.
3\T. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney, General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD '
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and, General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Bed;,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
--LINCOLN, STUART&CO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
23
White Shirts to measure.
6> !>d . Os. 6<J-
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds. Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class < f material. £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, *ery
good patterns. 12s. (id.
Dress Suits, to measure. £5.
Clerical Suits, to measure. £5.
K ding Breaches, 255.
Jiiding Habits, <fcc.
i We supply ready made. Men’s
L capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
f Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette Suits. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19* (id.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. (id. W tiite Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. Od,
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
(»s. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s. 9d., ss. (id.
Travelling Trunks, Ba-s and
Bugs in great variety.
Men's White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9<i.
iancy Blouse Shirts, new
deigns, ss. (>d.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. Od.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4 a . (»d. Caps, Is,
erino Undershirts or rants,
ls.9d.
Neckties,all shapes and colors.
Is. ,
Gents* splendid Balmoral Boots,
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of lrese ’* and
patterns of ail kinds and self-me. surement forms posted free.
Write for them.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
p ORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego, Friday, Oct. 12
Transhipping' at Melbourne.
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Oct. 20,
Without Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
October 12.
Hast and, Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6_B RIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON -Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Mris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
'Passenger A ceommod.ati.on., Attendance and,
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
*™tP°rt betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only
BURNS PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY!
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
- '--v ° rtuwmn ui one Aieio. races
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, T 35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, 165 to LUO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial port
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on applicatioi
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus
tralia. Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker & Co’s Cine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns Commander. Leave Sydney!
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George October IS
AUSTRALIAN ... 3000 P. T. Helms November 1C
GUTHRIE ... 2600 W. G. M'Arthur . December C
EASTERN ... 3600 Winthrop Ellis ... December 2f
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
d n ey.
H)‘|luiraith,|j)‘Eacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply ’
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—46V Collins-street.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6.=00 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Steamer
Com-
mander.
Sydney, ! , We| -
Noon. | b l our,le >
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m.
29 Nov, l Nov. 3
26 Nov. 29 Dec. 1
24|Dec. 27 Dec. 29
ARMAND BE- Le Cois-
HIC I pellier Oct.
AUSTRALIEN ... Sellier Nov.
V.DELACIOTAT Riquier ...[Dec.
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7o’
including table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English inte>preters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais. ’
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company s Offices
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev. ’
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Maoriland is the first province to get the
war on to its postage-stamps. The new 1M.
sample is to show dismounted troopers in the
foreground and the rest of the contingent in the
distance. The Bulletin is beginning to grow a
trifle weary of this postage-stamp mania. The
calm, unmoved John Bull keeps the Queen’s head
on his stamps, in rain and shine, year in and year
out, and he doesn’t rush on every slight occasion
to put a new issue with a disembowelled Boer or
any such frenzy upon it on the market. His stamp
may not be artistic, but, anyhow, it is always
there and with enough gum on the back. Federa-
tion, among its other blessings, will wipe out five
Australian issues in one act. One people, one
destiny, one postage stamp !
There are other occasions for complaint re
the maltreatment of Scottish regimental legs in
Melbourne. For instance, at a recent display
several privates exhibiting a great waste of flabby,
dough-coloured, naked leg behaved in so unsol-
dierly a manner as to brirfg the regiment into ridi-
cule and contempt before a great gathering.
Whilst the Scotch warriors were “ cavourtin’” in
their ballet-skirts, the privates in question were
seen to be suffering from grotesque convulsions,
and they wriggled hideously and squirmed like
tickled eels, scraping their outraged calves with
their toes and their heels the while, and looking,
oh, so sad. At length Scotch human nature gave
way under the strain, and those tortured privates
settled down and scratched —scratched with both
hands ravenously and in the light of day. Inves-
tigation disclosed that some miscreant had daubed
the nude legs of the Caledonian heroes with cow-
itch.
“C.C.” to The Bulletin on a matter of
much matrimonial importance : —
In a recent N.S.W. custody-of-ohildren case it appeared
that a pre-nuptial agreement had been come to that any
child which might arrive should be trained in the faith
of the parent of the same Sex. It seems, however, that
promises of this sort are not binding in law. A man’s
promise to another man is more or less binding, but his
promise towards his wife, whom he may possibly gain for
his wife by the help of that very promise, is of no effect;
and whether with a promise or without a promise, the
children are entirely his. Old-fashioned people who do
not approve of the female franchise are fond of pointing
out to women how much power they have in religion, and
how that department is as peculiarly their province as
politics is that of man ; and after dwelling on woman’s
superior insight in matters of sentiment and religion,
they calmly hand over the religious training of these
women’s children to the sex of which 70 per cent, are
practically atheists. As for the Judge’s remark that he
would never sanction a man’s being obliged to
pay for the support of children that were being
brought up in a religion of which he disapproved—
the father of an illegitimate child, if known, is legally
obliged to assist in the support of the child, and is not at
all consulted as to its religion ; so that the law gives
complete parental rights to that class of woman which is
■ conventionally held to be the least fitted to exercise these
rights. _ The explanation of this inconsistency lies, of
course, in the fact that the illegitimacy laws are new-
made and therefore more in accordance with modern sex-
equality, while the marriage laws are old and theological
and tangled up with the notion that woman brought sin
into the world. A curious fact is, that while the majority
of men theoretically maintain that the power should be
wholly the father’s, almost every fairly sensible, fairly
vvell-meaning man shrinks from the thought of interfering
with his own wife in the religious training of his children,
even when said wife is not particularly intelligent and
merely reaches that level of commonplace goodness for
which Queen Victoria is so mysteriously extolled. So
that the power which the law gives the father is advan-
tageous only .to the fanatic and the spitefully-minded
husband who chooses this method of “ getting back on ”
his wife.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opa] miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
“ Ian ” to The Bulletin on a much-
debated question:—
The fact that the Maoriland Ministers are over-worked
is as much the fault of the Ministers themselves as of the
country. In his farewell letter to Parliament, “Lands”
M'Kenzie referred to the practice inaugurated by mem-
bers of the Seddon Ministry, of going round the country
and becoming personally acquainted with the require-
ments of different districts. As a result of this, he
claimed that many districts had had roads and bridges
constructed which would never have been made but for
the Minister’s personal observation. Also, conversely, if
a Minister is loyal to fiis public duty, many a useless road
or bridge would remain unmade, which might otherwise
have been successfully pressed upon an ignorantly com-
pliant Minister by a “roads and bridges member.” So
far, good. But the members of the democratic Seddon
Ministry go farther, and seek to become veritable Pooh-
bahs, and ultimate referees upon all questions, even the
most trivial. New legislation every session tends more
and more to make the Minister the absolute controller of
all matters coming within the scope of his depart-
ment. M‘Kenzie himself, while retaining the dis-
trict Land Boards, has increasingly claimed and
exercised the right of reviewing, altering, or
vetoing their decisions, even on such trifling mat-
ters as the right of a 20-acre Govt, leaseholder to
transfer or mortgage his holding. Now, while a Minister
does well to become acquainted with the general necessi-
ties or capabilities of all districts, is he justified in ham-
pering his legitimate work with petty trivialities in this
manner ? He must either struggle wearily and with fail-
ing health against overwhelming duties, or else become
careless and sign documents without sufficient knowledge
of their contents, in which case his signature remains to
rise in judgment against him in matters which he might
well have left to subordinates. So, in this practice of re-
ferring everything to one man, does ancient history
repeat itself in the democracies of the Pacific, and the
servant of the people seeks to place himself in the position
of a dictator.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on nage
23 of this issue.*
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
' l * A
•fLe/vfc
fyw***,
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Palling, Promo'es Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Per fee lly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i'-, 2 16 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores. &c. .-
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD,, fe
16, Bevis Marks, I,on don, England.
COMMON SENSE EAH DIiUM.
IfNEI
ISeaf
(COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dav for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Publications.
LADIES >-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for t'2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streeo, Sjdnev.
af
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET of ßO R o A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
X Xj. Xji XT S “X* lEX A. TED
af
TS7TTH numerous anatomical
'' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every, man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being- imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TRICOEOOy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES and pos e ted T ls ea id. ent ‘
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature Las not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meec until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for hash fulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) wiil
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap-
piness with one you iove. Anglo-American Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 458 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
this paper when writing.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, " GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENG-DISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are note the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
V
IV HJI
nu.
Thom
ons
THE 310 ST COMFORTABLE & DVR ABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
1?
“LA. NOBLESSE
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-> LcL London-
ladies’ Tailoring
-SPRING-
3NTEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming- Mail boat throughout
the Season.
David Brahaxn & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
C. Or. HATTE’S
Display of
Spring & Summer Millinery
and Dress Fabrics
is the
• SHOW OF TH E SEASON •
Ladies will find Hatte’s Show Booms a
palace of enchantment, surpassing any-
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.
The Millinery is directly imported from
the best houses of Paris and London ; and
the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
from the leading manufacturers of
England, the Continent, and America.
m- HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothing better than one of his
TWO GUINEA SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You
have a big range Of materials for selec-
tions ; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
(free) ; and your orders will be faithfully
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department you will save at
least 30 per cent, by patronising
C. C 3-. 3E3C A.TT E,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “ Price Warung.” Paper
193 pp. ; Gd.
covers,
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing: nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG inpants frnm
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ AHenburys”
The “ AHenburys ”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2,
Similarly adapted to the second three months of liie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, sBs, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND-
Soda Water, Id. per dot.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
jVo shilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water 00.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. —Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says:—“lt is worth
its weight in gold.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says : —“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says : —“ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W. A., says“ Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says “ Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
. . THE WORD . .
FOX
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
SergesiJweeis
on which it is stamped.
fox’s fnre 3ndigo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this st-mp a e not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
'Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
o
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
o
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane,Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, Sydney.
V”
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted i/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
PAMrHLET, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.


In order to cope with their growing busi-
ness in Australasia, the Northern Newspaper
Syndicate, _ Kendal, Eng., has appointed Mr.
E. 0. Amsinck, of Sydney, as their representative
for the whole of Australia and Maoriland. Mr.
Amsinck is an old pressman, has had considerable
newspaper experience, and is personally known to
most of the leading newspaper proprietors.
N.S. Wales’s butcher’s-bill in S’Africa to
date : —Officers killed, 7 ; died of disease, 1; non-
com. officers and men killed or died of wounds,
27; died of disease, 43; total deaths, 78. Wounded
—Officers, 9 ; N.C.O.’s and men, 87. Missing—
Non-commissioned officers and men, 39. Prisoners
—Officers, 4; N.C.O.’s and men, 13.
The sudden death, last week, of Aid.
William Dymock, the well-known Sydney book-
seller, was, no doubt, partly attributable to undue
mental excitement arising out of the current
Public Library inquiry, involving a trade dispute
in which Mr. Dymock was keenly interested.
Mr. Dymock was a native of Melbourne, and was
but 39 years of age when he died. He only re-
cently entered public life by defeating the late
Mr. Sydney Burdekin for the ward formerly re-
presented by the latter in Sydney City Council.
Civilisation is a bloodstained business.
Over in China the other day Russians murdered
and ravished and stole, as per mail; Germans and
French and English and Japanese stole; and
Americans grumbled because they weren’t allowed
to steal. All for the sake of civilisation, and the
glorification of civilisation’s God. The Chinese
suicided by families, too, rather than face the in-
vaders ; and (partly owing to the disorganisation
caused by the Allies’ attack) a big famine is pro-
phesied in Northern China this winter.
Premier Lyne wants to immortalise his
reign by making a road round the foreshore of
Sydney Botanic Gardens, to be called Hopetoun
Avenue by way of greasing the new Gov.-
General. Hopetoun won’t thank him, for the new
road will end the seclusion of Govt. House. The
idea finds favor with the Nicest People, who
dream of a Rotten Row Parade before vice-
royalty ; but it is really for the benefit of
the four-bob Robbo man who blasphemes
to Coogee Bay and through Centennial Park.
The Gardens are the only quiet, sylvan spot in the
city accessible to the multitude; and Premier
Lyne proposes to give their beautiful water-
frontage to the twin fiends of Dust and Noise.
But N.S. Wales is so used to public scandals that
the iniquity of this one will probably be realised
only when the job’s done. The Man who Mur-
dered Quiet —Long Bill Lyne.
Plain George Turner begins to get certifi-
cates of good character from unexpected quarters.
His inveterate enemy, Murray Smith, moaned,
the other day, “ I did not expect to have so soon
to regret the absence of George Turner and his
colleagues from the Treasury benches,” and God-
frey Downes Carter said that he helped to put
Turner out “in a weak and misguided moment.”
Yet the M‘Shiels Government has done nothing
hideously bad, and it has done some good things—
for one, it has started the resumption of large
estates for closer settlement. But it creates an
impression of being weak at the knees and
shambling on the feet somehow. If Shiels could
be confined in a bathing-machine and help to
govern the country by shoving written instruc-
tions under the door the effect would be better.
Shiels has ideas at times that would do credit to a
strong politician, but the sight of that tall, thin
elderly-young dudish personage talking in a thin
voice at great length on two lengthy thin legs is
disastrous.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
the state of things in the wool and wheat markets.
Judged by the European prices for Merino “ Tops,”
woolly prospects are not too good ; however, the London
sales commence on the 9th inst., and will more clearly
define the prospect. Unfortunately, at present a general
slump on all fine wools is anticipated, but there is a
chance that, owing to the low ruling prices and increas-
ing demand, coarse crossbreds may show an improve-
ment. Locally the inclination' is to wait and
see how the London cat jumps, and as the Sydney
selling season does not open till the 22nd, the
London cat will have been jumping for nearly a fort-
night and the local people will have a pretty good idea
of the animal’s tendencies. With the exception of a sale
ex trucks, Darling Harbour, at 2s. 9kl. per bushel, wheat
transactions have been very limited. Arrivals consisted
mostly of medium quality and the bulk of them were taken
into the store, as owners won’t part at prices offered.
London cables report a hardening to the extent of 6d. per
quarter on previous quotations, but freights are so high
and scarce that shippers cannot offer as much as the
local millers even at the bedrock prices ruling for the
manufactured article. Best samples are quoted at 2s. 9d.
to 2s. 9Ad. ; good F.A.Q., 2s. 8d., pinched and chick-
wheat, 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. per bushel.*
Cyanide Plants For Sale.
Several, Capacity ISS, 60, etc., Tong per day.
Apply— J. C. RENSHAW & CO.,
Moray Street, Bouth Melbourne.
Publications.
Buy ThisNumb€r
..OF ..
ALLAN’S ..
Australian
fflusie
Books
*
FOR THE CHILDREN
The Price is 1/-, or Posted 1/2.
No. EABY PIECES FOR LITTLE FIN&ERB.
(Popular Airs arranged without Octaves.)
The Irish Emigrant
Annie Laurie
The Last Rose of Summer
What are the Wild Waves Saying
Ring the Bell, Watchman
Harmonious Blacksmith ..
Jlarch of the Men of Harlech ..
I Dreamt that I Dwelt ..
Within a Mile of Edinboro’ Town
Weber’s Last Waltz
Ye Banks and Braes
La Marseillaise
The Blue Bells of Scotland
Scenes that are Brightest
The Song that Reached iny Heart
The Old Folks at Home ..
Minstrel Boy
Air Louis XIII
Fairies’Wedding Valse ..
The Campbells are Coming
FULL LIST (Nos. 1 to 52) Sent FREE for the Asking.
Allan’s Australian Music Books are obtainable at
all Music-sellers throughout Australia, or direct from
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
Ilandel
Saifs
Ghys
Turner
RARE & CURIOUS
BOOKS
ETC.,
LOW PRICES.
ENGLISH, FRENCH,
GERMAN.
LargestOatal. with Model, nice.
25 miniat. 3 Sh.
APPY <3c CO.,
65 Rue Plgalle,
PARIS, FRANCE.
FOREIOKT STAMPS.
msn
je
-
IS
noHE
/''UIEAP SETS.—2 Orange Free
v - > State, surcharged V.R.1., Is ;
11 Canada, including Map, 6d ; 50
Spain, 2s; 15 Russia, 6d ; 8 Sweden
Official, 6d ; 16 Roumania, 6d ; 6
Luxembourg, 3d ; 9 Canada Duty,
6d. Packets 50, Different, Is ; 100,
2s 6d. Gibbons’ Stamp Catalogue,
2 Parts, 4s 6d. Stamps Purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc.,gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
YORK HOTEL
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELDT.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
ana careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS &. WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Hew South Wales . . _
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
NO BREAKFAST TABLE
IS COMPLETE
WITHOUT A BOTTLE OF
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
Agents— VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
2
u
*A//VfUL HEWSVS3W
I heksyk+x-T? "IS* Us
ygACAAMD Z./M BS^Q^V»*53«S^55
The remedy of an eminent Physician, and used extensively for 35 years In CHRONIC AILMENTS.
Correspondence invited from Storekeepers.
Poet, J*. Bd.
RAFFAN, Pharmacist,
SB Elgin Streot, MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
Wbo’S YoCir Hatter ?
You will certainly favor us with an Order
when you receive a Copy of our
Illustrated
Just Issued.
fjat pamphlet
If you send us your Name and Address we will
forward you a copy, also the Latest Portrait of
Generals Roberts, Buller and Kitchener — FREE.
Write for One!
HORDERN”BROTHERS,
DIRECT IMPORTERS.
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
I Acetylene gas Buggy Camps
a
f
VARIOUS DESIGNS
FROM
40/-
Pair.
Clves 30 times
more Light
than Candle at
same Cost.
Send for Catalogue
on Acetylene Gas
Installations.
7\
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt St., gyHnny AND
422 & 424 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
LIMITED.
• • •
THE
HIGHEST AWARD
AT THE
PARIS EXHIBITION,
THE^/
GRAND PRIX
HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY
Pe KODBK Company.
See the marvellous results obtained with the
No. 2 Special Bull’s Eye Kodak,
Price £3 7s. 6d.
And the . . .
No. 4 Special Bull’s Eye Kodak,
Price £4 10s.
Jt2T On Sale by all Photographic Dealers.
•
KODAK, Limited,
“ THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
KODAK
af
a
FRINGES,
dltvnl Carl;, from 9/0 aerfe
PLAITS and TAILS.
*Wn. long, 6/6, all real bald,
CUTTINGS a COUBUMS
{•ortted up, 9/0 per oa.
we are the eneapettln toe
frefta for all Bair Work
Send Color of HaJ/.^
W. H. Wigztfl;
110 Wiu,uu BTRKET,
•enter of I’nlmer-alreet,
- SYDNEY.
'CabU Trent n-jll stop at Dooe..
Send stamps for fill) Prioo LlsL'
fiuvpt aUeotiori'given to Country OrdeWk
f
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
71S Georjre-street, SYDNEY.
X
11. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors : W. M'Millan, A. W. Meeks, Sydney; L. A.
Jessop, Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clvne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlanb ; Brisbane, J. C. Habsam. ; Perth, A. W.
Farquuar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montkfiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write f or Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
“ The Last of Six”
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. VVii.lia.mson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart
FRIDAY, OCT. 12, LAST NIGHT of
** Tlxe On ly ■Way.’'
SATURDAY,-OCT. 13, LAST NIGHT of the SEASON,
Special Farewell Performance of
“ TRILBY.”
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Fitzgerald bro.’S circus, menagerie
AND NEW CONTINENTAL COMPANY.
PATRONISED NIGHTLY BY THOUSANDS.
LAST 3 NIGHTS! LAST 3 NIGHTS!
So do not miss the opportunity of seeing this
GREAT COMBINATION.
Location: BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS.
(Opp. Redfern Railway Station).
The Change of Programme a Great Success.
The DUNBAR TRIO, MDLLE. RHODESIA, the
JANDASCHEVSKY FAMILY, SISTERS WINGATE,
ROSE AQUINALDO, THE CINNEZALLAS, KARL
BROTHERS, MDLLE. KATIE AND MDLLE. MAR-
GARETTA, GUILLAUME AND AUGUSTE, and the
Full Circus Co.
The Great and Screamingly Funny “ TOREADOR
SKETCH.”
The Sensational High-Jumping Contest between “ New-
haven,” “Cadet,” “Playboy” and “Stockman.”
THE RIDING TIGER
and
the Musical Burlesque, “ DAMEN CAPELLE,” intro-
duced by the " Jandaschevskys.”
Last Matinee: SATURDAY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
The Splendid Band of 20 Performers, under the con-
ductorship of Herr Von der Mehden.
PRICES: 45., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
J. MORRIS, Agent. F. JONES, Press Rep.
ER MAJEBTY>B THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
NANCE O’NEIL as FEDORA.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 13, INGOMAR.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES 55., 35., 25., and Is.
-f-HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
UNBRIDLED ENTHUSIASM and WARMEST
CORDIALITY
Extended by Press and Public to
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Gala Melodramatic Attraction,
“ NEW BABYLOKT.”
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER’S POPULAR COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY,
Xb.e Penalty of Crime
TO-MORROW, FRIDAY, MACBETH.
SATURDAY,
ALL FOR GOLD ; or, 50,000,000 of Money.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY^
7th WEEK of the JONES BOOM.
LAST 7 NIGHTS. LAST 7 NIGHTS.
CHARLES ARNOLD
Supported by his English Comedy Company,
in George H. Broadhurst's Enormously Successful Farce
Comedy,
What Happened to Jones.
PRICES—6s, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
L. J. LOUR. Manager.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE. ‘
Under the Direction of Mr. Georoe Musorovb.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 13, Mr. Musgrove will in-
augurate a season of GRAND OPERA, Verdi’s Favorite
VV ork, |L TROVATORE. The season will posi-
tively be limited to six weeks. Entirely new scenery,
costumes, and complete mise-en-scfene. Chorus of 50
voices. Orchestra of 40 Instrumentalists, and two Com-
panies of Principal Artists, selected by Mr. Musgrove
from Britain, the Continent, and America.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 65.; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 25.; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST WEEK of DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
LAST NIGHTS of ANNIE MAY ABBOTT,
The Little Georgia Magnet.
THE 3 HAYTORS, MISS NONI RICKARDS, ALBERT
WHELAN, THE WILLIAMS SISTERS, Ferry, the
Human Frog, Wallace King, and all our Great Co.
SATURDAY, 20th OCT., at the Matinee, First Appear-
ance in Australia of MISS LOTTIE COLLINS.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday,
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE. '
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Prolonged Applause Greets England's Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of PAUL’S ANIMATO-
- THE PATTERSON BROS., America’s Wonderful
Horizontal Bar Performers.
Mr. HARRY SHINE, Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, Miss
JESSIE WILLIAMS, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA,
The New East Lynne.
Laughter in place of tears, and Everybody Delighted
with the New Version.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN and GRACIE WHITEFORD,
supported by a largely augmented co.
Prices—Bs., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at AM in's.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In eoneontrsted drops.
FER BRAYAIS
FER BRAYAIS
, most effective In
restoring the vitality
| of the blood,and ena-
blingtlh'constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
’ general debility.
I Highly recommended
. for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and intereating
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“m<*«
the good effectt of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
POi n BY CHKMIftTS *l.l THI WOBT.B OYK*.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-


GENERAL
Two Years’
-A. ZHTRIETSTID
DEBILITY.
Sufferings.
ITsT TSTEIHTD.
The Care of
Mr. ROBERT GRAHAM.
(Reported for “ The Star.”)
The increased facilities for recreation
afforded to shopkeepers and their em-
ployees under the provisions of the Early
Closing Bill are often appreciated by people
who do not come directly within the
operation of the Act. It gives “ outsiders”
an opportunity of meeting folks enjoying a
half-holiday in the middle of the week who
are not at liberty at any other time, except
after business hours. Knowing that Mr.
Robert Graham, of No. 11 Wattle-street,
Chippendale, was always disengaged on
Wednesday afternoons, our reporter
thought it an opportune time to obtain an
interview in relation to his indisposition,
and was rewarded by finding the gentleman
mentioned sitting on his verandah.
“I have called to ask a few question
about your illness,” began the scribe.
“ You are quite welcome to ask as many
questions as you like, and I will freely
answer them.”
“ What was your complaint, and how
long were you ill ? ”
“ I suffered from debility, in conjunction
with indigestion, for fully two years.
I had been engaged in sewer work for
some time, and the bad air played havoc
with my constitution. My health had been
very indifferent for a long time before I
paid much attention to it. arid then it was
compulsory, for the disease had worked so
slowly and. so stealthily that I did not
give in till it had mastered me completely.
1 thought that the unhealthy feelings would
go away when the sewer work was finished ;
but I was greatly mistaken. I could not
go on working through the violent pains in
my head and chest, which afterwards ex-
tended .all over my body, and I got very
feeble in the legs. My appetite became
fickle, and gradually died away altogether.
Anything I did succeed in getting down had
a nauseous taste, and proved quite unpalat-
able. I could not sleep well at night. I
went to bed feeling tired and weary, and
after sleeping an hour or so I had to put
in the remainder of the night wide awake
When it was time to get up I had to drag
myself out of bed with much reluctance, not
having enough energy to dress. I could
not look at. my breakfast, and would start
the day with only a cup of tea on my
stomach. My strength gradually caved in,
as I could not take any food to sustain it,
and I lost all animation and vitality. Water
was my principal drink, being a ways
thirsty. My stoma, h was too much upset
to allow of my taking anything else, so you
may imagine how debilitated I was. There
was not an hour of the day or night that I
could say I was free from a depressing
languidness that made me melancholy be-
yond description. A sign of my weakness
was the way I used to perspire without any
exertion. Before I was taken iil I was as
hard as. nails, and could do a good day’s
work without raising a sweat. In other
ways the debility made itself manifest,
notably by the symptoms of extreme
nervousness, from which I suffered. I
used to think I had not got any nerves at
all, but now the least thing would startle
me, and set me all of a tremble. I fought
hard against my affliction, and often forced
myself to eat when I had not the slightest
inclination for food. The result was usually
very disagreeable, my enfeebled digestion
constantly turning on me. I experienced
dull aching pains between the shoulders
b ortly after these forced repasts, and it
was not long before the food came up again.
Ihe retching involved in the operation
made my headaches, from which I was
never free, increase in violence. My
tongue was coated with a thiol - , limy .sub-
stance, which made my breath di agreeable.
The fellows with whom I worked used to
remark how awfully miserable I looked,
and in truth I was frightfully thin and
pale ”
“ What medicines did you take during
your illness ? ”
“I think I must have taken every
medicine under the sun. At all events I
visited the hospital for six weeks, and
brought back all sorts of physic and pills,
but they did not benefit me in the slightest
degree. I did not get any relief from pain,
neither did they promote an appetite. At
the end of six weeks I gave the hospital
best, and consulted a doctor. Tie advised
me to take Clements Tonic. I felt rather
doubtful about his advice. After having
taken so many mixtures before, I became
very incredulous about medicines, and so I
sought the advice of another doctor, who
also recommended me to take Clements
Tonic. Without more delay I procured a
bottle, and the effect was most remarkable.
I had believed that my nervousness could
not be cured by any medicine, but to my
unspeakable delight I felt my nerves more
restful in three or four days after the intro-
duction of Clements To ic. Sound refresh-
ing sleep came back quite naturally, and
my terrific headaches were amongst the first
of my tormenting symptoms to be subdued.
The bodily pains left me one by one, and
my strength returned as my appetite got
better*, thus enabling me to eat the food
that my worn-out frame so much needed.
There was an entire absence of pain in the
stomach after eating, and I was never after-
wards in doubt about my meals being
properly digested and doing their work
thor uglily. Clements Tonic restored my
bowels to healthy action, and my tongue
lost its o' noxious roughness and became
clean and sweet again. The excessive
perspiration no longer remained to remind
me of my weakness, as I became stronger
and stouter every day. I took quite a
different view of life under my altered con-
ditions, and the feelings of melancholy
troubled me no more. When I had taken four
bottles of Clements Tonic I was quite strong
again, mv nerves were as sound as a bell,
and my digestion was all that I could wish it
to be.”
“Can I report these particulars in the
papers.”
“You may with pleasure. I owe my
restoration to health solely to Clements
Tonic, and if any people should happen to
read about my case who are suffering in the
same way they may be glad of my experience.
Publish how and when you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Robert Graham, of No. 11 Wattle-street Chip,
ptndale, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wale*,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annex*d document, consisting - of four
folios and consecutively numbered from one to four
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the fame to be true, and by
\ irtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof and for
the suppression of voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.
6
t/L
nr.^tv!^ re<J Chippendale, this 16th day of Autrus
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
ALFRED MITCHELL, .T n
“LAWRUS”
FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED f 4t> EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the H // A
Wholesale Trade only: ifcA/ivtv 6vvv
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
afa
JBRA.]\rr>X’S PATENT
NRNP ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10)
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
Prlee—sos. each.
This machine will produce ice in any climate, no matter how hot.
LATEST ICE-CREAM FREEZERS, which require no turning of handle. 15s
20s. and 255. each.
BRANDT BROS
236 Pitt-street, Sydney; and
4-22 & 4-24 Elizabeth.st., Melbourne.
Price 6s.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd.”
BST THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE!
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
BARGAINS!
(Join Slot Graphophone £r
Same as formerly, £l6. **
Gem Phonograph, 30-
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try l
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in Enslaud.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
for making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tartf.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODWILL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining- or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Tenion, Orauge,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
© Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co.. LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco. Perth, W.A.&68, King St., Melbourne
Business Announcements
s>
S 3
I
USE
SPOONER’S
A
SPOONER’S
INTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED, KIDS
**»
rpsaaiiiij,
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning-and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liq uid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc. , Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10/S. CATERER.
Hr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and r o e s d t for Banquets and
Private Bails * e ~ b,e Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
YOUR WATCH
WON’T OO ?
Why not lay it aside and invest in a new one ? Eight
here we introduce to your notice one of our
FAMOUS SILVER KEYLESS LEVERS,
the cases of which are solid silver* The movement is
of the best quality, and manufactured specially for
rough handling. The balance staff pivots rotate in
the best-quality jewels, and the balance itself is com-
pensated. This ensures the watch keeping
Accurate and Reliable Time.
On receipt of the sum of £2 we shall be pleased to
Forward this Watch on Approval,
and if you are dissatisfied with the value we will
return your money. Remember that this watch is
guaranteed 6 years. Thus you can have
Reliable Time for a Penny a Week.
The watch will be forwarded, securely packed and
postage free, to any part of the Australian colonies
nn rpnomf °
n. S, SVIAIR
‘ g ‘
Watchmak er, Jeweller & Optician
684 George Street, Sydney.
r GOUT v
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO,
Tliese invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted, with confidence, as one
or the results of’ the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient,
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence,
( Sole Proprietors, PnouT & Co., 229
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


“ Yangan ” to The Bulletin on certain
Chinese characteristics:—
Spence Evison errs in thinking the Northern Chow
soft. The Shantung man differs from him of the Yangtsze
Valley, as he, in turn, differs from the Kwang Tong—the
typical Southerner. Lengthy residence in those parts has
taught me that the Kwang Tong man is shifty and cruel,
but brave and ever ready to quarrel and plunder. The
Chinese pirates and bandits are mostly Southerners, and
the Kwang Tong and neighboring provinces would be
more difficult to subdue than those in the Yangtsze
Valley, which is peopled by much more inoffensive agri-
culturists. The people in the North, from Shantung,
say, westward to Yunnan and Szechuen, are pastoralists
as well as tillers of the soil, and though not pugnacious,
are brave and readily amenable to discipline! and good
treatment. Perhaps the Northerner has more the attri-
butes of the Northern European, while the Kwang Tong
has the worst traits of the Southerner, leaving the better,
more peaceable qualities of both to the Yangtzse man.
The Southerners alone brave the chances of emigrating ;
the middlemen appear content with their lot, while he
from the North, being a poor hand at commerce, leaves to
his more pushing Southern compatriots the task of
growing cabbages at Rose Bay and washing dirt out and
leprosy in to the shirts laundried in Little Bourke-st.
The various Sunday-school authorities of
three Melb. suburbs lately took a local census as
to the attendance thereat of the suburban young-
sters. It was found that—excluding some 35
families- who were given as of no denomination,
though possibly of very real religion—no less than
80 per cent, of the children attended a Sabbath -
school of some sort. Whereby is evinced the
hollowness of the parson’s cry that he cannot
reach the children and that the State must under-
take the work. Why, the departmental reports
show that not far short of 20 per cent, of Victorian
ohildren are, at present, habitually “ playing the
wag.” The aforesaid census furthur brought to
light the fact that in 1200 families there were no
less than 20 different brands of religion, including
Salvarmy, Bible Christians, and plain, ordinary
Christians.
What has Gen’ral Booth done with the
£100,000 subscribed for his scheme of an “ oversea
colony ” for London slumites ?
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THCB :E'A.MOXJsj
REMEDY EOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Cough, difficulty a smoltToim
Soreness m the Chest, experience dehghtfuUnd and to those who are object toOolda on no r Consumption to develop. Consumption has
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or aotmu» ™ winning a rinse is a-enerallv sufficient
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, ta f g g> g Y
and a Complete Cure is certain. _ ______« .
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearn e. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much'interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfullv,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
doses.
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
■s. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Tnnkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
1 Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. —A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 70, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
1 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.'
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses. —C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ 1 lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
‘ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
wy
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody. S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
“ 1 suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that 1 am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TitELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not .do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. 11. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WUItLOD, Alina, near Maryborough, Victoria.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enochs
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —Thesilent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Coll ins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronohiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.*'
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, — Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of j our Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Branch. Depot i
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
- I^-i^r 1 ::. ■ .. " 1,1 ' - 1 "" '
(LIMITED),
DAFTO (Dalto Illawarra), near SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS,
REFINERS
PROjQTJCERS
OF
FINE SILVER,
• i SmZ.
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
•. Bit AND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of .U classes of GOLD, SILVER, LLroar and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETI’LEMENP ON AGREEMENI of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, eto., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Retained when all other
Food? are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD Is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
refutation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


MV-v*
v
Mean Good Sleep, Good Appetite, Good Blood.
Too Bilious to jljove
TERRIBLE SUFFERINGS OF A BRISBANE CITIZEN.
Medical Men Advise Him Not to Smoke.
He Leaves off Tobacco, but Still
Suffers on.
BILE BEANS ALWAYS SUCCESSFUL.
Another instance of the wonderful power of Bile Beans comes
from Brisbane. Mr. G. Graham, who resides at Lensae-street
Beaumont Estate, Highgate Hill, Brisbane, gave some interesting
particulars of his sufferings and cure by Bile Beans to our re-
presentative. Mr. Graham said :
“By occupation lam a carter, and my age is 31. During the past
ten years I have been a constant sufferer from biliousness, giddi-
ness and headaches, and sometimes through the biliousness I was
unable to move. During these ten years of misery I consulted
numerous doctors, who attributed my symptoms to my habit of
smoking strong tobacco, the discontinuation of which gave me no
relief. I had also tried many patent medicines but obtained no re-
lief whatever, so when a friend advised me to try Bile Beans I had
about lost faith in all medicines in general, but when mv friend
pressed me to give them a trial and accompanied his advice with a box
of the Beans, I promised I should do so. After the first box I felt
a decided improvement and continued a course of five boxes by
which time I felt completely cured. My appetite, which had been
very bad before, returned to an alarming extent. It is now
five months since my cure, and none
of the old symptoms have returned,
and I feel as strong and robust as a
horse.
I have recommended vour Beans to
my friends, and I should like my
recommendation to go further by
your making use of this statement as
I am only too proud to be known as
one of the many who praise Bile
Beans for Biliousness, the working
man’s friend.”
Such is the testimony of Mr
Graham—given for the ' benefit* of
sufferers —to the excellence of Bile
Beans for Biliousness, which are un-
doubtedly the world’s greatest spaci- '
fic for Indigestion, Liver Complaint, .
.Rheumatism, Impure Blood, which
at this period 'reveals itself in the ‘
form of Spring Rashes and Skin
Lruptions generally, Kidney Disease,
Palpitation, Piles and Constipation. <
They are purely a vegetable prepara-
tion, and may be administered in all e
cases without medical supervision. i
Obtainable from all Chemists and *
Storekeepers; price, Is. lid. per <
large box; or direct from the Bile 1
Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt- <,
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Awakened.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mortimer burst into the dressing-room.
“ What d’ye think —Quirk has a real live girl!
Lend me some number three, somebody.”
He rubbed the grease-paint into his full-blooded
cheeks as ho detailed the news to the incredulous
actors.
The company was opening for a fortnight in the
town. Salaries had been miraculously regular,
satisfied publicans were left in each town, and
local mails were largely increased by missives in
feminine hand-writing, re-directed many times by
cursing post - officials. Assistant-stage-manager
Quirk—a lanky creature of toppling angles, tame
enthusiasm, and pretty delicacies —had been a jest
to Mortimer all along. But the antipathy became
pronounced in Brisbane, when Quirk refused to
make one in a Sunday-drive party. Mortimer’s
lady of the intended quartet had a duenna sister
to be diverted. Of the company, Quirk alone was
free, and could give no legitimate reason for not
obliging his fellow-man. He blushed as girls are
supposed to, looked unhappy, stuttered, and ran
away from the proposer. So Mortimer had a
wasted day, while Quirk remained in his hotel
with a Latin grammar and a missal. Hencefor-
ward Mortimer flung enlightening anecdotes at
Quirk as regards his ridiculous virtue, and
drew pointed morals from the appalling nervous-
ness that beset the assistant-stage-manager.
“He was talking hard in her ear all the way
down the street. I followed—ankles, boys,
beautiful ankles and a silk petticoat. They
turned into the Cathedral . . .”
“You can’t beat churches for dark corners,”
commented the heavy man—a veteran.
“ And sometimes the organ-loft is unlocked ”
added an experiencer of thirty years in the
business.
“But they were kneeling—where the light was
strongest—he’s working the religious racket, you
see.”
Quirk shambled into the room. He was made
up in a footman’s whiskers, and his wire legs were
more than usually irresponsible in stockings. At
his hilarious reception, his knees wobbled and
misery came into his face.
“Shake hands, old man,” said Mortimer with
genuine heartiness. “ I owe you a public apology
—you’re a man ! Why didn’t you say you had a
girl to be faithful to—we never guessed. You
took us all in.”
Quirk’s face grew more wretched under the
lining. The idea of sex always hurt him, he flew
from it and from Mortimer, who embodied half of
it. And the word “girl” from Mortimer’s red
lips had a significance that was a violation.
“ Three months since you’ve seen her, and not
looked at another since. You’re a man I admire,
though its beyond me. Shake hands, laddie,—
why, you can give points to us all.”
Quirk did not give his hand.
“ Is—er—it another of your obscene jokes ? ” he
quavered.
“We know all about it—that girl you were with
this afternoon.”
Quirk jerked his head like a fowl.
“Mr. Mortimer, I don’t want any of your
blackguardly insinuations—please.”
It might have been delivered by a pettish school-
girl.
Mortimer’s eyes wrinkled eloquently.
“’Twon’t do, Quirky. I saw you. Where did
you pick her up? You’ll introduce me, won’t
you ? ”
Quirk was beyond control. He struck Mor-
timer on the temple—with a most absurdly in-
effective right. Mortimer dodged some of it and
laughed, while the others held Quirk, who actually
sobbed. He appealed to them all, to their sense
of decency, to the memory of their mothers ; he
grew chaotic and unintelligible till they all
laughed. Then he called names, and they pushed
him out to get cool when he threatened broken
bottles for the next man that baited him.
“That’s the result of the girl,” said Mortimer,
re-blackening an eyebrow that Quirk had smudged.
“ He hadn’t ginger enough before. I told him so
all along. He’ll soon improve.”
But Quirk was more than usually blundering
that night. He nearly forgot to change and was
going on for a policeman in his shirt-sleeves; he got
his lights muddled and sent the.supers on too
soon. The manager talked volcanically, and
Quirk returned to liis hotel hopelessly miserable
and soon to be made more so. For the landlord,
with apologies, asked him, as the hotel was un-
usually crowded, would he mind sharing a room
with Mr. Mortimer? It was too late to go else-
where, and he had to assent for that night, though
the prospect of more Mortimer was dreadful. He
ate his supper of pickles and ginger-ale, and turned-
in and read his Latin Grammar in bed till the
laughter in the bar ceased and he heard Mortimer
on the stairs. Then he outed the candle and pre-
tended to be asleep. Mortimer lurched into the
room, fumbled, and lit the candle. He was only
three-quarters mellow, and apostrophised the
huddled-up Quirk.
“ Man’s a marvel ! . . . Faithful to one girl for
three months. You’re a freak, Quirk, a pheno-
menal freak. You’re a model in the profession—
why, ye could star yourself.”
He undressed —admiring his hairy chest-muscles.
“ What’s your religion been to you ? That’s what
bothers me. Doesn’t make you fat. You can
hardly carry yer own portmanteau. Ye’re a
rotten study. You ain’t happy.” . . .
He got into bed quite content with monologue.
“ Told you so all along. Get a girl of yer own —
or somebody else’s —no matter so long as it’s girl.
Stick to her as long as yer can—when you can’t,
get another.” . . .
He extinguished the candle, which was out of
reach, by throwing a sock at it.
“Goo’ night, Quirky, old chap . . . he’s
sleep. . . . Three months ... damn it, it’s a
record.”
Not even beer could make Mortimer a heavy
sleeper. He was awakened by someone whisper-
ing. Had he been dreaming ?—no, there it was
again. Surely he heard his own name —it sounded
like his, through the keyhole He certainly had not
expected any angels’ visits. He turned his head
on the pillow, and saw in the dimness the white
figure of Quirk kneeling by his bed, praying per-
fervidly to be saved from Mortimer, and for
Mortimer to be saved from himself.
Mortimer listened to the whispered invocation
with curious amusement. He heard various un-
known saints appealed-to on behalf of his soul,
and the proceedings appeared impertinent—but
at the petition that he should change his life—he
was annoyed, and began to plot revenge. He did
not want to change his life, and was not going to
allow a freak to pray for him.
* * * *
It was the last piece of the season, and Morti-
mer was finished in the first act. He had soon
forced an introduction to the girl—a Laura Ede-
son. Even in the cipher presence of Quirk the
.acquaintance deepened into intimacy—thanks to
the privileges of the profession. To-night she was
to be at the gardens, where there were to be music
and illuminations ; it was almost an appointment.
Of course she would have a companion—to
“prude” for her. Mortimer took a brother-
artist to talk to the companion—the heavy man
who was gouty and could not walk far.
He manoeuvred her up the hill to look at the
illuminations. A step further and the crest shut
them out; it was dark, and the voices and the
music were united to a murmur. The air was
tremulous and warm as a breath. Other couples
passed on into the darkness of the trees. Soft
words, low laughter, and eloquent silences went
with them.
Laura was animated and talkative. Mortimer
replied, throwing whole “balcony-scenes” of affec-
tion into every commonplace.
“ I’m sorry Mr. Quirk couldn’t get away. Poor
fellow, he works too hard. He’ll never save all
the money he wants to.”
“ P’raps not,” said Mortimer, lifting her elbow
over a bank and keeping it.
“There are so many expenses, travelling, and it
costs such a lot to become a priest.”
Mortimer was not paying much attention to her
revelations as such, He had not come out to dis
cuss Quirk’s prospects. His own feelings absorbed
him ; he was radiating tenderness ; the situation
demanded placid yielding to the spirit of the
scene, and her rapid prose was out of harmony
with a night created on purpose. Silence he
could have understood, but this made him doubt
himself.
“ And he’s so good—you’ve no idea of the trou-
ble he took to get Ma to turn .”
“ Turn —what?”
“ Catholic, you know ... he sent her books,
and introduced her to the bishop.”
Mortimer had won her waist without resistance
—or even notice, apparently. At no time did he
depend on his eloquence so much as on a timely
patience for developments. He was beginning to
hear a forced note in her talk—was it to allow
herself to appear unconscious ?
“ And he has been trying to convert me, too —
only I’m stupid.”
“ Why didn’t he commence with you—l would,”
he said.
“ Would you ? ” looking at him—her eyes in the
starlight all woman.
The necessary uncontrollable impulse came to
him, and he kissed her.
With a wild cry she flung herself on his breast.
“ I knew—l knew you would save me.”
She was his right enough ; she returned his
kisses and clung to him, but he was puzzled.
“ Save you from what ? ”
“From the convent —from their religion.”
“ From where ? ”
‘‘ Ma’s new one. She wants me to be a nun now;
when she was a Bible Christian she wanted me to
be a missionary. I get religion day and night. I
hate it. I hate everything. But you will save
me. I knew I couldn’t be mistaken when I saw
you. You will save me—you will ?”
Of course he would ; but he was troubled all the
same. He had expected intrigue, not romance.
Passion was expensive in entanglements. It
made him think, and thought is fatal. He found
she had plans elaborated, and he began to feel
angry.
“You will speak to the manager for me. lam
sure I can act.
“ It’s a hard life, and perhaps —”
“ Not with you—my husband ! ”
The word was a cold bath to him.
“ Damn it—no ! I’ve a wife and two children
in Melbourne.”
She dropped with a low moan at his feet, as one
dead.
Mortimer, bending over her, received a stagger-
ing blow. It was on the other temple, from Quirk,
who was before him, absolutely mad.
“ I knew you were here, and I rung the curtain
down too soon, and I’ve been discharged, and 1
don’t care if you do kill me.” . ,
Mortimer was angry this time and settled Quirk s
mad rush with a knock-out. Laura sprang to the
prostrate man, and Mortimer thought he had
better leave.
“ It’s a moral victory for me, anyway,” he mur-
mured—to his pride.
Quirk did not return to the business. He took
a fancy-goods shop and managed to marry Laura
Edeson. But he never thanked Mortimer.
VIC.
THE STROLDER.
Welland—the Newcastle (N.S. W.) butcher
against whom a Mrs. Pearson recently obtained a
verdict for £1250 for the seduction of her daughter
—has filed his schedule. Getting a verdict is a
very different thing from getting the cash.
“ Pedagogue ” to The Bulletin :
Suppose you are a public school-teacher with a griev-
ance, say, about salary. You interview “ The Depart-
ment”—in your best clothes. A mistake ! You ought
to put on your old patched pants (or, if a “ female,” the
dress with the frayed hem), and so give them an object-
lesson. The Department isn’t too bad, and you are not
kept waiting more than three solid hours, which time you
pass wondering what all the blue papers piled up in the
bare room are about, and speculating as to the age of the
fig-trees outside. There’s a permanent photograph of
those fig-trees on the brain of every public school-teacher
in N.S.W. They are synonymous with ancient—very
ancient—red tape.
Well, when you see the Department at last, it doesn’t
break your back with a stick. In fact, it is really sympa-
thetic, but is quite sure the Public Service Board -won’t
entertain your case for a moment. You suggest trying
it. “ Not a bit of use, my dear sir.” In spite of that
you bring your guns to bear on the P.S.B. over the street,
and you fondly hope things will be better when you lose
sight of those d d fig-trees.
“ Not in. Just gone out. You must have met him on
the stairs. Yes, Mr. is in ; will you see him?”
“ Yes, anyone,” you say in desperation. Mr. is a
gentleman ; you see that at a glance. He’ll do his best
for you, but “we generally leave these matters to the
Department. Mr. manages these things ; you should
see him.” “Saw him five minutes ago; said it was a
matter for the P. 5.8.” Silence! “Um! write a letter,
and we will do what we can for you.”
You go away gladly to write the letter, an ’ begin to
plan what you’ll do with that £2O rise which the De-
partment, you think, has been chiselling you out of for
the past four years !
An answer from the P.S.B. ; so polite and respectful ;
so different from the Departmental memos. Your heart
leaps—but only for a moment. The P.S.B. has referred
the matter to the Department. Later, a letter from the
Department to the effect that a communication has been
received from the P. 5.8., and it does not see the necessity
for granting your request. You feel yourself between
the lion and the bear, and you would like to know which
is the bete noire, and, also, though of secondary import-
tance, how matters are made a necessity for either of ’em !
The Crow and the Pitcher
A MORAL.
A certain crow, who had been haranguing a
ward caucus all the evening, had contracted a
large, importunate thirst.
As he was looking about to find some means of
relieving himself of this same thirst, he discovered
a pitcher which contained water.
But the pitcher was very large, and the quantity
of water it contained was small, and reposed
at the very bottom of the pitcher.
For anatomical reasons the crow could not dip
his bill into the water, and drink from the pitcher
as it was.
Nor was there any use in trying to pour out the
water, for the crow could not lift the pitcher.
Besides, he had no cup.
But he was a wise crow, and also persistent,_ and
he immediately resolved himself into a committee
of the whole on ways and means, and hatched out
a solution of the problem.
He picked a pebble from many lying around and
dropped it into the pitcher.
He kept on dropping pebble after pebble in the
pitcher, until the water approached near enough
to the top for him to drink, and he slaked his
thirst with ease.
What a splendid moral there is in the action of
that wise crow. Dear reader, see the moral in
our light. We are proprietors of the famous
Bile Beans for Biliousness. So many people try
one dose, one box, of Bile Beans, and expect to
be cured of an ailment that has taken years to
fasten itself in the system. Bile Beans, if given
a fair show, will cure nearly every ailment that
is the result of a sluggish liver’s action and a weak
stomach. The cost is only per large box,
and surely you can afford to make one, two, or
three trips, if necessary, to prove the moral of the
crow ana the pitcher, namely, that perseverance
in the right direction means victory. Bile Beans
persevered in give health—that great blessing
that should and could be possessed by us all if
we persevered, and not expect that the first few
Beans would enable us to drink of the pitcher of
health. Health was not lost in a day, therefore
it cannot be regained in a casual manner.
A HINT.
Summer sickness may be prevented by Spring
renovation, but any haphazard attempt at the
latter may only the more surely prepare the
system for the former. If “a stitch in time saves
nine ” when applied to our garments, it may apply
with equal truth and felicity to the body the gar-
ments envelop. Bile Beans for Biliousness wifi
prepare the system for the Summer; they are an
ideal spring medicine. The Summer will soon
be upon us, and at this time of year we should
take care to cleanse the whole human system and
fortify it to withstand the enervating effects of
the Australian Summer. The increasing Lot
weather of this period has an extremely debilitat-
ing effect on the system if it is not in perfect
order all through. It will thus be seen that a
medicine which will regulate and cleanse the in-
terior mechanism of man is especially valuable at
this time of the year. Such a medicine is Bile
Beans, and no better preparation can be found
for toning up the digestive organs, cleansing th,
blood, ana invigorating the liver.


BUILT UP ON NATURE’S PLAN.
MELLINS
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted, for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
mULLIN’S FOOD AND MELUN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ADD DEALERS,
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
a?
KEEPS THE SKIN
COCL. AND
EEFiESEED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
So/e Makers M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimavade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
m,
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Kheumatio
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
HeldYrhI e w al for Acldit y of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
k
„ _.. „ Sold Throughout the World.
N.B.—ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
An Ideal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She came with the delicate rose of the dawn,
Ere my soul had forgotten the night;
Her kiss was as sunshine that fell on my brow,
And the world was aglow with delight.
She danced in her daintiness, far from me then,
Yet her smiles made a sudden pulse start:
I sought her, with limbs all electric with love,
And the heat of desire in my heart.
She showed me a peak that was crested with fire,
And it tow’red like a Titan on high ;
I knew, when ’twas scaled, I should hold her again,
And no death should dissever the tie.
Then, red with the sense of the beauty of her,
As she guided, I followed the way,
And scorned all the dullards who delved in the
fields
That so tame and so tutored were they.
I slew the wild fears that arose and outcried
And would scare from the end to be won,
Nor yet did I faint in the stony ravines
That had borrowed the breath of the sun.
I conquered the thickets that hindered my hope,
Though they tore and retarded a while ;
My spirit was spurred to its purpose again
By the light of her wonderful smile.
I knew never a fear of the forest-bred shapes,
Nor of turbulent torrents to pass—
But soon was betrayed by mine enemy, Earth,
To the clutch of a giant morass :
Then darkened the fires that had filled me before,
In the evil embrace of the snare ;
Till, wrestling no more with the depths of the
slime,
I surrendered my strength to despair.
No longer she beams, for the graces have gone
That were witching and radiant to see ;
She sorrows apart with the tears on her face,
And her eyes are a torment to me.
I laugh at the hopes that outbalanced my power
With a scorn that’s too bitter to speak ;
Like blossoms polluted they rest in the mire,
While the glory still flames on the peak.
But yet she is near me, though dim and forlorn,
In the face of the hurrying night;
And, fast though it bind me, the mind cannot mar
All the vision I have of the height.
So, therefore, I know she’ll be gracious again,
And that, flushing and .smiling and sweet,
She will stoop in her beauty to kiss me once more
When I’m ragged and dead at her feet.
n.s.w.
CECIL POOLE.
The Return.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No change after all the years!” He looked
back at the white-roofed station where the grey-
haired porter still stared from the door of the
lamp-room. A yellow dogcart rattled down the
stony lane where the dark poplars loomed so
straight against the sky.
He stood unnoticed near the station parapet.
Across the fields on his left a tiny footbridge
spanned the Avon, giving it the appearance of a
cross-hilted sword. He was waiting for the wind
to lift across Thorndyke’s meadow so that he
might again feel the sharp ecstasy of briar and
hawthorn and thedelicate sting of new-mown hay.
A sail-less boat wound up stream; the rooks caw-
ing in the poplars brought back the memory of
George Eliot’s house, its dark eaves, its rook-
infested shadows. A mackerel cloud dappled the
purple silence above the close-packed meadows.
The desired wind came, filling him with the odour
of nuts, and broom, and earth that had drunk
deeply of rain. How sweet it was after the reek-
ing eucalypt, the stench of hides, and the vile
atmosphere of the woolsheds !
“Home again! home again!” Here in this
pebble-strewn English lane he shouted it from
hedge to hedge where the drooping red - may
trailed like women’s skirts over bank and ditch.
The harebells nodded ; the nettle-choked hollows
gave up their incense. It was good, and his suffo-
cating heart answered with a leap.
Beyond the grey palings of Kenyon’s mill he
espied the russet angles of a wide-eaved Eliza-
bethan house. The scullery smoke wound in white
ropes over the slate-roofed outbuildings.
He stayed for a moment against Kenyon’s
palings, and the throb of the mill brought to mind
the beat of the liner’s engines that had borne him
years ago to Australia. The passage-out had
been full of tropic wonders and new friends, of
nights when the black glamour of the sea reflected
the roof of a heaven deep and wide and flowered
with stars. He had stayed in Egypt for one mad
week to initial many wine-cards, and to fraternise
on Shepheard’s verandah with the posing Chasseurs
d’Afrique. He had feasted his eyes upon naked
humanity, passed with well-bred insolence the
veiled women near the citron-shaded seraglios.
He had heard the click, click of shuttered windows
when Zuleika peeped to admire his cream-white
skin and to compare him with the light of her
days—the querulous, pock-marked Ben Abdullah.
There were days of hand-shaking on the Palace
steps with pashas who spoke of Arabi, and remem-
bered Plevna and the Red Day at Kars.
The past was the past; but his seven nights in
Egypt stung him yet with the witchery of purple
darkness, and the desert that gave up a white
Asian moon to gorge his senses with the brick-red
splendor of the East. The rest of his life had been
spent amongst cattle-men and shearers in the
back-blocks of Queensland, where, in eight years,
he learned to sweep a woolshed floor and sit a
squealing buckjumper before the crack riders from
the Maranoa and the Castlereagh. Also, he had
humped a swag and cadged his way from the Dia-
mantina to the Murray Bridge. Tar and grease
had smeared his gilt-edged pride. Sick of the
solitudes, craving with a fierce nostalgia that
burned in every vein, he had hied himself to Sand-
ringham Pier and plotted with the stokers of
many ocean-tramps. His home-coming had been
by way of a wool-ship, and the story of his passage
round the Cape would make profitable reading for
intending stowaways.
* * m *
He glanced again at the brown-gabled Eliza-
bethan house, and down at his wire-gabled boots.
If he would reach the side-door unperceived he
must scale the boundary wall, and creep along
under cover of the hedge before the dogs scented
him. If the servants were new they would stop
him cheerfully on the threshold and send for the
local policeman. If they were those who knew
him in the old days they might recognise him
through an inch of beard ; but the betting seemed
to favor the arrival of the policeman before he
could deliver his opening statement.
Two well-dressed Americans passed him without
a glance. One of them twirled an orange stick
until he seemed to invest it with his own over-
flowing vitality.
“Yes, sir; this country was made for Shake-
speare. Isn’t that Judith’s place? Ah, well, I
guess it’s Ann Hathaway’s. Well, we’re here,
anyhow, and I opine that it’s greener than Ken-
tucky. Shakespeare’s land. Yes, sir.”
They passed towards Stratford with gesticu-
lating arms. Once more he stole past Kenyon’s
palings, eyeing his shabby clothes and smiling
grimly. In the years of his absence he had
dreamed how he might return in splendour to his
people —something neat in the way of a silver-
mounted brougham and three Jap postilions had
filled his eye. In the warm Gulf nights he had
planned stealthy, indefinable tricks in finance
whereby he would scoop much cash and the bitter
hatred of capitalists. But his altitudes of
midnight imagery were always dissolved by the
fierce light of the sun, and evening found him
with the lotos-eaters on some palm-lined beach,
or tramping wearily in quest of the Happy Station
where the overseer spoke kind words to the
famishing swagman.
* * * *
His defeat seemed colossal, and his triumphant
return was by way of the side-door. Nothing in
the world distressed him so much as the thought
of what his father would say.
But there was one at least in this very respect-
able house who would look at him through tears.
He braced-up.
The cawing of rooks depressed him a little ; it
recalled the quorking Australian crow, and he
wanted very badly to forget the naked plains, the
silence-haunted jungles of North Queensland —he
wanted to forget them for ever.
It was nearly eight o’clock now, but the light
held all along the green vistas of Stratford. A
smell of burning larch hung about the shadows.
Eave and roof and spire caught the light from the
western sky.
The wall scaled, he crouched nearer under the
hedge. Suddenly a crimson stain illumined the
oak-shadowed window ; he saw a hand clasp the
crystal bowl of a lamp and move it into the centre
of a table. The sharp gravel bit his thin soles as
he slunk across the drive. For a moment he stood
in the porch with a trembling hand lifted to the
bell. What would they say ? Would they re-
member him ? He drew a long breath and dragged
fit the brass handle as though it were a tooth ; and
wires and bell answered with the tongues of a fury
that had awaited his home-coming for centuries.
The sound pealed and raged, and the atmosphere
of respectability was shaken to shreds. He
braced himself against the portico and waited for
kinship and love to spring at him from the
silence.
* * * *
The door opened; a strange man in plum-
coloured livery stood, like the embodiment of
Rebuke, in the yellow avenue of wainscot; his
thin sharp nose suemed to retreat from the in-
truder as though he were an abominable smell.
“What do you want?” he said quietly. In his
hand was a bunch of cellar-keys which he rattled
and spun around the tip of his little finger. He
was contemptuously amused. “ There is a scullery
door, my man ; why didn’t you go round to the
scullery door ? ”
♦ * * *
In the mind of the home-comer there leaped a
sudden hatred against this sneering image, a
hatred that fought down to his finger-tips until he
controlled a desire to catch the liveried body and
fling it against the respectable wainscot. Instead,
he took off his battered Australian hat and crossed
the threshold.
“I’m the long-lost son,” he said steadily.
“ There now, you’d better let me in.”
The plum-coloured image of respectability
smiled. “What do you want, please?” He
made a weary gesture with his keys as though it
were his duty to be bored. “ Please stand off the
oilcloth, young man ; oilcloths have to be cleaned.
Now, what do you want? ”
“Neither money nor food,” said the home-
comer cheerfully. “ I want to see mother. Don’t
stare because I happen to look like the old man
of the sea. I’ve been playing with the pigs, and
I’m dirty. I’ve arrived. I’m prodigal Jimmy.
You’d better tell mother. Afterwards I’ll kick
you, so help me God ! ”
A finger-plated door opened noiselessly. A man
with a white forehead and thin lips stood craning
forward in the tinted lamp-glow. He made no
gesture, but his narrow eyes struck a lightning
gleam of recognition. This was the man who
haunted the home-comer’s dreams, looming always
through the misty years like a frowning Bona-
parte ; smileless, austere, and with a brain and eye
that overlooked pyramids but remembered the
microscopic sand-shells at the pyramid’s base.
Like the Corsican he stooped forward, while the
unuttered words that hung on his lips took lan-
guage in his eyes.
“ Ah, you have returned at last—you who
bragged ! Do you remember how you bragged ?
Oh ! you failure ! ”
The butler twirled his keys mechanically ; he
even advanced half a pace to adjust the screen of
the incandescent lamp.
Some fair-haired children and three strapping
boys stole from a near room and regarded the
home-comer critically. The words “Australia . . .
Jim . . . comeback” seemed to freeze on their
lips.
And Jim the wanderer straightened himself un-
consciously. He said: “Well, I’m Jim. I’ve
come home . . . I’m Jim!”
Nobody answered. The butler twirled his keys.
“I’m Jim,” he reiterated. He had become
wildly certain that no one had heard him. “ Well,
I’ve come back.”
The man with the white forehead and thin lips
turned hastily into the lamp-lit room. His part-
ing words seemed to come through iron walls
away back from the beginning of things. “You
bragged . . . you failure ! Bah ! ”
An inner door closed with a snap. The butler
stared at the antlers over the coat-rack and twirled
his keys.
* * * *
The home-comer stepped forward and paused.
He wanted to rush after the man with the white
forehead and cry out, “Father ! father ! I tried ;
but the world beat me ! ”
The children retreated with fear, disappoint-
ment, panic, in their eyes.
High above him were winding balustrades where
griffins gaped at the prancing unicorns over the
stair-head. The dark curtains moved from the
touch of a hand; a grey-haired woman came
slowly, very slowly, along the corridor and peered
do.wn. “ Children, children,” she said gently ;
“go back to your lessons; you must not annoy
your father.”
One of the boys mounted a stair in frantic haste,
gesticulating with both hands.
“Mamma! . . . it’s Jim, Jim from Australia!
. . . He’s come back ! . . . Quick ! . . . mamma,
it’s Jim ! ”
For a moment Jim quailed. HI saw the white
hands open and shut, saw the two brown eyes
spring at him like hungry stilettos. The distance
between them was not great, just a stair and a
hand-rail. He made an upward step slowly, then
caught the words on her lips, and the years of
black shame struck him again. There was nothing
between them ; he looked for the fierce reproach
in her eyes, but her hands were upon him before
he could fling himself upon his knees.
“James, James ! ... So you have come back :
Ah, God has been good to me at last ... I
thought. . . And you wrote twice in eight years—
twice in eight years. Back from the South . . .
My dear, I welcome you; indeed, indeed I wel-
come you. Oh, James! . . . twice in eight
years ! ”
“Mother, I failed!” He dropped his hands
and shut his eyes. “• The world doesn’t want me
. . . And I got left.” His wild hair, yet matted
with the salt of three oceans, was caressed by her
hand. “I’ve done with the world. I want
nothing, nothing; yet I came here . . . from the
outside of things . . . mother, where there was a
jungle deep, so deep, and a plain . . . Red ca-ttle
... oh yes, red-eyed, white-mouthed—tramping,
tramping, tramping. There were shags and
lags, blue grass, palms, and blackfellows that hid
in scrub and watched us . . . all about the lagoons.
This England is green and cold. Let me think !
let me think ! Oh, mother, I don’t want any-
thing, I don’t, I don’t! ”
“ James, James, you need not ask; the measure
shall be thrice filled. You have come.” She
stood up, resting on his shoulders, as she turned
with sudden menace to the wide-mouthed group
below. “Children, this is your brother James.
He has come from oversea. Some of you do not
remember. He is my first-born son. This land
and house are his to inherit. He is not poor;
he is rich because he is my son. Children ”...
Like an unleashed pack they hustled forward
and fell upon him with the ferocity of young
brothers.
“ Hulloa, Jim ! . . . Come away, you, Reuben,
let go his hand ! Jim . . . Oh . . . Say, Jim,
you didn’t bring any boomerangs . . . Hal’s got a
spear . . . from a Lascar . . . Albert Docks . . .
Great Spear. Come and look . . . Jim, what’s
the highest mountain in Victoria? . . . You let
go our Jim’s hand, d’ye hear, let go ! . . . Well,
I’ve seen a nully-nully in a museum, anyhow . . .
Isn’t he brown? Say, Jim, the Murrumbidgee
isn’t half as long as the Amazon, you know. Jim
. . . Oh, we’re glad you’re home . . . Mother
used to cry . . . Said you’d perished over there
. . . No fear ... he wouldn’t . . . Good old
Jim !”
• * * *
The bedroom in the west wing smiled at him
with white, familiar walls. The garden under-
neath, with its may-burdened hedgerows, smote
him with a fear of unreality.
He struck himself severely on the breast.
With all his vaunted bohemiamsm he felt that he
was coming under the vile influence of mullioned
windows.
A gentle tap at the door sent him hastily across
the room. The plum-colored butler was standing
outside, staling into the depths of some unfathom-
able abyss. There were no keys in his hand, but
the parched, unrelenting lines still held his mouth
in an iron curb of respectability. Jim faced him
half desperately, feeling that here at last was an
opportunity to get level with the oppressive
guardian of conventionalities.
“Well?” he said, bitingly. “What do you
want ? ”
For a moment the butler seemed to relax ; his
plum-coloured waistcoat took a gentler shade.
“Any orders? My lady . . . insists . . . your
commands .. . carried out immediately. Hot
water at eight. You will shave? Hot or cold?”
A frown darkened Jim’s brow. “ S’pose I can
shave if I like. S’pose I can have hot water if I
like. Is there anything in this house that I can’t
have?” he said, bitterly.
The butler wiped his lips delicately with a piece
of cambric; his frozen mien was fast thawing ;
feudal abasement lurked in his voice and joints.
“ Certainly. Sorry shaving not my duty though.
Saunders will be your man. Will tell Saunders
now. My lady orders . . . everything possible
. . . to be done. Breakfast at eight. Two gongs.
Good-night—sir.”
“ Oh, well; oh, well.” The frown relaxed from
Jim’s brow; he watched the respectable figure
dawdle down the corridor. “Oh, well . . . good-
night, old chap ! ”
ALBA DORION.
“A sink of iniquity” is little Parson
Mullineaux’s verdict on Johannesburg. Parsons
say that of all big cities —present scribe heard it
of Sydney and Melbourne before he came to Aus-
tralia—but the Rev. Mulli. is a man and a foot-
baller who doesn’t look at things with the eye of a
Jeremiah. And what he says about Johannes-
burg is what they all say.
The old R.C. Cathedral at Christchurch
(M.L.), a brick structure 108 ft. by 86ft., was lately
moved bodily 400 ft. away to make room for a new
cathedral. All the contents were taken out, the
stained-glass windows removed and the slates
taken off the roof. Then the building was raised
on sleepers, and three traction-engines and all the
screwjacks in the city did the rest.
The slow, slow grind of the legal mill.
Some time in the long, long ago one Hudson
sued Vic. railway department for damages over
something or other, and this was the gradual
course of the mill as it ground out the question at
issue between Hudson and the Vic. railway de-
partment. First trial, jury disagreed. Second
trial, Hudson got verdict for £750. Third trial,
(appeal to higher court) ’Hudson lost his £750, and
was left with nothing but costs. Fourth trial,
(appeal to still higher court) Hudson got back his
£750 —mostly gone in costs by this time. Fifth
trial to come yet; God knows what will happen
to Hudson. Sixth trial also in the far distance.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers All Due to Impure Blood.
Read how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
z
WMI
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Rose Road, Surry Hills, Sydney, New So Wales send*
monial ; above of her daughter, together 4h tie following
I WaS s " fferin S terribly from eczem a on both her hands and feet
heln f d any re “ ed i es wltllout succe ss. Remembering I had received great
help fiom Dr. Ayer s Sarsaparilla myself I began tr> if m T a &^ eat
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier?” 17
Such cures always follow the use of
tt
The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
and * *S» be rich, too. Dr.
is what you need and what you can mnVk-lv w £ me blood. That
reliable remedy a good trial Get vonr hin on * y S* ve this old,
with depression, nervousness, general some CSS*
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is your tongue coated? Are your bowels constipated? AYER'S PILLS.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge’s lung Tonic
has been curing'
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN you ASIC FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hi
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
cop valour.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
-paR B.hous and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
J Giddiness, 1< ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills Flush
J^ eat ’ Lo f of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis
turbed bleep, and all Nervous and Prembling- Sensations &c THE
WILT, GIVE BKLIJOT IN TWENTY MINUTES. This S nfjcHon Everfsiffe™? 3 ?
‘ nv i Le d to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females? to complete health Tlnvr
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a ’ T
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen ed°-e of appetite and
arousing with the R< Be:iui> ok Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are facts’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
JNervous and Debilitated is that Beerham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Aledieme in
he world. l<ull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens , Lancashire, ENBLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9J,d, Is and 2s 9d each.
fa
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KM BRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about ‘
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in .and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALII’
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody : public speaking made easy. i s 6d Dost
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is Cd. 1 *
Dr. Carver’s Tr:cks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post is 3d. ’
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is6d posted"
Lovers Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true historvl
Is 6d posted. ‘
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sontrs
Is 3d post free. “ ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
l/r. Hu"lre"di of SPECIAL J»Hf Uff Z'lTy KbSSA ITT
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere!
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
The Joiliest Book of the
“ON OUR SELECTION,’’ by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
f
SeN'Sen &
FARRINGDON AVENUE
EONDCSN.
T
TO
51N6E85 & SPEAKERS
mm
Wi
im
/ >/■
Si*
Perfume
Mm
cP
ve
reft
af
o
IRISH
80MNINGT0N*S
IRISH MOSS
rags
• GEORGE* BONN INGTON
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
URES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


PERDRIIII * CO
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
rH|cq
d. Foot
sd. Foot
6d.
Foot
9d. Foot
GARDEN HOSE
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND .
CONTRACTORS. -
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brockman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
. ... IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
trade mark-
34
Clarence Street
i ’>' r ‘ O'." .'.- -4 yy' : ' *< 4'■ y ’i ■ ''• '. i'l »V'Oj ■'■' .’ .. /-■' ■ A '.>' '’; 1
Mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
■4OU
<S>HE jfisßpr
J. & J. MAXFTELD, PBOPRS., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ the block,'’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE EADIES.
W- C- Sc CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
4.0 YOltk s i Iti-i'. t', SYDNISV
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post i rom, ail the colonies promptly
attended to.
60
ROBERTS’
George and gjj fl TF 1
Market-Sts. il* U* ■
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCO A
| BREAKFAST SUPPER
OKTE
HERE’S
* his 52S5KE*-*• ** - n ° ito ■" “ c " e,ess about their wppiy ° f Mat ' the wo ° dor 13 th “ lhOT
are not more deaths. There will be ! !
A had three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was ■^|^^.^§4??y 1 'be°en payinffm ah SemfflTfiomtts diseased anime l * for soma
supplier who sent his milk to tlie S^j^^goLD^ IN SYDNEY°TOdDAY ! This is no fairy tale, but an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an inc * i -a case ;
months past. THIS JVLHjIV iJUjiiv vj
there are many, alas! too many of a similar nature. CATTLE
INrSRECTIOBJ oF 3=>AT^ IIBS * A ’ lXri:: !„^rl ai -7.vtbr,mnp-blvinsnected as well asthe premises and utensils used. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every wwinec^y. e y tion r | ])e y B j,k p \i era because of their strict methods of inspection. _
from If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with ne; but if you want to
weaklings, or be weak, then Don’t.
HARBOUR STREET. SYDNEY. _
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE COY., Ltd.
II Pateson,
COMPRESSORS,
>
7
ROCK
DRILLS
af
I n g-e rso 11-Se r geant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. 'Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
THE INCEBSOIL-SERGEANT DRILL CO.,
“ New Ingersoll.”
ARKE & LACY C°.! L T .°.-
’ ' ' ' 3XT.S.-W.
Blake Steam Pumps
i
Seiis
'
laiaai
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES
» IVen
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!!SSH
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. YINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
"I'll Try Tt
t
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10a. 6d.
Sol* Aokhts :
The Remit
DRUNKEN NESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS
Address— MALlNC REMEDY CO.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNET.
Cl'rnlv & nr*- *t . K/<! * +
