

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
à
<^XT^gl^J>Erg , asS3EZ33 COCOA JES^:’3? 5 3Ft.A.<z;rr o>3F« "rur a
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
o
107
SycajnLey,
Miniiig Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Eecmisitea
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
JEFFREY
“Hr f “ Fr
Baffler. Steel an* Specie! CHAINS
JJOTICE TO MEX.BOURXS VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL* oppositeS»-
hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TAllli I '*' tor
Boarders, Us. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss ntt SYDNEY.
«M« tor The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating and. Conveying' Machinery . . .
Chain Bfftjnsr, Steal Cable Conreyors Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances CoaL Ow *ad
Gram Handling Machm«ry, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery. *ppnane», VH> ttd
A 1 WHISKY.
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
á
I
â
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient fioteL
D.S . MA! R
2 P
nn
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
rest Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should 3 on
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, &S 4 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
& W' t
IjrW
a/i
co
9
4
©60,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
WtfWEEg
LEATHER
gELTINQ
The juettuiiAg x»ext ox iiujsQ'alia.
Unsnrpaiwd for Durability and Cheapness.
tj»ed exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Piiees and Samples Free to xj address.
j. C. LUDOWICfSc SON, LTD.,
117 ■STorlt Stx'eet,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aw-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia
“ Tales of tlie System.”
k'RICE la. ... per P«* 1«- M.
JOSHUA’S «E3!sissB^iL
BOOMERANG BRANDY
The London Times '" A Sound, Honest JBrandy.”
The* Lancet :— ■** Gf a Fragrance, Purity and Quality second
to none.”
The British Medical Journal : — " A Pure Product, well
worth the attention of the Profession.”
These qualities are further testified to by
many hospitals and medical men.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (InvereH}
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST VmZMs*
aOSTRRLII.
tSy Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Yol 21.—N0. 1053. j
fSaturday, April 21, 1900.
Efg'stroJ at the Genera! Peat Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper;


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
.. BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT, and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
C.*S
lIU TIMC
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G-. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 a.nd 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. *
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED RAGE.
The Modem Woman.
Here lies the body of Sarah Ann :
Her soul ’* in the bosom of Abraham.
It’s all very well for Sarah Ann —
But how about poor old Abraham?
THAT is the verse which comes into my
mind as I lie in the sun smoking,
savouring and assimilating the im-
pressions of Laura Marholm Hansson.
(Tn her later book the husband’s Hansson
does not appear, and the lady is titled Laura
Marholm only—which may or may not be
significant.)
I.
Laura Marholm is a German authoress
springing from Norway, apparently still
living in the neighbourhood of Berlin. In
’B9 she was married to the Swedish writer
Ola Hansson, whose “Young Ofeg’s
Ditties” “George Egerton” has translated
into English. Two of Laura Marliolm’s books
have been issued in London—one, “ Modern
Women,” four years ago; the other, “The
Psychology of Woman,” last year. As far
as can he judged through the translation,
she is a woman of exceptional talent and
high culture, with a rhetorical literary style,
and still close enough to a vital ancestry to
feel and write with strong emotion. And it
is her especial wish and virtue to appear as
the analyst and expounder of the modern
manifestations of that female sek to love
which, as Josh Billings assures us, is not
only natural, but also highly pleasant. Hm 1
“Modern Women ” is an analysis of the
lives of Sonia Kovalevsky, Duse, Marie
Baslikirtseff, “George Egerton,” and two
Scandinavian women almost unknown in
English-speaking countries. “The Psycho-
logy of Woman” is not a scientific, hut a
stimulating and suggestive series of impres-
sions. In it the author states a view of woman
from the standpoint of -social conditions.
Later on, she says, she hopes to write from the
standpoint of sexual psychology—or, pre-
sumably, physiology. Thus it is evident
that, on a scientific plan, the lady Laura is
working backwards. A woman is xvlrat she
is, first, in virtue of her physical organism.
The psychology of the reactions of her brain,
within the limits of her organism, comes
later, as superstructure to tlie inevitable
physical foundation. Then you may pro-
ceed to discuss individual examples of the
type you have formulated. Bub a literary
woman working for her bread naturally
grasps her subject by the convenient skirt of
the garment, more Potiphari , and gets tlie
essentials as she goes along.
It is Nietzsche who declares that Woman
is a Thing of Beauty ; Thing of Interest is—
Man.. [Anybody might have said as much ;
but to attach to the saying the strange and
formidable name, the half-known authority
of Nietzsche, is to make the saying impres-
sive to you, dear Reader. Twice two is
four—how commonplace ! As Shakespeare
says: Twice two is four—how profound!
Besides, if Nietzsche is printed often enough
the local literary lady will he able to spell
him some day. And to continue —] What
Nietzsche meant was that although a camp-
follower is a useful creature when’tis a matter
of pitching your tent, ic is the general of
the army who sits at the centre of your
thoughts ; and woman to man in the world
of ideas is no more than a camp-follower, or
(by grace) a subdieutenant or such. Laura
Marholm comes to a kindred conclusion :
A woman ha 3 no destiny of her own; she can-
not have one, because she cannot exist alone.
Neither can she become a destiny, except in-
directly, and through the man.
•That is flattering to male vanity. It is also
sexually true.
The general truth of Laura Marholm’s
conclusions, in the light of modern sexual
science, is all the more attractive because she
has reached them independently of science,
bv the light of her own observation and
reflection. Occasionally, to.be sure, she
will read her personal idiosyncrasies into the
typo-she creates.; hut, generally speaking,
her needs, her impulses, her desires, her
view of life consciously, embody what is un-
consciously felt by tlie type of cultured
modern women which she Sotsout to explain.
“ Her views,’’ as one of her translators
phrases it, “differ greatly from those.of Ibsen
and Bjornson. According to Ibsen, a woman
is first of all a human being, and then a
woman; Laura Marholm places, the woman
first, the human being last. Bjornson be-
lieves that art intellectually developed woman
with a life-work can get on very well by her-
self ; Laura Marholm maintains that, apart
from man, a woman is nothing. According
to her, woman is a creature of instinct, and
this instinct is her most precious possession,
! arid of far greater value than the- intellect.”
'MR 11.
The text will bear a gloss of interpretation.
Laura. Marholm sees, as. every intelligent
woman sees, that the paths to happiness of
a nian. and a woman are always different,
and run sometimes in opposite directions.
It is sex, and not humanity, which is the
cardinal factor in the woman-problem. And
when that is recognised there is no woman-
problem in’ the old sense. Where the
ancients erred was in giving their sphinx a
human body : as long as you do that you are
liable to be rent. To be sure, they followed
Nature. With an eye to the eternal puzzle-
ment of Man, Woman is made in his image
and after his likeness. Now
Well, there your dog lies in the sun. He
is torpid, like a woman waiting for stimulus.
His brain is half-asleep—a cloud of vague
sensations passes over it, doubtless ; hut
there is no active idea, no thought. Two
fingers snapped—an idea rushes into his
brain ; he jumps up alert, eager, with lively
eye and tail—waiting. He has received his
stimulus. Nothing further comes ; the idea
is gradually lost; he sinks down again into
torpor. It is quite obvious that the dog is
not a man—that he is moved in altogether
different ways from a man—is a distinct
genus. Why ?—because he lias the form of
a dog ; the apparent bodily difference is so
great that one has no trouble in postulating
an equally great mental and emotional dif-
ference.
But a woman ! —she is framed like your-
self ; she talks your speech 4 she walks
erect, and hears all the outward semblance
of a human being—how is it possible to avoid
confusing her with yourself ? how under-
stand that hers is practically an organism as
distinct from yours as the dog’s is ? And, as
all our conceptions are based on a process of
self-identification with the object wo con-
sider, liovv is it possible to avoid the blunder
of the human race throughout the ages?
how refrain from arguing from yourself to
the woman—putting her in your place
judging her conduct by your standards—a
tiling, you would never dream of doing in
the case of the dog ?
Possible or not, until a man deliberately
shuts his eyes to the appearance of staring
fact, until lie realises that in his ordinary
sense a woman is not a human being at all,
that she belongs to a different species, even a
different genus, the eternal Enigiha of Woman
will always hold him in thrall. The only way
to understand Woman is to consider her as a
foreign country, where the scepery, indeed,
may bear some resemblance to that which
you know, hut where- land and water are
nevertheless different, where the inhabitants
have their own language, their own customs,
their own modes of life and habits of thought
—where, moreover, they are extremely dis-
trustful of strangers, and will cheat you
whenever it seems to their interest to do so.
And when men come into this country they
come as uncouth tourists, in a strange cos-
tume, with queer manners —often objects of
laughter.
And it is almost universal among women, especi-
ally Germans, that they do not take man as
seriously as he likes to imagine. They think him
comical—not only when they are married to him,
but even before that, when they are in love with
him. Men have no idea what a comical appear-
ance they present, not only as individuals, but as
a race. The comic part about a man is that he is
so different from women,, and that is just what he
is proudest of. The more refined and fragile a
woman is, the more ridiculous'she is likely to find
the.clumsy great creature who takes such a round-
about way to gain his comical ends.
To young girls especially, man offers a perpetual
excuse for a laugh, and a secret shudder. When
men find a group of women laughing among them-
selves, they never suspect that it is they who are
the cause of it. And that again is so comic. The
better a man is, the more he is in earnest when he
makes his pathetic appeal for a great love ; and
woman, who takes a special delight in playing a
little false, even when there is no necessity, be-
comes as earnest and solemn as he, when all the
time she is only making fun of him.
‘ The generalisation is from the lady’s own
case, no doubt ; but it may be admitted
with slight reservations. And it results, I
think, from the woman’s incomplete con-
sciousness of herself, fron her incomplete
identification of her Ego, from her incom-
plete realisation of her place in relation to
tilings external to herself. Or it may be
ventured, in physical terms', that the nerve-
paths from the brain to the spinal centres
are still iess-marked in later-evolved woman
than in man—whence results in her a kind
of dual consciousness, an inability to
instantaneously fuse impressions con-
sequently a doubling of the same im-
pression and a possibly comic conflict. It
seems likely that this double consciousness
is at the root of the actress - capacity in
woman that interesting capacity which
enables her at the same time to taste a
thought and digest it—which gives her the
power to enact a scene and watch herself
enacting it, thoroughly enjoying all the re-
flex sensations even though the direct sensa-
tions be of the most tragic. Poor man’s
impressions are so instantly fused in con-
sciousness that he has lost the instinct of
remarking, while he weeps, or laughs, what
a fine* impressive figure he is making for the
Universe to stare at.
111. *
But this is a divagation.. The kernel of
the psychology of modern woman lies here.
Civilised man lives out of harmony with
his environment. . His brain lias created a
set of conditions to which his body is totally
unsuited. His body is still the savage’s body
needing light and air, hard labour and
plain food. City life reduces the supply of
light, vitiates the air, depraves the nerves and
disorganises the alimentary and excretory
organs with a surplusage'of evil foods and
drinks. And city life keeps the brain in
continual excitement while denying the body
proper rest and exercise.
Possibly, if the current civilisation is
not destroyed, as other civilisations have
been, by the onset of fresh barbaric blood,
there may finally bo a readjustment of needs
to conditions. The 50th century man may
be able to live as ..lie pleases without heart-
failure or nerve-disease or the tribe of un-
heard-of maladies which modern life has
invented. 111 the meantime, and generally
speaking, the civilised man is decadent. In
gaining culture he has lost vitality. He
may live as king as the barbarian, or longer
than the barbarian ; but he lives on a lower
plane of vital force, and his spasms of
feverish energy,, are paid for by increasing
intervals of depression. Thousands of ex-
ceptions do not invalidate the rule.
If the ill has not been deadly already, it is
because it has been possible for a man to
renew vitality in his children. With Kings-
ley and Faust, it has been possible to “go
down to the mothers,” still
Childlike in virtue and faith, though childlike
in passion and pleasure.
Generally speaking, woman has hitherto re-
mained healthy. But now she also is being
caught in the civilisation net, the city net,
the net of culture and education so-called.
Her little brain also is being stimulated
beyond its capacity, and she is much less
fitted than man to stand the strain. ITence
hysteria, aberrations of sex, and the uterine
complaints which torture the lives of 80 per
cent, of city-living women. Hence, worse
than all, a failure in the capacity to produce
healthy offspring. Whatever the efforts
and excesses of civilised man, as long
as woman was sound, there was hope
that the children would be sound. But
every stimulation of the brain of woman,
beyond the lines of heredity, lias tended to
make her more radically unsound. “The
advancement of woman,” “ woman’s rights,”
“ woman’s mission,” “ the higher educa-
tion of woman ” —these are phrases to which
we have grown accustomed. They are sup-
posed to stand for progress, for an improve-
ment in the old. condition of things when
the girl was trained, body and mind, to be
wife and mother and little or nothing
beyond. But the child pays. The man
pays. And the woman herself pays.
IV.
What is the result? Laura Marholm--
speaking, of course, of the cult ■ l woman,
the flower of civilisation—divides her into
three main classes. (The meaning of her
French labels, she explains, she has modi-
fied to suit her own notions.) There is the
grande amonrense, the cerebrate , and the
detraqnee. The grande atno art-use is the best
type of womanhood, the Madonna-type, the
fervent lover and mother and devotee,
widened by evolution and education without
losing anything of her depth.
She not only embodies the growing ardour of
womanly devotion, but represents in the highest
degree refined nature, culture which has become
nature; she is in a certain sense the woman-
genius—yes, she is perhaps the only wGman-
genius there is. In her, all passive womanly
qualities—de.sire to love, devotion to man, reflec-
tive intelligence, faithfulness, solicitude, loyalty—
have, as it were, stepped from their .home in the
spinal cord and formed a closer communion with
the brain, and. her whole being is so aglow with
energy that we can almost see the red blood, the
essence of life itself, gleaming in her, as when we
hold a woman’s hand before the light.
The grande gmoureuse has still another central
characteristic -she has an excellent mind. She is
the flower of feminine .intelligence and the moral
refinement of her time ; she appears as the em-
bodiment of the highest feminine intellect. A
third characteristic is the warm, full, nourishing
passion which she wraps about man, fostering but
not scorching, like the warmth in which the
mother carries the child in her. womb. There is,
in the love of the grande amonreuse, in con-
trast to the parched thirst of the ditraquee,
always something of the anxious trembling
of the mother for her child. It is a love without
the haughtiness or the satiety of possession ; a
love without repletion, a love of unlimited sur-
render, of intellectual devotion, and of psychic
enthusiasm, fully as much as of physical enjoy-
ment ; a love in which the physical is transformed
without loss into vibrations of the soul; finally,
a love -of long duration, of joyful self-surrender
to one man without intervals of emptiness and
lassitude,
Bravo, Laura ! And it is permitted, in
passing to the detraqnee , to wish more
power to the elbow of the grande amonrense
—and more elbows to the power.
The detraqnee— the new Becky Sharp — is
the disordered, unbalanced, dissatisfied
woman. She is, declares Laura Marholm,
the product of repressed sex owed to
modern education ; and the morbid curio-
sity developed by concealment and repres-
sion “ usually becomes quite early an in-
flamed desire.” '>■.
The representative of this typo flutters covet-
ously from man to man, unable to rest beside any
one of them ; finds nothing but disappointment in
the final satisfaction of her wants, undervalues
her husband, converts marriage into a torture,
and—strange as it may seem—in spite of her
eternal circling about it, rarely comprehends the
physical basis of the relation between rfian and
woman or enjoys spontaneously the relation itself.
The detraquee is altogether- “ the great attrac-
tion” for the decadent man of to-day. Her
wanton curiosity, her constant longing, inflame
him and appeal directly to his sensuality ; but her
co w<irdice and disinclination to satisfaction drive
her ever from attack to flight, and no sooner has
she retreated than she stretches forth her antennae
and gropes for him again. To see man burning—
that is what she lives ujion ; if she cannot have
his atmosphere about her she becomes sallow,
hollow-cheeked, and hysteric. The detraquee is
never beautiful, seldom pretty, but “she has
something about her ” ; we call her “piquante”;
and we meet her in all assemblies and in all
classes of society.
But before classifying yourselves or your
acquaintances consider the cerebrals —the
woman whose head, thanks to education and
the Time-spirit, has overpowered her senses.
The cerebrate Laura considers less a distinct
type than a sub-type of the grande amonrense
—she may be the grand amouieuse spoilt,
temporarily or finally.
It is harder to define this type than the other
two, for it is very variable, marked and yet in-
definite ; on the one hand verging towards
masculinity, and on the other towards the unripe-
ness of a clever, precocious child. Tt has qualities
which partake of the essential characteristics of
the nrande amourcuse ; but these very qualities
develop into sexlessness. What the cirebrale has
in common with the grande amourcuse is the
constant, regular mental activity, by which she is
distinguished as well from the detraquee as from
the remaining average feminine types.
Of these women I cherish the belief that they
were constituted for grandee amnnreuses, but
under the pressure of their surroundings and by
the restraint of their natural impulses they turn
into cerebrates. The grounds in their own natures
for this change wore, firstly, a very feminine char-
acteristic —sharp observation ; secondly, a very
common feminine defect, lack of poetical feeling.
[“ Romantic emotion ” seems rather to be meant,
based on lack of sensual passion.]
The ciribrale is a very frequent type among
“intellectual women.” She is the clever, cool,
irreproachable wife, with an atmosphere of dis-
tinction, purity, and fresh cleanliness about her.
She is the young girl with the intellectual expres-
sion and frank, open, friendly features. She is
the widow who,' after the death of her husband,
grows younger, brighter, more graceful, looks
happier and yet does not take a step beyond the
limits of widowhood. She is the ripe maiden
with the mute glance which does not reciprocate,
and lips which speak good, sensible, unprejudiced
tilings. As mother, she is the lady who is com-
pletely engrossed with educational cares for her
children, and Who takes her husband into con-
sideration chiefly as the father of her children and
the holder of a position.
The woman who loves thinks with the brain of
the man she loves. 1 do not know whether this
was so formerly, but itr is so now.
The drib rale is the woman who tries, as well as
she can, to think with her own brain. Although
she is a woman, although she has intact her in-
stincts and sexual nature, she still tries to think
with her own brain.
Why does she do this ?
Because she has no man with whose brain she
can think.
Or because she deems herself above the man
whom she has.
The ya de amonrense, the cerebral e, and
the detraqnee . —these Laura Marholm gives
as the three chief types of modern cultured
woman. Of course there are scores of sub-
types, liundreds of individual variations.
And under which queen, Bezonian, arc you
serving ?
Y.
Now then ! Laura Marholm writes, of
course, from the woman's point of view;
not exclusively, but especially : she does
not forget man, but she is much more con-
cerned with woman, what she is, and what
she may become. And she has realised the
essential difference in the modern sex-ideals
of man and woman. A man lives more in
himself; a woman more outside herself.
Laura is quite convinced that no matter to
what intellectual heights a woman may attain,
if she has missed the bliss of loving and of
being loved to the utmost of her nature she
is a failure, and sooner or later she will
know it. But the modern woman of the
best type — the old woman pMs the new
brain —demands from man ever so much
more than the former woman did : she
wants the wifehood and motherhood and
love as well as intellectual and emo-
tional stimulus. Can the modern man
give it all? will it pay him to give
it all? His strength is already strained
to satisfy the demands of modern life,
and on top of these come the addi-
tional demands of the modern woman. She
yields a tine and delicate stimulus, too ; but
the average man needs stimulus less than
satisfaction. He wants for the most part
from the woman comfort, consolation, re-
pose ; hut does the modern woman give
these things ? or, living in her sensations,
craving a constant emotional titillation, does
she not take more than she gives ? Admit
that the best modern woman’ is infinitely
improved, but how many men, in the strain
of modern life, can afford lier, afford to live
to sustain her ?
Which is why I murmur to myself, as I
re-fill my pipe and turn over to follow the
sun, savouring and assimilating the impres-
sions of Laura Marholm
The body don’t satisfy Sarah Ann :
Site wants brain-feeding from Abraham.
It's all very well for Sarah Ann—
But How About Poor Old Abraham ?


SECOND-HAND
° AND
•JVrEW furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FKOM US AND
SAVE 60 PEB GENT.
JL'l Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georere-st. (3 doors past llunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
DU. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyNE
safe*
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. ”
30 Days’ Trial.
r%
7S
/I
M
qu
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A EELIA yCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
wilt penii.m c„,,i c. .1. If it does not, we will
promptly return the lull amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
>y
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
f Proprietor STEP HEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
r should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
SKIN A NEW
DISEASES. DISCOVERY.
LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIO.
DSFIELOS
BRAIN & NERVE PILLS
A PERFECT REGENERATOR OF THE VITAL POWERS.
Price, 2s. 6d. ; Postage, 2d.
Sole Agents :
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO„
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatiof).
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
oF wisDOM.'. This;Fr?e Book abort
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address: •
The Irving Homeopathic Co.,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir. —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and win be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Fitt-street, Sydney.
Write
■for
Free
Illustrated
Catalogue.
W. JNO BAKER’S LOCK BACK
SKINNING KNIFE
Length when closed, 5 inches.
With Smooth Horn Handle, 3/6 Post Free.
With Ordinary Spring, 2/6 Post Free.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 NGoter-st., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company, Ltd,
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal 10 join the Wool-selling Institute, enable this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The Following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION . ... ... ... ... | Per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire
Insurance, Weighing, Lotting, Re-
packing sample bales, Advertising,
Cataloguing, etc.) —On Wools reali-
sing over 6d. per lb. the charge will be 3s. 9d. per Bale
On Wools realising 6d. and over Id. per lb. 2s. 6d. per Bale
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under Is. 6d. per Bale
ON PRODUCE other than Wool—viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., SPECIAL
RATES will be quoted on Application. ff. j\ Lawry, Manager.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores - Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ;no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECfAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. lm.
S YDUE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
IViICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
ã
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IX
BLACK BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
Bsk hr D.6.E.
,L
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLeTADDRESS: 222 CANNON ST. H
Donned,” London. London, iei.cj.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
F TR A. W K JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with Lhe best financial circles in the old country
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.’
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES .
N.S. Wales ITARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland —Messrs. CO ERIE & CO., Queen aeet, BRISBANE.
Victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF. Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia -C. F.. STONFMAN, Eso., William and .Murray Streets, PERTH.
WHAT
CATARRH ?
1
MEDICATOHi.
is inflammation of the
lining membrane of ihe nose
anrl adjoining passages, If this in-
flammation is not arrester! it invades
tlie passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. it injures the sight and
heating, destroys the sense of taste
and stneli, renders tlie breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affeeted
tissues, consutnes tlie nasal car-
tileees, and rots a wav the small
frontal hoi es of the skull. The put rid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption, l)o yoll want relief and
cute? If so. try our great remedy. It
lias no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neu rak'ia, Coujrhs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?* Catarrh C6re Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“ COMMON SENSE EA It Ell UM.”
rt«n
DEAF
C 'J OMI* L E Tjl L Y restore ihe
_ Hearing and relieve sintr-
in<r, roarinsr. and buzzintr noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
oilier remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
fflD
DEAF
mi
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
'h°w long standing. Are the same
to the ear* as glasses are to the
fV es - Invisible.. Comfortable.
j/Q-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
NEUROZONE
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying' to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market;
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared viih the
greatest care by an experienced and mosl reputable phar-
nnaict T t I ,
The Medical Agency:
271 COLLINS .STREET,
MELBOURNE.
F*
ä
Bender, why not be able to use the
I most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? liy my method you caul arn
to II pnotize in a few hours time, with*
out leaving your home You can per*
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are po-sible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you c»n cure d ; sease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
'gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out .all about it. I have
just issued in book form a immmoi'a
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
ami expense e thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
free to all who apply.
Remember this costs von noth-
in . A postal card will brine it.
Order to-day ami learn to Hyp-!
no‘ize. It s a chance of a'
life-time. Address—
a
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
■ 79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Doctors Take |t.
The A r alue of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness. 1
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of nil Chemists and T n*7T , TUT/''< 170
and Stores. -LiU^±jJ\
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
f'J G. HATTE, of Kin "-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
N.S.W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is how one
of the features of his cxts nsive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hattc’ssuitsof fndigoserge,
all-wool tweeds,and sergeret test with extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the mai vel of tailoring and the talk of
Austra'asia. For 50 - Hatte makesasuitof tweed or serge
fit for a prince: Inspector send for patterns of his new
wooll ( IIS, compris ng vicun; s, West of England. Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 5 f/6. and t>s - ; the great value offered,
llatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, shk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Ilatte’s speciality is ill dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, llatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are au least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
MfIWM
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDIIEY
163-167 W LLUM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD BTREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZALETH STREET, BRISEANE
HIGH-GRADE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND
MACHINERY.


TATTERSALLS
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Adelaide 0.
May 9
CO,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
. Please allot me . shares in the above.
Name
Address
Birthday C.
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTEBSALI*
Please allot m©_
in above.
Name_
Address.
Birthday C. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me 1 shares in the above.
Name
Address
Newcastle C.
June 7.
25,000 Subscribers at 5»
To TATTEKSALL,
Please allot mo.
.shares in above.
Name
Address
Grand National H. Jul y
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
s
x
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
‘ V- v- - .
Address ‘‘ Tattersail,” care G-eo. Adams, Hobart.


modern
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
V
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACIIINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Ularenee-st., Sydney.
06
of imitations
FEDERAL
PALACE
-*^NOT€L
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation-all prices— ss. to 128.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
XJSB
Spoopgr’s
pOoN£ft^
RSYAL NAVY ORESSIm)
BROWN LEATHER
K BOOTS St SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DiR£C 110N5 FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Elack Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Roots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6U. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STORBKBISPEBS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
B9BK
OWWW 1
GrO TO HELL-
KiOI/ANli for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists grata's.
Australia 9 Protfideot Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition,' allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying nofc
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
å
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
itST Send for Price List. 131
H. HILLIER,, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
ā
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buj'ers of Eight Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return ix>st. Carriages Irvoughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
JJ
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
The
Celebrated
Authoress
MRS E. LYNN!
LINTON,
says:—
“ 1 ha-e used
your 4 Li’ KO 1
now since June;
;last, and I have!
not onlv st pped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness.but|
Ihavean entirely!
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As 1 »>m not a
young woman. I
nut an old oi c, I.
think this is a'
convincing test'
of your prepara-
tion.”
i
i
es* S a
m
i
i
m
V-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD.. 16, BEVIS MARKS, LONDON, ENGLAND.)
Harry Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“DEY REGISTER.”
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
SJ
K
!mTis
a ■
Call and see same at
above address, it is
well worth inspection ;
or write for particulars.
THIS
RkfisIcb
The
lour
Purcha
J'-J.
is
ass
1
«***
1 ■
■-<
8b®S5
1
S?S0
law
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you ai’e a Buyer of a CASH HECrISTERi,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
El>MAJ\bOi\ <t CO., Block Arcade, Melbourne Agent.
W.s.w. Carriage & Saddlery Ma-nf- Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street. Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav tis a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A'6 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S.IDDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward yon our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any Arms who say they will deliver for .jess
thAP we cat*,, They cannot do so, and you pay Ift per
cent mOre for your requirements.
(close to Red fern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Dolirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£tO tO/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
To Henry Lawson.— Farewell.
As to an artist who revealed our land,
Making the sordid life therein aglow,
But nowise hiding truth, we hold a hand,
A hand heart-warmed to clasp yours ere you go.
So many years you did your work of love
That one goes nowhere but he hears your name;
Where camp-fires bum and smoke-plumes drift
above
They tell your stories and they spread your fame.
You leave behind more friends than one can state,
Your words have made them live, you gave them
life ;
The lovers standing at the sliprail gate,
Mitchell and Smith, the lone selector’s wife,
The two old miners in the twilight haze
Of years, ’twixt smoke-puffs, telling o’er and o’er
Quaint stories of the vanished digger days
That passed away—alas ! to come no more.
And many others, grave, or grim, or kind,
Who stumble on with burdened heart and back ;
Some fiercely cursing fate, and some resigned
To trudge for ever on the Outside Track.
These make a link between you and our land :
So, Lawson, though you go wide seas away,
We’ll meet your face in them, and hold your hand,
And hear your voice in what your visions say.
All luck to you ! but, if by chance you meet
With less than your deserts or our desire,
Come back again—your old accustomed seat
Will wait you always by the good heart-fire.
RODERIC QUINN.
When They Come Back Again.
When they come back in glory,
Our warriors so bold —
O who will hold a public
That will not be controlled ?
Not armies of policemen,
Drawn up in street or lane,
Will keep away the women—
When they come back again.
These Patriotic Ladies,
With keen and hungry eyes,
I see them lurk in ambush,
With mouths of ev’ry size !
And some will breathe of roses.
Some reek of gin amain ;
But all will kiss our Heroes—
When they come back again.
Some few of these fond Ladies
The same old girls will be
Who kissed the same old Soldiers
Ere they were sent to sea.
For women, if not tempted
Too much, can true remain
Unto their Absent Heroes,
Till they come back again.
And each mil clutch her soldier
Returning from afar,
And wish, before the people,
To “ kiss his precious scar—
' The scar he got while piling
Up heaps of Boer slain.”
’Twill be a gay old time, when
The Boys come back again.
Then we shall hear the story
Authentic of the war—
The story that the cable
Has long prepared us for.
(That latest line I fear would
Give Bindley Murray pain)
’Twill be a noble story—
When they come back again.
The veteran uprising—
A pewter in his hand—
Will say, “ A health to England,
The dear old Motherland !
She helped us lick the Boers.”
His pewter then he’ll drain.
’Tin thus mil run the tale, when
The Boys come home again.
“Old England’s gallant Tommies
Are splendid in a muss ;
They fought like bloomin’ heroes—
Almost as well as Us.
And so we stormed the kopjes ”
(He’ll say) “and swept the plain ”
’Twill be a stirring yarn, when
The Boys come back again.
“The base and brutal Boer—
The dirty craven hound —
Like any bloomin’ hell-cat,
Fought inch by inch his ground.
But when he met Australians
He went in from the rain.”
More drinks will then be ordered—
When They come back again.
“But, boys, the war was ended,
And so was Kruger’s game,
When We won the great battle
Of —I forget its name.
I think there were some Tommies
There, too—but can’t explain. ..”
And that will end the story
When They come back again.
CREEVE ROE.


THE
PLUM
ă
Price —■’STXGTjIS RAZOR, 1 Os. 6d. * or with Ivory
Handle, 15a. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21a. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO TEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & .A.T'X’ISIIEJIV', 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
fhe Australian jjjidoms’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
'PHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
•*- which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the even* of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
non. Sir ARTHUR REN WICK, M. D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Acennulated Tund* ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.!
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TattcrSall’S HofccL
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. j. Adams, Manager.
Pick out what is best in all the
other Sydney hotels, and you
have Tattersall’s.
Tariff— 10s. per T)ay.
£3 per Week.
A
PROSPEROUS COMPANY means
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
John Bridge l Co’s ltd. Clients Crow Rick
Ask any SENDER or GROWER REASON.
GOLDEN SALES!!!
The direct result of our determined efforts on your behalf.
Tor past 30 years or every year since 1870.
Wool. Hides.
Tallow. Skins.
Finance.
TO
SECURETHEGENU/fog
<s>
%
7^
m
TO
yO
"D
w
37
r»7
N
S 3
QNvyg 3HiivAiind3^>
orustiest demand
Cameo Cigarettes
Because the Best.
TWENTY-SIX
Large GOVERNMENT BUILPINGS at Omaha, US A.,
Roofed with P&B RCbcroid!
Re this the architects write, under date of Jan. 6, 1900.
“ JVe are 'pleased to be able to state that the Ruberoid Roofing furnished for the main
buildings of the Trans-Mississippi and International Exposition gave excellent
satisfaction. For similar purpose ive should specify the same material again!
Additional to the above, we have testimonials from the supervising architect (represent-
ing the United States Treasury Department at Washington, D.C., also the chief
draughtsmen, both of which are of a most complimentary character.
E. RICH & Co. Ltd SYDNEY AND BRISBANE,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office , Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 21.—N0. 1053.
SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 1900.
Pricb 6d.
AN UNCONSIDERED TRIFLE!
“The Prime Minister may depend upon it I will not let him escape from the ordeal, so the better, Moro than foar weeks ago I st [?]t[?] I that I should [?]
satisfied with the two gentlemen already selected if it was beyond the power of the Government to get a third. and again demand that the long [?]yed investigation
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY : “ I say, Bill, what’s the excited little fat core making all the fuss about?"
BILL LYNE: “ Oh! he’s afraid we’ll forget alt about him, now we’ve got something really important to attend to.!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Australians.’ 3
Printei and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the OBee of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... -A? 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 A 6
Quarterly „ ... ... (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you mu' l / pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound, Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this payer are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Belters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JtlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London. E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, WJ Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 23 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia. and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. Thgre will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l)d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease o Tin some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—\\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 1900.
More About tie Appeal Unto Caesar.
It is generally understood that the Austra-
lian Commonwealth Bill will- not make its
appearance in the British Parliament until
next month, the interval being devoted to
promiscuous and indignant conversation re-
garding the Appeal difficulty. Under the
presett system the final Court of Appeal
iu Australian cases is the British Privy
Council, an august and slow and wise
tribunal 35 days journey from Australia by
swift mail-boat. ’ Any litigant who thinks
himself aggrieved by the decision of an
Australian tribunal can, if his case involves
over £5OO in value or turns upon the inter-
pretation of an Australian statute, ask for
leave to appeal to the Privy Council, and if
he gets it, and if he has six months or more
to spare, he may go and see his case through,
with strict economy, for an expenditure of,
perhaps, £4OO (also he has in any case to pro-
vide £5OO as security for costs). The £4OO, of
course, includes personal expenses only, but
legal talent can be engaged in London which
will argue the matter before the august
tribunal for a few hundred pounds more
Or an appellant, if he has the special talents
required, may argue his own case, in which
instance all he requires is to have from six
months to a year of spare time, and about
£4OO as a minimum. Or he may get an
Australian barrister to go to England and
argue the case ; this can be done for an ex- ■
penditure of from £lOOO to £3500, as in the
Melb. Tramway case. Or the case may be
prepared and sent to a legal agent in Lon-
don, when the whole business can be done
for a few hundred;, pounds, or a thousand or
so, or a little more or less. These facts
show that- the temple of justice is always
open, under the present system, to the
meanest of Her Majesty’s subjects, and that
the abolition of the appeal to the pre-
sent august tribunal would, as Dibbs
and Want and M‘Laurin aptly put it,
be depriving the Australian of a cherished
right and privilege. As things are, the
poorest Australian knows that, if he has a
wrong, and the local courts decide against
him, he has only to get permission to appeal
and find security for costs, and then a legal
gentleman of the standing of, say, Victorian
ex-Attorney General Isaacs will take his case
to the highest tribunal of the Empire for so
small a sum as £3soo—solicitors’ costs being
extra. The fact that Isaacs is away on such
a mission now at the price mentioned proves
this. And when the poorer class of Aus-
tralian hears that the makers of the Com-
monwealth Constitution propose to deprive
him of this cheap and valuable right, or at
least to greatly limit it, he naturally boils
with indignation.
* * * *
These Constitution-makers propose to give
the Australian instead a Federal High
Court of Appeal in his own capital (thus fol-
lowing the good example of England which
has its Court of Final Appeal in its own
capital—not at the other end of the globe).
If he is too poor to pay for transit he can
take his case there on foot, provided his
boots hold out, and from the most populous
parts of Australia the distance, at the very
outside, would only be two days by train or
about 21 days on the wallaby-track, instead
of five weeks by expensive steamer. And
the bitter wrong and injury of this idea
moved Dibbs and Want and M’Laurin to
frenzy, as mentioned last week ; and since
then it has made ex-Postmaster Joseph Cook
also boil with righteous wrath.
* * * *
The reason most persistently advanced for
adhering to the old methods is that a better
brand of justice is procurable in England
than would be obtainable in Australia. The
people of Australia, it is true, are almost as
purely of British descent as the British
themselves ; about one-fourth of them were
born in Britain, and the rest are mostly the
sons or grandsons of people bom there.
Apparently, therefore, it is held that the
Englishman is a weak and tottering
animal who begins to decay as soon as
he is taken out of the glass-case of his
own island, and promptly gets into such
a state of mental confusion, degeneration
and dishonesty that he can’t be trusted to
administer his own laws. In that case the
Englishman isn’t what he is cracked up to
be, and the empire, about 99 per cent, of
which consists of countries occupied by the
decadent Briton aforesaid, is a tolerably
rotten empire. The theory is brutally rough
on the Englishman, who didn’t imagine that
his brain gave out so rapidly that a few
months or years, or one or two generations,
away from his old home reduced him to
legal incapacity and imbecility. He fancied,
especially after reading Kipling, that he was.
made of more enduring material. Another
alleged aspect of the case is that it is neces-
sary to preserve a “ bond ” —a very irksome
and cumbersome and expensive bond, too—
between Britain and “ the colonies.” This
implies one of two things—either that the
British connection is so unpleasant that it
needs the imposition of compulsory “ bonds ”
for its greater security, or that the natural and
causeless disloyalty of the Englishman breaks
out as soon as he gets away from his island,
and he requires to be chained up and bonded
against his will (he expressed his own will
in the matter when he accepted the Common-
wealth Constitution) to prevent him break-
ing loose.
* * *
It reads like a shameful aspersion on the
English character either way. The implica-
tion is that while the Englishman is in
England he and his sons are the salt and
intelligence of the earth, and its brightest
example of freedom and self-governing capa-
city ; and that when he comes to Australia
he and his sons instantly sink to being
“ blasted colonials ” who are quite unfit to
make and administer their own laws intelli-
gently. Smith, of London, while he re-
mains in London, is the superior being to
whom Australia must appeal (as part of the
power which makes and guides the British
judicial machine) for the interpretation of
its own laws. And the same Smith, the
moment he arrives in Australia, is an in-
ferior thing of scorn who couldn’t for a
moment be trusted even to look after his own
business, to say nothing of that of another
country. And Dibbs and co., who used to
reverence him when he was in
England as the type and essence of
the beloved Motherland, now speak to
him severely in Australia about his
want of loyalty to his brother Smith, who
stayed in London, and ask him if he has the
stupendous impudence to think himself the
mental equal of his brother Smith, who re-
mained in London, or capable of deciding
law-points for himself instead of referring
them to his brother Smith, who is still in
London. Who is the long, wild, weary
Dibbs, and who are his friends, that they
dare, in this time of popular Jrenzy espe-
cially, to deny the ability of any English or
English-descended community to serve out
good and sufficient and intelligent justice to
its own people ?
N.S.W.’s discarded Postmaster - General
Joseph Cook is another loud public apologist
for the old system, though he is pitiably
weak, and only in a small way of apology.
Says Joseph, a one-tiine Labor-member —
It is not difficult either to apprehend the real source of
Jbhe trouble at Home. In framing- our Constitution we
have consulted chiefly our own position. A very different
viewpoint has to be adopted by the Imperial authorities.
It is but natural that they should strive to create as few
anomalies as possible in the judicial relations of the vari-
ous parts of our mighty Empire. Up to the present
time, there has been an open door in the temple of Jus-
tice to every citizen of that Empire, With all the loosen-
ing of political ties which has resulted from the ever-in-
creasing devolution of power throughout our wide
domain, this judicial tie has been a very real and binding
one. It has been the one evidence of our unity and in-
dissolubility, which has appealed with equal pressure to
all alike.
Joseph’s case is about as poor a one as
could be imagined. The different parts
of the Empire have different codes of
civil and criminal law, different courts, dif-
ferent tariffs, different moneys, different
military systems —different everything, in
fact. They have even different courts of
appeal, for there is one court for the
Britisher and another and a different one for
the Empire outside Britain. There has been
no effort to prevent judicial anomalies—in-
stead the British Government has appeared
to rather encourage them. And even
in the matter of the Appeal Court it has
made, and it seeks to preserve, the most re-
markable anomaly of all by refusing the
“ colonist ” access to the Appeal Court which
is open to the Englishman. And Joseph’s
cry that “Up to the present time there has
been an open door in the temple of Justice
to every citizen of the empire ” is—if he
refers to the door of the Privy Council Court
—a most unscrupulous perversion of facts.
Nobody can appeal to the Privy Council ex-
cept in a matter involving a sum of more
than £5OO, or involving the interpretation
of a provincial statute. Even then he must
get permission before he can appeal, and,
above all, he must have lots of money. To
the mere handful of people who can
show all these qualifications the door
about which Joseph Cook raves is open,
but it closes with a loud bang in the
face of everybody else. It never was an open
door except for the veryfew. But the Federal
Convention tried to create in its stead a
temple of Justice that would be accessible to
the many—the poor as well as the rich—a
temple with a door always open. And
Joseph Cook, one-time miner and Democrat,
now a Tory with some cash, loathes the idea
of a court of final appeal where the miner he
used to be may get in and jostle the small
financial potentate he is now.
* * * *
In 1898 the Privy Council decided eleven
appeals from N.S.W., and in ten of them it
decided that the N.S.W. courts were right.
In the four years up to and including 1899 it
decided 25 N.S.W. appeals, and in 21 cases
it held that the N.S.W. courts were right.
In the other four cases either the N.S. W.
courts were wrong or else the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council was
wrong. Apparently N.S.W. law is im-
proving. Anyhow if, in ’9B, the court
of a single province managed to be right in
10 out of 11 cases which looked good enough
to appeal on, it is probable that a court com-
posed of the best legal taient of the five
provinces would have managed to put the
eleve.nth case right quite as well as the Privy
Council did. The inferior courts of Aus-
tralia, as shown by the results of appeals,
can dispense quite as good law as the inferior
English ones do, so it is quite possible that
a superior Australian court would do like-
wise. And a local High Court, in addi-
tion to dealing with the 11 cases decided
by the Privy Council, would probably have
been able to give its valuable consideration
to 111 more cases which wanted attention
quite as badly, but which couldn’t go to the
English Court by reason of the distance,
delay and expense. Doesn’t the poorer
litigant deserve any consideration ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Doctrine of Cave In.
T. Waddell, M.L.A. (N.S.W.) wants to know
why anybody should excite himself over the
British Government’s demand that the Common-
wealth Bill be altered so as to preserve the appeal
to the Privy Council as at present :
Had the Bill permitted the right of appeal to the
highest court in the Empire as at present, I ask is there
one sensible man (who is a Federalist) in the whole of
Australia who would on that account alone have rejected
it? Personally, I would like to limit the right of appeal
to the Supreme Federal Court, but I only regard this as a
mere bagatelle in the consideration of such a great
question. If, therefore, this provision has never
been considered a vital one, or even one of im-
portance, then why delay or risk union by taking
up the absurd position of “ the Bill and nothing
but the Bill.” . . . The idea of making so trifling an
alteration in the Bill a cause for again submitting it to a
popular vote is too preposterous to seriously consider. . .
I am glad the Queensland Government have had the good
sense to recognise the absurdity of holding out on such a
point. ... It is quite another matter for the colonial
Governments to cease objecting to a slight amendment
of this kind than for them, of their own seeking, to try
to get any amendment. . . . Then, in the name of com-
mon-sense, don’t let. us delay or endanger the cause of
Australian union, with all its blessings and advantages,
by fighting for the least important provision in the whole
measure.
This is a strangely capsized way of looking
at things—yet a great many people look at
them this way. Every Federalist, so far as this
paper knows, believes in getting the whole Bill if
it can be got, and failing that, in getting
the Bill with Chambelain’s amendment, and
expects that the Federal delegates in England
will be so instructed. Not one Federalist has yet
proposed to endanger the cause of union by refusing
to have any Bill at all if the present Bill can’t
be got in its entirety. It is not the party which
proposes to fight for the whole Bill only so long as
there is any possible chance of getting it that is
“endangering union,” but the Waddell party
which propose i to surrender before there is abso-
lute certainty that surrender is unavoidable. If
there is surrender—necessarily or unnecessarily—
the Bill is endangered ; the only thing to be done
is not to endanger it until it is quite impossible
to avoid doing so. It is all very good to
say that it is preposterous to make so small
an alteration- a reason for sending the Bill
to another Referendum, but airy persiflage
of that kind isn’t fact or logic or any tang-
ible substance. If the Commonwealth Bill
comes back in an amended form that will be much
better than for it not to come back at all vei’y
much better. Then the amendments must be sub-
nutted to the five Parliaments. They may all
take the responsibility of accepting them without
any further reference to the people. If the amend-
ments only refer to the Privy Council appeal
question, and the granting to Westralia of the
right to keep its separate tariff for five years (this
latter should certainly be put in if the Privy
Council amendment is insisted on. but not other-
wise ; it may bring Westralia into the partnership,
and in any case two amendments will be
no more trouble than one) —in that case it
would probably be better that the five Parlia-
ments should cut things short by accepting the
alterations on their own responsibility. But
among the 10 Houses of the five Parliaments
it is very probable that one may refuse to take the
responsibility and insist on another Referendum
and if so there must be another Referendum.
Also there is j ust a chance that one House in the
ten may reject the amended Bill, or that one pro-
vince may throw it out by popular vote. It would be
a preposterous thing to do, but preposterous things
are done in this very preposterous world. Accept-
ing any amendment means taking the chance,
however small, that one or more provinces may
drop out. Of course if the British Parliament
absolutely insists, the amendment must be ac-
cepted else there will be no Bid and all the pro-
vinces will drop out. But this country should be
dead sure that the amendment is inevitable before
it surrenders.
Men Made Mad.
“Ex-Confinee ” to The Bulletin
Whether or not the plain-speaking foreigner was right
who remarked that the people of N.S. W. consisted of two
classes —those in gaol, and those who should be—certain
it is that a large proportion of citizens have friends or
relatives who at some time or another have got inU
“ trouble,” and to these an appeal for amendment of tlm-
perial code should come home with peculiar force. Unde'
the existing state of things every male offender sentenced
to three years’ and upwards hard labor or penal servitude
must spend the first nine months in solitary confinement,
and so learn for himself of what that treatment consists
by means of which men are made mad.
When the excitement of his trial, and his transfer to
some up-country gaol where his “separate” is to be
“ done,” are over, he will And that he must settle himself
to a life of more than semi-starvation, physically, and of
utter stagnation mentally. He will find himself confined
23 out of each 24 hours in a cell at best 10ft. by sft. He
will find himself within a week or two of his arrival pacing
noiselessly and ceaselessly from corner to corner of his
narrow domain, recalling the incidents in his late career
and the successive steps, perhaps, by which Ins path
diverged from the “straight,” and so for weeks he
may thus pass the time without noticing mental un-
easiness.
Suddenly, however, he will make a discovery, lie will
find that he is talking aloud to himself. He will be at
first amused—then annoyed—then angry, when he finds
that little by little the habit grows upon him and may
not be shaken off. If a man of strong mental fibre he
will set a close watch upon himself and endeavour to
reason himself out of the practice, lie will say, “No one
to hear me in here, why waste words, speech is silvern,
silence is golden”—and then to the blank walls he will
perhaps repeat the last few words, anil he will know that
he is doomed !
From this time forward mental deterioration will be
rapid. Men of strong intellect and superior mental re-
sources will make a good fight, and may hope to escape
actual insanity, but not a man among them, be his capa-
city that of Herbert Spencer or his versatility that of
Gladstone, will emerge from his “model” the man he
used to be. lie may not at first be himself aware how
far the iron has entered into his sold, but sooner or later
he will find it out. For life he has been branded, and
with life will the brand remain. Surely, if slowly, will the
appalling fact be brought home to him that he, the man
who a few months before felt himself the intellectual peer
of his fellows, is now —if not a helpless derelict upon
the sea of humanity—at least a crippled competitor in
the race of life. And why ? Simply because ihe penal
legislation of New South Wales is based upon the old con-
vict system of England, one of the provisions of which
was that men sentenced to long terms of penal servitude
in the convict establishments should undergo 9 months’
probationary treatment in the ordinary houses of cor-
rection. This, and this alone, is responsible for the
infliction of solitary confinement in N.S. Wales.
Let there be no longer indifference and procrastination.
Abolition of solitary confinement is easy of accomplish-
ment, and is demanded no less by simple justice than by
common humanity. Which of our reforming legislators
will take upon himself the task of demolishing the dragon ?
Melbourne Exerts Itself.
In view of certain contingencies that are looming
on the northern horizon Melbourne has begun to
take stock of its slums and garbage tips. It is
doing it with a dignified and lofty sloth that isn’t
becoming to the situation. An intensely-active
cleaning up of all Greater Melbourne —especially
of Richmond, and Footscray and Willi ainstown
and Port Melbourne, and the remorseless destruc-
tion of Little Bourke-street, and a few other strong
measures, might save Melbourne from the Plague
altogether, and then the Federal Parliament could
meet there with a light heart. As it is the Plague
will probably come m a bad form by-and-bye, and
the Federal Parliament will probably meet in
Melbourne some morning, and decide inside
10 minutes that the Commonwealth capi-
tal shall be Bombala (N.S.W.), and then
take its bag and bolt for the station en
route for that more sanitary locality—even if it
has to deliberate there in a public-house. So far
as things have got, the Board of Health has dis-
covered that Melbourne is sanitated by contract,
and the contractor tips the refuse over the muni-
cipal border into thickly-peopled Brunswick.
The description of that tip reads like a horrid
dream. The City Council said it couldn’t inter-
fere with its own tip because it wasn’t on its own
territory, and the Brunswick Council didn’t inter-
fere because, though it was on its own territory, it
wasn’t its tip. But the Board of Health com-
plained so bitterly that the City Council reformed
on the spot ; it gave up tipping its refuse in
Brunswick and tipped it in West Melbourne in-
stead. It is interesting to note that Melbourne is
so far ahead of Sydney that it has a destructor ;
it got one in ’9l, and then gave up using it in 93
from motives of economy, and went back to the
cheap and awful tip instead. There are said to be
some 40,000 or 00,000 tons of unpleasantness in
Melbourne’s Great Tip. This is the city’s own
tip, and the city proper includes a population of
60,000 people. The suburbs, with a population of
400,000 odd, are not included in the revelations as
yet. Nor are there any strange wild stories like
those of Wexford-street, Sydney, to tell so far,
because Premier M’Lean hasn’t begun to clean up
Little Bourke-street, and Treasurer Shiels, hav-
ing spent his spare cash Boer-shooting, has
nothing left to buy disinfectants with just now.
But all that will probably come. Meanwhile the
Board of Health goes round miking an agitated
note of things, and the garbage that used to lie
tipped in Brunswick is being tipped in West
Melbourne instead. So no o.ia can say that the
Victorian capital isn’t exerting itself at the present
sanitary crisis.
♦ :
More of ex-Premier Held's Finance.
Ex-Premier Reid still cries out mournfully in the
papers to the effect that Premier Line’s commis-
sion to inquire into Reids management of the
N.S.W. finances is an unfair tribunal. The first
two members were nominated by Reid himself—
that is to say, when the question was raised in the
Assembly, he suggested, as two of his three


judges, bank-managers Fkench and T. A. Dibbs,
and Lyne appointed both of them on Reid s
nomination. Then Lyne appointed a third
financial inquirer on his own responsibility, and
Reid’s wails because he wasn’t allowed to nominate
the third man also are like unto the bitter lamenta-
tions pf a small pig under a gate. Also, Reid is
still much harassed about the scope of the inquiry,
and wants it confined to the question whether his
doings in the last four years of his reign were, or
were not in accordance with law —the law which
he himself passed for the express purpose of
making these doings legal. Lyne’s proposal
to enquire, not whether Reid’s financial doings
were right according to Reid’s new law,, but
whether they were right according to the ordinary
rules of arithmetic, is regarded by Reid as an
outrage. After all, the whole question, intricate
as it looks, resolves itself into three very simple
alternatives in bookkeeping. When the financial
year closes there are always unpaid accounts,
liabilities the amount of which can’t at once be
accurately ascertained, disputed claims, unfinished
contracts, one or two or three or four or five
months’ interest on various debts which are
liabilities incurred in the year just ended, though
they aren’t actually payable until next year, and
other unsettled debts. The old method of dealing
with these things was honest but insufferably
clumsy. It was to keep each year’s accounts, open
till everything was paid—consequently no one
knew for certain whether there was a surplus or a
deficit for 1891 till the end of 1896. Then the
account read :
Liabilities for 1891 paid in 1891 £9,633,045
„ „ 1892 735,988
„ „ 1893 203,696
„ „ 1894 5,431
„ „ 1895 13
„ „ 1896 57
Total £10,578,230
That was the old way, and it was so very bad a
way that its abolition and its replacement by a
cash system couldn’t possibly happen too soon.
They have a cash system in England, and accord-
ing to it the accounts would read something like
this:
Liabilities for 1891 paid in 1891 .. £9,633,045
Allowance for unpaid liabilities
estimated at (say) 900,000
£10,533,045
If the allowance made for unpaid liabilities is too
little or too much so much the better or the worse
for succeeding years. The British financial
authority adds up all known liabilities, and makes
the closest estimate he can of the others, and
•closes the year’s accounts punctually. But under
G. Reid’s beautiful new law the accounts for 1891,
:supoosing that had been the first year of his new
policy, would have read like this :— :
Liabilities for 1891 paid in 1891 .. .. £9,633,015
-Unpaid liabilities are a very unpleasant
subject, and it is much nicer to say
nothing about them Nil
£9,633,045
"Retd started his new system in 1896, and as the
bills of ’95 were put into the floating debt,
-and those of ’96 were left to be paid in ’97, the
natural result was that the expenditure charged
'to 1896 (it being the glorious year when the
mnpleasant subject of unpaid liabilities was
• dropped) was about £500,000 less than that of the
'best year that came after it. The unpaid
liabilities of ’96 were thus paid in '97, and
the unpaid liabilities of ’97 in ’9B, and
'the unpaid liabilities of ’9B were paid in
’99, and the unpaid liabilities of ’99 (that being
Retd’s last year) were left for Lyne to pay in
11900. And as Reid claimed a surplus of £74,000
• odd for these fdtlr years, and arrived at it by
leaving some £500,000 to £700,000 of liabilities
unpaid Lyne says that Reid had no surplus. And
Reid says he had a surplus according to law be-
cause he made a new law which authorised him to
■ start the new system of leaving these debts un-
paid, and not reckoning them as liabilities, and
that Lyne should simply inquire if Reid’s doings
were according to law, and go no further. The
new system, of course, only made the accounts
look better for one year—the first year (1896) —the
year which wasn’t charged either with the liabili-
ties left unpaid at 30th June, 1895, nor with those
still unpaid at 30th June, 1896. But Reid had
the benefit of that year, and he doesn’t see why
anybody need complain.
> — l
The Lost s.s. Glenelg 1 .
The story of the lost steamer Glenelg, when it is
fully told—if it is fully told—is likely to be inter-
esting reading, especially in view of the fact that
Victoria has an allegedly careful and elaborate
:system of inspection to meet such cases. There is
a Marine Board at Melbourne, and it isn’t any
■older or more antiquated or doddering than some
•other such institutions. Its inspectors are sup-
posed to see that no vessel adapted for carrying
more than 12 passengers goes to sea without a cer-
tificate of its seaworthiness. Vessels adapted for
less than 12 passengers apparently matter little
and those with no passengers seem to matter just
about nothing at all. By a strange and frantic
kink in the official mind, the sailor-man generally
matters nothing at all, and almost all the scanty
regulations there are deal with vessels carrying
passengers. The Glenelg was a properly certificated
vessel. She was not in the first bloom of her youth
—the coaster that plods along the by-ways of
local commerce is generally dropping into the sere
and leaky leaf before she gets to that branch of
traffic. Some reports put her age at 20 years.
She wasn’t wildly commodious. The kind of
vessel that can potter about the shallow bays and
inlets of the Gippsland Lakes is necessarily small,
and when she goes out into the ocean Melbourne-
wards, and the nights are dark and the weather
rough, then by reason partly of her size and partly
of her age she gets to her destination if it pleases
God —or else she piles up her bones on the Ninety-
mile Beach. The Glenelg was so small that big
seas were liable to pour down her funnel and
swamp her fires. There is no mention about
pumps—the crew made frantic efforts to spoon the
water out of her with buckets. She went down on
a stormy night, but still on a night when one
of her boats managed to keep the sea. She didn t
strike anything ; she simply cracked up in a huge,
comprehensive way and filled in an amazingly short
space of time. An ex-pilot, writing to a Melbourne
paper, says she was regarded as a weak and
venerable boat six or seven years ago, and
that once, presumably between the careful inspe-
tions which are supposed to ensure the safety of
passenger steamers, a crowbar was dropped down
the hatchway—-and went riijht through, the bottom.
A new plate, it is alleged, was put in ; it is not
stated that any systematic attempt was made, by
dropping crowbars on the other plates, to see if
any more new plates would be beneficial. If the
Glenelg drifted into that lamentably tender con-
dition between inspections six or seven years ago,
it seems just possible that she had demoralised
again in like fashion, since the last rigid examina-
tion when she was certified as a fit/and proper
craft to go shrieking along the inhospitable Ninety-
Alile Beach with mdre thah'l2 passengers on board;
and that she was little better than a paper bag'
that night of her sudden exit. The general im-
pression is that the inspections are so hurried and
perfunctory that the most frightful old tin-pots go
to sea with a brand-new Vic. Marine Board certifi-
cate. Anyhow, the Gflenelg was a small, aged
craft which had been apparently muoh disrespected
by seafaring men when she was much younger.
She went out certified to be seaworthy and in good
condition, and she crumpled up like a wet rag in a
few hours when she struck bad weather. And
somebody appears to have committed man-
slaughter.
—
Wait for Westralia!
In a small way the anti- Federal Sydney Tele-
graph still struggles to delay the Commonwealth
movement. It isn’t openly anti-Federal now, but
in its anxiety for a more complete Federation it is
on the side of everything that tends to hang the
movement up for another year or so. This is its
latest outbreak on the subject:—
It is to be hoped that one result of the conference
between Mr. Chamberlain and the Federal delegates in
London will be the admission of West Australia as an
original State of the Commonwealth. Doubts have pre-
vailed, or been alleged to prevail, as to the bona-fides of
the Western Government with respect to Federation.
There is no ground for any such dubiousness. The Par-
liament and Government of the colony are anxious to
join the Commonwealth, and a delegate has been sent to
London on their behalf, whose “ conciliatory attitude ” is
said to have favorably impressed all who were present at
the last consultation with Mr. Chamberlain. West Aus-
tralia wishes, however, to slightly vary the conditions
in its favor specifically made in the Common-
wealth Bill. In its present form the Constitution makes
a fiscal exception for that colony by providing that instead
of joining with the other States in intercolonial freetrade
the present duties as against other colonies shall be
gradually wiped off at the rate of 20 per cent, per annum
for five years. The West Australian Government d sires
to substitute for the clause (95) which makes this pro- ■
vision another allowing the present duties to remain in
force five years after the Commonwealth Parliament has
decided on its Tariff ; such duties to be repealed or
altered as the West Australian Parliament thinks fit, but
not to be increased, and to “ absolutely cease ” at the end
of five years.
It is truly remarkable what a number of people
(including that anonymous “ Member of the Par-
liament of Western Australia ” who writes to
the papers) rise up to say that the Parlia-
ment and the Ministry and the Bigjohn
of Westralia are ready and anxious to join
the Commonwealth if they only get one per-
fectly unimportant concession, and yet nothing will
make that Parliament and that Ministry and that
Bigjohn says it publicly themselves. What is the
good of all these papers and people and things
promising that Bigjohn and Co. will come in if
the other provinces will only postpone Federation
for a year or so, and pass an amended Bill through
five Parliaments and five more Referendum's!; when
Bigjohn and Co. won’t promise it themselves? If
the Bill has to be amended in any case through
the British Govt, insisting on alterations, then it
should certainly be amended further by the inser-
tion of the clause which, it is alleged, will bring
Westralia into the partnership. In that case, the
extra amendment won’t cause any extra delay, arid
itwon’tmakeßiGJOHN’s province stay outany worse
than it is staying out now. But if amendment isn’t
compulsory it would be wildly absurd to delay for
a year or more with the view to granting terms to
Forrest and Co. when Forrest and Co. won’t
say anything about their readiness to accept the
terms. It is still more absurd in view of the fact
that after the Federation of the five provinces
has started the proposed alteration in the Consti-
tution can be made with the assent of one Parlia-
ment and with one referendum, and Westralia
can be admitted with all the privileges of an
original .State, whereas now the process of grant-
ing Westralia what it hasn’t asked would require
the assent of five Parliaments and probablv five
referendums. The cry of “ Wait for Westralia
in view of the fact that Westralia won’t promise
to come along if it is waited for—is a silly piece of
treachery.
.
The Great Washing-Up.
After all the horrors which came to light in the
quarantined areas about Sussex-street, the people
of Sydney felt that they were tolerably hardened
to “revelations ” and could take their dead cat as
it came, in a manner of speaking. But even that
Sydney which had been armour-plated in its finer
sensibilities by the contemplation of the dens of
Sussex-street, where a dozen people lived and
cooked in one underground room and had their
joint and several cess-pit (apparently not emptied
for vears) in a corner of the room—even that
much-acclimatised city felt its hair stand up when
the story of Wexford-street was revealed. Some
parts of that story would probably get the paper
which published them in full three months gaol
for indecency. The multitudinous Chow
appears to be actually the cleanest person
thereabouts. Considering that every section
of Sydney which is isolated and cleaned pro-
duces much the same tale of dirt and slime and
decay, one begins to wonder if there is any part
of the City of Dreadful Tips which doesn’t require
a firestick put into it. At time of writing, the
authorities were busy cleaning the fourth section
of the city, and already news comes that the first
section cleaned is relapsing into its old state. This
is the section wherein was located the under-
ground cellar with the cesspit. The latter soul-
gladdening orifice was cleaned out, but it wasn’t
filled up, nor was the building destroyed. And
last week the news arrived that, the area being
released from quarantine, the subterranean family
had gone back to its den, and was using the cess-
pit again, and cooking beside it in the old way.
Regarding Wexford-street, it was reported, the
other day, that some of the houses already con-
demned by the City Council as unfit for habita-
tion would probably be pulled down—not that
all of them would certainly be pulled down.
Likewise it is reported that 1272 notices to repair
their premises have been served upon owners, and
that 1202 owners “have taken no notice what-
ever.” And here is another quaint daily paper
item bearing on the same subject:
Mr. Wise informed us that he had received from the
City Council a list of owners of the worst and most
insanitary premises within the quarantined areas. He
was shocked to find that this list contained the names of
some of our wealthiest citizens—leaders of the churches
some of them, and held in the highest repute. Mr. Wise
was satisfied that these gentlemen were not aware of the
fearful condition of their premises or of the facts which
had been revealed by the examination conducted by Mr.
M'Crf.die and his men.
Mr. Wise says that if the owners are still recalcitrant he
will have too hesitation in publishing their names, so that
the force of public opinion may be brought to bear upon
them in addition to the penalties of the law.
But seeing that Sussex-street and Wexford-street
and other places have been historic slums for many
years, why assume that owners thereabouts, merely
because they are wealthy and buttresses of the
church, didn’t know about the slumminess of their
own slums? There is nothing in the history of
church-buttresses in general to lead any shocked
Attorney-General to feel sure that they, any more
than the atheist or the pawnbroker, would have
cleaned their places up if they had known how
badly they wanted cleaning. And tliei’e isn’t
time now to let the dirty buttress down gently.
A Melbourne sweater struck, the other day,
what he thought was a beautiful idea for grinding
profits out of his employes. He was in the habit
of paying the gorgeous sum of 3d a-piece—three
whole pennies—for machining underskirts. The
average time occupied was li hours, so that he
was really paying the noble wage of twopence
an hour. The seamstress had to sew on two
rows of insertion, one row of lace, and braid round
frill, and machine four bucks, tapes, and waist;
in all 54 yards of sewing. As the Wages Board
under the Factories Act fixed a minimum of 4d.
an hour the prodigal was duly summoned. Then
he produced an expert of his own, a Miss Alice
O’jS eill, who swore she could make the garment
in three-quarters of an hour, and proved her asser-
tion by subsequently doing it in 42 J-min., watched
by the inspector and the defendant’s lawyer. Sad
to say, the Court wasn’t taking any record-
breaker, and ukased that the 4d: an'hour was
meant to be the payment of an average worker.
Also, it nobly and wisely struck the sweater in
the eye with a £3 fine and £3 12s. costs.
“ Contact ” writes re Sydney quarantine arrange-
ments :
The ghastliest place about Sydney to-day is at North
Head, where the alleged plague patients are quarantined,
and the way I got there furnishes a fair sample of the
bungling methods of the panic-driven Board of Health.
My office is on the premises of a large business concern
which had furnished a case or two of plague. I had just
returned from the country when I was told per telephone
that the place was quarantined and ordered to report
myself next day at the Board of Health. As I was living
10 miles out of town I didn’t see the force of travelling
that distance on a wet day to report that I wasn’t sick.
But, next morning, I was met at the railway-station by a
policeman, who took me into town to the Board of Health,
and then, by the instructions of the secretary, to Wool-
loomooloo quarantine depot—a horrible ill-smelling place,
washed by the sewer-polluted waters of Woolloomooloo Bay.
When I thought of patients in high fever being taken
from their beds and brought down there in the middle of
a cold night, I wondered that the mortality was so low !
My wife, having found out where I was, elected to join
me, and in due course we got down to the quarantine-
ground, where after an interview with the superinten-
dent we_ were taken to have our clothes fumigated.
When mine were afterwards returned to me I noticed that
a flower in my button-hole was none the worse for the
fumigation, which set me wondering of what use was the
process in destroying plague-germs. I found that the
whole place had an air of neglect and ruin, and looked as
if it needed clearing up just as much as Sussex-street.
The sounds, too, are weird. When you hear a steamboat
whistle, it is one of the quarantine boats arriving. If she
whistles twice, she has a plague patient on board. If
three times, there is a plague corpse on board, and then
the bell is rung for bearers. A gruesomely depressing
place for nervous people—and people there' are all ner-
vous ! And for all the fuss that the Government is
making, and the alleged activity of the Board of Health,
there is only one doctor there for over 300 persons.
The doctor—Heaven help him ! —works from 18 to 24 hours
a-day,—and Sydney fairly swarms with doctors ! Also,
will it be believed that rats and fleas abound in the place !
When I had been about 24 hours in durance, I was in-
formed by telegram that I “ would be released next day.”
So here I have been taken from a clean and healthy home,
dumped upon the quarantine ground, amongst people
who had come from the foulest dens in the city, and then
set at liberty—without any further precautions—amongst
the people of Sydney. Surely the whole world could not
match such idiotic bungling.
Premier Lyne is negotiating in haste for the
establishment a N.S.W. ammunition factory
‘ ‘ reasonably near to Sydney. ” The factory is to be
run by a private firm for five years on a Govern-
ment subsidy. Now, in the first place, no ammu-
nition factory should be near Sydney, which is an
exposed city and liable to prompt capture, factory
and all, whenever war comes this way. “Reason-
ably near Bourke ” would be much better. More-
over, long before five years have elapsed it is
practically certain that N.S.W. will have no army
and won’t want any ammunition, and N.S.W.
will be subsidising a private co. whose biggest
customer will be the Federal Government and the
Federal army. After waiting all these years,
during which N.S.W. had an army of its own
and really wanted ammunition, it seems wildly
absurd to rush into the cost of an ammunition
factory just when the province is going out of the
military business for good. Premier Lyne never
was a very sincere Federalist.
«.
David G.: Thus Sydney D.T. (11/4/’OO): —
Attorney-General Wise informs us that he has received
from the City Council a list of owners of the worst and
most insanitary premises in the quarantine district. He
was shocked to find that this list contained the names of
some of our wealthiest citizens—leaders of the churches,
some of them—and held in the highest repute. Mr. Wise
was satisfied that these gentlemen were not aware of the
fearful condition of their premises.
I call this mean—unutterably mean. Here are all
the things that the ordinarily astute lawyer, B. R.
W., assumes without a shred of evidence :
That the pillar of the church never, by any chance, col-
lected his own rents.
That he never goes to look at his own property—not
even when he buys it.
That he never heard about the state of his own slums
from common report.
That he really doesn’t know that the most notoriously
awful places in Sydney are slums, and have been a
mockery and a bye-word for 20 years, or more.
That his agent never reports to the boss on the state of
the boss’s own property.
That he refuses to repair his boss’s property on his own
responsibility, and lets the boss’s tenements go to wrack
and ruin on his own responsibility.
That the owner, though himself a good Christian man
who would never, if he knew it, allow such dreadful
things to happen, always hires a bowelless heathen for his
agent, and the agent having no sympathy for suffering,
and no principles, doesn’t even inform' his Christian
principal. Also, that the agent hasn’t sense enough to
know that his Christian principal wants to be informed so
that he may put things right.
To me it looks like the same old truckling to the
man with a lot of municipal votes and a lot of
Parliamentary influence. But then I’m not a
leader of the church—nor even a follower.
• ♦
Maoriland Premier Seddon, it is cabled, stated
recently, at Wellington, that what he desires is to
obtain such alterations in the Commonwealth Bill
as will secure to Maoriland an open door into Aus-
tralian markets and retain the right of appeal to
the Privy Council. _ If this is anything like true,
Seddon is becoming an insufferable busybody.
His province never gave an open door to Aus-
tralian produce, and Australia never dreamed
of asking the British Government to compel the
opening of Maoriland’s doors. Australia has always
recognised Maoriland’s right and the right of
every other country to maintain what tariff
it pleased, and Seddon’s theory that, while his
province has always maintained any tariff it
darned well liked, he should dictate to the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth as to its tariff, reads like
insanity. As to the appeal to the Privy Council,
Maoriland has that appeal, and Australia has
never tried to take it away. It isn’t interfering
with Maoriland’s appeal arrangements. And
Seddon’s proposal that he should have some say
in Australia’s own private and separate appeal
arrangements is the advertising shriek of a very
impudent and meddlesome old man.
It is just about four months since Australian poli-
ticians were laying down the slavish theory that
.Britain s 1 ransvaal policy must be right because
the British Government said it was, and the
British Government could be trusted to do what
was absolutely just, and we shouldn’t question
the wisdom of the British Government. Yet Aus-
tralia has now five Federal delegates in London
to show the British Government that it isn’t
right, and that it can’t be trusted to do
absolute justice, and that its wisdom is very
questionable—over its desire to amend the Com-
monwealth Bill. And though dozens of notable
people declared that we should exercise no judg-
ment of our own as regards Britain’s dealings
with the Boers, not one dares to say that we should
exercise no judgment of our own as regards
Britain’s dealings with us. Even the people who
favor the British Government’s proposals to alter
the Commonwealth Bill have the effrontery to
debate the rights and wrongs of these proposals.
Not one says straight out: “It must be right
because the British Government says it is, and
what the British Government says should be taken
for granted without question or argument.” And
just before the doctrine was laid down that the
British Government must be right and- honest and
fair in the Boer war matter because it was always
so, this country was fighting that same Govern-
ment to the bitter end to prevent it shamefully
and fraudulently and scandalously giving away
our rights in New Guinea to a swindling syndicate
of the same sort, though not of the same size, as
the syndicate which engineered the Jameson raid
and brought about the present war.
• ♦
Consider the awfulness of this sample of justice’s
justice ! The report is from the Camberwell and
Hawthorn (Melbourne) local paper :
Arthur Devenport and .Toiin Fogarty were, charged by
Constable Patterson with having no visible lawful means
of support. Both men presented a wretched appearance.
The first-named pleaded guilty, but Fogarty said that
“ All Australasia would have to plead guilty first before
he would, as he had money in the Savings Bank and £2
in his swag when arrested.” His swag was at the police
station. * The case was heard later, so that the swag could
be produced to see if the man was telling the truth.
Devenport was sentenced to three months. On the
arrival of the swag it was searched, and £2 found. Con-
sequently the case broke down. The Bench, however,
suggested to him that he should put £1 in the poor box.
This the man did readily, and was discharged.
Observe that the only charge against Fogarty was
that he had no money. The fact that he pre-
sented a wretched appearance had nothing to do
with the case. It proved that the charge
was a false one, and instead of the J’s.P.
apologising to Fogarty or compensating
him for his wrongful arrest, they had the
unspeakable insolence and cruelty to sug-
gest that he should put half his little pile into the
poor box. They suggested this before they gave
him the discharge to which he was legally entitled,
and presumably he complied with the shameful
requisition because he thought that he might
otherwise get three months, as the other man had
done. If any J.P. on that bench (there were
three of them) had put half his ready cash into the
poor box, he would have had a vast amount more
left for himself than the unjustly-accused Fogarty
—but there is no mention of any J.P. contributing
a copper. Can’t any of these justices be dealt
with for extorting money by implied threat—
the implied threat that Fogarty wouldn’t be dis-
charged unless he placated somebody with 20s ?
Advocates for the maintenance of the Privy
Council as the Supreme tribunal of the Australian
Commonwealth are far from being as logical or
symmetrical in their theory as pleaders like Bruce
Smith affect to be. The Privy Council years ago
voluntarily surrendered the character of supreme
tribunal in one section, and that the most im-
portant section, of Australian affairs, and its
surrender of the balance would now better accord
with theories of constitutional progression than a
labored effort at retention. When Henry Louis
Bertrand was condemned to death for the murder
of a Sydney bank clerk, among the arguments
advanced by the ingenious Julian Salomons
for a further consideration of the case was
what he called the inalienable right of an
Australian citizen to appeal to the English founts
of Justice in the realm. The execution of Ber-
trand was, as is known, deferred, and after con-
siderable delay the Secretary of State of the day
notified that the self-governing provinces of
Australia were competent to finally determine
cases of life and death. But if competence in
this, the highest matter, be conceded, compe-
tence in civil wrangles involving a few hundred
pounds should be conceded." Constitutional
symmetry and natural reason demand that if a
man mulcted in a few hundred pounds may appeal
to the heart of the Empire for a reconsideration of
liis case, the man mulcted in his life must be pro-
vided with a similar right of appeal. And, if not
the latter, then certainly not the former.
Most Australian mining regulations provide that
the occurrence of an accident in a mine shall be
prima facie evidence of the owner’s negligence.
Whether the regulation, has a legal foundation in
N.S.W. is doubtful; decisions have been given
both ways. No provision has, at any rate, been
more attacked ; at least one .Supreme Court Judge
has not only kicked it out but has also called it
preposterous. In India they have no such pro-
vision ; and in view of the threatened attempt to
put N.S.W. miners on the same footing when the
promised Mining Bill is brought forward, this,
from the just-issued report of the Chief Inspector
of Mines for India is significant
In cases of negligence it is as a rule impossible to directly
prove negligence. . . I am of opinion that the fact of ah
accident having occurred ought to be regarded as prima
faciA evidence of negligence as it is in Australia. The
onus of proving that the accident was due to causes other
than negligence would then rest with those immediately
concerned in the occurrence of the accident, and the
proofs or explanations offered would be fair subject for
expert or other criticism before the magistrate.
Britain’s new usury Bill, which passed its second
reading in the Commons last month, has some
stringent provisions for the better discourage-
ment of the blood-sucker who frequently masquer-
ades as a benevolent, Christian lady having money
to lend at 5 per cent. All money-lenders must be
registered, under one name only ; interest is
limited to 15 per cent, on loans over £lO ; over £2
and under £lO to 20 per cent. ; and under £2 to
25 per cent.—which is by no means a drastic re-
duction ; in fact, on the smaller loans there is no
reduction whatever, for the British pawnbroker
has long since been limited to 25 per cent, per
annum. Penalty for breach of these regulations
is £lOO for first offence, and, for subsequent lapses
a repetition of the fine with tli£ addition of three
months’ hard labor. The Bill further gives the
courts power to inquire into, reduce or cancel those
interesting and accumulative charges which Shy-
lock is so fond of piling up—such as inquiry-fees
and similar preliminary items. And should the
money-lender resort to any trickery or misrepre-
sentation, the Bill provides such consequences as
£5OO fine or two years’ hard labor, or both. When
does any of the Australian Governments propose
to take up the usury question on similar lines ?


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS ...
Increase in Assets during 1899 ...
SURPLUS amounts to ... ...
Increase in Surplus during 1899
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899
£58,373,185
4,546,248
12,711,975
793,123
219,670,088
14,012,322
SURPLUS over LI ABl LIT lES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN,. Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MGRT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CIIAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.JD.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
>'}, S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
* ; r-
Fowler’s Traction Engines
a
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
for all purposes.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post FkEo.
Sole A f/ents :
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ,J Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Camille.”
Royal “ The Manoeuvres of Jane."
Lyceum “ The Irishman.”
Palace McAdoo’s Georgia Minstrels.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones."
Theatre Royal “When the Lamps are Lighted.'
Alexandra “ For Queen and Country.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Miss Nance O’Neil came back to Sydney
last Saturday to appear at Her Majesty’s in
“Camille,” that brilliant Frenchy story of a
Woman with a Past—-the usual kind. The audience
took “Camille” in a cordial and enthusiastic
spirit, though some of it probably hardly knew
what it was about, and a good part of the rest
tried to think it didn’t. If “ Camille” had been
originally written in English, and the scene was
laid in Liverpool in 1880, and the Count de Var-
ville was plain Mr. Smith in ordinary trousers, and
lie laid the twenty-shilling bell-topper of an ordin-
ary, modern, middle-class British life on the piano
when he called to see if Camille would be the
unmarried Mrs. Smith, he would probably be
hissed by a shocked community. And if the
noble Armand, who represents virtue in this drama,
was simply a passionately devoted modern Brown,
who asked Camille to be the unmarried Mrs.
Brown for love instead of the unmarried Mrs.
Smith for money, and the chief difference
between him and Smith was the fact that
he only laid an inferior ten-and-sixpenny bell-
topper on the piano which was the price of sin,
he would probably be hissed also. For then a
shocked audience would realise that Camille was
a lady whose sole means of support consisted in
selling her tall form to some person with cash.
♦ • ¥ *
Moreover, in an English drama, Camille
would give herself away by having moments
of frantic repentance about her lost honour;
whereas, in the French one, it seems to
be taken for granted that she doesn’t need
any. And as she doesn’t lament about
her lost honour the public, as a rule, doesn’t
notice that it is lost. Even in her dying
moments she doesn’t repent of the many dissi-
Eated noblemen who have kept her in cash during
er tempestuous career. This beautiful child of
passion merely weeps because she gave up being
lost with Armand to go and be lost with de Var-
ville. She is a Tanqueray minus that lady’s
desire to leave off Tanking, and without
her deep regret that she had ever Tanked.
Her grief is that she sold her tall figure
to one man instead of giving it away
gratis to another. And a Respectable cdl'n-
munity finds a blessed rest and relief from its own
Respectability in remembering that the grand old
picturesque Sin was originally written in a foreign
language. There is no small British twopenny
moral tacked on to “Camille.” Apparently she
didn’t break anybody’s heart through taking to a
life of wickedness —not even her own. She didn’t
blight or abbreviate her own life by it ; probably
she would have died much sooner if she hadn’t
sinned, for her wrong-doing brought her many
material comforts. Apart from the fact that she
didn’t know when to keep on going wrong with
the right man, her career was a success. And
nobody can offer any sufficient reason why it
shouldn’t have been.
Camille is a triumph for the tall Californian
actress. It is perhaps the best rendering of the
stately, passionate, purposeless adventuress Aus-
tralia has yet seen. For this time, at all events,
Miss Nance O’Neil is fully up to the level of the
of wildly eulogistic notices that her manager
sent round to the Sydney papers. Her grace and
fire and stateliness, and the intonations of her
splendid voice, and her gorgeousness of apparel,
and her bushel of fair hair are used for all they
are worth, and they are worth a great deal. Yet
Thomas Kingston, as Armand, has almost as
much to do with the success of the piece as the
heroine. He is brilliant all through, but espe-
cially in the place of cursing, where Armand loses
his habits as a gentleman, and becomes an embit-
tered public hog, and publicly pays the wretched
woman on the floor for the temporary loan of her
society. He calls in her friends to hear him state
that she is much worse than she might be without
hurting herself, and to see him throve the money
at her bowed head, and here Kingston is a great
dramatic hog, and it would be hardly possible for
the part to be done better. Harry Plimmer, re-
turned after a long absence, is a strong, manly,
overbearing ruffian as de Varville—the man who
has paid for Camille and insists on the goods being
delivered ; and Mrs. Bracy, Miss Emily Hughes,
and M‘Kee Rankin effectively fill in some
characters of more or less importance.
** * *
The Brough company has been doing some
prosperous revivals at Sydney Royal during the
week. The “Physician,” “Lady Ursula,”
“ Lord Quex,” and the “ Brixton Burglary,” have
all been billed for two-night seasons, and the re-
sults, in a general way, have been highly satisfac-
tory. Next Saturday the co. conies out of this
scrappy period and starts a new comedy, “The
Manoeuvres of Jane.” The author thereof is
Henry Arthur Jones, and Jones is a person that
any intelligent community is glad to meet as a
rule.
** * #
“ Robbery Under Arms” was revived at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday, when under Alfred
Dampier’s management the usual sections of Aus-
tralian scenery—the pale blue section and the
yellow gum-tree section, and that other section
which is mostly composed of horse—were all to
the fore, or rather the back, as usual. The march
FERRY, THE HUMAN FROG.
Photo. , Talma.
of moral progress has been so great this generation
that even the gallery cannot regard Robber Star-
light as quite the hero he was intended to be,
hence orders to arrest the march of moral progress
are imperatively demanded. Perhaps Dampier
does not quite look the part of the gallant captain,
but he speaks well and ornaments himself with
that soupcon of imperiousness which, in fiction, is
supposed to indicate high birth, so that very
shortly you get to see the ideal Starlight instead of
the stout, kindly gentleman with the far-off likeness
to Rignold. John Bruce, as old Ben Marston,
steps clean out of the Boldrewood picture ; while
Appleton as Chief of Police, and Alfred Rolfe as
Dick Marston, keep up their end of the stick.
But the people who go about saying “ Every-
body loved Jim ” ought to be remonstrated with.
Present scribe felt no overwhelming affection for
that commonplace young man, and is dead sure
nobody else did. It is a pity daughter Rose does
not take example by the old man ; Dampier knows
when to let his voice go, and never speaks as
if the famed Eden apple were sticking in his
throat. The old maid with the young voice con-
tinues to haunt this variety of play, and the nine
or ten policemen who are always being covered at
critical moments by the four pistols of two out-
laws, and who never seem to think of starting
with a little covering of their own, form an un-
veracious portion of the Bushranger’s Dream, as
usual.
* * * *
An incoherent scare pervaded Sydney last
week to the effect that the Lyceum was quaran-
tined, and that C. Holloway had suddenly
swelled up to twice his usual size. It proved,
however, to be mere scare, and the new
drama opened on Monday under the usual healthy
conditions in the presence of an immense audi-
ence. It was largely a country audience, and
some of the back part of it was obviously and
audibly aggravated at not getting a seat —which
was foolish, for just now Sydney’s chief desire is
not to get things, and the person who gets any-
thing at all is apt to be quarantined on spec. The
“Irishman ” is a conventional drama by one Whit-
bread. Whitbread has evidently read all the other
Irish dramas, and has adhered to them with painful
exactness. All the old people are in it—Norah,
the heiress, and Molly, the servant, also O’Rorke,
Rafferty, Flannagan, Doyle, Mulligan, Driscoll,
and Hennessy. Heffernan is unavoidably absent,
having got a job at cleaning up the diseased area ;
but Blake and Whelan and Moroney are there.
And these people fill the same old parts. The
“agent” is the villain of the drama, as a matter
of course—it is questionable if there is a good
agent in the whole range of Irish drama. The
other villain is his creature, Whelan, the “emer-
gency man” and “ chucker-out ” of the tenantry
which, as usual, is lamentably behind with the rent.
Donnergan and Rafferty, and Dade and Flanna-
gan, and Moroney and Doyle, are also emergency-
men, and seeing that all these persons, supported
by O’Ryan and Connor, are employed to eject Hen-
nessy, it seems a miserably thriftless arrange-
ment. On the face of things, it should be much
cheaper to let Hennessy remain than to pay the
wages of Donnergan and Rafferty, and Dade and
Flannagan, and Moroney and Doyle and Whelan
to throw him out—to say nothing of the expenses
of Connor and O’Ryan.
* * » •
Otherwise, “The Irishman” is the usual
cheerfully impossible drama, with whisky and a
priest in it. John Saunders is a bright and
strongly-dramatic hero, whose wrongs are past
finding out; and Miss de Winton is a clever
and pathetic heroine ; and Laurence Dunbar is a
dark, scheming and reasonably plausible agent ;
and the only thing that is better than the
Kavanagh of J. P. Cathcart is the O’Rorke of J.
W. Sweeney ; while Tom Cosgrove’s Whelan is
close up, and Mulligan would look better if he:
were not somewhat overshadowed by Driscoll,
The hero’s troubles can’t be taken seriously. He
is cast off by his uncle for robbery in Act 1., but
proves his innocence, and the curtain falls as he is
being hugged by the glad old man ; notwithstand-
ing which, the beginning of Act 11. finds him in
gaol for the same disproved robbery, and cast off
again ; and, ten minutes later, he comes in
free and a member of Parliament, and his
uncle (who, for unknown reasons, won’t
speak to him) is murdered by Blake in the pres-
ence of O’Rorke. But though O’Rorke is true as
steel and wallops Whelan, the process-server, he
never thinks of stating that he saw the uncle mur-
dered by Blake. Instead, he helps John Saunders
to escape by doing frightful calisthenics on a high
rope, when it would be much easier to simply
prove his innocence. “ The Irishman ”is mostly
a drama of calisthenics. Saunders’ escape on the
high rope would do credit to a professional acrobat.
Also, the eviction is a wild harlequinade, in which
it rains policemen down the chimney and off the
roof, and the tenantry that is behind with its rent
walks on its hands, and does somersaults through
the window, and resists the law by standing on
its ear and sliding down the side of the house. It
is the most cheerful eviction this paper ever saw.
In fact, “The Irishman” is cheerful all through
and keeps going all the time, though it never
knows exactly where it is going. Everybody keeps
moving—especially Whelan, who has to keep
moving, for O’Rorke is always after him, and
kicks him enthusiastically when he catches him
up. Half the time the drama is obscured
by a cloud of dust which arises from Whelan
through the well-earned kicking of him by
O’Rorke.
** * *
Rickards rose out of the ashes of himself
last Thursday night, and various things were done
to celebrate the duck-egg blue and salmon pinks
and general soft coloring of the new Tivoli, which,
in its general freshness and newness, looks like the
sort of hygienic Ark to which the people of Sydney
will fly when the Mighty Atom lias infected every
other part of the community. (The bubonic germ
is meant —not a certain affable manager.) The
Tivolians started off by singing the National
Anthem, the first verse twice over while they were
trying to remember the second, and the second
twice over to decide if they knew any more or not,
after which Rickards was comforted with a testi-
monial for having his theatre burnt down, and the
audience “had their photo, took,” and at odd
moments, when these great things were not
happening, the co. managed to squeeze in the
usual programme. The arrival of the Martinettis
is a splendid thing for the co. Compared to their
production, even the inferior Tivolians now shine
with a great lustre.
* * * *
The Martinettis do something called
a Pantomime in which actions take the
place of words, but as the pantomimists
merely heave pillows at each other and scoot
down trap-doors, there doesn’t seem much in the
business; quite ordinary people can do those
things without vocal explanation. That the
audience should shriek with laughter when two
men fire pillows at each other does not astonish
present scribe, because she is already acquainted
with the intellectual depths of this great land ;
but when the audience —some of it—continues to
shriek when the same pillow has been fired in
exactly the same way 240 times, her faith in Syd-
ney’s intellectual light and culture is shaken The
Martinettis’ pantomime is the longest thing in
creation ;it is longer than the sea-serpent. Ages
roll away, empires crumble to dust, and the
Martinettis are still throwing pillows at each
other as they did in the bygone years. People
who entered that theatre in all the gladsomeness
of their youth left it grey-haired, tottering
patriarchs except when their long-dead skeletons
were removed by the caretaker when all was
over. There were two or three more items
on the programme after this, but the
writer did not see them as she had to hurry
home to breakfast. Tom Browne, the noted
whistler (and also a double-noted ditto) gave a neat
and pretty performance and didn’t waste valuable
seconds in explaining how he did it. Lud wig Amann
made his final appearance with the pillows of the
pantomimists as a back-ground, for which some
body or other wasted more precious moments in
apologising. The Mintons’ turn was somewhat
commonplace, and the verdict is that old favorites
are best, especially if Miss Rochester would tack
her clear new voice on to a less aged song.
** * *
Orpheus M‘Adoo’s Georgia Minstrels are
back at Sydney Palace, and when that gorgeous
curtain that looks like Belshazzar’s shirt-front
vanishes aloft, they are discovered at the “ Hono-
lulu Dance at Hawaaii Islands.” The Honolulu
dance is a melodious rout which apparently means
nothing arid gets nowhere. ' There have been
sundry additions to the co. since it was last seen
in Sydney. The new plump lady is Madame
Cordelia, and she knows how to use her some-
what metallic voice to good advantage. _ Billy
M‘Lain, formerly of the lamented Curtis co.,
is the chief funny man. William is funny, and
would be more so if he made a few new jokes.
But the glory of the M‘Adoo co. are its quartette
and the astounding, bewildering Ferry, the
human frog. Ferry is an indescribable green
wriggler, and he ties himself in knots under the
moonlight while balancing on a piece of wood as
thick as a man’s wrist. Pampnlin, the Nubian
juggler, has a number of new tricks, in one of
which he makes a zig-zag of pipes with a live dove
on the top, and then balances the lot on his lip ;
but everything looks more or less tame as com-
pared with Ferry.
** * *
Last Saturday night, at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, a rain-beaten holiday crowd welcomed
Charles “Hans” Arnold back again to Australia
after many days. Arnold’s first programme is a
three-act farce, preceded by an “episode” of
awful topical interest. The Bulletin commends
this episode to the kind attention of the local
hero-worshippers in general, and petticoated wor-
shippers in particular. Its construction is stagey,
and some of the pathos is very forced—especially
the pathos of the hungry young literary man talk-
ing nis fairy tale aloud as he writes it to the
order of a beastly publisher who refuses to pay
him ten bob in advance —but it gives the blood-
thirsty public mind something to dwell upon. The
unreal literary person has adopted the illegiti-
mate offspring of his luckless sweetheart, for she,
it appears, fell in love with a soldier, and the
then unborn pledge of affection was one of the
little things that the absent-minded beggar left
behind him. The mother died what time her
seducer was losing one arm whilst winning the
Victoria Cross, consequently he heard no more of
her, nor wanted to hear any more of her. A dash-
ing fine fellow in those days, he “thought the world
and women were made only for the enjoyment of
such as he.” Six years later, as a maimed and
sobered commissionaire, he chances to bring a
letter (from the beastly publisher aforesaid) to the
little back-room where the adopted parent hangs
out, and in due course the hearty casual stranger
discovers his relationship to the child and is
struck penitent. A powerful episode, notwith-
standing its weak, mawkish spots. Also the act-
ing of George Willoughby as the ex-soldier is first-
class, and little Edna Arnold plays the child
prettily, and Frank Denton and Miss Dot Fred-
erics are satisfactory in the two minor characters.
“ An Empty Stocking ” is the title of this up-to-
date moral lesson.
#* * *
“ What Happened to Jones,” the farce
that Arnold played for more than one consecutive
year at the Strand Theatre, turns out to be the
same old tangle of impossible troubles arising from
a respectable “ professor’s ” desire to keep some-
thing dark. The professor of three-act comedy-
life suffers chiefly from mother-in-law as a rule,
but the good man in this case has no traditional
tyrant on the premises, therefore his fatal secrecy
concerning his night out at a New York boxing
match is rather more unaccountable than usual.
All the same one gets a faint whiff of originality
from the fact that Ebenezer merely went to a box-
ing match instead of an oyster supper. Jones is
the disastrous, bustling stranger who bursts into
Ebenezer’s family circle and has to be introduced
to the ladies as a long-lost theologian from
Ballarat, after which the real missing relative
arrives and is overtaken by an escaped lunatic
who calls him a lied Indian and sticks feathers in
his back hair. Other people assisting to maintain
the confusion are a fat policeman, a terrible spins-
ter, a pair of nice tall daughters, and a stolid
housemaid who holds her tongue for ten dollars a
time. ‘ ‘ What Happened to Jones ” was a nimble,
rapid joke enough on the first night, also it looks
likely to gain speed as the performers grow accus-
tomed to their present surroundings. Charles
Arnold, the genial German boatman of yore, is an
easy, breezy Yank in the name part. F. B. Sharp
makes a good first impression as Ebenezer. The
masculine spinster (Miss Sallie Booth) and the
leading juvenile (Frank Denton) are new comers
who will be liked, and George Willoughby’s sketch
of the worried divine from Ballarat is nearly as
good as his sturdy commissionaire in the curtain-
raiser. Of the remaining half-dozen characters,
the most important is Jones’s mash, played by
Miss Dot Frederics. Restless Miss Dot has ac-
quired five years experience since the last time
she was in Australia, but she has not yet con-
quered an early tendency to imitate Pattie Browne,
whose aggressive mannerisms are unsuited to her
voluble young disciple. The little lady would do
well to give her own individuality a chance to
assert itself.
*
“For Queen and Country,” Jt the Alex-
andra, is a wild, prophetic entertainmb.it, wherein
the British army enters Pretoria after inflicting
many noisy defeats upon the enemy. The non-
progressiveness of the Alexandra Boers is very
marked. They make no headway against the
valour of Alfred Woods, and every time they take
up a strong position to blaze away at the soldiers
of the Queen their courage is not worth a cent.
During the one-sided campaign Alfred Woods
fights a capital horseback duel with the only re-
spectable Dutchman in the Transvaal, and apart
from this stirring illustration of British supremacy
there are several tableaux which reflect credit on
the Union Jack and the new-management. More-
over, the drama will be fairly amusing as regards
plot and dialogue when the funny corporal and
nis friend the comic Hebrew have been severely
sub-edited. The humorists in question were a
great trial to a good many people on Saturday
night. Miss Maud Williamson —it goes without
saying—gives valuable aid and dignity to the
show in the part of the girl who is coveted by the
orthodox Boer spy. Miss Nellie Mortyne, Mis>
Lindahl, Harry Hodson, Alf. Boothman, and a
crowd of minor considerations appear on the bill,
and the supers, and scenery are calculated to
thrill an Alexandra audience.
** * *
The Easter programme at Melbourne Bijou
includes Amann in the first place, also Professo
Almond, the skate dancer, and a large assortmen
of “turns’’are mostly all right. A few notes o
admiration for Amann (plural, amen) are hel i
over until next issue.
** * *
At the Royal there is nothing the matter
with “ When the Lamps are Lighted,” and seenv
ingly the success of Sheridan in his character oi


HI
SIV o
A
, «w The
h * s *
ZETZ Spring
XETZ-4F
MOD
*”v
© 10
ro-s-w
S 6 g §5 S
Ifff3 .£=’
(nnl
(Tin)
TOE
Famous
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE.
nr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. & Co„ Ltd,, Liverpool. Agents \I, Rutty & Co., Sydney.
The success of Messrs. John Bridge & Co. Ltd.,
wool and produce agents, is one of the big things in the
history of the Australian wool trade. The firm began
30 years ago ; the late John Bridge being the founder,
and the human principles on which he conducted his
business are responsible for the firm’s prosperity. His
cardinal maxim was that the growers and producers
would be certain to stand by a firm, if that firm showed
ever}' attention to each individual client, irrespective of
quantity of clip or produce. And to-day his successors
say : —“ The woolgrowers have made us the largest all-
round brokers and financial agents in the colony, and,
consequently, it is only our duty to foster the grower’s
interests in every way.”*
* » * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bitciiu Bitters.
T< #: e obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
If you want to borrow money, go to*N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * « id
Messrs. \V. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including,
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 240 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Ilorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
» * * »
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
« » * *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Foolscray
works, arid he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, flutning, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• * • •
The Wilfley Concentrator, which was lately in-
troduced to Australia by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., Ltd., is meeting with much success, users describing
it as far and away the best machineof the day, and the co.
is kept busily engaged in turning out the machines to
keep pace with orders. The range of adjustment to suit
various classes of ores is such that the machines are being
successfully employed to concentrate on tin, copper, silver
and gold ores, and the machines are now working in all
the colonies. The Central Silver Mine, Broken Hill, after
consideration of all existing plants and careful experi-
ments, have adopted them and are now putting them in.*
* * * *
Insurance Press, July Ist, 1899: “The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society has had another season of
prosperity and has increased its business and bettered its
financial position to a considerable extent.*
* • * *
The P.H. and F.M. Roots Co., of Connersville,
Ind., U.S.A., has for the last 30 years been devoting all
its time and attention to the manufacture of Positive
Blowers. The “ Root” Blower is probably the best known
and most scientifically constructed machine of this class
in the market to-day. It has very high efficiency, while
the price is quite reasonable. 30,000 of these machines
are stated to be in present use. The Einasleigh Copper
Mines, Ltd., of North Queensland, has placed an order for
a No. 5 machine for use in conjunction with the smelter
shortly to be erected on their property. The Australian
agents are the Parke and Lacy Company, Ltd.*
* * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
McCreery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, having proceeded to England to attend to the
flotation of several mining properties, they are prepared
to receive particulars of other ventures suitable for
European flotation.*
* * * *
Hannan’s Brown Hill gives Dr. Diehl’s co.—the
London and Hamburg—7ooo shares for a 100-ton sulphide
plant, to be erected on the mine in two sections.
The first of Zeb. Lane’s Murchison “floats”
will be the Windsor Consolidated, already registered as a
£150,000 concern. The mines are a group of high-<Tade
shows out from Magnet, held by the British Westralian
syndicate.
SLIMES!!
Ss
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markwaltl
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney;
178 William Street. Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies.
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
husband to Tilly, and father of the kiddie, unll be
prolonged for another week. After which “A
Trip to Chicago.”
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Including its latest loan, Westralia’s public debt
has swelled up beautifully to £11,859,195. This, on the
province’s latest estimated population (173,128) means
over £6B per head ; so Westralia, which, in 1891, had
the smallest debt (£3O ss. Bd. per head) of the Seven Pro-
vinces, is now very actively racing Queensland and S.A.
for the billet of the most heavily burdened SUt« in Aus-
tralasia.
• • • •
The Westralian statistician, in his answer to
the Goldfields Separation manifesto, tries to prove that
the Goldfields have not been unjustly treated in the
matter of expenditure by alleging, among other things,
that their contribution to the railway revenue in the last
five years has been barely £600,000—£120,000 a year. The
total revenue from Westralia’s state lines in ’92 —before
the Goldfields railways were made—was £94,201. In 1899
after the Goldfields lines were made—it was £1,004,620 —
an increase of £910,000. And the Statist reckons that the
Goldfields supplied £150,000 of this, and the other
£760,000 arose through humping apples to Bunbury, or
something like that.
« • • •
Up to date, the Victorian State Land Bank has
raised £959,150 for loans to farmers by the sale of 3 per
cent, bonds. The public took £163,000, and the Savings
Bank took the remaining £790,850. The Savings Bank
can’t go on taking these securities for ever, because it
can’t put all its money in long-dated investments which
aren’t easily realisable in the open market, and when it is
full up, either the Victorian Government must find some
other way of raising the wind or its State Land Bank
must close. There are four reasons why the public
doesn’t take up the State Land Bank’s securities more
freely. By an amazingly stupid legal provision, trustees,
who might otherwise buy them largely, are not allowed
to use this eminently safe State security as a medium
ft r the investment of trust funds. By another
amazingly stupid law, benefit societies are not allowed
to invest in them—the law deliberately shuts out two of
the best investing classes from investing at all. Then
again, the law which created the State Land Bank
foolishly provided that the money received as repayments
from borrowers, instead of being used to make fresh
loans, should be used to redeem bonds. When borrower
Jones repays £lOOO of his loan, and at the same time the
institution agrees to lend £lOOO to borrower Smith, in-
stead of simply lending him Jones’s £lOOO it is supposed
to repay £lOO ) worth of bonds with Jones’s money, and
then sell another £lOOO worth of bonds to get money to
lend to Smith. This aggravates the bondholder, who
wants a continuous investment which will pay him his
interest v.utomatically, and won’t return him liis money
suddenly in the dead of night and stop the in-
terest. Certainly this grievous waste of good stationery
has been temporarily suspended, but still the law exists.
And, last of all, the Victorian doesn’t see why he
should only get 3 per cent, when Victoria has never
floated a loan in England at less that £3 ss. 7d. per cent.
With the other anomalies rectified, things might boom at
3 per cent. They would certainly boom at 3J, and the
State Land Bank could pay that and still lend money at
4£ per cent.
* * * *
S.A. has an unpleasant surprise this year; the
wheat harvest of that drought-cursed province pans out
for an average of only 4.V bushels per acre. S.A., with
practically no minerals, depends more on its grain-crop
than any other province, and it has more than twice as
much land (or dust) under cultivation in proportion to
population as any other province—but its drought is
awful, and its luck is worse. In 1899 it raised nearly five
bushels of wheat per acre—the worst crop in the Seven
Provinces ; and in ’9B about 2£ bushels. In fact, the S.A.
farmer, as a general thing, gets just about as much out
of the ground as he put in it. What he lives on is one of
this country’s great mysteries.
* * * *
Premier Philp has officially contradicted the
statement (made in the last official half-yearly report of
Mt. Garnet Freehold Co.) that the Q. Govt, has promised
to introduce next session a bill authorising the co. to con-
struct a railway at the terminus of the Chillagoe co.’s
10-mile spur line, from Wade’s to Mt. Garnet—2B miles.
Chairman of directors M’Kenzie reiterated in his address
the statement of the report. And despite Philp’s official
denial the Garnet Freehold people keep on reiterating.
A London syndicate has concluded the pre-
liminaries to purchasing the whole of Adelaide’s tram-
ways. Parliamentary sanction is necessary, and if this
is obtained, electric traction is to replace the present
horse system. This threatened swallowing-up by a
foreign “ shindykit ” has so far provoked no agitation for
municipal or state control. Adelaide Corporation has
apparently been cleverly silenced by a provision that it
shall receive £lOOO a year for the right to run electric
cars through the streets. But when Kingston comes
back—if he comes back in time—he will probably oppose
this threatened monopoly with vigor, as his Ministry, two
years ago, was favorable to Govt, purchase of all tram-
lines. The pity is that it got no further than being
favorable.
• * * *
Negotiations have been proceeding between the
B.H. Prop, and the B.H. Water Supply Co. with a view to
turning aside the former from its determination to carry
out a water scheme of its own.
* • a •
You never know where you are in the B.H.
Junction. The shareholder gets a glowing report and a
div. and drinks his own very good luck in something at
15s. a bottle ; he wakes with a bad head and the news
that the mine has caved in. He thinks of the friend upon
whom he can unload to the best advantage ; and then
gets news that a fresh lode has been found. The fact is
the mine is at a bend in the lode ; and unevenness in both
form and quality is only to be expected. Years ago,
when this character was made to sen e the purposes of
some of the most consummate market operators this
weary continent has produced, a westerh lode-formation
was discovered, and, for some reason or other, promptly
covered up with mullock. Heaven knows why it wasn’t
rooted out at a more convenient season; nobody else
seems to. Lately, however, when through the awful
gloominess of the other workings it became necessary to
look in unlikely as well as likely places for ore, the mul-
lock was carted out and a big formation exposed. It
seems to be quite distinct from anything else worked in
either the Junction or any other mine (except, perhaps,
some of the little shows to the north), being further west
than any main-lode working. But, though rich in
small patches, nothing good enough to treat has at time of
writing been broken down in bulk. The J unction North
should have it as well.
* * * »
The Royal Bank (Melbourne) is fast recovering
from the bad effects of the Great Suspension era—though
it was itself the one Victorian bank which didn’t suspend.
Its record from the time when Australia went financially
into hospital until now, when the patient can get about
again with the aid of a stick, is as follows :
Profit. Dividend.
September, 1892 .. £8261 .. 5 per cent. =£7500
(Reserve of £5OOO written-off.)
March, 1893 .. .. 2510 .. Nil.
September, 1893 .. 1901 .. „
March. 1894 .. 3253 .. „
September, 1894 .. 2875 „
March. 1895 .. .. 2137 .. „
September, 1895 .. 2039 .. „
March, 1896 .. .. 2099 .. ~
September, 1896 .. 2044 .. ~
(£150,000 capital and £21,521 accumulated profit written
off.)
March, 1897 .. .. 3398 .. 3 per cent. =£2250
September, 1897 .. 3625 .. 3 „ = 2250
March, 1898 .. 3865 ..3 „ = 2250
September, 1898 .. 4088 -. 3 ~ = 2250
March, 1899 .. .. 4314 ~ 3 „ = 2250
September, 1899 .. 4624 .. 3 „ = 2250
March, 1900 .. .. 6843 .. 4 „ = 3000
The profits are equal to £7los. 9d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital, £150,000 ; re-
serve fund, £5000). An addition of £5OOO is made to the
reserve this half-year, raising it to £10,000), and a balance
of £3258 is carried forward. The Royal Bank’s former re-
serve (the one written off in 1892) was only £5OOO, so in
this respect the institution is more solid than it ever
was before. The business looks about the same as last
year, hut cash has increased by over £lO,OOO, and is now
£125,497 —equal to over 30 per cent, on all liabilities to
the public. Why such a large cash reserve is main-
tained it is difficult to guess for the Royal, being an
institution with no branches, requires a smaller reserve in
proportion to liabilities than its business rivals do, instead
of a larger one. It is remarkable in another way too,
as being the only bank of issue in Australasia which
allows interest on current accounts. Also, it generally
keeps its interest rates on fixed deposits a point higher
than the average. The standing quotations of late have
been in Victoria—Bank of N.S.W., the Union, and the
Australasia, 21 per cent, for 12 months’ deposits ; other
banks except the Royal, 3 per cent. ; Royal, 3.} per cent.
The little institution appears to he doing well enough,
too, on these unorthodox lines. It has made rather vio-
lent haste to put up its dividend to 4 per cent., for it has
still £145,000 of leeway to make up before its capital and
reserve get back to the level of 1892 ; but, all the same, if
it keeps anything like the present margin between earn-
ings and dividends it should grow in strength very
rapidly.
• • * *
Curious to read in the monthly circular of a big
Sydney broking firm that “ North Central and B.H. Junc-
tion are the only stocks on the Hill not making money ;
the former are locally fancied very much, being adjacent
to all the best mines.” The North Central doesn’t deserve
to he coupled like this with any B.H. main-lode mine.
Originally claims were pegged out all along the lode, on
both sides ; and several co.’s, such as the Brisbane Blocks,
the Bonanza, and the B.H. Extended, spent tens of
thousands in prospecting, but got nothing payable. The
North Centra] is the last of this group. The rest,
abandoned for mining, are now used for dumping
mullock and tailings on ; and, though seams may
be got in the North Central, there really isn’t much hope
that it has a greater value than the others.
• • • •
The Bulletin learns, both from Broken Hill
and Westralia, that it is untrue that that able
metallurgist, Mr. W. J. Koehler, ex - assistant general
manager of the B.H. Proprietary is “now managing a
show at Mount Sir Samuel for a Perth syndicate.” The
fact is that Mr. Koehler has been engaged by the London
and Perth boards of the Bellevue Consolidated, Ltd., at a
most substantial salary to straighten out the general
running of their mine and, especially, to efficiently carry
out the metallurgical treatment of their ores; for this
purpose, Tiib Bulletin hears, be has been empowered to
make what alterations and to erect what additional plant
he deems necessary. It is confidently stated that the
Bellevue Co.’s mine, next to the big Kalgooriie mines, is
among the very best of Westralian properties, and it is
employing at present over 100 men. In the past it has
been handicapped by unsystematic opening-up and the
erection of second-hand and antiquated plant, but the
owners are convinced that in the hands of Mr. Koehler
and the present manager, Mr. A. Taylor, who have at their
disposal ample funds, past errors will be more than
fully retrieved.
• • * •
C. G. Warnford Lock, formerly manager of the
Wentworth mines, has not forgotten his grievances against
the N.S.W. mining laws and regulations, and is now airing
them in the London Mining Journal. Lock is an able
penman, and the present Minister might do worse than
read the articles and try to remedy the defects enume-
rated. A few of them :—No provision for reducing the
area of a lease or group of leases, forfeiture necessary
before application can be made for reduced area. The
only protection given is a “ beforehand notice,” which is
absurd. No provision made for employing all labor on
one lease, i.e., the lessee must employ men on each lease
until they are amalgamated. In the" Mining on Private
Lands Act copper is not mentioned at all. More money
is distributed ever}' year than the value of the total metals
won through this aid. Lock calls it a much-abused
charitable institution, and he is right; also in saying that
of the columns devoted by Sydney journalists to mining
intelligence, the bulk has reference to the industry in
other provinces, and the local pars, generally detail' the
startling facts that “ Sam Brown and party were enabled
by the recent rains to clean up their paddock, and a ball
of nice-looking amalgam was the result,” or that “Tom
Smith’s collection of handsome gold specimens is attract-
ing much attention at the Royal Hotel.” N.S.W. boom-
slers with mines to float in London will not appreciate
Lock’s facts and fancies. Some of them are only fancies.
• • * *
In reply to the statement published in London
that there were several local syndicates ready to secure
the Wentworth (N.S.W.) mines' if they were abandoned,
Mr. Lock, the former manager, replies that he can well
believe it, and that it would afford quite a picnic to the
local fossickers and their Parliamentary champions. But
they will have long to wait for that event, and it will be a
sorry disappointment when it does happen, because every
foot of the old workings is being thoroughly cleaned down
and searched both for “ plants” of stone and ore and for
indications of unworked deposits.
* * « *
“ Not widely known,” writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent, “ that promising discoveries of tin have been
made on Upper Macleay and Wilson Rivers (N.S.W.).
The former, on Carri, 3200 ft. above sea-level, was found
many years ago by a neighboring settler. Several parties
are now there. One apparently on very rich tin. All
stream tin—no lode discovered. Gundle field, 30 miles
from P. Macquarie, shows enormous lode, which has been
worked in a small way for eight or nine years. There are
several parties, including Gundle Tin' Mining Co. and
Gundle Prospecting Co. Latter to be floated shortly.
Two hundred tons from the body of its stone went 6
per cent. Concentrates from the battery went 63 per
cent. The mining co. has already sold £2OOO worth of
tin. Capital, however, is badly needed, as it is impos-
sible for small and poor parties to work the field pro-
perly. The Prospecting Co. (No. 1) has a perfect quarry
in the lode. And the mineral riches between Yarrovitch
on Walcha-road, across Hastings and Macleay Rivers,
beyond Five-day Creek to Never Never, at head of Bel-
linger, haven’t been fairly smelt yet.”
•.* » •
Turon Dredge in the slump again. It was
boasted last year that yields would reach lOOoz. a-week,
and scrip see £5. Last two weeks, 19oz. and 220 z. respec-
tively. Scrip, 255. to 30s.
* * * *
Australian Gold Recovery Co.: Running the
cyanide process last year the co. made over £16,000 profit
nearly double that of previous year. Royalties from
Queensland alone now' amount to over £2OOO a month, so
that the co. must be losing money elsewhere. It still has
a large interest in Oobar Gold Mines—in the flotation of
which it took a prominent part, some years ago. It is
now working the last of the Bird-in-Hand tailings, not
far from Adelaide, and has done very well out of them.
* * * •
From Herberton, Q.: —Practical miners return-
ing from Coen, N.Q., deprecate any further rush —in fact,
openly state it is done in interests of store and s.s.
owners. On the other hand, prospects in this and Mt.
Garnet districts of large tin-developments, at £l5O per
ton, giving men £4 to £5 weekly, are far more rosy than
those of N.Q., as there is plenty of rain-w’ater and feed,
and food is cheap. Country is, however, sadly under-
manned, but there w'ill be good work when smelters are
going next month.
* • • •
Q. mining items.—General revival, owing to
rain and other things. Towers firm—Gympie preparing
to come up with its little lot. Twitterings even from
shabby little Eidsvold. Big find reported on Woodlark
Island, some miles from present workings. Promising
lode of manganese found by “hatter” near Caw'arral
(Mount Morgan way). Some results : Raub, 1150 tons
for 11750 z. ; Gympie 2 South Gt. Eastern, 1081 tons,
15850 z., Is. div.; North Smithfield, Is. div. ; S. Glanmire
and Monkland, 1152 tons, 6120z.\ 3d. div. Ch. Towers :
Brilliant, 12560 z. from 1050 tons ; Brilliant and St. George,
1400 tons, 15030 z. ; Kellys, 1011 tons for 12330 z. £27.000
paid in divs. on Towers, April 7, including £12,500 to a
Bull co., Day Dau'n Block and Wyndham ; Kelly’s, Is. ;
Brilliant and St. George, Is. ; Band Hope, 6d. ; and Day
Daw'n, p.c., 3d. Improvement in Brilliant Central has
every appearance of permanency.
* * * * .
Tin-find at Croydon not sufficiently opened
at latest advices to permit of a reliable opinion.
Only development then noted v'as the formation of a
syndicate for flotation purposes. Prospectors sent away
about 3£ tons of 40 per cent, tin as a trial. Tin indica-
tions extend for many miles ; the lode upon which claims
are taken up extends about four miles, but only a little
shallow trenching has been done to prove its permanency
or otherwise.
* » • *
Q. March mining returns show an increase on
the returns of March, ’99, of 49290 z. The quarter ending
March, 1900, is better than the corresponding quarter of
1899 by 20,5700 z. Charters Towers returns for the month
are 19,3340 z. from quartz, and 28,2450 z. from tailings and
concentrates. Croydon gave 64420 z. (quartz) and 17420 z.
from tailings—a big fall from March, ’99, returns.
Clermont’s alluvial output has dwindled to 7560 z. against
13340 z. for March, ’99. Gympie fields gave 9011 oz. (quartz)
and 1690 z. (tailings). Mt. Morgan produced 16,8130 z.
(quartz) and 7600 z. (tailings). The Coen came to the
front with a jump, giving T6680z., of which 7600 z. were
yielded by slugs and specimens obtained on the Hamilton.
Total for March, 1900, was 91,3040z5. againstB6,37sozs. for
March, 1899. Ch. Towers’ calls amounted to £3379 ; divs.
£19,750. Gympie calls £11,155 ; divs. £8385. Mt. Morgan,
divs., £29,166.
* • • •
Croydon items. Cashman’s Golden Gate
3 and 4 South still paying £4OOO a month to its
syndicate shareholders. Late clean-up : 1048 oz. from
340 tons. Transfers of leases to Rogers’ Golden
Gate Gold Mines Limited (Bull co.) now completed,
but Rogers has leave to appeal to Privy Council if
he planks down £7OO. Mine now crushing 2oz. per ton
from big ore-bodies.—Cuthbert’s Golden Gate No. 5 South
cleaned up partially ; 4580 z. from 350 tons ; about 2000
tons to go through for anticipated better result, also div.
Peculiar baling case recently tried in Warden’s Court;
apparently no proof that plaintiffs had benefited de-
fendants, yet Assessors decided otherwise. Golden
Gate and Nancy Lee United (Viles’ Block) final clean-up
showed total ore crushed, 870 tons for total yield of
21450 z. smelted gold. This is co.’s maiden crushing.
If no rain falls, some mills will soon have to hang up.
Strike of reef reported in Croydon Consols lately turned
out to be merely a “ floater ” ; still prospecting for reel
at vertical depth of over 100 ft. with promising indica-
tions. Cashuian’s Golden Gate 3 and 4 South fort-
nightly clean up on 24th March, 9250 z. from 320 tons ;
crushing power increased, stone going through two mills.
Viles’ Block (Golden Gate and Nancy Lee G.M. Co.)
maiden crushing, 916 tons for 21410 z. 15dwts. ; average
value of gold, £2 15s. sd. ; aggregate value of crushing
£5,714 13s. 9d., from which Is. 7d. paid in divs. per
48,000 th share, equal to £3BOO, and £5OO carried forward :
another crushing starts shortly.—-Rumored locally that
Federation Co.’s property will be offered to Charters
Towers investors and probably soon worked again under
proper management.
• * • *
Mr. T. H. Kelly has been elected to the direc-
torate of Woodlark Island Co., which fact imparts to the
concern an air of extra solidity. But the share-market
remains sullen.
* * m *
Star of the East—four calls for the half-year;
overdraft, £3425. The glory seems to have gone for ever.
- • • * •
Lady Shenton, away out at Menzies: —Four
weeks, 12500 z. from 1278 tons ; tailings assay 4dwt. lOgr.
Costs—mining, 13/11 ton ; milling, 14/-. Blessed is the
mining co. which gives a truthful account of its costs
with its bullion returns !
* * • •
Those who bought Oroya shares at 80s. and 88s.
last October and November will be interested to hear that
a new move is being made to put up scrip.
• » » *
The Ivanhoe Junction’s sudden and important
rise is attributed in the daily press to the prospect of
amalgamation with other mines. This is not quite the
cause. The rise is mainly due to a fair appearance of gold
below.
* * * *
Mr. H. C. Callahan’s controversy with his
London directors, whom he is to meet for a fight in a week
or two, will be interesting and exciting. This is the gist
of the matter: Did Callahan or did he not con-
ceal the fact that he knew the output of 39,0010 z. monthly
was only temporary, and could not be indefinitely main-
tained ?
• • • *
The glutted condition of the W.A. goldfields’
labor-market, unless relieved by new alluvial rushes
breaking out, must (writes The Bulletin’s correspon-
dent) become serous in the near future. Men have been
sacked in hundreds from the big mines during the last
three weeks or so. Associated discharged fully 300 in
that period, and Great Boulder a large number. Lake
View and Brown Hill have also dismissed a lot, and
smaller mines their proportion. . And a man who returned
from Leonora-Malcolm district the other day told this
scribe of men wandering there in half-starved droves. So
unanimous has the sacking been that public opinion runs
to a belief in concerted action by the Mine Managers’ Ass.
Same opinion also considers a reduction of wages inevit-
able. And this means a bitter fight and the upsetting of
many calculations. But labor-pessimists always see a
strike ahead. So scarce is employment on the main
western fields that (writes Boulder Star) many men are
now said to be offering bonuses to persons who can put
them on to a regular job.
* * * *
Associated oxidised ore-mills have been idle this
month. Management makes no secret of the fact that
the oxidised ore at present opened up will not pav to
treat.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe has taken over the bung
Fremantle Smelting Co.'s works, and proposes solving the
sulpho-telluride problem by smelting “on its own” at
the sea-board. Manager Sutherland v 7 as formerly con-
nected with Broken Hill Prop, smelters. There is talk of
reconstructing the Fremantle Co. in the future.
* * * *
The South Kalgurli, most consistent and biggest-
boomed of local non-producers (never having turned out
an ounce yet) starts its mills in a few days from date.
The so-called chutes of telluride in this mine are very
short. Pockets would be the right name for them.


DA¥ID «JO!MES & COMPANY,
MERGERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT.
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
W IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR, '
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
George & Barrad*-
Streets,
SYDNEY.
PHOTOGRAPHY PREVAILS AS
... THE! BEST OF HOBBIES!
and PROVIDES AN INTERESTING PASTIME for the EASTER HOLIDAYS and LEISURE HOURS.
mm
HARRINGTON’S
CAMERAS and OUTFITS
Are SUPREME, SUPERB, SUPERIOR, and SIMPLE.
• • •
LARGE NUMBERS of EVERY KIND of CAMERA.
FOLDING POCKET KODAKS In Numerous
HAND CAMERAS ■ - DdF Varieties
STAND CAMERAS - - and Grades*
. . . From 255., .£3, £4, £5, £7, £B, £lO, to £25 . . .
HARRINGTON’S REVOLUTION OF PHOTOGRAPHY IS THE
Federal - Commercial - Enterprise
5/- 12/6 21/-
. . CAMERAS and OUTFITS COMPLETE WITH EVERYTHING.
Acldress -
66
Branches
KING STREET, SYDNEY
and Agencies in Every Colony.
SOCIETY
N.S.W. Govt, has several steamers cavort-
ing round just now. The Thetis, a fine, comfort-
able commodious steamer, is at present gallivant-
ing down the coast conveying Jack Want and
other members of the Fisheries Commission to
“inspect” an oyster lease —or something of the
sort. Humph! The Captain Cook, described
by the Public Service Commission in last
year’s report as a palatial steam - yacht,
spends most of her time sitting in Watson’s
Bay waiting to place an occasional pilot on in-
coming vessels. The Ena, lately bought from T.
A. Dibbs for £2OOO, is Heaven knows where—
while the unfortunate plague-stricken patients are
deported to the Heads in all weathers on the deck
of a noisy, dirty five-goat-power laundfe barely
protected from the elements by means'of a tar-
paulin.
%» * » * *
“ Medicus ” sends The Bulletin some
plague-remarks :
Don’t worry about catching the plague. You aren’t
going to catch it unless you deliberately chase it, or live
or work at a filthy spot (such as on one of the infected
wharves or in the Sussex-street quarter) of which it has
taken possession.
Get inoculated. Trap all the rats you can on your pre-
mises, and what you can’t trap, poison. What you can’t
poison, scare away by soaking their haunts with carbolic
acid and chloride of lime, Rats detest both these chemi-
cals. Plenty of chloride of lime will shoo away rats at
any time. If you live in a house of more than one storey,
get the bannisters and the space above the bannisters
wire-netted and a wire-net door at the foot of the stairs
A SYBARITE.
G EORGIE : “Say, mother , will I get another bit er
cake when I finish this?”
MOTHER: “Dear vie; why , you dunno m..ether
you can get th rough that yet, ”
GEORGIE : “But I want ter know —’coz if I ain’t
noin ’ ter get more, I’ll eat this hit slowly.”
to prevent them ascending to the upper floors.
Keep no cats in the house, especially if you have
children. Cats come into contact with rats. You want
to avoid all rat-contact, direct or indirect.
Eat no uncooked vegetables, such as lettuce, &c., while
the plague is about, unless you have personally seen them
thoroughly washed in Condy’s fluid and water. After
thus washing them, rinse them well in fresh water. The
same with grapes and other fruit. Eat well-burnt toast
instead oi bread, which is liable to be much handled.
Invariably wash your hands with carbolic soap and water
before eating. This is a wholesome rale at any time.
And keep a towel of your own. Never on any account use
anybody else’s towel.
If you cut or bruise your skin, however slightly, at
once wash the spot with strong carbolic solution and cover
it with sticking-plaster.
Take a bath, preferably a warm bath, daily. Eat and
drink temperately, and of the best you can get, and take
plenty of open-air exercise. And keep your eye on the
fact, which will help to keep your pecker up, that the
doctors and nurses in charge of and almost continuously
in contact with plague-patients, don’t contract plague,
simply because they behave intelligently in the matter,
as you are hereby recommended to do.
» • * *
A weird story is current concerning the
difference between the sanitary conveniences sup-
plied respectively to the bosses and the employes
in a leading Sydney warehouse ; and the bosses
in question are going to hear further about the
matter later on. Also, there are some queer tales,
evidently not without foundation, as to the
desperate expedients more or less successfully
resorted to by a certain extremely rich trader to
keep his concern out of quarantine, in the face of
adverse circumstances.
The Sydney public never learnt one tilli j
of the horrors which the plague cleaning-brigade
discovered. These were suppressed by the daily
press, in fear of the highly influential property-
owners (and some big newspaper shareholders
were themselves implicated). The only thing
that brought the whited sepulchres to their bear-
ings was Attorney-General Wise’s threat of prose-
cution at ‘24 hours’ notice —when the papers
would have had to publish names. One cheer-
ful landlord, deaf to his tenant’s plea for
sanitary convenience, permitted him to make a
hole in the corner of his room, and use that.
And there were even worse cases. The best pre-
sent that could be made to Sydney nowadays
would be a list of the property-owners in a well-
advertised filthy lane and thereabouts, with por-
traits. And it is these men, among others, who
have the impudence to demand ‘ ‘ compensation ”
from Govt, for the cleansing of their filthy pre-
mises ; when they should be billed for every
penny of the cost.
• -* • *
Expensive and extensive additions are being
made in Sydney to the Australian Museum and
the National Art Gallery, and an elaborate build-
ing for office purposes is going up near the Lands
Office ; but no money can be found for the better
housing of the myriad unfortunates in the squalid
Parramatta Asylums, or for providing accessible
accommodation for plague patients near the city.
* * * *
“ Jib ” on the rat-catching industry :
When the plague-scare started Port Melb. Council
decided to offer 2d. per head for rats, and it was quite
common to see a crowd of urchins waiting for the Town
Hall to open with rats of all sizes in baskets, bags and
cages—some alive, others dead, and in some cases decom-
posed. But since the S. Melb. Council offered 2s. 6d. per
dozen rats the Pt. Melb. destroyers ” take their locally-
caught spoil to the more profitable market ; afterwards
making purchases of various eatables which are carried
home in aforesaid bags and baskets. How long wil
it take our municipal authorities to discover that they
are practically paying a bonus for the spreading of the
plague ?
* * * *
Sydney-Dr. Creed advises plague-fearing
persons to rinse their mouths with sulphurous
acid. But supposing they take the easily-mis-
taken sulphuric acid? Then we may read in
S.M. Herald’s liveliest column—-
Stranger, our home is full of woe !
Algernon is no more.
He took, instead of H2O,
Some H2SO4.
* « * *
“Brahmin”: Westralia’s first
bubonic victim was buried 20 miles
out at sea. Same trouble there as
in the East —no crematorium.
Hindus bury their dead, and the
burning-grounds of India disclose a
simple, but useful kind of funeral-
pyre. It is about Bft. long, four wide,
and two or three high, and built of
bricks and mortar. Wood is first
laid on the pyre, then the body,
bound in cloth; then inflammable
substances are piled on the corpse,
and a bucket of oil is poured on the
whole. A torch sets the flames going,
and in less than two hours the bones
of deceased have been reduced to
ashes. No unpleasant odour comes
from the cremation, and there is no
revolting sight.
In a Sydney suburb last week a young
man was found sitting on the edge of the pave-
ment. He had the drowsy, far-away look of one
who was drunk or composing a poem but the
passers-by promptly assumed that he had the
plague. From 500 to 1000 people gathered round,
but nobody among them all would touch the sup-
posedly infected one. A policeman was called—a
policeman is a large man with low wages who is
supposed to be plague-proof —but he didn’t want
to touch the patient either. He went to fetch a
cab with a view to the removal of the subject to
some more suitable place, but no cabman would
take the job. Not being able to come
back with a cab, he didn’t come back at all.
The supposed patient dozed on, and the alleged
thousand people still gazed at him from a safe dis-
tance. Then a doctor was found—a doctor is a
man who is expected to take his life in his
hands attending gratis to infectious cases that
are too ill to even give an address where
the bill can be sent for non-payment. He in-
spected the patient, but as he couldn’t undress him
in the street he asked for the momentary use of
some outhouse, shed, coal-cellar, anything, so that
he could make a more careful examination. Not
an adjacent soul would have anything to do with
the matter or lend anything even so private as a
wheelbarrow. The crowd, in a general sort of way,
had sent for the doctoi', but no one gave his address
and said that the bill for attendance should be
forwarded there. The alleged patient drowsed
away an hour or more on the pavement before he
was removed in a corporation tip-dray. There
was no rush on the part of the interested multi-
tude to lift him in. As it happened, he was a
genuine case, and the multitude which watched
him for an hour or more on the pavement may be
interested to know that he has since died.
Apropos of nothing in particular—this is a great
time for drunks. Any drunk who says that Le has
a pain in the groin can have the Sydney pavement
all to himself to recover on. Also, apropos of
A NEW SENSATION.
nothing in particular, this is a very bad time for
anybody who wants to go hospitalwards in a cab.
The other day a Sydney cabby refused to take a
maternity case to the Lying-in Hospital—probably
with a scared and beery idea that infants were
infectious, and that he would find two new ones at
home when he got back. He was righteously
fined £5. The patient was taken to the Home of
Hope in a hand-cart, with a bobby cantering man-
fully in the shafts. Incidentally—the G-ood
Samaritan who was trying'to carry a suffering
sister to the hospital was named Mrs. Violet Joy
Murphy. The Good Samaritan turns up under all
sorts of names—even Murphy.
It is suggested that licensing-time should
be availed of by the authorities to put the screw
on all Sydney publicans whose business-premises
are not in thorough order. Many of the city’s
licensed hotels, however they may look in front,
are absolute piggeries elsewhere.
* * * •
“Phil”: One of the best quacks I ever
met was an aurist; he bad
a genuine cure for deaf-
ness. It was co'd tea in
phials at five shillings each.
He had also two watches
(Waterburys) with the
loudest ticks possible. One
that was stopped was put to
some old lady’s ear, and she
was asked if she heard it
tick. Of course she didn’t.
Then five drops of the speci-
fic were put in the ear and
dried out after five minutes.
She generally heard the second
watch tick. All this was gratis.
But “ after a week’s applica-
tion you’ll hear as well as ever.”
In extreme cases a little clock
was used.
“S. le W." : Re stop-
page of prawn-fishing. I landed
in Oct., ’64, at Calcutta after
the great cyclone. We were
sent to Chinsura on the Hooghley.
I enjoyed the most delicious
prawns, either boiled or curried.
But none of the Quihis (old In-
dians) ate them. The adjutant
(an ancient Bengalee) told me,
“We don’t eat prawns immediately
after a cyclone.” The river was
covered with corpses ; 400 taken out of
Diamond Harbor in one day. Again I
saw the Harbor-master of Jersey brought
up after three days’ dragging. He had
shrimps in him. I don’t eat prawns at plague
time.
Apropos of the recent fish-scare in Sydney
Here is an extract from De Foe’s “ Journal of the
Plague Year” :
From the end of the street towards Newgate there
stood two long Rows of Shambles for the Selling Meat. It
was in those Shambles that two Persons, falling down
dead as they were buying Meat, gave Rise to a Rumor
that the Meat was all infected, which, tho’ it might
affright the People, and spoil’d the Market for two or
three Days ; yet it appear’d plainly afterwards, that there
was nothing of Truth in the Suggestion : But no Body
can account for the Possession of Fear when it takes hold
of the Mind.”
* * * *
Sydney detectives suspect that working as
scavengers in the quarantined area are many
thieves and burglars. Numerous reports have
been received of burglary and theft, but no arrests
have been made, for no magistrate would hear
the charge lest germs should drop off the prisoner
on to him. With this immunity from punish-
ment, the professional thief ought to make a good
thing out of quarantine.
The great debt curse rudely
obtruded itself on two newly -
ma d e benedicts at Dunedin
(M.L.) lately. One of them,
hauled up on a judgment-sum-
mons, failed to appear was
honey - mooning. A grasping
lawyer strongly objected to an
adjournment, being desirous of
nipping the ’moon in the bud, as
it were, so as to get some of
defendant’s cash ere he squan-
dered it in frivolity. Immediate
payment or quod was ordered.
The other blue-papered bride-
groom had run up a bill at a
hash-masque, and casually went
away without settling. The in-
dignant landlady told the beak
what a particular young man
that bridegroom was — how he
complained that the pattern of
his teacup was insufficiently
aesthetic, and how he grumbled
at not getting mushrooms as a
change now and again. Also,
it was related he used horrid
language when his nightgown
was not tastefully folded and laid
upon his pillow. The court
grinned, and the perky, blush-
ing bride stepped up and planked
down the required cash.
* * *
An Eketahuna (M.L.) resi-
dent is afflicted with an extra-
ordinary hallucination: he be-
lieves himself to be a girl, and
his people can’t knock the idea
out of his head. Another qeculiai
Maoriland lunacy case is that
of a man who imagines himself
to be a grain of corn, and fears to enter the
back yard lest a fowl gobble him up.
* * * •
Here’s a sample of Sydney’s barbarous
plague-quarantine system (by the way., isn’t it
about time to resurrect the book written by the
late Dr. Mannington Caffyn when he was at the
North Head quarantine-station during the small-
pox scare with a view of showing now history
repeats itself ?) On Tuesday at 5 p.m. a
patient named Smith was removed in the ambu-
lance from his house in the outlying suburb of
Canterbury, driven over four miles of a bad road
to the still more outlying suburb of Kogarah, then
to Sydney, some ten miles more, and thence by
boat to quarantine, which was reached about mid-
night. Smith died two days later, and no wonder.
Solomon Island savages would not be capable
of such barbarity as jolting a man, who was
mortally ill, for six or seven hours of a cold, windy,
wet night in a covered waggon, and then taking
him in a wretched little launch down the harbor
and across the Heads in heavy weather. And yet
THE IDEAL.
THE PHILOSOPHER: “ Woman lives to realise a
double ideal.”
THE LADY : “ Marriage? Or twins?"
THE PHILOSOPHER : “ Only as means or incidents.
Her true ideal is to know all the wrinkles—and
display none of them!”
the Sydney health authorities don’t mean to be
cruel any more than a child does when he amuses
himself by torturing small animals.
* * » »
This paper still waits patiently for some-
one to write to S.M. Herald pointing out that
the bubonic plague has come upon us as soon
as we joined in this war, and that, to further
indicate that it was a punishment for our wicked-


po 3 f P'-J know you can use
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
in bo;lino- the clothes, or without
boi/injj the clothes, and the result
"'ill be clean sweet linen,
whits as driven snow.
Bracing 1 !
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
BEWARE OF COLONIAL IMITATIONS.
INSIST ON BUYING “CONDY'S FLUID.”
The following mime and address should be
at foot of label :
CONDY A MITCHELL, 65, GOSWELL ROAQ, LONDON, ENGLAND
Nature
Does
The Rest.
“ Or. Gregory’s Gough
Mi'/tlim” STIMULATES the
BTlilAlurc Secretions; Soothes
and Heals the Irritated Surfaces ; and
Loosens the Cough.
“ A VALUABLE REMEDY for Rheumatic, Diphtheritic,
Inflamed THROAT TROUBLES.” 1/6 ; per Post 2/6.
RPafFon PHARMACIST
■ nallail 55Ekdn-st.. Carl!
55 Elgin-st,, Carlton, Melhoume.
HATS. HATS HATS.
Mountcastfe & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
ca'tahaue.to B. Mountoastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE MIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
ness, it lighted alongside the business premises of
N. SAY Minister for War. Rev. correspondents have
hitherto been able to account in some such way as
this for every other plague that has come along;
and every time they have called upon us to forsake
our wicked ways. But this time, when' the cir-
cumstantial evidence is a good deal stronger than
it generally is, the rev. correspondents keep their
eyes glued on the front pews and say nothing
about wickedness at all.
* * * *
W hat is plague anyhow? A contagious
fever like typhus In the fortnight ending
8/4/’OO there were in Sydney and suburbs 54 cases
of plague, and 78 of typhoid, 17 of the former and
6of the latter proving fatal. This looks bad for
the plague ; but one can’t help asking himself how
many of the 17 died of pure funk and how many
more of the excitement and chill resulting from
removal to quarantine. Roberts in his “41 Years
in India ” tells how Capt. Peel, of the Naval
Brigade, died. Peel was recovering from a wound
when Roberts breakfasted with him, and noticed
some spots on Peel’s face. Roberts went for a
doctor who, “as soon as he saw Peel brutally
said : ‘ You’ve got small-pox ! ” Peel went down
at once and never rallied. The moral of this is
that if a man is told he has a deadly disease his
chance of recovery is reduced if not destroyed.
There’s all the difference in the world between
saying to a sick man “Oh, you’ve got bubonic
fever ! ” and “ You’ve got the Pla-a-gue !”, If it
were fashionable to call typhoid “plague”—
typhoid is indeed a plague—the death-rate would
at once jump up from something under 8 per cent,
to no end of a figure. The frantic quarantining
has, beyond all doubt, cost many lives,
and thrown many hundreds of people out off
work. When a person living in a house has
once caught bubonic fever, the mischief, so
far as that house and the people in it are concerned,
is done. . Why cannot the house and people be
isolated ? The disease runs its course quickly in 8
or 10 days, and the patient either dies or is on the
way to recovery. The people Can, under proper
supervision, clean and disinfect their own houses
quite as well as the officials can do it for them.
That plan would need a few extra doctors to work
it, but it would save much expense. Premier
Lyne says the bubonic fever is costing him about
£lOOO a day, so he can well afford to make a few
inexpensive concessions to sentiment.
Talking of sentiment. Died at Sydney quaran-
tine station Andrew Mills, 24, on the day he was
to be married. When he was overtaken by the
epidemic his intended wife vainly pleaded for
leave to go to the quarantine ground and nurse
him. He was buried at the station, and his hospi-
tal number on a piece of wood hoisted over his
head.
* * * *
There are queer stories going about Sydney
of the way in which houses from which alleged
plague-patients have been removed are “disin-
fected.” It is said that floor-coverings are not
taken up, pictures and curtains not taken down,
nor beds put out to air. All that is done is to
splash supposed di-infectant indiscriminately over
floors, walls, and furniture. This is worse than
useless. Merely splashing about even the strongest
disinfectants will not kill disease-germs. It would
be a thousand times better to leave the ‘ ‘ con-
tacts ” at home, make them thoroughly clean their
houses, air and purify bedding, and burn all
bedding and clothing used by patients. Removing
these people to quarantine for only five days is
the merest farce. Experts say the plague incu-
bates in from five to fifteen days, therefore “ con-
tacts” should be isolated for at least the 15 days.
* • * *
The demolition of pestilential and plague-
infected buildings in Sydney will want careful
watching. Already bids are going in for the old
bricks and wood to be used in setting up the same
old death-traps in other places.
• * * *
Heard in a Sydney tram the other even-
ing:-^
“Yes, two chaps came to the house this morning about
half -past nine with tins of disinfectants. They said they
was from the Board of Health to inspect the premises and
deodorise the ; inks. They ’pologised for disturbin’ the
’ousehold, an 1 after pourin’ carbolic down the sink they
proceeded to the bathroom upstairs, and then to the bed-
rooms t’examine the beddin’ and walls, they said. After
they had gone I remarked to the missus that the chaps
had shown no badge or authority of any sort, and had
been ’lowed to w inder through the ’ouse on their own.
The missus turne.l up her nose, and asked me if I thought
the Board would employ thieves, and said if anythin’ was
musin' we could easily catch ’em next door. Anyhow, no
tbi-ves would hump big tins of disinfectant round—they
disiiked hard work too much for that. After breakfast
we found the p’ace had just about been cleaned out. My
gold watch and chain was gone, the two lady-lodgers had
lost jewellery and purses, and the ’ouse was full of funk
and,curse. 1 rushed in next door like a madman, and
asked for the blokes with the carbolic. The woman looks
at me, and then makes a dart upstairs and locks herself
into a bedroom. They thought I had rats. The two
chaps hadn’t been there, and had got clean away, and
though the ’tecs have got a clue they ain’t got any of the
money back. I think it’s a beastly shame. The Board of
Health won’t pay a cent, says they ain’t responsible, and
that we oughter have asked them for their ’thority. Next
lot that come I’ll ask em for their ’thority—my trernen-
d jus bloomin’ oath, I will.”
* * » *
Re teeth. It was lately considered that a
slum-picture of an infected Sydney area would be
incomplete without the figure of a certain tooth-
less old lady resident. The timid young thing,
however, refused to add her charms to the group
unless she was first provided with an orange. The
mystified photographer supplied the required ac-
companiment, whereupon she peeled the fruit,
turned the rind inside out, made for herself out of
it a temporary set of fine false teeth, and then
complacently offered her manufactured smile to
the camera.
* * * *
The same spirit which induces Melbourne
to tip its garbage, into Brunswick, and the private
citizen to tip his dead cat over the fence, and the
public in general to float big loans and tip its
liabilities over into the next generation, arises
everywhere. The Queensland Govt, wisely re-
solved to have a plague hospital ready at Brisbane
in case the bubonic visitor should hand his spectral
card in at Queensland’s front dooi\ It wanted a
lonesome yet convenient spot, so it bought 40 acres
of deserted grass-land beside the Brisbane River,
some seven miles from the cjty, where it could
plant its hospital absolutely out of sight of
every other building and yet have it so
near the city as to give the patient a chance
of getting there alive. And straightway the
electorate (Dickson’s Electorate) arose, and cabled
to hairless Jimmy in London, and hairless James
cabled back requesting that the plague should be
put in somebody else’s electorate; and a deputation
of property-owners waited on Minister Foxton,
and pointed out that the adjacent ness of a plague-
hospital would depreciate the value of their
property, and asked him to depreciate some one
else’s property instead. One of the noblest features
in the record of the Continuous Ministry is the
fact that Minister Foxton treated the deputation
with the incivility it so richly deserved, and
almost threw it down the Ministerial stairs.
The indifferent Victorian public, through
its perfunctory Govt., continues too busily en-
gaged in worrying over the Transvaal Outlanders
to take notice of its own derelicts. Last Sunday
evening a woman was brought to Melb. City
lock-up exceedingly ill, and as a cursory inspection
satisfied the police that she was likely to die on
their hands at short notice, they rushed her
around in great haste to the gaol and placed her
in the prison hospital. Nominally, she is charged
with vagrancy, but her real crime is that of failing
to enjoy good health. Admission had previously
been Sought at the Melbourne, Alfred and Homorso-
pathio Hospitals, but all were full. It is astonish-
ing that it has never yet dawned on the usually
level-headed Melb. commercial intelligence that it
costs more to maintain two sick persons in a gaol
than three in a Hospital. As for the scandal of
gaoling persons for “feeling poorly,” Melbourne's
alleged conscience is by this time thoroughly
seasoned. The latest Age report states with
bitter sarcasm that the above patient is still too
unwell to be formally hauled up before the court
on a charge of being ill.
¥ * * *
“ Constance Clyde ” says things
What a lovely picture is given by “ A.G.S.” in his
Farewell to Lawson, as told in Tje Bulletix, the Other
day—l -mean his -eharaeter sketeh~of one-of the-convivial—
ists, the great, noble-souled artist on whose behalf
“ A.G.S.” wants to wring the necks of sundry drapers and
ironmongers who have the cheek to profit by so many
thousands (?) per week. The artist—let us hope he is ail
emanation of “ A.G.S.’s ” brain—who “ has gone without
a decent meal for a week ” and presumably kept his wife
and children without a decent meal too, in order to buy
new hoots for this occasion, and who . is enjoying the fes-
tivity while his wife and children are “ sitting in a
carpetless house, with one bed for five of them, debating ”
if they will have any food to-morrow ! And the father of
these children—the noble-souled artist who is casually
referred to as a drunkard, spendthrift, and idler, buys
new boots ! And “ A.G.S.” drops maudlin tears over the
boots, and nobody takes off those boots and clumps thefn
gently some few inches above the face that is described
as “ bright and jolly,” and tells the owner thereof to go
and break road-metal for a living, and.be a man before he
tries to be an artist, even the mediocre one that “ A.G.S'."
confesses him to be.
» * * *
Edifying example of what “Patriotism”
is bringing Maoriland to. From Wellington
Evening Post
The Premier, in his speech to the gathering at the
Foresters’ Hall last night, said he felt pride that it was
Maorilanders who bad covered the retreat of the
British Army in the recent reverse in South Africa. The
British Army had got into a mess, but “ had the army
been led by Maorilanders there never would have been
a retreat—they, never would have got into the trap.”
» * ♦ •
When the Auckland instalment of Maori-
land’s Fifth Contingent started for Wellington
everybody was away waving his hat so violently in
honor of the Fourth Contingent that the new mep
were quite forgotten. Seventy-six of them were
dropped on New Plymouth wharf, mostly withoqt
money, with no victuals, no boat or railway
tickets to carry them on, and with nobody in
charge. They were thinking of sacking New
Plymouth, but a passing politician took the matter
up, and persuaded the local railway officials to
bundle them into a Masterton train on spec. At
Masterton another politician persuaded a local
public-house that it was better to give them a meal
and a shake-down and send the bill to Govt., than
to be raided by 76 hungry recruits whom the local
police couldn’t possibly run in. Next day another
railway official took the risk of giving them n,
passage on ter Wellington, and they arrived there
hungry, homeless, and cursing. The Minister for
Public Works was unearthed from somewhere and
informed that a lot of unexpected contingent was
in a disrespectful state at the railway station, and
that surprised old man found them a shelter
somewhere. a
* * * *.
An unfortunate Jap was seized with cata-
lepsy or coma, in Bourke-stteet, Mel-
bourne, last week, and, after he had stood rigid
and speechless for two hours, he was seized and
taken to hospital. To make sure that i.e wasn’t
shamming, says the Age report, he was subjected
to “a long and severe course of battery treat-
ment,” but, though he “winced and wriggled and
flung his arms wildly in the air,” he uttered no
sound, and as soon as the battery was taken off he
became a statue again. Whether the stiff and
silent alien was sensible to pain or not seems uri-
certain. If he was, it would appear that his bond-
fides might also have been tested by lighting a fire
under him. .
THE DELIVERER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The flaming sun had scorched the joy of life from proud, tall trees,
And blasUd all the b'iOie exuberance o' flowers.
Like loom, anaemic girls they swung wan faces in the breeze
That burned with drought, and cursed the evening hours.
I lay beneath the listless boughs, and felt the dying out
Of lawless dear ambitions, and the fear
7hut’s called h ■nmility possessed my vapid soul, and do"bt
Of self —the doubt that damns—made all things drear.
Hitl naiden arid afar arose the trumpet note of change,
A ral on triumphant wind, like knights of rescue dight
In coats of glittering mail, came up the laughing rain,, and strange
A nd ribald joy came with it through the night.
It passed, and all was still, but, softly sweet and delicate,
The e welled up from the garden wide ecstatic, chants,
A fa ry choir of voices small, divine, articidate,
That, sang the rap> thanksgiving of the plants!
EDWARD DYSON.
LIFE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Directed by my lajightsr,
Fats found me at my play
Upon a daisied meadow
Of Universe to-day.
I swooned before his passion’s
Intoxicating breath,
He left me lone, dishonored,
Impregnated with Death.
Melb.
DANTON.


[Forecast for ao Ipdefioite Period.]
Fronj MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORP STREET.
BOsiQtSs “FiO* aijd Clear” generally, tboGgb
“Storipy” at certaip tinjeS of tbc year.
Tbc prescot Mkatior) poiots to diStOrbaocc
“ACittiioO FaSbioo^-”
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 HUGH STREET, SYDNEY.
At Gay Paree during the Exhibition there
will be such a gathering of the World’s elite and
loveliness as would stagger the man from Ironbark,
presuming that Ironbark contributed a hairy globe-
trotter to the crowd. And the charm of female
form there displayed will offer brilliant testimony
to the popularity of the P.D. Corset. The P.D.
at the P.E. will reign in its own sphere of Art and
Beauty.*
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
ONlNNfjVj'
d^i
&
S^MAQfINKI
Write tor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
à
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
GLOBE TEDS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 16, 1900.
My Dear Myee,—
I could fill a far longer paragraph with the
people who were not at the races on Saturday
than with those who were. It was a most timid
lawn-speckling for the East«*r meeting, when all
the new autumn frocks are supposed to meet and
bow for the first time. Society was nowhere.
Just a handful of select folk, who stood out in
sharp relief, as they never have a chance to do
when all Potts Point is about. So the season has
decided not to open yet ! Complexion-hunters
are going to stay on in the country. Society that’s
in town is going to stay at home. Half the
absences are due to plague-scare. But, without
the plague, many leading families are in mourn-
ing—the Governor, the Burdekins, the W. B.
Mitchells and Holdships, the big J. de Y. Lamb
clan, including pretty Mrs. Walter Allen, Mrs.
Robinson, and the Admiral and Mrs. Pearson.
None of these would have been present, anyway.
As smart as anyone was Mrs. Philip Morton, in
a white cloth Eton costume, strapped with tur-
quoise, a little toque of ermine and white chiffon,
turned-off the face with a touch of rose-pink, and
a rose-colored parasol. Grace Noblq was in a
tailor-made of Biscuit-colored cloth with white
revers braided in biscuit, and a little round hat.
Miss M vrie Narelle wore a grey cloth frock with a
white cloth vest, all much stitched, and a cherry-
colored toque and sunshade. Mrs. John See was
in large stripes of black and green mixture. Miss
Muriel Marks aired a pretty tan voile frock with
a picture hat in shades of purple. Mrs. Claude
Macdonald, the only visitor from Melbourne to
brave this haunted city, was not living up to her
reputation for extra-special smartness in a lace
polonaise over some bygone chiffon flounces of
pale blue, a blue chiffon vest, and a large straw
hat bent down over the face and the back hair,
and trimmed with wings and wheel rosettes of pale
blue chiffon.
Another end-of-the-summer dress was worn by
pretty Miss Trixie Nott—a lace polonaise over
rose-pink. An elegant figure was Mde. Wartreu,
in a big plaid-patterned skirt of browns and
yellows, a short black cloth jacket cut in on the
hips, and a black jet toque. Mrs. Jamieson, a
bride from Bathur&t, was in pale-blue voile, with a
pink straw hat.
Not a sign of anything Vice-Regal, or even
Acting Vice-Regal. TheDarleys are staying up
at “ Lilianfels,” Katoomba, out of the plague’s
way. Really tne only important person present
was the white-bearded politician with the long-
lashed eyes who bought up all the compliments
when they were given out in the Beginning.
And, as for the new notes of fashion commonly
struck at these Easter races, they were not too
distinctive. Toques, toques, toques, turned up
from the face. Bright parasols, white boas.
Tucked skirts looked as if there would shortly be
a great run on them ; then a great abandonment.
Just as last year everybody rushed into a plain
tight back, which quickly became a parody, then
a thing to be cast into outer darkness. These
tucked skirts are invented, of course, for thin
women, although the lines run downwards.
Fashion never is for the Fat, by the way. Yet it
is always the Fat woman who rushes into the new
modes. Which accounts for Fashion changing
again so quickly. Fashion changes, and the Fat
woman pursues, pursues, and catches, and there’s
nothing for it but for Fashion to change again,
and so get out of her large, heavy, despoiling,
ruinous clutch that turns the most ethereal ideas
into blobs and horrors.
At night, Nance O’Neil drew a huge house to
“ Camille.” And Kingston—let us give him some
share in the draw. There were flowers for him,
marked, so that all the world could see, with a
broad ribbon, and “Good luck to Kingston.”
Even beside the popular Californian girl he cap-
tured the house until you couldn’t distinguish
between the triumph of Nance in her beautiful
fair hair and gleaming skin, and the triumph of
Thomas, with his burning, eyes, curly head and
thin, thin legs.
Conversation on the stairs coming in. Woman
(with an air of satisfaction): “There are going to
be 1840 dresses in this play!” Man (stupefied):
“ My God ! Is it possible ! ”
Well, it was not as bad as that, but the dressing
of the play was certainly kept well forward
always. Camille enters in a long, luxurious black
cloak trimmed with ermine. She throws this off,
and emerges in a lovely old-fashioned frock of
pink glac6 silk, with deep flounces of pink chiffon
reaching to the knees, and fichu of pink chiffon
draped about her magnificent shoulders. In drap-
ing, Nance is positively an artist. She puts
a fichu on so simply, yet so easily and grace-
fully that the difficult affair becomes a
matter of supreme ease. Her soft gold
hair is dressed into one long curl that falls over
her neok. She looks very large, very pale, and—
yes, the truth must be confessed—very youthless ,
if you will allow the word to pass. There is no
suggestion of youth, gaiety, abandonment. Instead,
she is just a big, beautiful, stolid young matron,
whose husband paid for the frock she wears. And
there is something very respectable and prosy—
almost the school-mistress —in her voice as she asks
—with a mannerism she will cling to—•“ And now
tell me—this love—how long will it last ? ” or “And
now tell me—do you think you will always love
me ?” It was the same in Magda, in the Jewess,
in Peg,—always that cold, practical, untimely.
“ And now, tell me.” Then the act closes with
Camille robed in pink, sitting by the fire in a
darkened room, with the fire-light playing warmly
on her white arms and pale face and hair, and her
deep voice declaiming out of her very boots, “Is
this love ?” The tableau is exquisite, at any rate.
But the woman who talks to herself out of her
boots is an unknown quantity.
Camille’s second dress is a lovely complication
in shades of turquoise. A long negligee jacket of
silvery blue and white brocade is opened over
more wide flounces of turquoise-blue chiffon. In
front, an overskirt of heavy yellow lace clings to
the figure closely. Her hair is tied up with yards
of turquoise ribbon in a way of her own. More
ribbons flutter down her back. In the cottage
scene she is wearing a clear dead-white muslin,
flounced nearly to the waist, the sleeves tied in to
the wrists with black velvet, and a black velvet
waisting.
In this frock she begins to thaw —other-
wise weep. Her crying is a fine combination of
art and nature. In fact, until Nance O’Neil begins
to cry she never really begins to live in her acting.
Before she can break up or forget herself, she must
weep. After that she acts and lives to the end of
the play, washed into her part, as it were, by
Tears.
In the well-dressed company Emily Hughes was
quite at home in a blue-grey silk, with vivid
yellow flowers in her hair. Mrs. Bracy hit
accurately at Prudence ; her dressing and acting
were all you could ask for. Pretty Miss Lena
Brasch was seen for a few moments in a bright
pea-green silk, flounced to the waist, and made
brighter with scarlet flowers in her hair. Edith
Berry put her head in for a second as a maid, but
disappeared before I had time to know she had
been on. Mr. M‘Kee Ban kin illustrated “ The
Frog who would a Wooing Go ” to the life in the
cut-away green coat and tight trousers of the 40’s.
And Kingston, as Armand, made the Sydney
girls cry until the whole theatre was submerged
in moisture. As Armand, with large, burning,
melancholy eyes, boyish face, pretty clothes that
revealed his exaggerated thinness, and that hol-
low, neurotic voice, he jumped up into a place
alongside Ryley, and showed strong signs of
staying there for ever.
Easter Monday’s races saw better dressing and
more of it. Also, there was a bigger Society
patronage. Not tip-top Society though. Mrs.
Dicken wore cigar-brown cashmere with a tucked
skirt, and Mrs. Philip Morton was again charming
in violet-colored cloth with a brave turquoise
waisting, and a little Eton bodice over a frilly lace
vest. Pretty Mrs. Herbert Marks was in brick-
red frieze-cloth trimmed with white fur, and a
white fur toque. Another pretty youthful matron
was Mrs. Laurie Moss, well-gowned in a tucked
brown frock, an ermine collarette and turquoise
blue and brown toque. Something that you
couldn’t get away from—and didn’t want to, if you
were a creature of taste —was the ermine and
white chiffon toque, repeating itself continually on
dark and fair heads. Two brides wore mouse-
colored—or, more fashionably, as things are just
now, rai-colored costumes, Mrs. Sydney
Jamieson finishing hers off with a pretty felt hat
trimmed with turquoise, and an original peacock
feather right across the brim. On the whole, the
new color seems to be cigar-brown. I counted
eight well-dressed women airing it; among them,
Mrs. “ Dick ” Teece, Miss Edith Marks, and
Miss Hay (Coolangatta). A.fair American sported
a bewitching black picture hat and a long sable
jacket. May Yohe was in black, enveloped in a
long brown cape, and among the things that make
you wonder, at times, if you were standing on your
head was a lady in a pale pink brocade opera
cloak, frilled with lace, flaunting along in the bit-
ter wind like a ball-dress in a snow-storm. The
weather was miserably cold and windy. That was
why a man in a long black coat had to put on a
little brown ulster, regardless of the two black
tails that decorated a back view of him. Then
there was a furious yellow ochre skirt, that jumped
at you wherever you weni and bit you. But on
the whole, the stand was gowned with less sensa-
tion than any Easter meeting for a long time.
Opening day at the Agricultural Society’s show
clashed uncomfortably with the “Day of Humili-
ation.” Clashed, until the two things seemed to
be one and the same thing out at the showground.
Over the place blew dirty bits of paper ; a hurdy-
gurdy ground out “ Wait till the Plague rolls by” ;
the air was full of grit and sheep-shearing odors
and machinery noises ; the ground was saturated
with huge puddles run from water used in
mechanical exhibits. Even afternoon tea had no
effect on one’s spirits, unless to let them down a
Eeg lower. It was served on a weary tablecloth
y a little girl with a piece of brown fur round her
neck, who took half-an-hour or more to clear off
other people’s debris, eat the crumbs, and furnish
us with the terrible stone-walls enclosing the
sickly hot horror that goes by the name of tea at
a show.
The Show was run sartorially by Minister John
See and his family. Anyone who wasn’t a See
was a Hordern. Young Mrs. Sam made her first
appearance as a bride in mauve skirt and mauve
glace silk blouse, with a feather boa and big hat.
Mrs. See and Mayoress Harris gave an official
“ tone ”to the tired doings. I looked in vain for
anyone else.
Watching the women clearing the fences on big
horses was the only amusement the show offered a
woman. Half the riders lost their hats. _ Isn’t
there an ingenious mind among us that will invent
a way of keeping the hair up and the hat on
through horsey feats? At every round a man
would run out and pick up a “hard-hitter” or a
blue cap, or some other head-gear, fallen from the
performing lady. Quite “ clean ” jumps were the
exception. We watched and listened. Cracks
told when a fence had been leaped. Women have
fallen under the bicycle spell. They don’t ride as
they used to.
The newest engagement is that of the golden-
haired adopted daughter of Mr. Henry Harris
(known in her familiar circle as Nettie Cohen), and
Mr. Lionel Hart, of Melbourne.
Pretty Miss Jessie Middleton, the Sydney
pianiste, is to be married —very quietly, on account
of the death of her brother recently—in Goulbum
next Wednesday. Her match with Dr. Frazer, a
London medico (son of the late John Frazer, of
Sydney, and brother of Mrs. C. B. Fairfax), is
looked on with envy by many Sydney girls, as it
means many thousands a year, a fine estate at
’Ome, and one of the nicest of men.
Another young singer is Miss Alice Hollander,
a Manly girl with a contralto voice that artists
rave over. She comes before the public at a con-
cert in the Y.M.C.A. Hall next Thursday,
April 26.
The death of Lady Tennyson’s soldier brother —
Capt. Boyle—has turned Adelaide Govt. House
into mourning for two months. Lady Tennyson
was about to start for a garden-party when the.
fateful cable arrived.
In new music there is still nothing that
isn’t Jingo. That enterprising firm, Paling
and Co., send a bunch of songs, some of
which are a little difficult to distinguish
from each other if you hear them in the dark,
where you can’t read their names. “The Boys
of the Bush Brigade,” by Herbert Low and
Alfred Hill, stands out from the others with a.
taking refrain, and the correct Absent-Minded
spirit pervading words and music. Then there is
“ A Family Matter,” by Arthur Macquarie and
Sir Arthur Mackenzie, just a very little way after
Kipling and Sullivan’s triumph; “The Empire’s
Volunteers,” by W. K. Elliot, of, which I cannot
find one original remark to make ; “Pipe AIL
Hands,” by W. T. Goodge and T. H. Massey,
tuneful and singable; “ The Defenders of the
Empire,” by Sydney Hawker, which sings,
patiently, of “ Armed men upon the Battlefield,”
—all from Paling and Co.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“At the opening of Melb. Hospital Bazaar
(April 14th) Lady Madden’s gown was the novelty
of the show. Its foundation of honey-combed
black silk crepe was be-diamonded and hooped
with white-silk stitching, and its vandyked upper-
skirt, edged with long, piebald fringe, fell over a
mass of magpie frills. Trim daughter Leslie, in
black frock and dark-grey furs, was a demure
substitute for her blithe, buxom sisters, now
married and ‘ wede awa,’ not to mention the
beauty of the family, at present visiting her rela-
tives. The Lieut.-Governor himself seems more
plump, glib and gracious than ever. Thanks to
liis curls and affable airs and graces, he’s own
cousin to a type of large-sized natty Frenchman,
but it’s a mercy for some people that big waists
are to be fashionable.
“Janet Lady Clarke, ear-ringed as usual, wore
a black-and-white blend with big double-pleat at
the back of a gracefully-falling skirt. Pretty
little blue-eyed Mrs. Percy Chimside favored ear-
rings, too, while hubby, in dark tweeds and red
hair-lines, humped toy-horses, &c. Tall, win-
some Miss Florrie Strong had a black coat and
skirt, its sleeves and skirt laced with tiny military
cords and gold buttons, while lines and lilliput
gold buttons brightened the jacket’s white moire
revers.
“ The battle round the mirror in the Town Hall
un-cloaking room was just in full swing on the
night of tneV.R. Liedertafel concert when the
lights went out, and hostilities were suddenly
suspended. Women grew excited and screamed,
or giggled violently, and a few muttered some-
thing scriptural about the darkness and trembling
of the earth. A happy relieved sort of laugh went
up when the mirrors shone again in the returned
light. The second eclip.3e occurred when most of
the audience were seated in the hall. Judge
Casey was just about to greet the long, lean
consul for Italy, in the reserved pen, when dark-
ness descended upon the scene. The usual hubbub,
stamping and screaming occurred, and a cotton-
merchant, who .is a Patron of Music, struck a
match, and the fugitive illumination revealed the
dapper little Judge still reaching for the consul’s
bony paw.
“ Sara Lewis, whose top-notes in a grand finale
always ‘knock’ the audience, gleamed forth in a
dressy frock of white brocade and silver at the
Liedertafel Concert. A sash of chiffon was
brought to a conclusion at the side, and dropped
two long notes of exclamation to the end of the
skirt. The only other fair performer was the
calm unruffled scholastic Ida Cox, who accom-
panies a serious expression with a pince-nez. She
wore black, and scored a success wonderful to be-
hold after the cold glances she gave the audience,
and the lack of effort in her warbling. As a rule,
Melbourne houses only grant encores and good re-
ceptions to those who grow purple in the face,
climbing up perceptibly for the top G., and stand
puffin" and steaming at the last bar of the song.
Miss Ida gets there with a total absence of exer-
tion or zeal.
“ Mrs. Frank Stephen, the smart wife of Lady
Madden’s elder barrister brother, seems to run all
the naice musical at-home programmes. Hostesses
are glad to leave this important detail to one who
knows, you know, and Mrs. Frank Stephen
graciously undertakes the matter of choosing
singers, or putting forth the claims of this, that
and the other. The smart matron, often giving a
helping hand to a down-at-the-heel professional,
is regarded by the troubadours as a good friend to
have at court. Three naice matrons —Mrs. Frank
Bird, Mrs. “ Plevna ” Ryan, and Mrs. Bingham —
left the programme of their Sweets-Stall Concert
on Thursday night (10th) in Mrs. S.’s.hands, and
the programme promises to be a pleasant mixture
of sassiety amateurs and pros.
“ At the Princess’s, one nice thing ‘that happens
to Jones’is his association with so many dressy
women. That bright Sydneyite, Inez Bensusan,
splashes at the start in raven top-knot and vivid
fuchsia-red gown, with under-dress of still brighter
rose. Later, in maize evening frock, she seems
rather thin and jerky. Besides, by that time.
Dot Frederic is scooting round like a streak of
lightning in embroidered net over pale-blue, and
less experienced gushers suffer by comparison.
One little Bensusan knack of flinging the arms
straight back from the shoulders is just a shade
too reminiscent of that hackneyed calisthenio
exercise, for ‘opening the chest’ and flattening
the shoulder-blades. Hope Mayne says little, and
looks nice in pale-pink dinner-dresi; and Agnes
Knight swirls round in one of those shimmering
black-net creations, without which no stage frock
family is complete.
“ ‘ Jones’ (Arnold) and his chums are all nice
men in their several ways. The poor old savant
(Frederic Sharp), cajoled by accomplices into
believing himself a phenomenal sprinter, has a
local counterpart. A dear old fellow hereabouts
has been tricked by wags till he looks upon him-
self as an absolutely marvellous cyclist. At pre-
sent he goes to the slaughter-yards daily and gets
down as much as he can of a self-prescribed pint
■of warm bullock’s blood ! !
“On Good Friday Lady Madden treated the
Langwarren ‘ Bushmen ’to hot-cross buns. Eat-
able gifts are fashionable since V.R.’s chocolate
Xmas boxes. The warriors themselves, though
they prefer liquid tokens of love, are resigned so
long as womanly generosity doesn’t take the form
of needlework. One kindly member of the
‘ creature-comfort league ’ perpetrated a box of
flannel monstrosities for Tommy Atkins, over
which no uniform but a giant’s would attempt to
meet. When they broke the news to her, she
said, airily, ‘Oh, well, looks don’t matter in Africa;
they’ll do for overalls.’ But that cat won’t fight
’cause the things are flaring scarlet (said to be good
for rheumatiz), and would draw the Boer fire
from goodness knows how far.
“Aide Richard Nevill, Mayor M'Eacharn, and
some of the junior Maddens rode to the encamp-
ment on Bun Friday. - You can guess how grace-
ful S’Malkum looks on horseback when I tell you
that Lord Richard seemed ‘ a phantom of de-
light ’ by comparison.
“ A very pretty Melbourne nurse (Miss Betty
Alsop) well-known to the social world, and
formerly of Mr. Fitzgerald’s Hospital, ha< been
doing romantic things in England. She became
engaged to a very handsome, rich and fascinating
soldier on her voyage ’Ome, and the marriage was
fixed for Easter. However, the gallant cap-
tain was ordered to the front almost immediately,
and his fiancee, who had gone to visit an aunt on
the continent, travelled post-haste to London,
caught trains, steamers, more trains, was delayed
by snow-storms, but after all arrived in time to be
married. A regular military wedding too, rod
coats, band, and all. She is travelling now to the
Cape with Lady Roberts, there to await her hus-
band, and, if need be, nurse him.
“Padey Pennington, the eccentric brother-in-
law of the Fraser case, has left Melbourne to its
fate. He and his pretty wife (the doctor’s sister)
set forth last week on their journey back to
London, which is sad news for everyone who
knew of the clean-shaven ‘character.’ As
long as P. P. was around, ‘ looking after Fraser’s
interests,’ there was always a chance that he might
disguise himself in a false nose and a red beard,
and arrange a plot for the abduction of his friend
Fraser’s cneeild. Dr. Fraser, by the way, must
have found the enthusiastic Pennington a some-
what embarassing champion.
“Young Mr. Leslie Newbigin, whose attack of
small-pox led to the quarantining of Miss Mary
Clarke and others, was returning from the wed-
ding, in India, of his sister, formerly Miss Addie
Newbigin, now the wife of a military man.
Another sister is sinuous, sylph-like Mrs. Willie
Robb, a pale, ethereal belle, given to fluffy
flounces and glove-fit polonaises. A connection
of the clan, daughter of the Vicar of Heidelberg,
will be married when this is printed, as her wed-
ding is to be on Easter Tuesday, with Empire
accompaniments— i.c., bridesmaids in high-waisted
trailing white gowns and sweeping black-velvet
hats.
“Mr. Harry Brush, the much bruised and bat-
tered, is once more cast for the part of ‘best
man’ at a wedding. There are positively
none nicer than ‘Joey’ Brush, so, when mating,
they all descend on him to see them through.
This time, he plays the old familiar r6le at the
Cox-Stanbridge nuptials, at Christ Churoh, South
Yarra, this week (18th). There are to be no
groomsmen, but a flock of four very smart brides-
maids —Miss Enid Hope (for the past two years the
companion of the bride-to-be), Miss Margaret Cox,
Miss Marjory Brodribb, and Miss Blanche Watson.
Mrs. Butler Walshe’s lovely little twin-daughters
will bear the bride’s three-yards-long train, and Mr.
Colies, guardian of the tall Daylesford heiress, is
to give her away. All the Naicest in Melbourne
are to roll up to the ceremony; also a batch of the
groom’s relatives from Sydney. One of the hand-
somest of the bride’s presents is a superb diamond
crescent for the hair—a gift from the happy man
who is going to take possession of the wearer.
Many people are genuine in expressing regret at
losing that glass of Court Journal fashion.
"V ours afiectionately,
GOULL-GOULL.


o
W .
E— til
Z (OUI
<U4UiS
OQQhtt
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Co«roa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
The season for visiting the old country having
come round again, the upper four-hundred of Sydney are
booking passages for London, and as a safeguard are as
usual depositing their plate and other valuables in the
Sydney Safe Deposit. In many cases they are also rent-
ing safes for the storage of their deeds, etc. In either
case the rentals are very moderate, and the business of
the Deposit is, we learn, rapidly increasing. A visit is
freely invited. The address is Ash-street (back of
Paling’s), off George-street.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOB ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BUGS. Ltd., Sydney
Lor inter’#
Compound Syrup of llypophosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Sole Agent for N.S.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
One of the Fraser-case jurymen explains
why Mrs. Fraser was acquitted : “ Well, yer see,
Fraser was looking for stoush, and he blanky well
got it.”
A N.S.W. child, born on the day war was
declared in South Africa, was christened “ Cecil
Rhodes Kruger Transvaal Nelson Henry Bathurst
Smith.”
The Chinese baby that was born in Wex-
ford-street, Sydney, during the isolation period
was temporarily named Quarantine Bacillus. This
is to go on with, till it can get out to be chris-
tened.
Surgeon O’Hara (Melb.), who was lately
in trouble with the local branch of the British
Medical Association on account of connection with
a syndicate for the sale of an objectionable patent,
is a cousin of Lieut.-Gov. Madden.
Years and years ago in Sydney a some-
what pimply publicist accused a rather passe
politician of being “an extinct volcano.” “May-
be so,” retorted Daniel, “and glad am I that
I’m not in a state of continual eruption.”
It was the lately-deceased contractor
Charles Gibson Millar who was guide, financier,
and friend of Louis Brennan while that persistent
young Victorian had his torpedo on his brain.
Mr. Millar’s ashes, by the way, are to be sent out
to Australia.
There are ar present four great personages
in the world’s eye—Roberts, Kruger, Cham-
berlain, and N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan.
Emperor William, Rudyard Kipling, Winston
Churchill, John Norton, and Colonel Neild are
for the moment in the background.
Dan O’Connor’s statement that “ when he
entered N.S.W. Parliament he was worth 80,000
pounds, and when he left it he was a pauper,”
much surprised a lot of people. Some conceive
that Dan meant 80,0001bs. of black pudding, but
others insist that he alluded to sovereigns.
When Disraeli was on his travels as a
young man, he met at Malta a famous beau of the
period—Mr. Standish. That was the father of
Capt. _ Standish,' for nearly 30 years Chief
Commissipner of Police in Melbourne. The son,
though of most delightful manners and the orna-
ment of Melbourne Club, was but a weak reflex of
his magnificent sire.
Chief Justice Madden, when a very junior
barrister, applied for the appointment of
Registrar to Melbourne University, at a
salary of £3OO a year. Luckily for himself he
did not get it, or he would probably never
have been heard of at the Bar. The success-
ful applicant, a son of the late Chief Justice
a’Beckett, still holds the position. Treasurer
Sliiels and Chief Justice Madden, when young
University students, lived in the same lodg-
ings and were chums. That is perhaps how
it happened that when Shiels was Premier
lie made Madden C.J. over the head of Justice
Williams.
Montgomery, the daring and herculean
burglar, who died on the gallows at Darlinghurst,
was generally acknowledged the most fearless and
expert of modem Australian criminals, and pro-
bably he was. About five years ago Montgomery
was operating on the safes of Collingwood and
Fitzroy (Vic.) shopkeepers, to an extent which
caused a perfect scare. One bold chalhpion
announced that he wasn’t taking any risks,
but was quite ready to meet any burglar.
His s .op was overlooked by a high gallery,
in which he slept with a loaded rifle by his
sside. He was a dead shot, and above the
safe he had an unreachable burner fixed
so as to light up the spot during the
whole night. “If any man comes after
my safe,” he announced confidently to a
detective, “ I’ll just lie in my bed, draw
abead on him, and ’phone to the morgue.”
He was immensely proud of his idea,
talked of it loudly and openly, until at
length the news reached the ears of
Montgomery himself. One morning the
shopkeeper awoke in his gallery to find
the light still burning, the safe open and
empty 7, and the rifle gone from his bedside.
< >f the three war-correspondents who went
to .South Africa for the Melbourne press, one,
Lambie, is dead ; another, Donald MacDonald,
has returned sick ; and the third, W. G. Reay, is
coming back, also sick. The papers that sent
them are also pretty sick—of the expense!
Mrs. Dugdale, once a well known Melb.
name, hopes to re-appear in public life with the
advent of Federation. Mrs. I). has passed her
threeseore-and-ten, but although she has of late
years been “ off the flute,” she is still the same old
ardent woman’s-righter. Her memory goes back
to the Chartist riots in England.
Robert Russell, Melbourne's oldest
pioneer and its first city surveyor, has discredited
the theory that pensioners never die by passing
away after enjoying the Govt.’s munificent
pension of £1 a week for exactly one month. It is
some satisfaction, however, to know that the pay-
ment will be continued to his widow during her
life.
The bishop arrived somewhat late at an
Australian church, the other Sunday. He peeled
off coat and vest, and before hanging them up in
the vestry transferred his watcli and money to his
trousers-pockets. Then he donned his canonicals,
meandered into the cathedral, and subsequently
preached a most impressive sermon on Faith !
Fact.
London Times, alluding recently to the
death of a M.L. trooper, described as “the
son of the Hon. Hugh Gourlay, Premier of New
Zealand, Dunedin.” If the Times doesn’t know,
after all “Digger Dick’s” pushfulness, who is
really M.L. Premier, what show have the Lynes,
M‘Leans, Philps, &c., got of being known to the
British public ?
Pereival. Ball, the sculptor, has died in
London, whither he had gone to oversee the cast-
ing into bronze of work executed by him for the
facade of N.S.W. Public Library. Ball was a
most talented man of some European reputation,
but Australia is no place for sculptors. For years
and years here he often knew what it was not to
have sixpence for a meal.
N.S.VV. Agent-General Copeland may
prove himself more amenable to aristocratic and
royal exactions than some despairing acquaint-
ances imagine. Last time he was appointed
Crown Minister he took occasion to lecture the
Leg. Assembly in a fashion that recalled the
partridge-breeding legislators of the Lords, and
on being remonstrated with exclaimed, “I am as
democratic as a man in my position can afford to
be.” There is Tory hope for the man who, in
expressing his convictions, can thus keep a watch-
ful eye on his “ position.”
Cronje is 60 inches high and 40 inches
round the chest.
The Afghan Shanawaz, shot by Merton
while with an exploration party (B. 7/4/’00) had
rather a sensational record. He was once seized
by Lord Roberts as a spy and ordered
to be shot, but escaped, by promising to
shew Roberts an easy pass through the
mountains to Kandahar. Guarded by
four Ghoorkhas, he revealed the path,
and, after the relief of Khandahar,
was rewarded and, sent to Karachi.
From there he shipped with
camels for Elder’s station in S. A.,
and from driver became in time
camel-proprietor. At Beltana
(S. A.) he was attacked by blacks,
and shot several of them in self-
defence. When Coolgardie gold-
fields broke out he was among
the first Afghans there, and made
considerable money. He created
a sensasation once by taking a
white woman away from her husband, and
firing at the latter afterwards when he
caught him lurking about his camp. He
was acquitted of the charge of attempted
murder ; 'Warden Finnerty holding that
the husband was as bad as the woman.
At Coolgardio, Shanawaz used to “shout” freely
and was generally popular.
The late James Hoskins, M.L.C. (N.S.W.)
was a constant reader of Hansard Lower House
reports, and was noted for picking out young (or
old) members who had succeeded in giving Henry
Parkes a debating thrust. Hansard in hand, he
would rush up and congratulate them. Parkes
left many rankling personal animosities behind his
numerous Cabinet-shufflings and re-organisations.
It got to very plain talk at last between
the It. C. Bishop of Perth arid Gov. Jerry Smith
over the latter’s use of Govt. House for Masonic
purposes. Thus, in the Bishop’s last letter to
Jerry, he accused his Ex. of “a mere evasion of
what appears to your Excellency to be an unplea-
sant fact.” To which Jerry replied that his
“respect for his lordship’s high position” kept
him from cheeking back.
When Duncan Gillies was a miner at
Ballarat in 1854, he got top wages—4o/- a day. He
was rated as A 1 with pick and shovel. Now
he is an equally good performer with champagne
and cold chicken.
AS THEY SEE THEMSELVES.
1ST DRUDNK : “ That’s the chap my—hic—wife says she—hie—regrets she didn’t marry when she
had a chance, instead of—hie — me.”
2ND DRUNK : “ That’s the way with—hic—the women. They don’t ’predate steady-goin’—hic—
chaps like us!”
Dr. Garran, M.L.C. and member of
N.S.W. Public Works Committee, a whole-hearted
worker for the Constitution of Federated Australia,
witnessed the inauguration of the present Consti-
tutions of the various Australian provinces. He
arrived in Adelaide by the same boat that carried
the Secretary of State’s dispatcli covering the new
Constitution for South Australia.
GOODNATURE AND GOOD LOOKS.
“ How is it M‘Levy has so few friends I He seems
good-natured enough
“O, ’e vos all dot. But his vife —she vos not a
pretty voman !”
Captain Philip King, father of Chief
Magistrate King, of Norfolk Island, and son of
N.S.W. Gov. King, endeavored to do, as far back
as 1820, what Borchgrevinck claims now to have
done. After surveying the coast lines of most of
Australia he turned greedily towards the South
and for years cherished the hope that he would be
the first to strike the Pole. He set out for it via
South America, but was unsuccessful.
Out of over 30 claimants in the big Tyson
estate whose next-of-kinship was admitted by
Equity-Judge Simpson in Sydney last week, only
half-a-dozen wore ‘ ‘ Tyson ” as a surname. Dwyers,
Moores, Doneleys, Faheys, and such-like pat-
ronymics cut up most of the £300,000 in the hands
of the Court, and will go cheerfully to Yic. and
Q. for the outstanding couple of millions.
According to a Perth (W.A,) paper, Major
Francis, speaking for the Maoriland Rough-
riders at Albany, said that, now Joubert waa
gone, any of the riders aforesaid would be very
proud of the opportunity of putting a bullet
through old Kruger’s head. Through the head of
a man well on the way to 80. What a chivalrous
ana lolty-souled warrior was this ! Vaporing
schoolboyism and truculent savagery make a
pitiable mixture. •
-^- n i n veterate gambler once said that next
to the fierce j oy of winning largely, comes the excite-
JI ° ossos - Well, Cronje has experienced
both phases. Which did he enjoy most—the *
chance of inflicting severe reverses on a giant
enemy, or the huge compliment paid him by that
same giant in the selection of his exile ? Geo-
graphical reasons were, contributory factors to the
selection of St. Helena, of course ; yet luck is
with Cronje even in his defeat!
■ Editor Bulletin.—-An allusion to the late
Gov Thurston, of Fiji (B. 31/3/’00), reminds me
that I stood by his grave the other day, in Melb.
Cemetery, and was grieved to see that no stone or
memorial of any kind marked his resting-place,
surrounded though it was by pretentious monu-
ments to men of whom nothing could be recorded
save that they were born and that they died. If
you will print these few lines, it may be that The
Bulletin. may be the means, of removing from the
.Australasian provinces the stigma of the French
proverb, “ Hopeless is the country which forgets
its great men.”— J. L. Kealy, N. Sydney.
Judge Murray’s appointment as new
Deputy Railway Commissioner (to join in the
hearing, of appeals during the absence of Mr.
Oliver). is further proof of the confidenee successive
Administrations have in his ability and extra-
bench attainments. The Dibbs, the Reid, the
Lyne Govts, equally appreciate his versatile en-
dowments. He has been Local Govt. Commis-
sioner, Commissioner for dividing the electorates,
and many other sorts of Commissioner. One little
rumor rising out of this frequently - recurring
“ side ” employment is to the effect that the Judge,
regarding elevation to the Supreme Court Bench
as practically impossible, is willing to take a high
office in some extra-judicial department of State.
Rev. J. E. Moulton, of Newington Col-
lege, Sydney, who was entertained last
week, on the eve of his return to Tonga,
belongs to a notable scholastic quartet.
Four Moulton brothers are “doctors.”
, The Rev. J. E., the Australian one, is a
D. D.; the Cambridge Moulton is also a
D.D.; the politician Moulton, M.P. of the
Commons, is a D.C.L.; and Prof. Moulton,
in the Chicago University, is a Ph.D. The
Rev. J. E. has a son, a missioner »n the islands,
who also shapes doctorwards.
Rev. H. A. Langley, appointed President
of the Vic. Commission to suggest what religious
teaching may be given in Vic. State schools, is
brother of Archdeacon Langley, of Sydney, and
will, so far as his influence on the Commission
goes, recommend a similar practice to that which
obtains in N.S.W. State schools. The brothers
are identical in most of their opinions, secular and
religious. Both entered the church after years of
secular employment, and carry with them a good
many pronounced secular traits. They are liberal
and benevolent, but are easily caught by anyone
coming along with a new scheme to abolish
poverty. Hence they are frequently found in
queer company.
“ Melb.” : The other evening I went to a
pleasant concert at the Presbyterian Ladies’ Col-
lege, where Melba was educated. There are fifty
photos of distinguished pupils on the walls of the
concert salle. Melba is not one. Not even the
fifty-first.
Oh no, we never mention her,
That name is never heard.
Why ? Here is the only distinguished woman the
college has ever produced. Darkness visible with
a vengeance. Don’t you see, it ain’t Respectable.
A concert, too, and no memory of Melba ! The
reverend president, Macfarlane, in a little speech
referred to the most distinguished pupil, Lady
M'Eacham, who happened to be present. The
fact is the girls are to be educated in just enough
music to fit them for rich husbands. There Re-
spectability stops. Poor Nellie Melba, the out-
cast !
“Gunner” to The Bulletin
You say (7/4/’00) “ Slim Piet Joubert did himself a bad
turn historically by holding on to life during the last
couple of months.” Don’t see It. Buller, Joubert’s
opponent, did not score a single point against him, and,
so far as one can see, would never have scored if Roberts,
an entirely new factor, had not come into the account.
Joubert died unbeaten. Buller’s alleged victory at
Pieter’s Hill was due to the gradual withdrawal of the
Boers from Natal to oppose Roberts, and the masterly
way in which'the retirement was managed is the crowning
glory of Joubert’s life. “ Skilful retfeats,” says Bacon,
“ are more honorable, than brave charges, for there is in
them as much of valor, more of discipline, and less of
fortune.” The fame of the retreat of the 10,000 Greeks, of
Moofe’s retre’at to Corunna, and Wellington’s from Tala-
vera to the lines of Torres Vedras, show how history
regards such exploits. A battle may be, and often is,
won by the merest fluke, or by an opportune inspiration
of a subordinate commander—like the cavalry charge
that saved the day at Marengo, or the sudden opening of
artillery on the advancing Austrians at Wagram.
But there are no lucky accidents in a retreat. All
depends on calculation and combination. Success can
only be the result of the commander’s skill and vigilance.
Joubert died at exactly the right time—when he had
accomplished his masterpiece.


Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
FISH.
FISH.
FISH.
MACOHOCHIES
FRESH HERRINGS
FINDON HADDOCKS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
SMOKED HADDOCKS
HERRINGB IN TOMATO SAUCE
The
Tastiest : Dishes
Jto* this season.
Hotel
Australia am
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel Australia is the most
charming residential hotel in
the Southern hemisphere. It
is the scienee of health ex-
pressed in hotel-form. Situated
on the backbone of a hill, and
rising high above the surround-
ing buildings, with a free
passage of fresh air through
and around its upper storeys,
it is the delight of visitors who
know a charming place of resi-
dence when they see it.
11. EDWIN- MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“Rodent” : Rats are clever, though they
cannot escajx* the plague. The prevailing speci-
men. known as the Norwegian, really comes from
India and Persia, and- first reached England in
1730. They will carry eggs down flights of stairs
without breaking them, they know when a
house is about to fall or a ship to sink, and
they will lead a blind companion about by a straw
held in the mouth. They breed three or four
times a year, each litter numbering from 12 to 20,
so that a single family may produce nearly a
million in two years. I once saw a rat abstract
oil from a long-necked flask by dipping his tail in,
and then licking the unctuous drops from the ex-
tremity. I have it from a survivor of a wreck on
the Australian coast, that what made him lose
all hope of his foundering ship, and induced
him to jump into a small boat in a' gale of wind,
was seeing the rats leap into the sea and swim
towards the coracle.
• * * *
From Way back :
Mails nowadays in the droughty outback don’t consist
mainly of gory epistles from Trooper Jim at the war to
Bill at home, and tender remarks on six pages from Mary
Ann in town to another Bill in the hush, and notices from
William IV. to the boss of Baretracks that he is going to
travel some sheep through on or about the 23rd inst. The
mails out there consist mainly these times of fruit and
corned-beef and frying-pans and pickled-pork, and mole-
skin pants and butter and cheese ; and the mail-contractor
has “ fallen-in ” terribly in consequence. The longer the
stages between water and the barer the track of grass the
heavier become the parcel-post consignments of tinned-dog
and other dainties. The river at Wilcannia has been most ly
mud (and not much mud at that) for some months, while
all the tracks leading that way have been heavy sand ; so
Wilcannia, and White Cliffs, and Milparinka, and the
other townships in the north-west have fallen hack upon
the parcels-post for the cartage of their perishables. The
biggest mail is from Cobar to Wilcannia ; probably more
fruit is sent by parcel-post over this route (much of it
going to White Cliffs opal fields) than over all other routes
put together. The back-loading is slight; but the cum-
bersome baskets take up space, and this has set the
geniuses of the department at work devising a collapsible
affair.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Nothing in the way of
leprosy surprises us much now up here (Northern
Territory); still the following is a bit strong. A
country constable recently found a black-gin with
the disease, reported to headquarters, and was
ordered by wire to let the gin go. Which he did.
This was contrary to the law of S.A., but the big
N.T. officials seem to make laws to suit them-
selves. They take charge of the Asiatic cases, but
when it comes to blacks —no, thanks ! I heard a
man from the backbloeks say the other day that he
intended to run in a mob of 30 black lepers, and
see what the Govt, would do then. It would take
something like that to wake up the N.T. people.—
G.H.W.
The opening of a Maori carved house at
Rotorua was responsible for a weird, unique and
highly-impressive ceremonial, which will probably
never again be repeated in M.L. The quaint
structure was built by three carvers, and is called
“ Rouru,” after the originator of the wood-carving
art in Maoriland 20 generations ago. A large
outside contingent, arrayed in swell mats and
otlierindispensable paraphernalia, all bringingtheir
own food, assisted, and made a brave show. Old
Rungitahau, chief butcher to notorious Te Kooti
in days long agone, but now a noted priest, freed
the house from tapu ; and Tahau, another old
warrior, recited incantations from the roof, in-
cluding that used by the priest of the Arawa
canoe centuries back when crossing the Pacific.
A sacred fire was kindled —the last lingering relic
of native fire-worship—a solitary potato roasted
and devoured by tohungas; the ceremony of
“ crossing the threshold ” performed by women ;
and an ancient heathen karakia fired at the pillars
and slabs. Then followed a great feast.
* * * »
A Melbourne man, on a photographic
expedition in the country, left his macintosh
on a fence while he went to take a picture.
Some cows were grazing near by. When he
came back, he found that the cows had eaten
his macintosh. The only comfort he got was a
remarkably good testimony, to the quality of the
garment, for the cows immediately “went dry.”
He told hiS experience to a Queensland squatting
friend. “Oh, that’s nothing,” he was assured.
“ Cows will eat anything. One of my men hung
up his waistcoat on a post. The cows ate up the
waistcoat, watch and chain and all. Then they
got the tick.”
“Sco tty
the Wrink-
ler ”: As a last
word about the
bilby, let me
say that I have
caught at least
40 this season
in my rabbit-
traps. Naran-
dera means
“sand-hill,” as
it is in the
centre of sand-
dunes. lam
four miles be-
low the town,
and near a
road down the
river. It is
dangerous to
ride at night
owing tobilby-
holes in the
middle of the
track. These
are not their
living holes,
but are proa-
bbly prospect-
ing-shafts for
roots, and they
are thickest
right in the
track. T h e
bilby-hole is al-
ways straight
down, whereas
tire golianna’s
• is arch-shaped
and slanting,
and the rab-
bit’s round and
sloping. The
bilby skin is
tender, diffi-
cult to tan,
and practical-
ly unsaleable
except as a
curio. One
skin makes a
beautiful
child’s muff.
A dozen or so
would make a
fine trimming
for a lady’s
jacket edges,
pockets, collar
and cuffs; es-
pecially if the
dress were tai-
lor - made
French - grey
tweed. I took
a lot to Mel-
bourne, and
got a smile
and nothing
more for each.
I am an expert
in natural
trimmings. I once got 60 black cock partridges’
breasts for a colonel’s wife (she was 20 years junior
to Old Jack), and the effect on a black over-tog
was immense. The most effective bush-rug is
“paddy-melon.” There is aV on the shoulders
which must be made to slope in rows all the same
way. It is only fit for a carriage or sofa-rug, as
the skin is hard and thick. Hare-skins tanned in
an oil drum become blue-black, and make a pretty,
useless rug, which tears when you look at it.
* * * *
“ W.H.F.”: Can any bush resident tell
me what the iguana and the snake fight about, and
how the combat generally ends ? I have twice
witnessed °uch a fray, but not the beginning
thereof; and, not having time to wait, I in each
case supplied the end by killing both combatants.
What I saw, however, was very “willing,” with
no marked advantage to either side. A friend of
mine tells that he once saw a fight between an
iguana and a sft. brown snake, which ended in the
death of the latter, the lizard having bitten the
snake’s head nearly off, and when last seen was
dragging his quarry to a hollow log.
“ Imray ” : Re horse-bells (B. 24/2/’00).
They never wake a bushman, and are no annoy-
ance to him. An out-camper awaking in the
night always listens for, and is pleased to hear,
his horse-bells ; generally speaking, the nearer
the better. In the Queensland Never-Never once,
two horse-thieves passed through a township in
the night-time with a mob of horses. The
suspicions of the trooper were aroused, and he
followed them next day with a black-tracker.
Arrived at their camp at sundown. The trooper
kept in the scrub and watched, but could only see
one man by the fire. Waited till daylight, sup-
posing the other man was out watching the horses,
as the bells were ringing about the place all night.
At dawn the policeman stole up, and found some
bushes wrapped dummy-fashion in the blanket by
the fire. Went to round-up the horses, thinking
the men had escaped, and found horse-bells tied
to hop-bush twigs, so that the wind had kept them
ringing all night. The men, smelling a rat, had
taken the horses miles over the border in the
night.
• * * *
In the early 70’a Jimmy Jimmy was the
most notorious black on the Big River. The
aboriginal’s one European garment at that time
was a shirt, only worn when in the vicinity of
whites’ dwellings. Having one day watched, un-
observed, the departure of a Goonal stockman
from his hut, Jimmy made his appearance and
asked the stockman’s wife for flour, tea and sugar,
with a broad hint that if she didn’t give he’d take.
Somewhat alarmed, the woman objected that
Jimmy had nothing to carry the things in ; where-
upon the dusky one promptly whipped off his
shirt and proceeded to tie the neck and each sleeve
at the shoulder. The woman endeavored to get
away, but Jimmy intercepted her, finished his
tying, and insisted on having the tea put in one
sleeve, the sugar in the other, and the flour in the
corpus of the garment. Then he went his way
in triumph.
* * * *
“ Bough ” : While lying in bed recently I
heard a commotion in the fowl-house, and pro-
ceeding thither was just in time to see a snake
making off through the short grass. There was
nothing handy excepting a worn-out, sharp-edged
tin plate. I picked it up and let fly at the snake,
but, being bare-footed, didn’t care to-investigate
the result of my snapshot, and went back to bed.
In the morning to my surprise I found that the
plate had severed the snake’s body about a foot
from the tail, and from this portion a string of
the intestines (which had not been severed) ex-
tended under the corner of an out-house. I
got a hold with a forked stick, and com-
menced to walk backwards. When —lo ! from the
other side of one of the blocks on which the house
was built something darted out like a streak of
greased lightning. The snake had reached the
end of his tether and made a vicious hit at me. I
got a bigger stick and bashed his head in.
*** ■ *
“ 8.5.” : Re clever axemen (B. 24/3/’00).
Watch an Australian splitter at work on 2ft. box-
blocks. Upending a block he brings his axe down
with twist enough to cause a jar, and a “billet”
flies from every blow. Box “ backs off stringy-
bark “quarters,” and, striking straight and
heavily into it, the axe rebounds, and the stroke
is repeated till the block is lined across and
“started.” Then soil or fine sand is thrown on
the crack to make the axe grip, the “ jarring ”
blo\y is brought to bear, and, in lightning-time,
the block is in billets. Often two axes, used
Fijian fashion, will split “curly” logs wherein
wedges only get “wooded.” The method, how-
ever, is only used where wood is scarce. Wedges,
except in very “free” timber, are faster and
less laborious.
* * * * *
‘ ‘ Archie ” : I have a cattle-dog minus one
eye, the cavity looking as if the loss had been
quite recent. Called with the dog, the other day,
on a maiden lady whose big house-dog scrapped
mine viciously. Had trouble in booting him off.
Lady was shocked at the apparent result. “ Your
poor dog has lost an eye!” says she. “Would
not have had that happen for £10,” says I, and I
got £lO.
• * • «
“Ken”: There is a distinct race of
humans about the Upper Hunter, N.S.W. —big,
dark-complexioned, strong-haired, small-nosed
men with Irish names and a weakness for general
joy and the best of what’s going. Is there any
official record of an early Celtic settlement up
Singleton way? In Northern N.S.W. the Upper
Hunter is famous as the place where the “big-
gun ” shearers come from.
* * * •
“E.S.S.” . Bulloo Lake, Queensland, is a
living mass of game. There the swan breeds in
hundreds; there, too, the pelican builds, and in
the laying season an ordinary boat could be filled
“MIGHT FORGET ’EM”
DRUNK (who has just received two pints for himself
and mate) : “ Put these on the slate.”
LANDLORD : “ I don’t keep a slate.”
DRINK : “ You are a fool—you might forget
’em!”
with eggs in a day. Swagmen, who camp about
the lake, live for weeks on eggs. It is the one
great breeding-ground of south-west Queensland,
and all kinds of swimming birds flock there from
a hundred miles around.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : 1 do hope that when military
training is started in N.S.W. public schools
guns will not be distributed indiscriminately in
country districts. Twenty per cent, of the bush
kids can’t be trusted with pen-kniyes —in fact,
they’re too close-bred to be trusted with weapons
of any kind.
• • • •
As showing what the Western N.S.W.
drought is like; Tindarry station, which four
years ago carried 80,000 sheep, now carries 4000
only.
VIEWPOINTS.
KINK LADY : "That’s a thing I could never do.
Hit a little harmless bird.”
HORACE : “ Blowed if I can either.”
MISS FRIVOLITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“J wed your mother late in life; she hated silly tricks/
These dudish boys are far too fast and free /
Take my advice, my girl—you teed a man of forty-six / ”
“ Oh, dad! Td rather — two! —'bout twenty-three /”
ALONE.
CARET’S BOOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His name, he said, was Peter Carey,
A stranger in the city here,
Extremely angular and hairy,
And very fond of Sydney beer.
He came from somewhere near the Never,
A solitary bushman he,
Confiding, slow, and not too clever,
But seeing what there was to see.
He had a birthday celebration,
He broke his cheque in sundry toots ;
Then, ere departing for the Station,
Pete went to buy a pair of boots.
The shopmen yearned to brain or shoot him
When stock was scattered on the floor,
And not a pair of brogues to suit him
Oould either find about the store.
He’d pulled a dainty pair of kids on,
They’d fitted him with heavy makes,
“ But,” said he, “ ain’t yez none with lids on ?
I’m so surcepterbull to snakes 1 ”
SILAS SNELL.


BUSH
—CONTINGENT
Wristlet Size, 40s.
Requirements call for Watche —Reliable Instruments, Accurate Timekeepers, Watertight
Cases; in short, a Watch, that will stand Hard Wear, Knocks, and Rough Riding.
The “Fx & R” Watch
Is perfect in all these respects. The cases screw together. The price is 255. 6d. for
pocket size, and 40s. for the wristlet size.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal "
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
We know of no more perfect
watch for the purpose.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
The M'Cooey on the bottle-tick :
“ Licensed Surveyor ” (B. 10/2/’00) will astonish me if
he can prove the bottle-tick identical with the small oup-
shaped scrub ditto. The highly-venomous bottle-tick,
for one thing, is six or eight times as large as the flat
tick, while in form they differ as much as do a swan and
a turkey. From Gosford to Bermagui, N.S.W., I have
met with thousands of bottle-ticks ; have had them
attached to me, have known them to fasten on to dogs
and calves, and kill them inside of six hours, but never
once heard them called anything but “bottle-ticks, the
b.-t. is pear-shaped, as big as a large kidney bean, and so
soft as to be crushable between finger and thumb, where-
as you could hardlv smash the other with a hammer. _ To
the late A. S. Olliff, when N.S.W. Govt, entomologist, I
sent about 10 years ago samples of both kinds of tick,
and he pronounced them not only specifically, but
generically distinct.
“ Cailip ” on same subject:—
Have never known the bottle-tick to do any harm. It
is apparently only a blood-gorger which gets on to a beast
whilst very small and sucks and expands till not unlike a
dried pea in size, shape and color. Then it falls off to
rear a numerous brood in the grass, which as opportunity
offers take up the running. Scrub-ticks, which I have
seen very bad in forest country', are dangerous to can es,
foals, and dogs. I have myself thus lost several dogs.
Effects: lassitude, glazed eye, paralysis of loins, and
death. To interfere with one of these ticks on a living
body causes injection of venom, but if kerosene, liq.
ammonia, or nicotine be smeared gently over the tick
with a feather the insect dies without injecting poison
and may be pulled off with safety. Other ticks that will
adhere and cause irritation abound, but the small, flat,
hard scrub-tick is the bush dog-owner’s bete-noir.
[Obviously, what one observer calls “bottle-tick ”
another calls “ scrub-tick,” and vice - versa. —
Ed. B.]
There is a great demand for the Dunlop
Company’s new Booklet, “The Story of a Remark-
able Ride,” wherein Arthur Richardson recounts
the trials and hardships met in his recent cycle
ride around Australia. The booklets are dis-
tributed gratis, and an early application to any of
the Company’s depots is necessary to ensure
obtaining a copy.*
Will of recently-deceased Marquis of
Queensberry is a strange document. In a holo-
graph codicil (dated Jan. 23, ’95) he says:
“ At my death I wish to be cremated and my ashes put
into the earth, enclosed in nothing—earth to earth, ashes
to ashes—in any spot most convenient that I have loved.
Will mention places to my son—Harleyford for choice. I
particularly request no Christian mummeries or tom-
fooleries be performed over my. grave, but that I be buried
as a secularist and an agnostic, if it will comfort anyone
there are plenty of those of my own faith who would come
and say a few words of common sense over the spot where
my ashes may lie: Places to lay ashes : The summit of
Criffle or Queensberry, in Dumfriesshire, the end of the
Terrace, overlooking New Loch, Harleyford, Bucks. No
monument or stone necessary or required, or procession,
as a hes can be carried in one person’s hand. Failing
these places, any place where the stars shall shed their
light and the sun gild each rising morn.”
The most interesting letters from “ Our
Boys ” at the front are neither printed nor print-
able. In a Tasmanian mining town-
ship pub. recently a young fellow
was overheat'd reading to an
admiring circle a letter
from a mate who had
gone as a Tasmanian “con-
tingenter,” and the epistle
was mostly the account
of an amorous adventure
of the warrior with a wooden-
legged girl.
A Melbourne
family, largely
feminine, went
down to the sea in
the vicinity of
Comer Inlet for a
quiet week just after
Xmas. They put up at
a secluded house, and be-
gan communing with na-
ture in the orthodox
way. The girls dis-
covered a splendid pool
amongst the rocks, and
bathed early and often,
and being, as they im-
agined, absolutely safe
from intrusion, did not
trouble to over-dress
themselves for the bath.
All was peaceful till the
evening of the third day, when
the happy girls, sporting like
mermaids in the green sea, were
filled with horror, shame and
miscellaneous emotions to see a
large, plain stranger in pink
pyjamas, and cigarette in
mouth, standing on a rock
overlooking their pool. The
four girls gave a wild cry,
and hastened to swathe
themselves to the neck in
brine, which, alas ! was
all too pellucid. Then
they abused the stranger,
and called him nasty and
horrid, and bade him “go
’way” on pain of broken bones and actions at law;
but he only grinned, and, climbing down coolly,
proceeded to join them in the pool. The visitors
gave one more wild, unearthly cry, and, scamper-
ing out on to the sands, snatched up scraps of
garments, and fled over rough country, squealing
all the way. About 20min. later the father and
brother of the startled maidens appeared on the
edge of that pool, with much blood in the eyes of
them. The person in pink pyjamas was paddling
peacefully, and when they cursed violently, and
cried for vengeance he simply smiled up at them
affectionately; whereupon they waxed madder,
and cursed more blasphemously, and were more
strenuous in insisting on the bather coming forth
and being torn to pieces. “I’ll teach you to in-
sult my daughters, you low blackguard ! ”
cried the infuriated parent, beginning to toss off
his clothes. “By !if you won’t come out
I’ll come after you ! ” Then the bather became
serious, and, rising like Venus from the sea, said
curtly : “Go away, you two fools ! I’m a
woman ! ”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
M.A.W. : Bulletin hasn’t anything to say
against Judge Heydon in the matter, as the law stands.
And the Judge’s promise to recommend a reduction in
Bridge’s sentence if he could show that since escaping
from gaol he had lived honestly and industriously is a
very fair offer... .Micko : Oan’t see why Bungs should not
have political candidates paraded before them to explain
their views, considering that Parliamentary candidates
constantly parade similarly before the teetotal organisa-
tions. .. .J.B. :We never printed it. M‘lver admitted
early in his career that he carried his sword for the same
reason as the butcher carries his cleaver —to provide food
for his mouth : but in his present raving he turns up his
eyes and declares he cuts for truth and honor
Arco : There is no rule without exceptions, but your very
polite man is generally a humbug. It is utterly impos-
sible to entertain so sincere a friendship for everyone you
meet. Friendship, like butter, can only be effectively
spread over a certain amount of surface D.G. : The
same might be said of most medical men. But the ques-
tion is not whether he did his prpfessional duty to his
patients, but whether he has a sufficiently extensive
hospital and laboratory experience of the treatment of
plague to. be of any special value to give authoritative
opinions in connection therewith W. Janes : “ Hospit-
alism ” means pymmia or blood-poisoning. (In Sydney
Municipalism now means pretty much the same thing.)...
W.M.F. : Ode would take the place of onions at
a funeral —on other value A.J.G.: None usable.
W.A.Q.: We love your sentiments and curse
your verses Akarana:' Kill a Jingo with it
M.E.P. : Unsuitable V.A.: Wants interest
A. M‘C. D. : Of the two persons who could vouch for that
steep yarn, “ one is dead and the other is a policeman.”
Hum !.... Autolycus : A fantastic yarn full of uninterest-
ing originality... .Joss Gone Lunglt has pretty nearly
every drawback verses can have Oaro : Some strength
and promise in it, but crude and the plot stereotyped.
... .Curious : You want to know which part of the Great
Zig-Zig is the Zig and which is the Zag. The first one
going down is a zig in the morning and a zag in the after-
noon, except on the third Friday in the month, when
things are reversed. When there are five Fridays in the
month, and there are hailstorms on the fifth Friday, the
first gradient is a zig all day, unless it is full moon, when
it isn’t, but if the Governor has died the previous week
that alters things. The reasons for this can be found in
the Book of Deuteronomy any cold morning before 10.30
a.m A. Gessner : (1) A death-certificate must for all
cases be obtained before burial. (2) Death-rate of
Sydney city was 19.70 per 1000 in 1893 and 16.03
in 1897. In 1898 it rose to 19.49 per 1000
T.P. : “ Reading maketh a full man—but many men pre-
fer beer:” The rest is feebler Y.H.C. : Declined with
pleasure A.A.K. —and about 40 others: Yes: “Wil-
liam Carter’s” eight lines of verse in April 7 issue
belong to Tom Moore. Glad to see so many people
read Tom Moore, and can afford to tear pages
out of his work to prove it. We forgot Tom Moore
long ago. The only classics we remember and are literally
sure about dre tfie Lord’s Prayer, Hamlet’s soliloquy,
and some si itches of the Ancient Mariner....
B. : Melbourne is full of small she-poets who hate one
THE NEVER-NEVER BOERS.
MURPHY ( to Macdonald, who denies that the Boers
are cannibals) : “ Perhaps not the Boers of the
towns, but thim out-back is.”
another like pizen 1 That’s not exciting news. Send us
word when they start to stab one another with hat-pins.
G. (Melb.) : The departed potentate belonged to the
class of men who get stingier as they get drunker. See-
ing double, they naturally object to giving away two
coins where they had merely intended to give one
G.D. : Do you really suppose that Sammy’s disqualifica-
tion was cancelled in consideration of the fact that he
presented two ’orses to a Victorian Contingent ? You
forget that Sammy’s advertising policy couldn’t have been
very pleasing to certain members of the V.R.C. Commit-
tee who were expected to contribute horses, but didn’t—
Pretoria :Is it jim-jams—or what? R.: Have handed
your letter to A.M. It is certainly making a “gross”
charge to accuse a man of literary dishonesty, which is as
bad as any other kind of dishonesty Roughrider : But
it is no news that the sperm-whale has a large swallow.
It is the “ whalebone’’-mouthed kinds that have the tiny
gullet. Also, it is well-known that there exist deep-sea
cuttle-fish |of enormous size. Yarn rather tame and
feeble B. Bluey : Too crude for Bulletin, but you pro-
ARITHMETIC.
KRUGER (reading) : “ A number of N.S. W. ladies are making cakes, pies, etc., to be sent to the scat
of war. They will he sent out this week, when two tons will be shipped. Dot vos all
right. Two tons—forty hundredweights. One hundredweight—one thousand Rooineks.
Dot vill vipe out forty thousand at least.”
mise to become no mean humorist Oigaro : Brief, but
pregnant; may use Pencil: Both rather out of the
common, but neither quite on the mark either
Mulga : Bailiff story very 01d... .M.E.F. : Doggerel leaks
in 34 places... .11.A.C. : Office tyke barks better poetry.
. ...S.D.S. : It was not he, but Sir Roderick Murchison
who once “ stated authoritatively ” that gold would never
be found in Australia at a greater depth than 300 ft. (It
is now being obtained at Bendigo from 3300 ft. levels.)
A.J.M. : Your cricket-story has no climax, except that
the bowled men wanted to fight. That isn’t exciting
enough... .Charles P. (Giril.) : \ flat item Tingle : Too
“steep.” F. (Bundaberg): You send no news-cutting
as a voucher. Can’t possibly print such statements on
anybody’s unsupported say-50....0. (Albion-st.): Can’t
read your writing—and don’t mean to try. Typing is
your only remedy A.P.W. : Burn,mix much doubts
whether the Tas. iron-deposits aren’t superior to those of
N.S.W 11. Jarvis G. : “ Bulletin office” will find him.
Aroroa : Lacks organic unity.. . .Mulga : An old, old
yarn indeed !... .Glengariff: A little stiff in the joints.
Will consider... .G.Q. : Both storv and style savour too
much of Family Herald Richd. W. : Too much pre-
liminary. If you were to begin with the book-incident,
something might be made of remainder... .Denmark :
Thanks ; but rather late in the day... .0. Ross-Johnson :
Please forward present address.... Caro : Some lack of
skill, but considerable power. May possibly use Alli-
gator : Too slight and slack Yarram : “Molt” looks
an identifiable thing... .O.R.T. :No room here for daily -
laper matter... .Grizzlfer: “Mistake” will do. Please
write larger and with more space between lines... .Mello :
Bulletin only wants the essence of things. You take
live pages to tell of a Frenchman’s literal translation ,of
an English word. This paper isn’t a 640-acre paddock
E.I.W. : One has a vague prettiness, but is very badly
metre’d.- Other, conventional treatment of well-worn
idea... .Flabby P. : That cockatoo yarn is a variant of a
very ancient wheeze... .Grizzler : “ Mistake ”is the best
of the four. Will consider... .D. 11.5. : Address not avail-
able at present Trevor M. :Of no Bulletin interest.
H.S.B. (E. Melbourne) : Very small joketet
Rockies : The day may arrive when The Bulletin will
become Jingo and Imperialist, but the men who at pre-
sent edit it will be dead, paralysed, or stone-broke before
then.... .F.S.W.Z.: Thanks Gleng. : Will print
Scotty : Isn’t the swaggie you speak of the man who came
to Melbourne when the Coolgardie rush was on and fell
into the hands of spielers before he could get away West ?
How about the alleged crank who is always preparing to
rush to Coolgardie?.. . .Speedy : The critic you wantusto
advertise is an honest faddist as a rule. The others are
less pedantic and not always untruthful H.C.: Carter
is a subject that can stand over till next season H.G.:
Presbyterian church quarrels are, alas, so sadly remark-
able for their lack of originality... .H.P.S.: The departed
damsel is an unremarkable singer with no particular at-
tractions. .. .E.P.: James Tyson’s N.S.W. estate was valued
at £600,000, and his Queensland estate at over £2,000,000.
.... R. : Sorry not up Lorrie L. : Not force enough...
Van der B. : Considering H.K.Q. : May do Rajah :
Publication price is ten lakhs of rupees Chisero:
Wants writing more forcibly..... Prospect: Has good
points, but not enough... .R.O. : None usable Ply-
mouth: Not up W. Brent: “Carthy” a good study;
will try and use... .Phil R. : Not quite good enough
G.M. : Unusable Pan : “ Too Quick ” should be put in
four-line stanzas, much more briefly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
M.J.M.: An old Bulletin idea E.G.L. : One may
serve as a suggestion Plymouth Sound : One will do.
W. Jard.: Too weakly drawn and lacking in character.
The man doesn’t look the part....Zif.: Excellent subject,
but hopeless drawing M‘Gregor : Neither subject
tempts J.N.K. : A little unsavoury F.E.V. : Will
submit to artist F. B. Pallamall : Don’t see point....
E.G.L.: An ancient theme.... Vick.: Good subject, but
we must let Hop. provide the humor Carl.: May do
something with grocer item R. M. I. : School joke
ancient... .E.A.A.D.: As suggestion, perhaps. Unavail-
able.—S.K., Fax, Setch (or Sketch), H.11.G Resigna-
tion : Not a hopeful idea.
The Age prints a South African letter
received from a private in Dandenong (Vic.)
Rangers :
“ I have just come in from being out for four days with-
out a sleep, and most of the time on apiece of bread and
water. \Ve only had meat for two meals in the four days,
and lam nearly asleep writing this. We always get the
most work, for we are the crack division of the lot. I and
four more won the bayonet exercise on board ship. It
was for £5. All in our division are Rangers, so that is a
feather in our cap. . . . We are going to Colesberg in
about four hours’ time to the fight, and God help the
Boers when we see them, for we are getting desperate. I
hope we will soon have a fight, for we are all anxious to
have a slap at them."
0f course any man who has not slept for four days
is mad—which may account for several things.
And here is a daisy of a letter, printed in Sydney
E. News, from Trooper Percy Morris, of Single-
ton, N.S.W., who was with the column which
captured Cronje and his party :
You will be surprised to learn that I was last night a
prisoner in the Boer camp. I had a remarkable experi-
ence. The N.S.W. Mounted Infanty went out yesterday
morning at 3 o’clock in a reconnoitring patrol. My divi-
sion was sent ahead of the other three divisions at a dis-
tance of about three miles. We were travelling all day,
and at 4 o’clock in the afternoon we got into a trap.
Owing to reinforcements not keeping within proper range
of us the enemy cut us off. We did not notice this at first,
and were travelling on. About a mile distant some men
were noticed, and four of us were sent ahead to see who
they were. When we got very close up, Trooper Brady
(of Singleton) and myself started to ride up a big
kopje overlooking Maider’s Farm. The other two men of
ours went on. When we got to the top of the kopje, we
saw at once we were in a trap. Before 1 had time to say a
word a Boer jumped up and demanded that I should
throw up my arms. I tried to get my rifle levelled at the
Boer, but as I did I saw quite a swarm of the enemy
coming in my direction, and I had no alternative but to
surrender. Brady, fortunately, was not seen by them,
and managed to make good liis escape. The Boers then
escorted me to their camp. Afterwards they brought four
more of our men to the camp as prisoners, and later on
two men who were wounded. When we were all to-
gether they calmly told us to be ready next morning,
as they intended to shoot us. They refused to give us
any water to drink, although we were parched. When
I asked for a drink, they replied that they liked tor-
turing Australians, and then killing (hem afterwards.
That night, though tired, I never slept. I thought,
perhaps, that I might be able to escape. I waited my
chance. At about 2 o'clock in the morning, I noticed the
Boer sentry who was left to watch us, dozed off to sleep.
I crawled cautiously on my hands and knees out of the
camp, and got clear so far. Then I found I had to get
past a patrol. lie was asleep on his horse. Stealthily, I
crept up, and, snatching his rifle from him, shot him, and
as he fell from his horse I jumped on the animal and
galloped off. The horse stumbled with me frequently in
the darkness ; but fortune favored me, and I got away.
During the campaign I have bad many narrow escapes.
I have been under fire twenty-three times, and twice my
horse was. shot under me. Once a bullet pierced my
helmet, and another one took the heel off my boot. I
was present when General Cronje surrendered, but I
suppose you have heard all about that.
The two brothers, who look so won-
derfully alike, were tried for the third time
at Perth (Westralia) last week. As on the pre-
vious occasions, most of the witnesses were posi-
tive that they had seen one brother doing various
illegal things, but didn’t know which brother it
was. The two previous juries had disagreed over
this matter, but the third one lumped things, and
found them both guilty, and they got 16 months
apiece. It was a light sentence for the things
that the law knew they had done between them,
but it was pretty heavy for anything that the law
could prove against either of them individually.
The brother who did most of the things had estab-
lished such a good alibi by mixing himself up with
the other brother that the only way out was to
strike an average.
A Hero’s Life of Adventure.
CHAT WITH AN OLD SOLDIER
At Hoxton Park, within easy reach of Liver-
pool, N.S.W., lives one of England’s heroes, Staff-
sergeant J. Chalkley, late of the Bengal Army
Commissariat Department and the Bth King’s
Liverpool Regiment.
Sergeant Chalkley served with Lord Roberts’
Eield Force in the Afghan War in 1878-79-80, and
fought at Charasia and Kabul, “for which,” he
said, “ I received a medal and two clasps.”
“ And what was the other medal obtained for?”
was asked. '
“ For long service and good conduct,” came the
reply. “I enlisted when only 17£, and for twenty
years I was in India and Afghanistan, where I
saw some awful scenes of carnage and had many a
single-handed fight. When in India, about thirty
years ago, I caught fever and ague, and a little
later bronchitis, which so weakened me that I had
to use a stick often to save myself from falling. I
suffered from shivering fits, intense cramping
Eains, a feeling of oppression at back and chest,
roken sleep, and perspired copiously. Although
treated for over nineteen years by the Army
surgeons, the after effects of my illness proved so
severe that on Christmas Day, 1888, I obtained
my discharge, being pensioned off as staff-ser-
geant.
“ And what was your next step ?”
“ I settled here working as a market gardener
whenever my health permitted. Several doctors
said I would never recover ; indeed, one told my
son I had not long to live. I fruitlessly took many
advertised medicines; then I tried a box of Dr.
Williams’ pink pills. I felt that they were doing
me good, and got more. Although I was then
very ill and unable to work, I am now strong and
well. Dr. Williams’ pink pills have saved my
life. lam so delighted that I have walked a good
many miles to give you these facts for publica-
tion.”
Mr. Chalkley’s ilness was caused by the absorp-
tion of poisonous exhalations from marshy soil,
which vitiated his blood. Dr. Williams’ pink
pills cured him by purifying and enriching his
blood, thus removing the foundation of his disease.
In the same manner they cure all disorders that
deficient, poor, or impure blood cause—anaemia,
consumption, indigestion, rheumatism, paralysis,
St. Vitus’ dance, and general weakness. For-
warded post-paid by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, and sold by chemists
and storekeepers ; two and nine per box, six boxes
fifteen and three.—But mind you ask for Dr. Wil-
liams’. Dr. Williams’ pink j ills by enriching the
blood assist the system to resist the Plague. Ser-
geant Chalkley’s address is Bunara Road, Hoxton
Park, via Liverpool.


JOUBERT’S “ POOR
COUNTRY."
" According to Sir Alfred
Milner, the rebels must be
dealt with severely, but not
vindictively, and the fusion of
the two races promoted.”
ENTERPRISE!
Tije Rev. Jonas: “Ah! James, working away; what are you making-
something useftil, I hope 1 ” s
James: “You bet! I seen in the paper that'rats is worth cue-
so I m rnakm’ a place to breed ’em in.” ■ ‘
THE MAP OF AFRICA.
Kruger’s idea, according to Chamberlain.
Chamberlain’s idea, according to Kruger
\Yhat it may become.
On behalf of the cats of our denomination,
we have to thank your Eminence for dispensing
with the Lenten fast, otherwise, on account (3
the doubts with which rats are now regarded,
wt; should either have starved or been reduced
to steal meat from Protestants.
BAD FOR TRADE. "
Undertaker fwho has been complaining bitterly about
the burial-in-Quarantine regulation) : “ And how does thorite olbt; yc 3 J»
Body-Snatcher : “ Oh, it ain’t no blanky good - tp us.”
A MIXTURE.


ON TRIAL?
JUDCE CASEY (Chairman of Inquiry Commission): "What did you say I was to do?"
ATTRO-GEN. IRVINE: “ Stand on the fourth stop, and look at him through time rose-colored glasses."


'-S''
/
SAUNDERS
817 CEQRGES T
SYDNEY
BIS
PS
/
%
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “ The Challenge,” 15s ; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
A > • u.m)-
New Model tv«trrt>urj, i Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled, ids 6d ; Silver, 35s ; Gold,
£2 15s. These Prices are Specially Reduced.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIAL MADE ROTHERHAM LEVERS,
Full Cap, £3 10s : Extra Jewelled Chronomoter
Balance, £4 10s ; Keyless Full Cap, £5.
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed.
A. yAUISKT).
Ladies' Waterhury Watch. Keyless,
18s 6d ; Pure Silver, 30s ; Gold, £i 15s.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Keyless Waltham, f-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s ; 14c. gold, £5 5s ; Extra Quality, £7 10s,
£lO ; 18c. Gold, £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£3, £4, £5. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
So.*,. . y.v* V. l»l IA/U.-lt, 4-- t»IS,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £i 10s, £6. 16c. Solid Gold,
£5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure
Silver, 10s. 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold New Secret Name Brooch, 3 Diamonds, jj ew
£3 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £2 IDs ; Cheaper
Style, 265. Any Name FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Lank, 20s; 15c. Gold
3os. Silver, 4s.
A. SANDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal
17s Gd ; 15c. Gold, 30s
ISo. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SAi .'DERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s tki;
15ct. Gold, £2.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart. Full Size
10s, small 8s 6d.
Gold Brooch, 5s Sd. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 15c. Gold Key., Heart & Ivy Brooch,
35s ; 18c. Gold, JE2 ss. The Very Latest.
Vjo.u Heart & Dumhell Links,
12s (kl , lac., 255; Silver, 3s (id
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold 1900 Pearl & Diamond Brooch, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls,
Bracelets to Match, £2 15s.
S i
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Fia-
n'nnds, 2 Opal Hearts,
*4 10s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
i-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDKKS.
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 ss. Hunting
Cases, £2 10s, £2. Written guarantee.
Send for Price List.
A SAHNPRRS.
New Gold ?*Har Pearl Set and Red Stone Scroll
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s fkl; Extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold 15s ; 18c. Gold 20s. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s 6d
A. SAUNBERS.
Gold Wish Bone and Pearl and Turquoiw
Bee, 17s fid ; loc. Gold, 355.
pßwßii!s!so'
Gold 3-Bar and Red Stone Brooch, 15a.
Ven V'-afc.
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold. 8s fill a..U xus.
3 Front, 15c. Gold. l'2s tid and 15a.
Send (or List.
a. oai M)ERS.
Registered 9c. Cold Amethyst Brooch,
17s Id ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Cold, 365.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
16c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very Cheap.
A. SAUN DERS.
Latest Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, j£2.
15c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 15s. Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style Gold Links, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 22s 6d ; 15c.
Solid Gold, £2 2s. Silver, 4s (id.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbell Links,
9c. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Links, 18s 6d, 20s,
255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s (id Extra.
CHARM.
Gold Mizpah, 48-
CHARM.
Gold. Amethyst,
and Pearls. Lss6d;
15c. Gold. 'lss.
Latest .Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Brooch, IDs fid. Our
own Registeied
Design.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
liorseshoe, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold. Charm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, 12s 6d.
Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS
Cold Charm. 10s.
A. SAUNPERS.
CHARM. with
Enamelled Post
Office, 10s.
A.SAUNDKRS
CHARM. New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d
Special Reduced
Gold Trilby Rifles,
5s 6d , with Ame-
thyst. 7s tV! , with-
out Chain, 3s <5cL
Uoul Bell anti Chains,
2a Gd
is tid
3a Gd
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 7s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registerea Erin-Go-Bragti B ooch, 17s 6d :
15c. Cold, 30b ; iSo. Quid, 355.
A SaU-.uERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, 1:3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
MIZF
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizpah Brooch, 12s 6d
Silver, 4s Gd.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Kevless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 Id's, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Has.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s Gd.
Our Newest Gold Bird and Bell, 6s 6d
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
A. SAHNDF.RS.
CHARM. Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM. Ol<l English
Coin, Gold Mounted,
10s.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, its Os, £7 lus, £8 10s
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
4’
m
Ladies' Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
255, 80s, 355, £2 ss, £3;
15c., £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding- Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, Ts 6d, |os each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 15. . Gold, -2ns • extra
heavy, 3Us, 35*, 4Us. Send for card
Ssy
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flag Brooch, 20s.
Ours is the Australian Flag.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition-A Special Easter Show or Sendjor p our loro c °™P^ 6 ER l E M “^ ted Book
A. SAUN
Leading Art Jeweller, *
815 $ 817 George St.,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
STATION,
Sydney.


There was much rejoicing at Little River
(Canterbury, M.L.) over the unveiling of a monu-
ment, commemorating the valiant deeds or
Tangata Hara and other dusky braves in the
inter-tribal battles of 60 years ago, when 1 0
Rauparaha brought three expeditions from i/he
North Island against the Southerners. Tangata
Hara faced the marauder at the head of the
Ngatihuis, and participated in many gory fights
until ’37, when hostilities ceased. Hara’s statue,
which resembles a Greek god rather than a Maori
warrior, was erected because of the boastful in-
scription on Te Rauparaha’s monument at Otaki,
scornfully referring to the defeat of the Kaiapoi
Maoris.
Pretoria, everybody doesn’t know, is named
after Pretorius, one of the celebrated Boer triumvi-
rate of the past. He was said to belong to the
same family as a Dr. Pretorius, who in the early
years of the Queen’s married life was attached to
the immediate service of the. Prince Consort, and
who in that capacity was present at all the
functions of the Court. The Court Circular of
the time, after naming all the distinguished per-
sonages present, invariably concluded with the
words “and Dr. Pretorius.” At a banquet one
evening at which Thackeray was present, after
the toast of the Queen had been received with
musical honors, the author of “ Vanity Fair” was
overheard singing to himself the refrain:
Happy and glorious,
Long to reign over UB,
Doctor Pretori us,
God save the Queen.
The Chemist and Druggist says : Mr.
George. T. Fulford, the president of the Williams’
Medicine Company, and the man who has made
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to be known all over the
face of the earth, has been appointed a member of
the Senate of Canada, and was sworn in at Ottawa
on January 31. Mr. Fulford was bom in Brock-
ville, Out., on August 8, 1852. He comes of an
old Devonshire family, and after training in a
business college, was apprenticed to pharmacy,
and duly obtained his diploma. He then started
a chemist’s business in Brockville, which he carried
on with marked success until, in 1890, he bought
the formula of Dr. Williams’ Pills from a medical
friend who had been successfully using the pills in
his practice for a generation. In the ten years
which have since elapsed Mr. Fulford has made a
fortune out of the pills.*
á
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S °“uT AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath., invaluable for ad Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
. Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
w
Schreiner, the Cape Colony Premier, whose
Premiership doesn’t amount to very much of late,
is probably spineless rather than disloyal to British
Government; also, unlike the average Jingo who
is howling so ferociously on this side of the water,
he possibly remembers that the British and the
Dutch (who at present are in a majority) have to
live together as peaceably as may be under the
British flag after the war. And yet the average
Jingo can’t understand why Sir Allred Milner, or
Joe Chamberlain, or Rhodes, or somebody, doesn’t
order Schreiner to be hanged, drawn, and quar-
tered for doing nothing in particular.
A bit from real life :
After the procession had gone and the crowd had
thinned off, a stalwart and gilded Melb. man was nipping
with a friend in a swell liar and chatting to a command-
ing Hebe. A score of other men about the big back bar
stared when a little, pale, wild-eyed woman, arrayed in
spotless white, from gem hat to parasol and shoes,
bounced in from the street. But the stalwart and gilded
man had his back turned. The first he knew of her
arrival was a slashing blow across the head with the sun-
shade. For a second or two he blanched, but never did
a man take in a situation so quickly or meet it so calmly.
To her furiously-repeated demands tor “ the money I
should have had at 12 o’clock," he answered not a
word—just stood placidly looking on. Then she
whisked on to the friend, and hurled her tale
of woe and wrath at him—“ll you're a friend
of my husband’s, why don't you,” Ac., Ac. Mean-
while hubby, with a rapid catlike movement, slipped
out the back entrance. Presently she turned again to
hubb.v, and her face, when she saw he'd tied, made every
man there choke with suppressed laughter. It wasn’t
their turn just then. “ Oh, 1 know where to find him!’
she shrieked, and out she bounced lo the back premises.
The friend made a disorderly retreat through the front
door. In double-quick time she bounced in again at the
front door and harangued the throng with much
violent gesture. All and sundry shifted out of reach of
the parasol. At last, the commanding llebe calmed her
down somewhat, and she left muttering words tc the
effect that she’d “give him beaus to-night." I-a ter
on, came a ring at the telephone. Helie answered,
and advertised more fully her splendid proportions as she
stepped from behind the bar. In low and luscious tones
she answered queries from the other end thus : “ Yes, all
right ; it’s me —she’s gone —oh, kept on telling us about
your keeping her money, that was all—no, not a word ;
the doesn't know, else there’d have been a pretty row—l'd
have put the syphon on her to begin with —Sunday
night? Isn't that a hit too soon? Make it Tuesday
evening ; I'm off then. Same time and place—good-bye ;
you’ll get it hot to-night, but only about the cash ; she
knows nothing else —wish you luck ; mind, Tuesday ;
good-bye.” Poor, irate, unsuspecting little white para-
sol I
"Man’s
Strength
and
Woman’s
Beauty.”
Before and since
tibia days cf Samson
this is what has
baen said of *rtrj
luxuriant growth
of hair.
BHfIIVN
a
GIFTS
AYCD
H&ir
visor
preserves and
beautifies the
hair, giving
it length,
strength, and
luster.
It restores
the natural
color to the
hair in every
instance.
it Cleanses the 'scalp from dandruff
and thus removes one great cause of
baldness. .
It makes a better circulation in the
scalp and thus checks the hair from
falling out.
If your blood is poor and thin ana
filled with impurities, the Hair Vigor
cannot do its best. You should take a
thorough course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla at the same time
you are using the Hair Vigor. This
will cleanse your blood, invigorate your
nerves, and improve your health in
every way.
Prepared by Or. J. C. Ayer k Co., Lowell, Mm«., U.S.A.
Read the
other corners.
Cut
out this
Puzzle and
paste it on a
piece of cardboard.
Blessedness of Books.
ft. W. COXA.
Books should be found In every bout*
To form and feed the mind:
They are the best of luxuries
’Tis possible. to find.
for all the books in all the world
Are man’s most precious treasure:
They make him wise, and bring to him
His best, his choicest pleasure.
o. v
<s>
Books make his time pass happily,
Relieve his weary hours:
Amuse, compose, instruct his mind,
Enlarge his mental powers.
W i
jRj & Q v - - *0
& X\ <£> <£> < > <>
P ’o
\p/q* Ca or >t y C 6°S- 0/ > 9a
e"V «
s^^S.|£,Bßa
t&c?
. vaa:
fo
bPanc/j
P ..'-A*
* iy
V-vV
and
v<v
from
Of
&
It
Q
fife
ss
03 DO < CO
HgO§ >KH§
SfSfrcSF a^s-ST
<2
£T O
•JKJ
u
= sc a. x*
□ “>
O-ieKm 13 = aQ OT
» tr g. -• o 9" r
» « 5‘5-n ?
St
ft o
0>
o»
_ xc.
5- S 2 B
-s- a t>
5»93
o
cto-q-o
sa
a
rtf
ocra s
0
a o
3 <5 3
~S »
sS-e
* r’ a
e a 43
2 St.r-re
rf*
~ 2.„ Q.
-S
J 3
3
O C
3 _3" o-=ro
3 3 2
c+
S 3
n <8
f 3 3 J £ w» O 2
® M HlJ' 3 pj C —.
IS & -• £ 0
n ~ o 3JO -■
«* 1 O < o
3-2
O 3
5 2
3&
££ a E
B S
BT
09
ft O
6*
ptj S 5
£ Irl
*
>p 05
%
3$ 3 2
«
«cid,£ *Cktj
£ ►«} > *c~*
p* 2. & ° * j 5 ®®,a
P o-
“sc £
<r
SgS §£§W
gf=S«
to «
n m
r 3
s>
n^ s
& &
. _
i§
r®^//
73
IS©
e»>
% VX
% Ve.
ev*Z>/V
/©
*y2&
idQJ%S
2>*
' » •»' 0 0 v
\-ciV
® 9 /ou
it*, v b
, >|&xVJX
pa^
M
.ft
vft
A
f */'///
s/sy
£>* A
>•
JsSsit
•psapnj si. siamojq pnr
•■tqBnom ‘tuojßSßd 1 sßuiiaaj psjpuiq aj»H
‘peals pu* ‘910)13 ‘mo)o3 jo
‘MU Xl9A* jo usm }«n uoqt iqooa
me in jo pooqiaqioiq aqx
‘qqXnoqi )0 Xj|un iq ‘avoqt sqoog
;us)3 ptm 9391 Aiant jo
maj put 'ssdoq '»J9JIH ‘«Xo[ 9q: «oq« eqoog
*p99p 9m pm SttlAl) 9ql
jo uiopspu pus apaap aqi A&oqe iqoog
‘pjßS 9ABq ‘Suns 9A«q‘jqSnoqj 9avh
‘9uop 9Avq usui juqq ))B tntn Atoqs sqoog
w\w> >
X,%,%%+ % .
M
Try and
read this task
through without
making a mistake.
There are 260 Subjects in it.
r E. W. Cote°B
MAGIC COIN
PUZZLE.
Find the Smooth Sixpence.
(Copyright.)
A LITERARY
PRONOUNCING LESSON.
Booksconsisting of Bibles, Novels, Grammars, Catechisms,
Gazetteers. Dictionaries, Readers,Atlases, Diaries, Cyclo-
pedias, Bible History, Concordances, Commentaries, Old
Magazines, New Magazines, Church History, Boys’
Presents, Girls’ Presents, Gents’ Presents, Ladies’
Presents, Church Services, Bible Explainers, Preachers’
Guides, Acts of Parliament, Bible Dictionaries, Christian
Evidences, Hymn books, Note books, Copy books, Music
books, Irish books, Latin books, Greek books, Dream
books, Scotc books, French books, German books,
Prayer books, School books, Pocket books, Ladies’ books
Account books, Receipt books, Baptist books, Drawing
books, Exercise books, Military books, Secular books,
Catholic books, Spelling books, Reciting books, Wesleyan
books, Unitarian books. University books, Australian
books, Stationery books, Episcopalian books, Presbyterian
books, Spiritualistic books, Swedenborgian books, Con-
gregational books, Secondhand books, and Very Old
books. Books on Art, Food, Heat, Light, Logic, Optics,
Mining, Botany, Dyeing, Sewage, Banking, Dancing,
Politics,Washing, Painting, Brewing, Irrigation, Masonry,
Counting, Marrying, Heraldry, Language, Bicycling,
Evolution, Companies, Mechanics, Midwifery, Etiquette,
Education, Telephony, Longevity, Quarrying, Conjuring,
Engraving, Carpentry, Distilling, Communism, Pisceo-
logy, Physiology, Nagivation, Mesmerism, Magnetism,
Ethnology, Pneumatics, Sailmaking', Seamanship. Hydra-
ulics, Pyrotechny, Ventilation, Bricklaying, Composition,
Metaphysics, Electricity, Conchology. Mineralogy, Sign-
writing, Ship-rigging, Engineering, Road-rnaking, Metal-
lurgy, Physiognomy, Brick-making, Ship-building, Illumi-
nating, Meteorology, Hydrostatics, Wood-carving, Iron-
working, Architecture, Stone-cutting, Bridge-making,
Metal-working, Mortar-making, Letter-writing, Cabinet-
making, Brass-founding, Railway-making, Engine-driv-
ing. The Steam-engine, Civil Engineering, Electric
Lighting, School Management, Engineering Drawing,
Fish, Pigs, Bees, Cats, Dogs, Birds, Sheep, Cattle, Horses,
Rabbits, Pigeons, Biology, Poultry, Farming, Cookery,
Drawing, Geology, Surgery, Printing, Zoology, Farriery,
Building, Debating, Reptilogy, Gardening, Silkworms,
Astronomy, Shorthand, Temperance, Phrenology, Entom-
ology, Telegraphy, Wine-making, Hydropathy, Dress-
making, Colouring, Medicine, Acoustics, Fossilogy, Sufr
veying, Sociology, Elocution, Darwinism, Chemistry
Needlework, Homcepathy, Hopculture, Mathematics
Book-keeping, Climatology, Photography, Ornithology,
Freemasonry; Phonography; Self-culture; Vine-growing;
Agriculture; Arboriculture; Hemp-culture; Child-rearing;
Horticulture, Anthropology .Confectionery, Sugar-culture,
Oddfellowship, Fern-gardening, Cotton-culture, General
Science, Natural History, Fortune-telling, Sanitary
Science, Tobacco-culture, Physical Debility, Infant
Treatment, Artificial Memory, Moral Philosophy, Flower-
gardening, Domestic Medicine, Mushroom-culture, Poli-
tical Economy, House Management. Books of Fun, Law,
Plays, Songs, Essays, Poetry, History, Voyages, Travels,
Sermons, Lectures, Speeches, Proverbs, Biography,
Geography, Anecdotes, Simple Law, Quotations, Table
Talk, Amusements, Indoor Games, Family Prayers,
Discount Tables, Interest Tables, Gems of Thought,
Religious Anecdotes, General Literature,
The above are the names of the headings in the Retail,
Wholesale, Half-price, and Secondhand Departments of
Cole’s Book Arcade, Bourke and Collins Sts., Mel-
bourne. More than a Million Books to choose from.
You can get.'almost any book you want there.


Don’t Argue with Liver Disease—
Take Warnek’s Safe Cure.
Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in informing
you that just about twelve months ago I suffered
from a pain in my right side, and tired and languid
feelings, and after some time I got a lump in my
right side which caused me to seek advice from a
medical book. There I found the cause was the
liver , and knowing your Warner’s Safe Cure to be
a good and Safe Cure for same, I gave it a fair
trial with (treat success. I have much pleasure in
saying that I have never felt anything of it sinoe.
—Yours truly, (Signed) F. A. BURT, Bourke,
N.S.W.*
GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per H/dlf-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Applioation
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATIiONAGE^
...0n...
fir. Fraok Scijior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
The Enormous Success of Khakis l
THE NEW IMPERIAL WAR LOAN
Oversubscribed twenty times is nothing’ to the success of
KHAKI BLEND TEA J
*AND TUB
CONTINGENT CANTEENS.
These are oversold in every town in N.S.W. Orders are
waiting on every hand. We are working overtime to keep
pace with the UNPRECEDENTED DEMAND, and ask
the indulgence of customers for slight delays.
Granuma and Billy Tea
Still to the front, like true Australians.
JAMES INCLI3 & CO. LIMITED,
MERCHANTS, MILLERS, AND MANUFACTURERS,
Sydney, Brisbane and Hobart.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLT€R BRAPLCy # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bbadlet & Co., 324 George-st
c
I
SKILFULLY FITTED SPECTACLES.
All Sights. All Prices. Send for Sight Tester, “Free.”
Field and Opera Glasses, Telescopes, Microscopes, Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers, Hydrometers, Levels. ComDasses. Rain Gantry Wind
Gauges, Ear Trumpets. Prescription Orders skilfully fitted. SIGHT TESTED FREE. “ eS>
Geo. C. Pen boss, 119 Pitt-street
(
between Hekald \
and G.P.O. /j
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Seppy ” Burt, member for Ashburton
W.A.) —Ashburton is the place where there is a
member for 54 electors—having resigned, the Pre-
mier’s little brother, David, is standing. John
Forrest, Alexander Forrest, David Forrest—how
long, O Lord, how long ?
Query : Did not the British Government
receive copies of the Federal Constitution as soon
as it was drafted and before it was submitted to
the popular vote ? If it didn’t, why didn’t it ?
And if it did, why didn’t it lodge its objection to
the Court of Appeal clauses earlier ?
The radical remedy for the filthy condition
of Sydney, for the typical landlord’s cold-blooded
indifference to the demands of sanitation if he can
thereby make money, is to give every man and
woman in the community one vote and no more,
ao matter how much money they have or haven’t.
Life, not Property, is to be considered first.
Prom the latest report of Maoriland State
Land Bank:
We have issued loans to the number of over 7000 to
settlers, representing two millions of money, and we have
not lost one shilling. On 31st March the Advances to
Settlers Department paid to the Treasury £30,000 —the
half-year’s interest —without any assistance from the
Consolidated Fund, and we have a considerable balance
wherewith to start an assurance fund. There is not one
penny either for principal or interest uncollected.
London Times sentiment, fatuously sup-
ported by Fat papers in Australia :
It states that in some circumstances a federal Court of
Appeal would be the worst tribunal for the decision of
constitutional appeals on account of the local influence
chat would be brought to bear upon it.
What escape has England from the danger of
“local influences”? Does she allow appeal to
American or Russian courts? Yet that is her
only means of dodging the baleful “local influ-
ences.
Westralia is full of sinister rumors to the
effect that Government employes who signed the
Goldfields Separation petition will shortly begin
go get the wholesale and retail sack —not because
they signed it, but for having made a blot on an
important Government document three years ago,
or for disloyalty in not approving of England’s
action in besieging Calais in the 14th century.
Gov. Smith’s action in leaving the petition behind
for the signatures to be overhauled by the Big-
]ohn Ministry was a rude shock.
It is interesting to read that 400 of the
residents of dirty, foul, smellful Chinaman-haunted
Wexford-street (Sydney)—the place which is now
closed up and being cleaned by the strong arm
of the law—protested because they didn’t get
the cleaning contract themselves. It is just be-
cause they don’t know anything of the rudiments
of cleanliness that Wexford-street is closed.
Evidently, Wexford-street has no sense of humor.
It wants to be paid for washing itself. And, by
the way, its protest was listened to and it is being
paid for washing itself.
Another * v eird yell from Brisbane Tele-
graph :
Anti-billites who in Queensland were in such a pro-
nounced majority if we except some northern miners who
belong not to us but to Victoria, &c.,
The struggles of the poor, broken-backed little
paper to deny the existence of the 7492 Federal
majority, and to swear away the fact that the
Federalists won in three out of the four divisions
of Queensland, were amusing once. Now they
begin to sound like the monotonous cry of a
maniac with a limited vocabulary.
N.S.W. Postmaster - General Crick took
the trouble last week to give the press over a
column of defence of his attitude regarding the
Pacific cable, which chiefly served to show his
ignorance of the whole matter. As Joe Cook sub-
sequently pointed out, Crick’s triumphant exposi-
tion of the blessings which N.S. Wales will earn
by preserving the Eastern Extension monopoly
intact was founded on the idea that the reduction-
bait depended on the both-ways traffic, instead of
the from-Australia traffic only. And when a so-
called ‘ ‘ responsible Minister ” backs his partiality
with blunders like that, the need of referring the.
whole question to Parliament is more obvious than
ever.
Between March 17 and 24 there were 37
accidents in Australasian mines and 16 men were
killed —all reported in the daily papers. As
miners’ risks continue every day from J an. 1 to
Dec. 81 of every year, the soldier’s billet is safe by
comparison—in fact, most soldiers never face
danger at all. Yet the very people and papers
that whoop loudest now about the necessity of
providing for injured soldiers' and soldiers’"families
were chiefly instrumental a few years ago in
crushing those unions whose chief purpose,. well
executed, was to provide for injured miners and
miners’ widows. • • ~
Purves, Q.C., is assiduously
working the ‘ ‘ patriotic ” racket. When
the trouble occasioned by the juvenile
larrikins who tore down a German flag
at Bendigo first appeared in print,
James made a clamorous, request to be
permitted to defend them gratis. He
did defend them, and attitudinised for
a time with expanded nostrils and
swollen breast as a defender of the
faithful and a little special tin provi-
dence for patriots. “Gundagai’s”
sudden devotion to British interests
looks like an attempt to assert his
right to pose as an upholder of Aus-
tralian principles in tne Federal Par-
liament. But despite Purves’s new-
found Jingoism, indications go to
show—well, the same letters that
spell vote also spell veto.
Another aspect of the export of
Australian troops to South Africa:—
Dear Bulletin,— Writer is personally ac-
quainted with about a score of our con-
tingenters, who have gone to S. Africa with
the intention of settling after the war, and
is thinking of the rod-in-pickle they will be
when they do settle. To a man they are
irreconcilables, and when peace is proclaimed
and they are let loose among the many
“ loots ” who are working S. Africa, the real
war will only begin. They will strike,
organise unions, propagandize, agitate,
foment political strife and unrest, and they
won’t leave S. Africa till one-man-one-vote,
socialism-in-our-time and several other great
reforms seem likely of consummation. Then
they will probably hie them to Patagonia or
some other land where political reform is
only in its infancy. But, meantime, they
and their order will more effectually cripple
and hobble the hordes of boodlers who are
at present looting S. Africa than ever Kruger
or Steyn or the Africander Bond could hope
to. And knowing this the humble under-
signed is about the most pleased man in
Christendom. J. S.
People who are quite sure that
Protectionist duties must increase the
cost of production ought to explain why at present
one Castlemaine (Vic.) foundry should have the
contracts for building two big plants for two
N.S.W. mines (Chesney Cobar and Lloyd’s), be-
sides one Westralian (Burbank’s), and one Queens-
land (Venus, C. Towers).
Sometime ago a half-hearted enquiry was
made as to why the N.S.W. Govt, didn’t resume
the infected areas in Sussex-street, Sydney, and
all along the water-frontage, and own and build
new wharves and generally fix things up. Why,
indeed? Apparently for want of the necessary
statesmanship. And yet, in far-away Macao; a
small, _miserable, broken-down, bankrupt colony
of thrice-bankrupt Portugal, when the plague
broke out the despised Dago administration re-
sumed whole villages, burned them down, carted
away the debris, quickly rebuilt them on improved
lines, stamped out the plague, and sent the people
back to tlieir new homes in a very few weeks.
Mayor Harris might do a lot worse than send for
some pf those Macao Dago officials and then per-
suade the whole Council to retire in their favor.
WISE RESERVE.
DOMAIN FAIRY: “If your girl ’as disappointed
yep, young feller, I will allow yer to escort me
through the park—so long as yer don’t get too
spoony.”
J. H. Carruthers, ex-Treasurer of N.S.W.,
says, in a letter to the Times, that the.rejection of
the appeal clauses in the Commonwealth Bill will
not offend Australia (whence comes attorney C.’s
right to speak for Australia ?), and considers that
the alteration “ will not delay Federation by one
hour.” So Carruthers allows 59minutes for
getting the amendments through five. Parliaments,
and possibly (if the Parliaments regard it as neces-
sary) taking five more Referendums.
WITH THE IMPRESSIONISTS.
SMUDGY : "There you are I Same subject, different man—
different result.”
STODGY: “ Entirely. Pm not surprised at people buying
their photographs !”
George Throssell, Westralian Lands
Minister:—
The three factors which have spoilt land settlement in
Westralia are : Firstly, syndicate railways ; secondly,
timber concessions, such as the one of 250,000 acres of
land for which I am constantly receiving applications,
not one of which the company will let me grant; and,
thirdly, poison leases, which under the older land regula-
tions have been much too easily acquired.
Every province finds out sooner or later that big
estates and land-grant syndicate railways are a
curse. But very few of them find it out in time.
It is stated in some of the Westralian
goldfields papers that if the attempt to get the
goldfields established as a new self-governing pro-
vince fails, the next demand will be that the
British Govt, shall take them over as a Crown
colony. If this supreme piece of foolishness is
attempted and succeeds, the complete Federation
of Australia will be further off than it is now.
A Crown colony can’t well be a part of a self-
governing Federation, and the final union of
Australia would probably have to hang up till it
had slowly and wearily evolved into a self-govern-
ing State again. And, if the gold-reefs gave out
it might not do that in 100 years.
Henry Copeland sticks to his theory that
the Federal city should be built high up on cold
Monaro, so that the million or two of population
that will necessarily gather round it will
not be the tired, discouraged leaners-
against-things that grow down on the
steaming coast-lands. And Copeland,
apart from his absurd Jingoism, is a
man of sense. But he doesn’t go far
enough. The city should be built on a
Federal territory of at least 5000 square
miles, over every inch of which the
Federal Government should be the
sole and perpetual ground-landlord as
well as sovereign, so that it would grab
the unearned increment for the people.
The opportunity of founding a great
city on pure Land Nationalisation
principles comes once in 1000 years or
more, and not lways athen, so it isn’t
one to be lightly wasted.
Compulsory arbitration, revolu-
tionary as the phrase sounds, will cer-
tainly pass N.S.W. Leg. Assembly if in-
troduced, as promised, by the Lyne Govt,
next session. Three out of every five mem-
bers lately canvassed on the subject favored
such a measure, reserving the right to reject
details. The Reid Ministry was substantially
for a compulsory Bill, and two years ago Jacob
Garrard took the measure into his charge, but
fear of the Upper House blocked the way. Ten
years ago no Australian Assembly could have
mustered a dozen votes in support of such a law.
S.A. and Westralia have decided to close
with the Eastern Extension Co.’s offer re a cable
to the Cape of Good Hope in preference to a
State-owned Pacific cable. S.A. is particularly
enthusiastic, but it has always been a good friend
to the cable monopoly. All the cable business
passes over the S.A. transcontinental line and
brings grist to the S.A. mill, and the new cable
will also land in the west, and bring more grist to
the Westralian and S.A. land-lines. S.A. and
Westralia can’t afford to take an unbiassed view of
the Pacific cable. But as they have decided to
close with the Cape cable scheme regardless of the
Eastern provinces they can’t complain if the
Eastern provinces close with the Pacific cable
scheme regardless of them.
Melb. City Council has made up its Jingo
alleged mind to accept a British tender of £22,000
for electric-lighting plant, although a German
firm offers to do the work for £5OOO less. “The
patriotic spirit engendered since the opening of
the war should lead to the acceptance of the goods
of our own people,” say the generous City Fathers.
These noble Imperialists are nearly all freetraders,
by the way, and men who vet up and shriek
about the God-ordained law of Supply and Demand
when there is a movement to favor a local tender
as against an outside one, “ at the expense of the
taxpayer.”
Many N.S.W. public servants who had
increases granted them on paper at Ist July, 1898,
are still waiting for the money. In most cases the
increases began to take actual cash form on Ist
July, 1899, but the amount of the increase from
July, ’9B, to July, ’99, is still unpaid. And this
is well on in 1900. Does it become the dignity of
the State to act like a little bankrupt cocky who
is trying to do the storekeeper out of his brown-
sugar account ? The average small civil servant,
when he was promised that rise two years ago,
promptly ordered a cheap new tweed suit on tire
strength of it, and has been repenting ever since.
It is suggested by his enemies that the
legal difficulties discovered by the British law-
office officials in the Commonwealth Bill were
carefully emphasised by Arch-destroying Angel
“Jack” Want, on his recent trip to England,
Egypt, and other places. By-the-way, these are
the same law-officers of the Crown who took upon
themselves to reduce the Costa Rica Packet claim
from £25,000 to £2500; but after the energetic
campaign of pugnacious Dr. Creed, the matter
was submitted to arbitration, and the arbitrator
appointed by the Emperor of Russia awarded the
captain, owners and crew .£ll,OOO and interest.
Melb. Age on the brainpower of the Vie.
Legislature : “ Let anyone strike off the members’
roll the names of the 25 men most likely to be
promoted to the severer air of Federal politics, and
then see how their absence will lower the average
capacity and intelligence of the remainder.” But,
after all, the 25 most prominent politicians—the
ones who are going away—only consist of three or
four men of some intellect and about 22 rather
brilliant and persistent talkers. And there are
probably 22 other talkers available who have only
failed to come to the front because the 22 talkers
who got there first had possession of the “ flure.”
N.S.W. Premier Lyne has undoubtedly
made a name for himself by the strong measures
he has taken re the cleaning of plague-stricken
Sydney. He hasn’t said any of the funny things
about the disease that Reid might have done if he
had been Premier, but in his tall, gloomy, wooden
way he has tackled the subject in dead earnest.
Of course, if the plague spreads furiously Lyne,
instead of being the strong man who cleaned up,
may yet be regarded as the pitiably weak man who
didn’t altogether destroy the infected slums and
wharves, and completely rebuild those parts of the
city; but he is the strong man for the time being.
The American correspondent of Melb.
Argus lately gave proof of the utter unreliable-
ness of the cable-messages about American hap-
penings, and especially American opinions, re-
ceived by Australian papers—through English
channels, of course. In the States only a stray
fanatic here and there, the cable conveyed,
didn’t whoop with England over the war-business ;
yet this correspondent mentions and deplores that
the Democratic party is “essentially anti-British,”
that Bryan’s vehement opposition to Britain’s
policy has helped to end the opposition of the
more-Conservative gold-standard party, and that
the M’Kinley crowd will have to go carefully or it
will go down. Bryan himself went so far lately
as to make a public prayer that the British should
never reach Ladysmith !
One cause of the various muddles the
N.S.W. Govt, departments manage to get into is
due in some measure to the way they are con-
trolled Ministerially. Thus J. Ashburton Thomp-
son, M.D., President of the Board of Health, and
his staff are under the Col. Treasurer, while Dr.
Ashburton Thompson, Chief Medical Officer and
Medical Adviser to the Govt., and his officers are
under the Chief-Secretary. Also, in dealing with
the juvenile dependants on the State, the Minister-
for Public Instruction deals with the Boys’ Re-
formatory and Sobraon, whereas the Minister for
Justice controls the Industrial Schools for girls,
and most of the State children are managed by the
Chief-Secretary. An outcome of this last state of
affairs is that a child of tender years is often com-
mitted by a country bench to the wrong depart-
ment. Recently a little mite of four was sent to
the Sobraon as he was “destitute and friendless.”
He remained there a few weeks before he was
handed over to the particular institution suitable
for him. His commitment papers and warrant-
sheet gravely set forth that his general character
was good and his previous convictions nil.


á
TYFEWBIXi
UNEQUALED FOR
BEAUTFULWORK*S-
J PERFECT ALIGNMENT-
Staa/dard full /furboard.
BUSINESS GUNS AT THE FRONT.
Joubert, the Boer commander, carries a Yost Typewriter about with him in his ’bus. He would
never have got his army into its present mess if he had remembered that—“ Beneath the rule of
men entirely great, the Yost is mightier than the sword.”
“ Put up the sword, States can be ruled without it.”
OUR TYPEWRITERS;
The flew Century, yost m jjensmore
Are all well represented at the front. They are found to be business guns of sure and
splendid efficiency.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Btreet, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane : Webster & Co.; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston: Iledley Button; Hobart: Walch & Sons;
Hew Zealand : J. H. Colwili, Auckland ; and at Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
TAE ME SAIIK OF IOSTEIEU ETD-
Head Office : Melbourne, Victoria.
TWENTY-FOURTH REPORT
PRESENTED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING.. ON 27th APRIL, 1900.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of Accounts
to 31st March, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £5414 16s. 4d. brought from last half-year) amount to .. .. •.. £11,258 1 0
out of which it is proposed—
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum .. •» ~ ..£3,000 0 0 ---
To transfer to the Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. •» •• 5,000 0 0
£B,ooo 0 0
And to carry forward the balance • • • ■ £3,208 16
The Directors are pleased to be able to recommend an increased Dividend, which they consider fully warranted by
the position of the Profit and Loss Account and the sound, healthy and progressive nature of the Bank’s business ;
they have the njore confidence in making this recommendation that it does not in any way interfere with the building
up of a Reserve Fund which will improve the status of the Institution, and give increased confidence to depositors.
While the Directors give the closest attention to the Bank’s interests, they would point out that it rests largely
with the Shareholders themselves to help forward the business by introducing deposits and desirable advance
accounts, and they trust that the good service done in this way in the past by many Shareholders will stimulate
others to assist as may be in their power. By Order of the Board, H. T. WILSON, Manager.
Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
BALANCE SHEET.
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
FOR THE HALF YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1900.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 Shares of £4 each £2,400,000 0 0
Capital Subscribed—
First Issue of 150,000
Shares £600,000 0 0
Capital paid up .. .. £150,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 5,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account 11,258 1 6
£166,258 1 6
Notes in circulation 6,384 0 0
Bills in circulation 41,441 6 6
Government deposits .. ..Nil.
Other Deposits—
Not bearing-interest.. £114,381 8 1
Bearing interest .. 249,157 0 4
363,538 8 6
Interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current .. .. .. 2,955 1 1
£580,576 16 6
Contingent liabilities as per contra ..£119,482 0 0
ASSETS. Ca.
By coined gold and silver and
other coined metal .. £44,821 19 3
Notes and bills of other
banks and stamps .. 1,459 15 8
Balances due from other
banks .. .. .. 3,612 4 11
Cash at bankers .. 75,602 18 9
Bank furniture, fittings, stationery, &c.,
at cost, less £507 written off for depre-
ciation
Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises Nil.
Other real estate, at cost to bank after
writing off £11,065 for depreciation..
Advances, exclusive of provision for bad
and doubtful debts
Bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included above, exclu-
sive of provision for bad and doubtful
debts.. 71,247 10
£125,496 18 7
505 0 0
- c
16,400 6 0
367,927 1 7
£580,576 16 6
Liabilities and securities of customer and
others in respect of contingent liabili-
ties, as per contra.. .. .. ..£119,482 0 0
Profit and Loss Account.
To Salaries, rent and other charges.. £2,818 16 8
Balance M M M 11,258 1 6
£14,076 18 2
By Balance at 30th September, 1899 .. £7,664 16 4
Less dividend declared 27th October, 1899 2,250 0 0
Balance carried down £5,414 16 4
Troflts for the half year, after deducting
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts .. .. .. 8,662 1 10
£14,076 18 2
Reserve Fund A ccount.
To Balance £5OOO 0 0| By Balance .. £5OOO 0 0
£5OOO 0 0 j £5OOO 0 0
We, FREDERICK SHEPPARD GRIMWADE, of Melbourne, and CHARLES CAMPBELL, of Melbourne, being
two of the directors of The Royal Bank of Australia Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the above state-
ment is correct.
Dated at Melbourne this sth day of April, 1900.
Witness : A. ADAMSON LAING.
F. S. GRIMWADE
CHARLES CAMPBELL
Directors.
The Story
of a
Remarkable
Ride ”
Contains an interesting account of
Arthur Richardson’s cycle ride
Around the
Australian Continent,
One Big
Advantage
. . in riding . .
MULTIPLEX
Duniqp Tyres
is that the Dunlon cover is lined with
our Patent Flexifort Fabric, a mate-
rial that combines, the softness of silk
with the strength of the stoutest can-
vas, thus enabling us to turn out a
tyre that surpasses all others for
Speed, Comfort, & Durability.
Facsimile of Dunlop Flexifort Fabric.
No other tyro manufactured can use this fabric, as we hold the sole patent rights-one
reason why “ Dunlops ” are superior to all others.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.
and cyclists will find the Booklet
extremely interesting; the story
of Richardson’s adventures and
hardships affording the most en-
tertaining reading.
Copies will be Posted Gratis
upon receipt of
application at
150 Clarence Street, Sydney,
or any of the above Depdts.
At Poverty Point.
Charles Kenningham, after filling a 4-mghts engage-
ment in New York in a piece called “ The Regatta Girl,
resisted further American managerial blandishments, and
returns to Australia to rejoin the re-organised comic
opera eo. Found N.Y. winter blizzards very trying for
tenors.
Obit. On Good Friday, aged 86, Andrew Torning, an
old Sydney Thespian and Fire Brigade identity of the
long ago. His wife, Madame Torning, was a popular
danseuse in her day.
Charles Arnold covered Melbourne with placards bearing
the inscription “ What Happened to Jones,” on the very
day when Jones, of Broad ford, was hanged. And Mel-
bourne gazed on these bills with bewilderment, and asked
if the rope had broken, or what.
Have you heard that story about the occasion on which
George Rignold paid his respects to Harry Rickards in a
private box? You’ll never see it in print, anyhow.
Just before poor Nat Douglas died, Walter Rivers called
at Dunedin (M.L.) hospital to see him. Asked jf there
was anything he fancied, the dying actor whispered,
“ Yes—a clean shirt. This one has the D. 11. brand on it.”
He didn’t want to die in a hospital-marked garment.
Rivers rushed off and bought a new shirt, but when he
returned Nat was gone.
There is talk of Johnnie Sheridan becoming a per-
manent institution in Australia : somebody or bodies are
going to build a special theatre for him in Melbourne.
Whether or not there is room for the theatrical managers
now threatening Australia, there is certainly not standing
space for the promised theatres.
J. L. Sheridan, having no one handy to play a boy-part
with his present co., pressed a youthful usher into the
service of the M use, and the youngster does remarkably
well After all, about two-thirds of the dramatic art is
cheek, and most young Australians start with a magnifi-
cent equipment for the profession.
Extract from an R. S. Smythe letter to the Dunedin
press re Rev. Charles Clark’s lecture season “Tourists
always grow enthusiastic over the picturesqueness of
this city ; but to me an equally remarkable characteristic
is the large number of quietly-dressed girls whom one
sees either singly or in couples at evening entertainments.
It having been represented to me that these buds and
blossoms of humanity would not find themselves pleas-
antly placed, all blooming alone, in the pit of a theatre, I
should feel obliged if you would allow me to draw special
attention to an advt. stating that young ladies going to
the Princess’s Theatre without male escort can obtain
tickets for the stalls at half-price.” What a temptation
for the “ quietly-dressed blooming buds ” and neglected
spinster “ blossoms” 1 Smythe will put the Chaste bri-
gade close up to the delightful parson at half-price.
At a recent Big Scrub patter-rottic concert a daring
amateur, dressed as Tommy Atkins, sang “ Hiding in an
Ammunition Van.” The audience promptly rose upon
the miscreant, who had to fly for his life from a locality
where even the curlews nightly wail “ Soldiers of the
Queen.”
Miss Lilian Wheeler’s brother was in Ladysmith during
the siege. He is one of the Imperial Light Horsemen,
and Macdonald (of the Argus) refers to him admiringly as
“ a young giant of 6ft. 4in.”
Among the applicants for the librarianship of Mudgee
(N.S.W.) School of Arts was an actor, who, however, for-
warded no testimonials, “as my name is sufficient. I
would suggest, however, to the committee,” he added,
“ the increased financial gain that would follow my en-
gagement.” The committee didn’t jump at the inferen-
tially magnificent opportunity.
It is less than three months since Composer Sullivan's
setting of “ The Absent-minded Beggar ” reached Aus-
tralia, and the public have already become nauseated with
it. Where, of yore—it seems but yesterday—the daily
press had many references to a Mr. Abrahams or a Miss
Kafoos singing the “ A.M.8.” amidst a shower of coins—
happily for our reputation as a musical nation the slangy
balderdash is, with its jingle melody, “ as dead as Julius
Caesar.”
Adelaide Theatre Royal proprietors are advertising for
a new lessee, present lease expiring in Sept. next.
Wybert Reeve goes into retirement after many managerial
vicissitudes in the city of churches.
The new Sydney Tivoli is claimed as a record in th 'atre-
building—it was put up in 20 weeks. The next-best
world’s for a theatre of the same kind and cost is
32 weeks.
One of cm.' most recent parts played by the widowed
Mrs. Patrick Campbell—her husband, it is cabled, has
been killed in the Boer war—was that of Vera, in Gilbert
Murray’s play, “Oarlyon Sahib.” She was Carlyon’s
daughter. He was an “ Empire-builder,” and he delibe-
rately stirred up a war with an Indian tribe, so that he
might conquer them and steal their country in the name
of Great Britain and civilisation. There was no bogus
question of a franchise in that case, so Carlyon said he
poisoned their wells with cholera-germs : “ I did it to
make the Bhojalis rebel, and then to crush them. . . .
All fell out exactly as I meant. And they struck when
they were weak and I was strong.” Now the actress who
played the leading woman’s part in that play is widowed
because her husband fought for Rhodes Sahib. Campbell
either couldn’t have seen his wife in Murray’s play or he
must have been a poor hand at applying a moral.
London Daily Mail says that “Kangaroo Charlie”
Armstrong has got a Texas divorce from Melba on the
ground of desertion.
At the time when the New York police stopped the per-
formance of Olga Nethersole’s “ Sapho,” pending a judicial
decision as to its moral character, the advance sale of
seats amounted to £12,000.
Patriotic songs at the London ’alls have undergone many
changes of front since the war started. At first they
were all cocksure of a speedy Boer collapse : then they
began to confine themselves to assertions of Tommy
Atkins’s valor, without special reference to the “down-
ing” of Kruger, and at latest dates the ditties seemed -
rather apologetic than otherwise. The refrain of one of
them was “ Wait a week or two.”
An educated horse known as “ Mr. Goodnight ” is a
London excitement just now. This equine gentleman
wears an evening-dress suit and a “ biled shirt.” His
chief performance consists in going to bed. He brings in
his own bedstead and bed, then lights his candle, takes a
perfunctory look at the evening paper, drops it with a
yawn, undresses himself, and turns in. But he doesn’t
sleep well, and as he lashes out, and turns over, and hauls
at the bed-clothes, and sticks an occasional irritated hoof
out of the sheets, he is very human
The late Grattan Riggs was once playing in an Irish
melodrama the part of a prisoner who, having just broken
out of gaol, is shot dead by the sentry ; but the musket
missed fire. The resourceful comedian was nonplussed for
a second. Then he exclaimed '• “ Great Heavens 11 ve
swallowed the Die ! ” and fell flat on his back.
« F.R.”: The author of “ The Physician ” cleverly shows
how, through his temporary intemperances, a man loses a
good girl. So far, Derrink’s a curse. But he also shows
that if there had been none of those periodical ran-tans,
said g.g. would have married the brilliant young orator
much earlier in the play, and afterwards learned the love-
story and betrayal of the one-time village beauty. That
is, through the same old curse the sweet girl is saved from
a blackguard-husband and collars the best man in the
crowd. Now, which
The ditty now all the rage with Yankee song-and-prance
artistes opens up a wide field of theological speculation.
A sample...
“ Now I lay me down to sleep
Within my little bed ;
If I should die before I wake
How shall I know I’m dead ? “
Perhaps by the sudden increase of temperature 1
Another proof of the productiveness of
Albury district. A local paper:—
Mr. A. S. Body wishes us to notify that on Sunday
morning last he received a letter from his brother William,
of Ooppabella, N.S.W-> informing him that his wife was
safely delivered of a son —both doing well —and that this
is the nineteenth child Mrs. Wm. Body has given birth to.
Mr. Wm. Body was married before, and is the father of
20 children, of which 15 remain, and five have passed
into the unseen. Mrs. Wm. Body is 48 years of age, and
is the grandmother of many children. •
At least two members of the Lyne Cabinet
are strongly in favor of criminally indicting
several influential Sydney city landlords for main-
taining nuisances on neglected and filthy premises,
let at high rates—with a view of having the
offenders sent to gaol and put into prison-clothes,
for the sake of much-needed example. The land-
lord who, for the sake of gain, allows a family to
cook in a cellar where there is also a cesspit in
use ; or he who builds rooms round an open cesspit
and lets them to Chinamen to sleep and store
vegetables in ; or the scoundrel who lets premises
wherein there is absolutely no sanitary accom-
modation, and the sewage of the occupants is
deposited beneath the floor, is surely a thousand
times greater criminal than he who burgles a safe,
or, when drunk or enraged, breaks a fellow-
citizen’s skull.
A large number of merchants, shop-
keepers and engineering firms of Erskine-street,
Sydney, in congress assembled, have determined
to trouble N.S.W. for compensation for loss of
business during the recent quarantine imposed on
that quarter. Quite right. Let the Govt, pay
compensation, and liberal compensation at that,
and then levy a special tax on the landlords who
elect and control the Council that allowed such
filth to accumulate in the Bubonic ward, also on
the filthy tenants who were equally responsible.
The business man whose premises were clean
should get his compensation in full. The rest
should get the balance after serving their sentences
in gaol and deduction of their share of the clean-
ing expenses, where there is a balance. Where
the cleaning expenses are more than the compen-
sation due a nice, clean, well-disinfected bailiff
should be put in.
The enquiry by Melb. Marine Court into
the cause of the Glenelg disaster promised to be
perfunctory and valueless. On the first day not a
single question was put to the survivor Lamb, a
sailor, as to the inconsistencies in his narrative ;
his evidence—that the rest of the crew and
passengers stood on the bridge in dignified silence
making no request to be taken into the lifeboat—
was received without comment. The Marine
Board and the owners were represented by coun-
sel, and it was not until a newspaper had pointed
out the desirability of the public being similarly
represented that on the second day the court
livened up a bit ; and on the third day counsel for
the widow of the engineer of the Glenelg ap-
peared and secured an adjournment to prepare his
case. The other two survivors—the cook and the
second steward —have also been examined without
any new light being thrown on the subject, but
they will doubtless be recalled. In calamities of
this kind the most searching investigation ought
to be made, and the public are entitled to know if
there is any truth in the rumor that the Glenelg,
when in the Tasmanian trade, was condemned by
the authorities there.
Before coming to S. Australia as Senior
Hospital Physician in the doctors’-strike time, Dr.
Ramsay Smith (he was in Sydney t’other day at the
Plague Conference) had been a teacher of English
and science and music, a practising physician and
surgeon, a University lecturer, a law student, a
city health officer, and a journalist; already in
S.A. he has become, in addition to Hospital
ghysician, president of the Board of Health, City
oroner, and surgeon-captain. And. now Adelaide
has been staggered to find him recommended by
the officer commanding the Artillery Brigade to
the command of A Battery. Though not qualified,
the doctor, whose whole life has been spent in a
rush to pass something else, intimates that he will
be glad to submit himself for examination at once.
The Adelaide papers have since set up a para-
graph announcing that Dr. Ramsay Smith has
been appointed commander of the S. Australian
navy, succeeding Capt. Creswell, who goes to
Queensland ; but they haven’t been authorised to
use it yet.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Cs*
&
a
IK
isr.s,-w.
Iflont depiete |.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEKEAGH ST.,
‘ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal .and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 Greorge Street ( £acir,^Brid^e st ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. Finp. Inabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e»c.
W. M'MHjLAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. CIiYNE ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. YV
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting gompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and >
-*-V Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGEItS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi)doo & LaocaSbire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
, Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of ||orth Qieenslosid
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Oil arker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& 00. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
. STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security 7 to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manageh.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability. -
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors: *
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. CV J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,056.
Policies issued, 79,765 assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— equitably distributed.
Head Office : , -
419 iSt 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., April 21, 1 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 28, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, April 21, 12 Noon.
Burvvah, Tuesday, April 24, 5 p.in.
Peregrine, Sat., April 28, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, April 21, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., April 28, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT /
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lftw o' Gowne, from Towiwville
"O' lily. (’asaenirtis and Garyo
JmoUwt through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eaeharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb* Trustees, CxecCitorS,
AND
Agcocy Coippaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED.. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
- and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... 16,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. IVJ. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
BAtIK OF NEW ZEALAND.
ON and AFTER TUESDAY, 17th APRIL
instant the Business of the Sydney Branch
of the above Bank will be conducted in the
Equitable Building,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-THE— -
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4.500.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12/’991 £3.163,938 10 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. IL Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hen N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office; Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 Binhopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GIIOUGII STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Auslralia, and in Brisbane.
Tenters.
Electric lighting plant.
. Borough of Lamhton, N.S.W.
FOR SALE by Tender, closing NOON 30th Inst, at
It. G. Watkins & Coy’s Office,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Usual io per cent. Deposit. The Plant consists of
2 20 H.P. High Pressure Tubular Boilers
2 20 H.P. Compound Horizontal Engines
2 Thomson & Houstons Alternators and Exciters.
Switch Board, Transformers, Lamps and Fittings, com-
prising a Complete Electric Lighting Outfit.
• @
By Order of the Mortgagees,
R. G. Watkins # Co.,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
From whom all Particulars may be Obtained.
HAYING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring 1 Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai'boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail First Week in May.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, MEDIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
• (A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer. Tons.
Leave
S.vdnej
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland,
MARIPOSA
MOAN A
ALAMEDA
3158 I May
4000 June
3158 July
9 May
6 June
4 July
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
June 1
June 29
July 27
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other inf uination, apply Union Sleam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING! . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P£RCy PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-,ST.?
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS •PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
'
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. B€NJAmTn~ ai)d SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-, Melbourne-
NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION.
A RECORD.—We sold
5000 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14kt. GOLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Payment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED; FULL-
m
l
as
Ya
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT, SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong and
reliable, same as used oil the railways of Great Britain.
Gent’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect little gem.
They give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money [is
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on, receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
„ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(L-IMITI3D).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AND FROM —
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian ani> Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And-GULF PORTS
FSPERANCE BAY V
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports^
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
April 20.
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Tuesday, April 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
April 20.
Best <£• Cheapest, lioiite to Goldfields,
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IM. Goy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sj'dney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL POUTS -Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passetif/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to LI 10.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TIIELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
fjuddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO
MELBOURNE, lIORART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cirrent Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. ITns j Commander. jLeave Sydney.
"'GUTHRIE ... 2600 W. G. M'Arthur ...[April 21
AUSTRALIAN .. 1 3000 P. T. Helms ... April 28
EASTERN ... 3600 W. Ellis June 16
AIRLIE ... .. 12500 St. John George . 'July 12
* Not calling at Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney,
dl‘|iiaraiS!i,|‘|acharn* go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PIIILP & (36, LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6. 00 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOLIBNE, ADE-
LAIDE,. ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including' table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at English .interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing' their inggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris god Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are. available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room. *
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.


FOB
Duck Shootmg«
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Hackham’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS-
MSB BROS. < RISC. [<«•
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Another Great Victory! Competition Silenced.
COMPLETE DEFEAT OF ALL FURNISHING GUIDES by the
FURNISHING : MADE : EASY : GUIDE
. . . Just Published by . . .
A. HALL & COMPANY.
72 Pages. m Posted Free to Parties Furnishing „ The Most Useful and Complete Guide
500 Illustrations. ■ in Town or Country. ■ ever published in Australasia.
Clear and Descriptive. Every Requisite for Complete or Part Furnishing.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
561 -4
563 J
George Street, Sydney
505
567
COUNTRY ORDERS PACKED FREE. CLOSE 1 p.m. SATURDAYS.
MOIR’S
Table-Jelly Powder
In Pint Packets. Assorted Flavours.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office-g & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
tyio/iez sctpeznAamJa
MIGHTY
m
i
( REGISTERED )
fieshly prepared from? die Famous AFi icat] KOLA NUTS
A SUSTAINING Sc
STIMULATING TONIC
WITHOUT INTOXICATION
The Greatest Pickme up & Appetiser known
It makes tjoa eat and makes you strong
•-r —» Tt cures Indigestion,
WHErf OllT Of SOp 'fife a clriqk df’lMgK"
IT SAVES DOCTORS BILLS
all Hotels a refres;|ment rooms w.™soda WatcrGV'} l^
ALL CHEMISTS 24 and 44 Ptt< Borne
'Pfl<xr-n(cxcy 337 George Si Nearly opp G Post Office;
j\SkL rori'/UPK'' Brfiß* OR BCfr?4 BlffiEß
Si PateQt Sbe
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting*
Brand; ■withstand all B.ain and Heat;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Not Irjurc the Wool;
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E. RICH & CO. LTD
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Red, and Blue. 3s 6d per en, 1 !. in. Bfl'elb. and Sydney; 3a Od P er S all - irt Brisbane
earae s
Cure
FAMOUS rtEIVEi-i-OY ZE'OUFSL
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
. HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in Ihe Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. _ .
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fust to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
(t.l M ITED),
30“37 O llla,wa,rra), sai"
s^sriDiisriErar.
SM KILTERS.
REFINERS
PRODXJCERS
or
FINE SILVER.
'
t " If
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ItLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
rcl.i.scis ol
HlCLl ; fc
nil c]a , ses of GCLB, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
T I'KICES PAID POE ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable,”
London Medical Record,
FOODfk
INFANTS
m
i
FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by »
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
, AND
THE ACED.
- -


DON’T
MISS
m
1900
MODELS
AT
SYDNEY SHOW
N.S.W. Branch :
385 GEORGE STREET (opp. Strand Arcade).
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
iQfkieoza Cotigb.
â
7(ed Jsird Qualify.
Found only on
1900 JUtodel
Red Bird;.
A high-grade bicycle must be high-grade in all parts; but how many cycles
can stand a really close inspection. Here is one point! Examine their
pedals and you will find them cheap rattle-traps riveted and pressed to-
gether. Compare them with the Red Bird pedal, with its solid steel centre
and corrugated, indestructible side plates which may be adjusted to fit the
shoe. Ours cost twice as much as other pedals to make; but cost isn't
taken into consideration in building Red Birds,
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by ... .
' Cbe Goold Bicycle Co., £td.
Factories: —
Brantford, Canada.
Hgen is - everywhere.
Australasian Branches
64 King-ST.j Sydney, Head Office i* Autthaua.
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane. Q.
Victoria-bt., Wellington, NJE.
Factories :
Brantford, Canada.
“ We have a few SECOND-HAND CYCLES,
which we are offering 1 at extremely low
prices of £2, £3, £4, £5 and £6 up.”'
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD.
Head Office—64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
At A. J.C. Autuinn meeting, finishing to-day
(Saturday), Sydney Mo has been felicitating himself upon
the almost total absence of Melbourne Mo ; plague spared
all but two or three. Ikey won’t take risks in the way of
pegging out, be they ever so remote ; he’s having too good
a time as it is, and is content to let well alone.
* * * *
Falls were frequent at Randwick last Saturday.
Lochiel-Dona 4 year-old mare, Alcestis (in Alsopp’s
stable), heavily-backed and one of the most fancied of the
Doncaster Handicap lot, fell before a furlong had been
run. Vet. Stewart found a comminuted fracture of the
humerus, the bone being broken into 20 pieces—which
necessitated the destruction of the nag. Student and
Berkeley performed the somersault act in the Hurdles.
The two Lords —Roberts and Rudolph (first favorite)came
down in the Two-year-old Maiden Stakes and Silver
Forrest followed suit in the Highweight Handicap. Rider
of Lord Roberts (Woodgate) had his collar-bone broken ;
others were uninjured. F. Kuhn was up on both
Alcestis, Lord Rudolph and Hi Hi, who fell in the
Cup. Wonder if the Tod Sloan style of riding
had anything to do with the two last-named acci-
dents? Kuhn adopts that method. Once when the
originator came down, ’Ome authorities attributed the
fall to the new-fangled notion and asserted that under the
circumstances such a happening was always likely.
.*• • •
Carbine-Orotava (imp.) syv.-old mare La Cara-
bine started favorite and gave another taste other quality,
on Easter Monday, by wanning Sydney Cup with four
lengths to the good. Her stable-chum Symmetry cut out
the going and made the pace solid all the way. Severity
seemed to own the money at the Leger, and punters were
resigned to a repetition of Saturday’s Doncaster result,
but La Carabine came right on the outside, and
moving as if she had first joined in the struggle,
had no trouble in galloping down all opposition.
Winner’s time (3min. 3Hsec.) is J-sec. slower
than the figures put up by Carbine, Wallace, Merloolas,
and Diffidence in the same event. Were the same race
run over again, the same nag would win just as easily.
La Carabine was bred by M O’Shanassy,
and sold to W. R. Wilson, her present owner, for 210 gs.
Previous to Monday’s performance A. J.C. First Nursery
Handicap, V.R.C. Stand Handicap, and last Australian
Cup were the only wins that stood to her credit. Five
Sydney Cups have now gone to Victoria—viz., Carbine
(1889 and 1890), Wallace (1896), Diffidence (1899), and La
Carabine, this year. On Monday there were 23 starters—
the biggest field in 13 years bar Lady Trenton’s year,
when 24 faced the flag.
• * * *
Callinan, who rode Citizen in A.J.C. Flying
Handicap at Randwick on Easter Monday, and whose
mount was awarded second place, declares he was beaten
out of a place. Anyone with half an eye could see that
Auld Lang Syne was only defeated in the last stride by
Yellow and Black, who, by the way, is full brother to the
once sterling two-year-old, Viscount 11.
■fc * * *
“Filbert” : The A.J.C. Plate, 3 miles, w.f.a.,
will be the big event of concluding day’s racing at Rand-
wick, Saturday, when Parthian, who will have benefited
by his scratching from Sydney Cup, should score another
win. Paul Pry is the only likely one to give the champion
three-year-old any trouble. The Vic. mare, Alix, has been
doing such good track-work since her sojourn in Sydney
that her chances must be respected for Place Handicap,
14m., or Final Handicap, l}m.
* * * *
Not generally known that Parapet is the
property of four brothers—Henry, Ernest, Arthur, and
Victor White—cousins to Mr. H. C. White (owner of Paris,
Georgic, and other good performers) and the late Hon.
James White. Her dam, Paraphrase, is a daughter of the
mighty Chester, and was presented by the latter gentle-
man to the owners of the Doncaster Handicap winner,
who is half-sister to the hurdler Parakeet, now racing in
Vic.
»;* • *
The jumping contests at N.S.W. Agricultural
Society’s Svdney Show on Saturday were interesting.
Only one hag (Barney) fell. Rider Fitzsimmons had a
close call, but, hanging on, re-mounted, and took the
next two “ leps ”in fine style. Hurdles were stiff—4ft.
6in. fixed jumps. Archie’s pace and action, and his
hunting style of taking the timber, won the judges'
favor; Mr. Roots was up. Blondin secured second
honors.
The water-jumping produced some fine work by
man and horse. The Angel won with 28ft. 2in., taking
off a long way from the brink and landing on all four
legs. Thelma came out atop last year, covering Ift. lin.
more. The record, 31ft. 2in., was made by Greygown in
*O7.
Monday saw Maher’s Venture win the final of
the Palace Hunting Contest, commenced on the previous
Wednesday. Most of the 28 entrants competed. Garvan’s
Andover and J. H. Wright’s Gladys finished a dead heat
in the High Jump, both negotiating 6ft. 2in., but failing
at 6ft. 3in. Desmond, credited with having got over
6.10 in Albury, tackled the 6.3 mark subsequently, and
cleared it nicely, after failing three times in the competi-
tion.
• * * •
The most remarkable prize-fight ever seen took
place at New York, Feb. 23. The “ Barbadoes Terror,”
chunky Joe Walcott, weighing 10st., and measuring sfi.
high, smashed, jabbed and floored Joe Ohoynski, scal-
ing 11.11, and standing sft. lOJin. in his socks, so often
and so disastrously that the referee, as an act of mercy
(which was loudly applauded), stopped the slaughter, and
declared the ebon-hued one victor. Gorilla-like Walcott
thus bounded from the light-weight, or welter division, to
the front rank of the heavy-weights in one night, and
Choynski fell from a respectable height to—well, he hasn’t
landed even yet. It seemed a shame that a little dwarfed
man like Walcott should have been able to chop to
pieces a great big, clever, plucky fellow like Choynski.
The Polish-Hebrew soon saw that he could neither upper-
cut nor over-chop, rib-roast nor jaw-punch, so a look of
peace and acquiescence stole over his face. His
action would have, ’tis said, roused thunderous applause
at a Quaker meeting. When the pair shaped up Choynski
seemed a giant and Walcott a midget. In two minutes
it was all the other way. The betting was most unusual.
At the outset Choynski was a 2 to 1 on favorite, and 5000
dols. were wagered at these odds. Then the big man’s
admirers got gay with their cash and, later, were offering
sto 1. Walcott was an aerial steam-engine from the tap
of the gong in the first round. He simply jumped high,
worked hands and feet, and as a local authority puts it,
“ landed every way from Sunday.” Ere the first 3min.
elapsed Walcott jolted the Californian, and the crowd
yelled; then he reached the jaw with a terrible right
swing, and Choynski went sprawling for 9secs. Two more
knock-down blows followed before they retired to their
comers. The negro simply acted the part of the lwill-dog
against the mastiff all through, and though Choynski shone
occasionally, he got a most unmerciful slaughtering.
Choynski is the man who was out here years ago and beat
Dooley (twice), Steve O’Donnell, and jaw-breaker Jim
Fogarty, and was in turn licked by Barrier Champion Joe
Goddard in Sydney and Melbourne—though on one
occasion he all but had Goddard “ out."
• * • *
New York witnessed a rare happening last
month. Whilom world’s champion, bantam and feather,
of a dozen years—black George Dixon—was benefited.
Terry M’Govern, who took the title from the negro
recently, handed him a cheque for 500dol. Sailor Sharkey
followed with 300, and then a whole string of successful
pugs doled out smaller sums. “ Dixey ” will probably
now open a saloon.
* • * *
“Old Timer” : Tnterprovincial bruising struggle
between Jack Oonlon (Sydney) and Joe Cullen (Melbourne),
drew a big crowd to the Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) Satur-
day night. It proved exciting enough, but as a fight was
a big disappointment. They mauled, clinched and
sprawled all the time. Both gave their poundage as 11.4,
but Conlon looked much m<sre and Cullen seemed a stone
heavier. Cullen fought foul frequently ; holding round
the neck and punching the ribs with the right was a
common dodge, and twice he had Con lon’s head in
chancery banging away with the right the while. The
crowd screeched and screamed at this, but the referee did
nothing beyond cautioning. Neither man looked too fit,
though Conlon had the more taking appearance. Both
went weak before the second 3min. expired. Conlon
could only push with his left until he had Cullen
anyhow as a result of the latter’s own futile efforts,
and then the Sydney pug jabbed the sinister mauley
on the mouth with a clatter at least a dozen
times in succession, each punch being accompanied
by a mighty “ ugh ” from hundreds of throats in
chorus. Still Cullen’s grit stood to him and he weathered
the storm though he went to the boards often, either
knocked down or tripped through one of his own black-
guard rushes. Oonlon was prone too, hut not so fre-
quently, and, as a rule, only through being roughed or
flung there. Now and again the two fell over each other
and rolled on to their backs. All this time the hall was a
veritable pandemonium of hoots and cheers. Nearing
the end of the fourth round Conlon, looking a sure
winner (for Cullen was almost dead to the world) over-
balanced and fell, rolled over, got up, squatted on his
hams like an aboriginal at a corroboree and gazed
round grinning while the referee counted him out.
It was a most palpable case of quit when the fight
seemed won, and the way the crowd received it was some-
thing to be remembered. Conlon’s name as a fighter
should be “ mud ” after this.
* • * •
“ Snowy ” Sturgeon (Q.) and Cribb (M.L.) fight
in Sydney, Friday, this week, and will draw a big house.
Sturgeon looks the right sort—determined, strong, and
hard-faced. Middleweight champion Mick Dunn tips
Snowy as a good ’un, and a likely man to stop Cribb’s
march. Burly Charlie Dunn (he of t he.perennial smile)
put up the Q. bruiser’s stake, and Dunn doesn’t back
“ mugs,” nor is his money risked merely in the interests of
the game. Writer doesn’t know the Northener, but knows
something of the other man, and expects to see his tough
frame and specially-trained jaw stand all the battering
“Snowy” may be able to give it. Herb. M‘Kell, just
back from Canada, has challenged the winner.
• * * *
“ Old Timer” : The famous black, Peter Jack-
son, came home to Sydney per Mariposa on Sunday, and
will probably stay, which is a good thing—-for through
the dearth of capable tutors Australia’s pug. prestige has
dropped a heap lately. Of all the fighters here now we
haven’t one who is a fighter as were George Dawson, Jack
Hall, Griffo, and numbers of others. Peter was met by a
few friends, and wine was opened. The cheering thou-
sands that greeted him 10 years ago when he returned
loaded with scalps and still on top had something else to
do this time. Larry Foley’s saying, “ You’ll get a lot to
go to the wedding, but how many’ll go to the funeral ? ”
fits in here. Peter has had a bitter bout with
pneumonia, and went within an ace of being knocked
out; as it was, he spent three months in hospital at Vic-
toria (8.C.). His constitution is badly broken and he has
aged in appearance considerably, but still feels confident
of pulling round. Jackson was on the road to Klondyke
with his old-time rival, Paddy Slavin, when disease
stretched him out, and the one-time Maitland (N.S.W.)
blacksmith went on alone.
* * * *
“ X.” : Marvellous how anxious the up-country
pug.—that, under ordinary circumstances, we don’t hear
of in the city from one end of the year to the other—is to
get at Cribb. Otto has no objection, but the unsophisti-
cated rural purveyor of stoush always stipulates for a bit
in hand. As a rule, he won’t bind himself to strip less
than 12st., albeit he feels confident that he’ll go at least
71b under. Cribb, who can fight at lightweight limit
(10st.), naturally kicks against giving away such a heap
of avoirdupois. M‘Coll, of Armidale, and Goode, of
Werris Creek (both in N.S.W.), are the two latest on this
racket; each put up a fiver as an earnest.
* • • *
Sydney lightweight pug, Tom Meadows, is
having a bad bout with consumption, which got hold of
him suddenly (he says) little more than a couple of
months ago. Tom went to the U.S. with Peter Jack-
son and Paddy Gorman, and did well there until Boston
produced someone to beat him (if memory serves, this
man months later died of ,a lung affection). After leaving
Yankeeland, Meadows went to London, and there taught
the game of hit and stop to all who wanted to know how ;
by-and-bye he returned to Sydney, where for several
years he has given lessons to hundreds.
• • » •
Late Yankee mail news is that Maorilander
Fitzsimmons and Sailor Sharkey have been matched to
fight in August, under the management of the club offer-
ing the best purse. Sharkey is the man Fitzsimmons
licked unmistakeably in ’Frisco a few years ago, but had
the fight given against him on a foul which never
occurred. The whole thing was afterwards proved to
have been a “job,” wherein the referee and Sharkey’s
manager participated. ,
• * * •
Lightweight top-notcher of the Australian fleet,
Wade (H.M.S. Wallaroo), had another victim (Preston,
H.M.S. Mildura) at Metrop. A.C. (Sydney), Thursday
night last. Tars and marines were plentiful among the
crowd. The go was fairly lively for two rounds, but
Preston hardly knew the A B O of the game, and ulti-
mately succumbed to the soothing influence of a jolt on
the point. Would be interesting to know how Wade un-
earths his prey, and why promoters offer any inducement
for these affairs —they rarely have anything to recommend
them. Writer’s experience is that the British tar’s fight-
ing capabilities are confined to the gun and the cutlass ;
he is—almost without exception—a poor hand with his
fists.
• * • *
May not be generally known that Dr. J. W.
Gowlland, lately from “ down under,” and now practising
in N.Q., is identical with “ Jack ” Gowlland, the crack
amateur lightweight boxer of the old White Horse gym-
nasium (Sydney) days—l 2 years ago.
* * • *
A rare old sport was Samuel Best, cut off at the
early age of about 99 in Melb. the other day. Samuel was on
his way to win the veterans’prize at the Wesleyan dinner
to people of 60 and upwards, but there was a dog-fight in
progress in one of the streets he was passing, and he
could not resist the opportunity. In his anxiety to get
to the fight, poor old Samuel tripped and fractured his
thigh, and was taken to the hospital after a kindly am-
bulance-man had waited until one of the pups was van-
quished. At the hospital the authorities thought it
advisable to restrict his excessive smoking ; but the old
man argued out the question, and as he urged that he
had never been without a smoke an hour since he was 14,
they gave him back his pipe. But even the dog-fight and
the tobacco failed to save the veteran.
* * • *
“Yarra”: The Victorian chess championship
tourney for 1900 ’ fallen through. For this the Melb.
Chess Club, whit mages the affair, has only itself to
blame. The club, which boasts exactly 38 members, puts
up in its room, away up at the top of the Athenaeum
building, a notice re the championship competition, and
the local weeklies mention the circumstance—if they don't
forget. The competition is limited to players approved
by the committee. Consequence—last year the winner
was far from being the strongest player in the province,
and this year only six entries were obtained, of whom
three were second-class men. Said committee is now
awaiting a challenge from either body of N.S.W. chessists
for the annual Q. Birthday telegraph match. If the
match comes off, it will be a piece of cool cheek to call it
interprovincial; it wall simply be an inter-club match.
The conservative policy and hoie-and-corner methods of
the Melb. crowd—which persistently refuses certain
entries for the championship, and also plays second-rate
men to the exclusion of known first-raters—are chiefly
responsible for the increasing stagnation of the royal
game. •
« « * *
The ordinary starchy, precise regatta is a dull
thing compared with the annual water variety-show at
Ngaruawahia, in Auckland (M.L.) district. Ten thousand
flocked to see the diversified Maori-Pakeha programme
t’other day. Prizes were lavish—over £l6O offered. Two
Maori war-canoe races were worth £4O each; 25 to 30
young and hoary-headed old warriors being in each boat.
Clubs of the province sent their best crews for the cockle-
shell races, and among the novelties was “ Kawhaka
Tamahine ” (chasing the bride)—a sort of water hare-and-
hounds. The beauteous maiden-was allowed a start,
and the spectacle afforded by the vast horde of excited
brown men when pursuing the fugitive was remember-
some.
• » • *
Old “Bill” Beach tripped it from Dapto to
Sydney Gun Club shoot the other day, and got a leg-in
for the Monte Carlo trophy, despite the efforts of 15
others. Subsequently, William made himself felt in
sweep-shooting, for he whacked two, atop of putting up
the optional on the big event. Living on his pile makes
no difference in Bill—he’s the same bluff, good-natured,
hardy old fellow as ever, and looks like seeing the twen-
tieth century right through. Bill isn’t a regular attendant
at Botany ; he just swoops down upon the company when
it suits him, and rarely goes back empty-handed. His
latest performance was 21 out of 23 fired at.
• * * *
Australia’s amphibious Syd. Cavill finds that
swimming for the ’Frisco Olympic Club doesn’t pay as
well as diving for a travelling provincial circus. He is
now performing in a tank close to the city of Pork.
• • • •
The obnoxious tote-bettor is now apparently
stronger numerically in M.L. than heretofore. Despite
occasional readied-up l*iocks, some of the Knights of the
Pavement, who disdain offices, are able to run their
own crocks and show picturesque bijou villas. The
futility of attempting to sweep these walking tote pests
from the wayside has long been acknowledged, and they
are now tolerated as a matter of course.
* * * *
A horsey young Maori undertook to engineer a
grey stallion in a trot for a brother brownie recently.
The race was the first on programme, and the rider
arrived rather late. Owner was absent, but he had sent
the moke. “ That your hoss over there ? ” said a grinning
Day and Martin, with a malicious twinkle in his eye,
pointing to a beast tied up with others to a fence. He
stalked to post in nick of time, won, and paid £9 odd on
the tote. Nobody suspected anything ; but it transpired
at the pah that night that the horse entered didn’t start.
Winner was a mare passed out for life at Auckland. The
brown owner had ridden her to the course, and, being
curious to know if she’d lost her pace, played a trick on
the unsuspecting rider; and the nag having an out-
rageous start he patronised the tote rather handsomely.
A new way of “ ringing in 1 ”
• * • *
East Adelaide has secured S. A. electorate cricket
premiership for second year in succession. A month ago
the club was nowhere on the list, but a run of scores by
Olem. Hill did the trick in remaining matches. A curious
anomaly is the fact that Hill does not now reside in the dis-
trict, but is eligible to still play under a new rule allowing
players to remain with their clubs despite change of
residence.
* • * •
Adelaide cricket averages shpw two champions
—Darling and Hill—at the top and the rest nowhere.
Darling made 722 for five completed innings, averaging
144, and Hill totalled 545 for four innings, average 136.
Hill, particularly, has quite regained his form of last
season. Jones heads the bowling, but he is in disgrace
for deserting his club—N. Adelaide—in a match which
affected the premiership. As “ Jonah ” gets over £2 a
week from S.A.C. A. for doing nothing much, his action
has made him unpopular.
♦ » • •
Two ex-champions at the game—Clem. Hill and
Jones—propose to again play football this winter to keep
in condition for cricket. Hill was, three years ago, the
best player of his year, and Jones, one of the finest men
turned out by South Australia, was imported from the
Barrier for the purpose.
* * * «
From balance-sheet Premier Fitzroy (Melb.)
Football Club, 1899: Long service, &c., presentation
(about four or five) photos, Premier team, £64 165.;
travelling, cab hire (not special trips), £95 10s. ; theatre
parties, £39 25.; uniform, £43 95.; refreshments, £37 55.;
credit balance, £63 12s.
* * • *
The Yankee craze, baseball, looks like staying
and developing in N.S.W., but it will never get within
coo-ee of cricket or football, though the always-present
element of danger should “fetch” Australians. Writer
remembers a prominent Vic. cricketer playing a game of
baseball some years ago, and coming out of it with the
remark : “ Well, I’m satisfied that game is only for prize-
fighters, and real toughs at that.” At annual meeting of
N.S.W. Baseball Association last Friday, a highly satis-
factory state of affairs was disclosed. There are eight
clubs in and about the metropolis, and Redfern holds the
premiership.
* • * *
Definitely announced that Stan Rowley—Aus-
tralia’s representative for the English A.A.A. Champion-
ship and the Olympian Games at Paris in July—will leave
Melbourne per Australian, April 23. He has been entered
for all events—up to and inclusive of the Quarter Mile—
in both programmes. Rowley is a native of Young,
N.S.W., and has owned the Amateur Sprint premiership
of Australasia for four years.
» * * ♦
Vic. cross-country champion of two years back
—Charlie Bennett—unearthed a soft snap at Kalgoorlie
(VV.A.) t’other day in the person of a Westralian named
Legg, and shunted amateurism by taking it on. An hour’s
go-as-you-please saw Charlie overlap his man, who turned
it up at 5 miles—thrown behind in 29mins. They hadn’t
a good track. Said that Bennett, in ’9B, got over 5 miles
round Lake Wendouree (Ballarat) in 26min. 39sec.
* • * *
Pat Behan of Toowoomba (Q.) is a strong comer
in field games. A Clare (Ireland) man 24 years of age, 6ft.
l£in. tall, 46 round chest, 16} biceps, 14 forearm, ana turns
the scale at 16.9, He has publicly thrown the heavy
hammer (181bs., with 4ft. wooden handle) 117 ft. 4in.
* • * •
Advt. from Williamstown (Melb.) local paper:—
RATS! RATS 1! RATS!!!
Now then, boys, roll up with your terriers at the
Corporation Tip in the Esplanade* at the bottom of
Giffard-street, on Saturday next, March 31st, at
9 o’clock in the morning for a jolly good rat hunt all
day.
Prize for the dog which kills the most rats, 3s. ;
second prize, 2s. ; third prize, Is.
Now don’t forget it—Saturday next—Rat Hunt at
the Esplanade Rubbish Tip. They are going to be
smoked out. —G. F. SMITH, Town Clerk.
* * * *
The bowling-men of Palmerston North (M.L.)
recently tried playing by artificial light. It was a suc-
cess, and the whole town, which hasn’t any time for the
game during daylight, turned out to witness the novel
proceedings.
* * * *\
Competition for Dunlop Tyre Co.’s track relay
struggle has closed. Conditions restricted- the event to
teams of 10 from cycling clubs—each member of them
had to carry a dispatch 10 miles, then hand it over to the
next man, and so on until 100 miles had been traversed.
Journey had to be negotiated under 4hrs. 15min., other-
wise the prizes (10 gold medals at sgs. each) would be
withheld. Sydney Australian Club (4hrs. lmin. 50 l-ssec.)
and Goulburn (N.S.W.), 4hrs. 3min 37 2-ssec., were the
fastest. Latter performance was full of merit considering
the track and the fact that therfe were no pacers. Goul-
burn kicked against Australian getting the palm, alleging
that one of the team was not a bona-fide member, but
the objection proved no good. Christchurch (M.L.) club
(4hrs. 29min. 30sec.) secured the trophies last year.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
A denial of the circumstantial cable to the
effect that Englishmen had been shot at Bloem-
fontein for refusing to serve with the Boers has at
length found its way into the Australian daily
papers. The assertion was printed under flaring
cap-heads in the dead centre of the most con-
spicuous page, but, as usual, the correction
creeps into an out-of-the-way corner, and is lost
amongst the unimportant police court items, and
the stories of the fire that broke out and the horse
that bolted.
Lord Rosebery provided a “ feast ” for
the inmates of Epsom workhouse to celebrate the
Relief of Ladysmith as he was “anxious to im-
press the event on their memories.” This plan
for stimulating Imperialism among the dead-beats
was an awful success. Whilst they were scoffing
the unprecedented vittles the master of the work-
house wired—“ Our people are really happy to-day
owing to your lordship’s kindness, and tneir happi-
ness will keep the memory of Kimberley and
Ladysmith always green.” After which the
pauper gathering sang “Britons never shall be
slaves.”
It is somewhat of a knock to local Jingoes
to read in a recent S.M. Herald that, according
to war correspondent MacDonald, the colonial
Afrikander irregulaTs used soft-nosed expansive
bullets against Joubert’s forces around Ladysmith.
Also, re the uncorroborated statement that the
Boers were using verdigris-soaked bullets: metal-
cased cartridges exposed even to the dry Australian
air will turn green in a few days; and in South
Africa, with the rainy season now on, the bando-
liers of both British and Boers must look imuch
like Hibernian lodge-sashes. But the verdigris
is confined to the brass of the cartridge-shell.
Melbourne Age wants to preserve the
appeal to the Privy Council:—
The fact that the right of appeal to the Privy Council,
which is contended for, has the sympathy of every man
in Australia who may be a suitor for justice ought to have
some weight in the controversy.
This is the sort of silliness which would disgrace
the four-page smudge that is ground out on a hand-
press in a back-blocks hamlet. Every adult in
Australia is liable to be a suitor for justice. Does
the Daily Syme seriously profess that it has inter-
viewed the whole adult population, and found that
they all want to go to tne far end of the globe for
final justice? If it hasn’t, what is it talking
about? And if the adult population isso unanimous,
how did the Constitution ever come to be accepted
by the people ?
The current Sydney Agricultural Show
makes a brave show indeed despite the only too
noticeable absence of the jaunty steps and ruddy
cheeks of the men from the country. Truly
the plague is producing victims to .'excessive
caution. Many of Sydney’s leading hotels,
usually filled to over-flowing at Easter-time,
are all but deserted. Secretary Webster,
nothing daunted, has marshalled his equines,
bovines, canines, as imposingly as usual, and
gathered in the shekels from many thousands
of eager sight-seers. The jumping is, as usual,
the chief centre of attraction, and though the
pride of Australia’s herds come even from far off
South Australia to wander round the ring bedecked
with gay ribbons, ’tis mainly to the horse that the
big fair owes its marvellous success—a splendid
and cheap outing within the reach of a great mul-
titude of holiday makers.
Dr. Hayward’s report to Adelaide Hospital
Board, unfavourably remarking on the way some
spiritual advisers exhort the sick and dying in that
institution, should be seriously studied by the
governors of every hospital in Australia. Boards
are anxious to afford patients the kind of religion
they think will do them good, but the concession
is often abused, first by the needless frequency of
the visits of the exhorters and, secondly, by the
blood-curdling views some of these exhorters set
forth. The lay, psalm-singing, red-hell, missioner
is the deadliest of this tribe. There cannot be a
doubt that he kills a percentage of all patients
whose sickbeds he visits. A man fairly well-
balanced in body and mind would suffer nervously
under the shock of the sepulchral terror-raiser, with
the white eyes and cavernous mouth, and what
must the effect be when the victim, broken in
health, is flickering between reason and unreason?
Minister Foxton, re Q. Public Service
Board :
The Public Service Board has the power of initiative,
but speaking for myself as Minister, I know I always
inform the Board of my views, and, of course, they give
effect to them or not, as they please.
If the Public Service Board were a jury of Arch-
angels then it wouldn’t matter very much whether
a Minister expressed his views or not, but inas-
much as the P.S.B. consists only of several frail
and fallible gentlemen wouldn’t it be as well, in
the interests of justice, if Ministers of the Crown
left them to come to an unbiassed decision ?


“A Little Goes a Long Way”
/
LONDON
TO
SYONE
THIS APPLIES
PARTICULARLY TO
Derbv)
Tobacco .
It smokes well.
It does not burn away or get
dry
It keeps alight without pulling
DERBY TOBACCO is all Tobacco. There is no unit of adulteration
in it. It costs a little more, but we guarantee its perfect purity
and flavor.
c\<;
&
ASK FOR DERBY.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY,
187 Pitt-street, Sydney ta 187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
Novel, Tasteful
Lucky Opal Heart Ring.
Any size. 16s. 6d.
Elegant Lucky Lace Pins, with Chain
and Bean or Heart, 7s Od. Single
Pin, ss.
and Inexpensive.
Y*V*7
Novel Racquet Brooch', with Two
Pearls, 15s ;
Single Racquet, with One Pearl, 10s 6d.
James Pain & Sons’ Imperial Royal Atlas Brand
. . . PRIZE LONDON . . .
FIREWORKS! FIREWORK 3
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 21th MAY. 45 Years before the Public QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 24th MAY.
MYERS & SOLOMON, Sole Agrente, 42 Market Street, SYDNEY. W*~ Send for Price Lief
Captain Creswell has resigned the com-
mand of S.A.’s burlesque navy to become Queens-
land commandant at a much better salary. Cres-
well came out as second officer of the Protector
when that warship was bought by the Bray Govt,
in ’B5.
Either some women are very casual or else
they are painfully sudden. A young woman
travelling from Ballarat to Linton last Saturday
evening gave birth to an infant in the train, while,
the same morning, another young matron, about
to proceed from Nathalia to Gippsland, had to
postpone the journey and seek the seclusion of a
handy cottage near the railway station in order to
produce triplets—which she did, right there, on a
perfect stranger’s premises.
A man has been sentenced to death at
Broken Hill Circuit Court by Acting-Justice
Gibson. There are but few cases on record since
the eclipse of “the System” where an acting-
justice has had a'capital case on his list. Some
years ago Acting-Justice Gateward Coleridge
Davis, at TamwOrth, sentenced to execution a man
convicted of wife-murder. That man was hanged,
and Judge Gibson holds out no hope for the
Broken Hill man.
Premier Lyne admitted to a deputation
the other day that there was something wrong
with the N.S.W. Water Conservation depart-
ment. Presumably, as a first try at reform, the
construction of works is given to the Works
department and their maintenance and control to
the Lands. This looks like a sensible arrangement.
What is most wrong, especially as to the
droughtiest parts of the province where conserva-
tion is most needed, is that nearly always the
wrong time is chosen for constructing works. As
a rule, it is only when drought comes that the
department can be got tp move ; and then it has
to pay 100 per cent, more than it would if it did
the job soon after - rain. Either that, or it is
scared by the tenders and accepts none. This is
why such works usually cost the Govt, from 50 to
150 per cent, more than exactly similar works cost
squatters or selectors in the same districts.
A short-skirted damsel of 15, under the
guardianship of her big sister, tripped into Melb.
detective office one midnight last week with a
beautiful tale, quite in the Princess Novelette
style. The short-skirted one lives with her people
—including the big sister —in North Melbourne,
and one evening recently a pleasant stranger
dropped in and introduced himself, saying that a
friend of the family, whose name he gave, had
requested him to call. He was welcomed, and
made himself so agreeable that, before leaving,
the big sister accepted an invitation to go with
him to the theatre. On the appointed night he
arrived, to find the girl away on a visit. The
stranger was not annoyed by a trifle like this,
however; he invited the younger sister to take
her place, and the invitatipn was accepted. They
went first and had tea, or supper, at a restaurant
—and here the elegant novelette comes in. The
stranger was, according to his pretty fiction,
entitled to £20,000, left by the will of an old uncle
in New Orleans; also, the same benevolent
relative had left to a young lady friend an
annuity of £2OOO, but this girl had unhappily died,
and the little Hotham girl was Wanted to person-
ate her and collect the money. With a nice
attention to detail, the stranger incidentally men-
tioned that the dead girl had possessed a baby
and a diamond ring, and a little stranger and a
ring would be wanted to complete tne resem-
blance. The two forthwith adjourned to a
jeweller’s, where the girl was measured for the
ring. Then he tried to assault her in the Exhi-
bition Gardens, but with great presence of mind
she made an engagement to be assaulted next
evening instead- Two detectives went with her
and captured the heir, and as an alleged will was
found on him, the story hangs together by a
slightly stronger shred of probability than the ave-
nge snort-skirted one’s tale of wrong.
Admiral Dewey is a likely candidate for
the American Presidency, and has some sort of
chance of being elected on the patriotic racket.
Blood before brains is the motto of patriotism.
The theory of experts as to the foundering
of the s.s. Glenelg off Lake’s Entrance, Gipps-
land, is that when on the Tas. coast some time
ago she got a kink in one of her plates through I
running aground ; then, dropping from a high |
sea into the -trough, she smashed the weakened
plate. There are strange rumors afloat about !
the improbable tale told by the three sur-
vivors. Nautical men say that it would have been
impossible for a boat to drift out of sight of land !
at that part of the 90-Mile Beach in 24 hours ; and
doubts are expressed as to whether the second
boat, which was washed ashore with the plug out,
was ever launched at all.
The first prize for Acetylene gas carriage !
lamps at the Sydney Show has been awarded to
Brandt Bros., Lamp Manufacturers, 236 Pitt-st.,
Sydney, who also received first prize for “Primus”
Kerosene Bath Heaters, which instantly heats a
flow of water to 110 degrees. It has a rubber
device which is slipped on to the tap, requiring no
plumber’s work. The firm represents the Imperial
Acetylene Gas Coy.’s London patents for house-
lighting, and are prepared to give estimates.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buver of all other Australian gems. *
The mean parochialism of N.S.W. politics'
was well manifested by a deputation that recently
asked Guerilla Minister See to shift the Children’s
Hospital from the Sydney suburb where it has
stood for seven years. “The hospital was
frightening people away from the Glebe, and it
was a hard fact that property had gone down in
value.” So it has in every suburb during the
seven years. The diphtheria department of the
hospital, it was alleged, is in an old building, ill-
built and ill-drained, overlooking Blackwattle
Bay —one of Sydney’s foulest open sewers. But
in that case, the Mayor must nave scandalously
neglected to use the powers ex-Premier Reid says
the law gives him. See ought to have thrown
Reid’s opinion at the deputation, but, instead, he
remarked that “ Medical science has so safe-
guarded diseases nowadays that there is little
reason to suppose they will spread under such cir-
cumstances.”
For long it has been complained that the
three VVestralian Judges have been unable to keep
abreast of their work ; yet to the Chief’s judicial
duties have now been added those of Acting-Gov.
Actually he rose lately in the midst of hearing a
very serious criminal charge—that against two
brothers for malpractice—to preside at an Execu-
tive meeting ; and prisoners, counsel, wit-
nesses, jurors and the rest had to wait.
One of these days, when a few more totliersiders
are on the Westralian jury lists, there will be a
scene in court. One Judge, in particular, treats
. juries occasionally with such scant respect that
already there have been murmurs of revolt. At
the reoent sessions a jury (which had been kept
waiting for some time while His Honor attended
a meeting outside) was called into court at 5
o’clock. The foreman said they had not agreed,
whereupon—at 5 o’clock —the Judge ordered them
to be locked up till 10 next morning ! It was the
same Judge who, getting tired of a counsel’s ad-
dress to a jury, said, after two or three interrup-
tions —“ lam going out for half a minute. Pray
continue! ” And out he went. But it didn’t
answer —counsel continued.
*
f£ftFECl
"Sfi
‘PERFECT’
BICY CLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK 6RIMUEV
(Sole PistribGtiijg
(for AOStralaSia . . .
IMPORTP’R FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-205 Clarence Street , Sydney .
Publications, etc.
FIVE GRAND
BATTLE PIECES
- - Suitable for Teaching - -
PUBLISHED BY
ALLAN & CO.,
31ELBO XJRNM.
-
The Transvaal War Fantasia
(A GRAND PIANO SOLO),
Descriptive of the present war. Arranged by
Garnet Garfield. ,
PRICE 2/-; or Posted 2/1.
The Relief of Ladysmith
Descriptive of the brilliant resistance by British
troops under Sir Geo. White (whose words, “ Thank
God 1 we kept the Flag flying!” will become as
famous as Nelson’s “ England expects that every
man this day will do his duty”), and the final
relief by the forces under General Sir Redvers
Buller.
Arranged for the Piano by Landon Roberts.
PRICE 2/-; or Posted 2/1.
Macdonald’s March
By Paul Belmont.
(Dedicated to General Hector Macdonald.)
One of the brightest Marches of the day. Frontis-
piece beautifully lithographed in colors.
PRICE 2/-; or Posted 2/1.
Sons of the Sea March
By Paul Belmont.
Founded on Felix McGlennon’s World-famous
Song. Illustrated Frontispiece.
PRICE 2/- ; or Posted 2/1.
Soldiers of the Queen March
By Paul Belmont.
Founded on Leslie Stuart’s Grand National Song.
PRICE 2/- ; or Posted 2/1.
Obtainable at Music-sellers throughout Austra-
lasia, or from the Publishers,
Pan $ Co. proprietary [td.,
276, 278 Collins Street,
MT» RflllßMF.
Business Announcements.
“ A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “ Duck ” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from lh.p. tosoh.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
.-f
F
|OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
° fflCe Proprietor ■ - GEO. W. ELLIS.
LADIES i
—ww Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s od
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the' Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South tVales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply Ho use I
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L, Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutne.
Every Evening, at 8 sharp. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Miss NANCE O’NEIL f**i|ftg||f&
Camille Mr. m<kee Rankin uamaiie
As Presented by SARAH BERNHARDT.
Dressed in the Costumes of the Period of 1840.
In Preparation—ELlZAßETH, QUEEN OF ENGLAND.
Plan, Nicholson’s. t3BT PRICES-55., 35., 25., and la.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. It. BROUGH.
Return to Sydney, for SEVEN WEEKS only, of the
BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
TO-NIGHT (Thursday and Friday) Last Two Nights
THE BRIXTON BURGLARY and IN HONOR BOUND.
SATURDAY, 21st April, first production in Australia of
THE MANOEUVRES OF JANE, an Original Comedy.
Matinee Every Thursday, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. .'. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY^
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, April 19) TO-NIGHT
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
including Miss DORA DE WINTON
and Mr. JOHN D. SAUNDERS,
In the Quaint and Romantic Melodrama, entitled
“THE IRISHMAN.”
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 0.46.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
{■CRITERION THEATRE,
Lessee and Manager
SYDNEY.
Alfred Dampibr.
ATTRACTION!
EXTRAORDINARY
reappearance Alfred Da IT) DIPT
REAPPEARANCE 0F MUItCI »/ <3 rg/ I< I
The “ Most Popular Actor in Australia,
AND HIS FAMOUS DRAMATIC COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT And EVERY EVENING !
Robbery Under Arms.
Captain Starlight .. Alfred Dampier.
Supported hy the Full Strength of the Company.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Proprietor, Mr. Orpheus M. McAdoo.
Packed Hmtsex Nightly! Unprecedented Success!
EVERY EVENING, at 8. .\ FAREWELL VISIT.
Mr. Orpheus 31. McAdoo’s
GENUINE GEORGIA MINSTRELS and ORIGINAL
ALABAMA CAKEWALKERS.
Introducing the Greatest, Cleverest, and Most Replete
Minstrel Organisation that has ever toured Australasia.
PRICES : 35., 25., and Is Plan at Paling’s,
Matinees Every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
T~lhE NEW TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
Gigantic Success 1 A Great Triumph! The Greatest
Company of Stars ever brought together.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
Mr. TOM BROWNE. THE NEWSKYS.
JAS. BAIN. DAVE CASTON. FRANCIE ADLER.
And all our Great Company.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
t x ■ The Greatest Facial
«l*Gclt Ludwig Amann Artist of the day.
Ir. TOD CALLAWAY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
Prof. ALMOND, Champion Specialty Dancer.
IRENE FRANKLIN, America’s Piquant Comedienne.
2HAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Prof. DAVY’S
rIARIONETTES, POPE and SAYLES, E. SULLIVAN,
)ORA TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
HEAT RE ROYAL, M ELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
SATURDAY Next, 21st, Last Seven Nights of the Season.
Johnny Sheridan and Gracie Whitefbrd
IN ...
‘A TRIP TO CHICAGO.”
Matinee Saturday Afternoon (21st) at 2.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices — 3 5 . ( -25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PT EVERY EVENING !
3HARLES A.RKTOLD
And His English Comedy Company.
340 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London.
“What Happened to Jones.”
Preceded by “ AN EMPTY STOCKING.”
S' IT HURTS YOU TO LAUGH,
DON’T SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO JONEa
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the sole management of Mr. William Anderson.
EXPLOSIONS OF ENTHUSIASM 1
EVERY EVENING 1
FOR QUEEN AND COUNTRY.
Depicting Stirring Incidents in the Present War.
Mr. Alfred Woods, Miss Maud Williamson,
and a Powerful Dramatic Organisation.
200 trained soldiers, 20 military horses, complete battery
of mounted artillery. Prices, 3s, 2s, 19 6d, Is, and 6d.
Plan at Allan’s. Gen. Bus. Man., Mr. CHAS ENPL.
•yHEATRE ROYAL, ADELAIDE.
As the present LEASE of the above THEATRE
expires on SEPTEMBER 30, 1900, and recognising that
sufficient time must be given for future arrangements,
Mr. ARTHUR CHAPMAN wishes to intimate that he
is now open to treat with Responsible Managers for
LEASE of the above, to commence from OCTOBER
Full particulars on application to him at INSURANCE
CHAMBERS, No. 8, Pirie-street, ADELAIDE.


Nature’s Beason for Pain.
When one of Dr. Abernethy’s patients remarked
that it gave him great pain to lift his hand to his
head, the eminent physician responded that, in
such case, he was a fool for doing it. The obser-
vation was both brutal and unprofessional. The
very fact that the act was painful indicated a
condition calling for medical treatment; and to
provide that, if he could, was the doctor’s duty.
Still, one might get on in comparative comfort
without lifting his hand to his head, if that were
the only source of pain about him. Bat when a
bodily operation which is absolutely indispensible
to life, becomes constantly painful, the situation is
vastly more serious. And that was what happened
I to Mrs. Emma Elwen, as related in her letter
9 herewith printed for our information.
“In the spring of 1899,” she says, “I began to
feel weak and ailing. From being a strong,
healthy woman, I gradually lost all my strength
and energy. My appetite was poor, and all food,
gave me pain.”
Be good enougli for a moment to fix your mind
on that statement. - Nature has so arranged that
all necessary acts or movements of the body shall
be painless, if not distinctly pleasurable. Were it
otherwise, we should avoid them to the extent of
our power, and so produce incalculable mischief.
And, above all, the act and consequences of eating
were meant to be, and in health, are, one of the
highest of our physical enjoyments. This lady
having suffered from her food, then signifies a
state of things unnatural and dangerous.
“I had fulness and pain at the chest,” she con-
tinues, “between the shoulders and down my
back. I had also a deal of pain at my side, and
my heart palpitated so much that I got but little
sleep or rest on account of it. My breathing was
short and difficult. I was unable to do any house-
work, and often wished I were dead.”
The words, “ I wish I were dead,” are often on
the lips of the victims of what seems to be hope-
less disease, and they are sad and chilling words
to fall on the ears of those of us who love them.
They make us look despairingly round for the
help which is so slow to come, and too frequently
never comes at all. Is there, then, no medicine
which has power to save ?
“ I grew to be so weak,” adds the writer, “ that
I was from time to time confined to my bed, and
at other times had to lie down on the couch. I
lost flesh rapidly, and was like a mere skeleton—
my clothes hangifig upon me. For three years I
suffered in this way, no medicine that I took doing
me any good.
“In February, 1892, the Rev. Mr. Knight, of
Bishop, Auckland, recommended me to take
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. Acting on his
advice I procured a bottle from the Co-operative
Stores at Bishop, Auckland, and after taking it I
began to improve. My appetite returned, and
food agreed with me, and I felt easier than I had
done for years. The pain at my heart was less .
severe, and I gained strength every day.
“ Seeing this, I continued to use this remedy, j
aid gradually I recovered my health, gaming \
three stone weight. Since that time I have kept in i
good health. My husband has also benefited b/
the use of Mother Seigel’s Syrup when suffering
from indigestion. You are at liberty to publish
this statement as you like. (Signed) (Mrs. ) Emma
Elwen, Primrose Mill, Newfield, Willington, near
Durham, October 30th, 1898.”
If Mrs. Elwen were the only woman in the
district wherein she lives who had suffered in this ;
manner, the fact should excite the interest of the
intelligent reader, but there are multitudes of
others all over the land, all over the world. Her
ailment was not heart disease, it was not any form
of consumption, it was not rheumatism. It was
dyspepsia—the disease that counterfeits most
others and has many of their most painful
symptoms. It is idle to say that dyspepsia might
be prevented, for we are not yet wise and careful
enough to prevent it. Some day we may be. At
present, however, it is inspiring to know that
Mother Seigel’s Syrup cures it even in its worst
stages. Still, it is better to cure when it first
appears. Watch yourself, and use the Syrup on
the day your food and you do not agree.
| Dear Bulletin.—You talk of “poor”
Edgar, Alsous man, who died the other day. Why
do so manj people allude to the dead person as
“poor ? ” Always seems to me a pathetic sample
of puny little humanity’s cocksureness that no
one could possibly be better off than in this life.
Even if there be no other existence why “ poor ”
when dead, under any circumstances ?— Poor
Dives.
The rapid progress made by Acetylene
Gas during the past year in the colonies speaks
volumes for the future of the industry. The
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Etd., Sydney,
are prepared to give estimates for any kind of in-
door or outdoor lighting. The recent night-
cycling carnival was carried on by Acetylene
installed by this Co.*
Frank A. Swettenham, Resident-General
of the Federated Malay States, in his volume of
“ Unaddressed Letters ” :
“I went one morning- to an hotel in London to call upon a
celeb rated writer of fiction, a lady, and she told me that,
as a protest against ideas which she despised, she always
locked her door when talking to a man. I stayed there
about two hours, but I don’t remember whether the door
was locked or not, probably not; no one, however, tried
it, and my reputation survived the ordeal.
John Burns, English Libor M.P., said
r ® e ® n kly that “ he was confident that if the people
of Great Britain had to choose between lopping
off some of the colonies or adopting conscription,
they would adopt the former.” VVaich recalls
that an Australian friend once expressed the view
to Burns that eventually Australia, “ like a ripe
fruit would drop off the parent tree.” “That’s
all very fine, my friend,” said Burns, “but there
are a lot of you down under trying to shake the
tree. ”
Kangaroo Island is the Norfolk Island of
S. Australia—the place which can be got at only
occasionally. Some of the settlers have, therefore,
a pigeon post; but that system has its drawbacks.
For instance, one bird was picked up lately, dead,
with this message dated last Oct. Bringing
seed bai'-'v 7 ; flags hoisted B -itish victory.” And
there was au-v.her underlined message :—“ Pigs go
in about 17 da Vs. . . Boers getting knocked out ”
—that was in ifob. The barley and the pigs may,
perhaps, have Buffered from the failure of the post,
but hardly the war news.
“ Retail ” : D m’r forget that rats keep
“nit ” with sp endid all-round effect. The graver
the threatened danger the longer they’ll keep
away from the scene. Learned that fact first in
a newspaper-office. Along the wall of my room,
up near the ceiling a gas-pipe ran through a hole
in one wall and out through an opposite hole.
Had often seen the rats pop out one Hole, run
along pipe and exit other end. One night brought
in a pea-rifle. Floored the first consecutive few.
They dropped 07 pipe and couldn’t get back.
Next rat tottered after being’ hit, bled a little on
pipe, and dropped. Next rat popped out and
was making usual scurry a’ong pipe when he
stopped short at blood, s f w 1 rushed back
throag i first hole. Resa ' : iu a rat o i the pre-
mises thereafter, unto, I believe, this very day.
It came out the other day in the course of
alaw.suit between Andrew Carnegie, the U.8. iron-
master, and his late manager Frick, that the busi-
ness of the Carnegie Steel Co. was enormously
profitable from 1892 to 1900, increasing by bounds
from year to year, until, in 1399, the firm' actually
made on low-priced contracts, in net profits, after
paying all expenses, the sum of 21,000,OOOdol. In
Nov. last Carnegie estimated the net profits for
the current year at 40,000, OOOdol., while Frick Cal-
culated, them at 42,000, OOOdol. It is set forth that
Carnegie valued the entire property at over
250,000,OOOdol., and avowed his ability to sell it,
in ordinarily prosperous times, on London market
for 500,000,OOOdol. In substantiation of his
assertions of the Aladdin-like wealth of the con-
cern, Frick says that in May, of 1899, Carnegie
actually received,in cash, and still holds, 1,170,000
dol., as a mere bonus for his option to sell his
per cent, interest in the Carnegie Steel Co. for
157,950,OOOdol. It is reported to be the intention
of Frick to establish a third great armor plant,
and that Huntington, the Pacific railroad magnate’
will be behind him in the enterprise.
toy ELLIS’
(Registered) Simple Foot Gear.
SEND .
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
„ X
B
TT7ITH an ordinary tape measure determine the width
v ’ round the joints AA. round the mstep 88, round heel
CC, round the ankle Dl> ; next ascertain the length and
width of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
JF
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
JO MEASUP.-
14/3
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS & CO,, 686 Seorge St.,
Sydney ■ . brickfield hill.
Publications?"
J£ODGSON’S
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Bookseller's and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
A BAD L
mimJ””! 1 !, 8 ''’a 1 Discll arge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when von
sion/lf™ finge i r °?n th V- nflamed l )art !t leaves the imp'res-
!?> “»der the skin you have poison that defies ail
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
vn . 7Whf OVer ’ b,lt , g 0 on suffering till death releases
£?“• , , “?, ps y° UI hnees are swollen', tiie join's being
mavhe e rtVsn h f Sam ? WJt M the a,l]tles : round u liich tiie sk in
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; tne disease
wall! "v 1 t 0 con, ‘ nue wlll deprive you of the power to
*„,;;, 1 Yo " , ma y have attended various hospitals and had
rjtvtLon * dvl ? e ’ and been told your ease is Jiopcn ss,‘oi
PI uiw v a it ll b t" '} tp amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
wFi n d ,°? * ea y I ,er haps ; hut I WILL. Because
Sendatonce for ,S ”° reaSo " *° r n °‘ " 0 "' be! "S cured '
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PrI.LS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad l,i s
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poison'd
Hands, lumours Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bumons, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Sure
? 'tt™f ,ln e 1 < "'r t Britain, 1/lid. per b x. Prepaid bv :
aubkki, ij, harringdon-stieet, London 1 -iimi
Agents: ELLIOTT Bltt)S., Sydney. Purchasers fb»u d
r<!gist ® r< ; d trade mark (if the Grasshopper on'a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright). 1 H
]re you Too gtaut f
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Redaction
in Plesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either s.'x, without any restriction 1 or
change of diet.
Abctaminal Oinsity a Speoiaftyj
Write or call for our mte-e ;ting Treatise on Obesity, With
colonial.references 'and t.s Imonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two s;.vnr>j. T.i i M4LINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizmeth-sireet, Sydney.
4 DOWSUDUE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place,
Collins Street E.,
Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs.' MCCLELLAND
Cnee BOLGER).
EOR WHAT YOU ARE ABOUT TO RE-
CEIVE, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
IRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO IREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
â
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, ,10s. 6d.
m
“ I’ll Try It." Sole Agents: The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gaorge-st.,, Sydney
D RUN KEN INI ESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in fo id or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
<3-0013 KAIR FOR ALL !
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off. TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—.‘ls., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra
HOLLANDS PAR ASIC N'
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and a'l
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price,ss.
E.
PARASITICAL
MAKING HAIR
Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALTNE.
lor Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. (id. Postage,
9d. extra.
Wasiii.noion 11. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-Street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
It
V
Rey
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
BEFKESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended _ by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
ã
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
Cash Register
WILL
Save artel Maize for You
in a Few Years.
You don’t understand why?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. IT’S MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
atioDal Dash Register Do.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.


Hi" RaSSnjdSSco’S Alfalifyc Herbal RcnjedieS.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
■
A
Mr. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies
Kalgoorlie, Septembei 12, 1898.
TO HKRR RASSMUSSBN.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for £ome of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
1 also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original oolor. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and 1 have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended On.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To H RRR RASSMUBBBN.
Dear Sir. —I can truthfully assert that sinoe using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatio Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attaok of sciatio. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
to Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussbn, Sydney.—Dear Sir, —Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they' have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KINO. Witness—Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
647 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
illil.i"4 |i iju l !,' ilnil PjiT .f
J.dO AS
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessai-y for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
ALFAUNE VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy Of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondenoy, Melanoholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. fld., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
AEFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BuXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFA LINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening- the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, olearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
neither has he autho-
rised any -person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
V
.
mm
Herr Rasemueeen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
will be' given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPnRTBWT Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“alfaline guide to health,” which
“““ — contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money. 71 Hl/1 T £ FREE
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen> i I\LL.
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head ———————————
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering
ä
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, ot 827 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how hia
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
å
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, dc
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. 1 tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hbrr Rasp
mussbn’s Purklv Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and althougl
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since
The ALFALINE P'LLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN..
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace..
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless*
but most effectual remedy tor transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearanct
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, os. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant our*
for all kinds of head ache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil- Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is; posted, ls6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout; Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., os., 125., and 235. od. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for oughs, Colds, ; onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., os., 125., and 235. 6d
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for pieveiiting the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and os.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is od.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves, the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, os. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunion*. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, os.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder—Boxes, os.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateahle. Packets, Is. ; posted,,ls. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, arid wo derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3*. and os. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 03s. Send for all particulars.
A i falin; Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SHE!),
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS ; • .
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154; Randle-street (near York Hotel)
M.Z , WELLINGTON 91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. May-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOL9&RDI1! Bailey-st. (next Preemaeon Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Haunan-st. (next Lindell's, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-street (opposite P O )
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-sti^et)


Myers and Solomon wish to inform the
Australian public that fireworks can be shipped
by any steamer, that fireworks cannot be sent by
mail train or parcels post, that fireworks must
weigh 141bs. when sent by goods train. Order in
good time for Queen’s Birthday.*
The amiable Duke of Portland, who is re-
markable for nothing but his racehorses, was
lately created a Knight of the Garter, in place of
the defunct Duke of Westminster. Which
suggests that the noble owner of Carbine is not
likely to hear any more about the romantic Druce
claim to his dukedom and estates.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
the U:S. issues an admirable, well-got-up, reliable
“ Atlas of Two Wars,” containing large scale maps
of the Philippine Islands and South Africa. There
are 11 large maps and several small ones, and as
an advt., the book is a famous idea. It is the kind
of advt. that is put away among the reference-
books, and every time it is hauled out it meets the
eye with the large statement, “ The Equitable
Society is the Strongest in the World.” *
The Coolalta vintage this season, though
less in quantity than usual, was excellent in
quality. The grapes were picked in perfect con-
dition, their bloom being splendid. The weather,
top, was most favorable for fermenting. The
Coolalta cellars are being enlarged every year, to
make room for the large stock of wine that is
maturing. The dryness of the latter part of the
season caused the bunches and berries to be less
full than usual, but the result to the wine was
superiority in quality and color.*
There was a sound of wrath and sarcastic
indignation in Bendigo City Council the other
day. They have trees planted along the streets
where Amy Castles comes from, an'd the ravages
of the small boy and larrikin and goat moved the
Council to appoint two “Street-tree curators.”
The term “curator” demoralised the men ap-
pointed, and when the Council came down to its
next meeting it passed one curator standing in the
shade with an expression of ferocious authority
watching two beastly navvies digging a hole. The
Council felt much upset by the sight, but it pro-
ceeded toward the Town Hall, and on the way
passed the other curator sternly superintending
two laborers nailing hoop-iron round a tree-guard.
This broke the Council up, and it hied it to the
Town Hall and instructed the clerk to rfotify the
curators that they were to take off their own
coats and graft in their own exalted persons.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color, Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The Bulletin cordially acknowledges the
receipt of “Ye wen’s Directory of the Landholders
of New South Wales.” It is issued by the Farm
and Dairy, of which Mr. Yewen is editor. This
Doomsday Book is a mine of information about
the great Go-on-the-land industry. It gives
the name, postal address, occupation and crops
grown by every individual in N.S.W. who owns
from one acre upwards. The work is divided into
districts, arranged in alphabetical order. The
individual who hankers to know how many acres
of land have been swallowed up by the private
owner can here satisfy his hunger, and the capital-
ist who wants to gobble up all the Crown lands in
the country can find exactly how many acres of
the national estate is under occupation in each
district, the area cultivated and the number of live
stock in the district up to 1899. Some of the staff
is going out to hump bluey through the length and
breadth of the province shortly, and is taking
Yewen’s Directory with it, for the volume con-
tains a complete directory of all the butter-
factories, cream-factories, and bacon-curing estab-
lishments—-the locality of which is a good thing to
know when on the wallaby.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on natre
27 of this issue.*
Robert Colquhoun, the prisoner who
walked out of Adelaide gaol nearly three
months ago, gave himself up last week. He said
he was tired of liberty, and had been walking
about the streets unmolested for so long that all
hope of the police discovering him seemed gone.
He used to send word to the “cops” stating
where he was likely to be, but the officer dis-
patched to arrest him either went to the wrong
street or arrested the wrong man, and at last the
escapee became indignant and gave way to des-
pair and handed in his resignation at the watch-
house. It would be a good idea to appoint
Colquhoun Commissioner of Police when his time
is up.
“A NIGHT CAP”
Of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.*
Ex-Alderman J. W. Johnston, of Sydney
city, who died last week, was little heard of, but
was a most competent business man. He was in
the sewing-machine trade, and had been very suc-
cessful ; at one time he managed the financial
affairs of the Picturesque Atlas of Australasia
» —that big venture which turned over so much
money to such little purpose, as far as concerns
dividends. Mr. Johnston’s health having failed,
he went into retirement two or three vears ago.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. hot Ups. Made in London *
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
ft
AYMAN’S
BALSAM
l use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.”—E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung; Duerdin;
A. Drag Co.; Felton; Fanldlng; Falk.
CURES COUGH
\y
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down” in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but lie sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
tST’ “ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
There was a decent sense of humor in that
Adelaide maniac who put up at the local
Y.M.C.A. rooms, and on the Association’s paper
and in its name, ordered 100,000 doz. ale and stout
for a forthcoming Y.M.C.A. prayer-meeting.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
YJUYERS and SMEI.TERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and I’yrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, s 'i .Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR IIABiT positively CUBED
by administering EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
24 Years
> OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing l
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
f BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
W until it has become
I a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
I Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
' WHEN YOU ASK FOB
HYitridge’s
1/juiigTonic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist,
Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. I Id., 2s. 9rf., 4s. 6&,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors,
k Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corraium.
“ONE DEAD BROUGHT BACK TO LIFE.”
THE EXCESSIVE HEAT THE CAUSE OF THIRTEEN YEARS OF MARTYRDOM.
“ALL DAY AND EVERY DAY, "A DULL, ACHING MISERY.”
CLEMENTS TONIC Cured me and made a Man of me again.
You Can Easily Find This Witness and Prove for Yourself.
The Case of
MR. WILLIAM CAMPBELL.
(Reported for “ The Rockdale Advocate/’)
Between Rockdale and Hurstville, lying
to the right on hilly ground, is the pretty
ouourb of Bexley. It was here our reporter
found the home of Mr. William Campbell,
a well-known identity of the district, and a
man of sterling integrity aud wide experi-
ence. Mr. Campbell was at home, and
received our reporter with great civility.
“ 1 hear, Mr. Campbell, you have had an
almost astounding recovery from a dreadful
sickness ; would you object to giving me
the details and confirming the statements I
have heard!"
“With the ntmost willingness,” replied
Mr. Campbell; “ for I was as one dead
brought to life again, and my thankfulness
and gratitude make me speak of it continu-
ally. I am, as you may judge, naturally a
strong, robust man, with wnat I thought
an iron constitution; but the climate of
India, where I lived for some years, found
out my vulnerable point. Without doubt,
it was the excessive heat of that country
that affected my digestive system and
caused me for thirteen years to be a martyr
to chronic dysentery and diarrhoea. No-
thing I tried would cure or even give any
lasting relief. For nine years I was com-
pelled to live on bread and vegetables ; the
least morsel of meat was intolerable to my
stomach, and was immediately vomited or
purged away."
- “tiuoh a continued strain must surely
have left you very weak, Mr. Campbell ?”
“I can assure you I arrived at the last
stage of exhaustion —to the utmost verge of
total collapse. I had griping cramp-like
pains in the stomach, with a constant roar-
ing and rumbling—this when I exerted
myself iu the slightest, or strove to walk a
little distance. . At intervals, a pressure as
of a large, heavy substance came on my
chest, compelling me to gasp for breath and
lie down. A dull pain pressed between my
shoulders, not constant at first, but gradu-
ally increasing in duration till, during the
last days of my sickness, it never left me.
My heart palpitated loudly, so that you could
hear its movements like the ticking of an
old clock. Pains in my head made me dizzy
and affected my hearing, so that I was
nearly deaf and could not hear the noise of
a dray passing close beside me. Then my
eyes suffered, a mist floated before them,
making me nearly blind, like a man gropiDg
his way in a dense fog. I had only sight
enough left to prevent my running foul of
things in my way. Sometimes my head
pains were so intense that the head would
swell; and my outward appearance got so
aged-looking, as the neighbours round here
will tell you, that some of them said I mnst
be at least eighty years old.”
The reporter here took a good look at the
broad, athletic form of Mr. Campbell as he
stood up, and it may be said with certainty
he would pass at the present time as being
under fifty.
Mr. Campbell continued :—“ I became
that weak I was not fit to walk. My limbs
got stiff and dragged after me. I had no
hope in life, no energy ; only all day, and
every day, a dull, aching misery. I thought
my only chance of peace lay in death, and
I prayed to die.”
“ But surely you did not arrive at this
fearful pass, Mr. Campbell, without seeking
advice ? ”
“ You may be sure I did not—l souglit for
years and years ; all the time I was getting
steadily worse. Pounds and pounds, in
money that I could ill spare, I have paid for
all the remedies I could hear of or that were
suggested to me. I had tried more drugs
than I can count ; then I went to Sydney to
consult one of the herbalists that make so
much fus3 about their cures, and I bought
some pills the herbalist recommended as
certain to do me good. But, as 1 expected,
my old experience was repeated, and herb
pills, like homoeopathic globules, did me no
good. It happened when I was in Sydney
that a lad in the street gave me a pamphlet
about Clements Tonic, and I put it in my
pocket and took it home with me. I was in
that state I would have tried anything, for
no change in me could be for the worse ; so
I bought a bottle Of Clements Tonic, and
took it with just the same hopeless fear
that I had tried scores of so-called remedies
before. ”
“ And what was the result ? ”
“ Thank God! I had relief almo3tatonce—
relief that I had never found in ail the past
thirteen miserablo years of my life. It was
after taking three doSes of Clements Tonic
that I noticed the change for the belter;
and step by step, as I continued taking
Clements Tonic, my serious symptoms lei b
me. The despondent, hopeless feeling of
the mind, the cramping pains in the
digestive organs, with th«i sound of rumbling
wind, the palpitations of the heart, the
oppression on the chest, and all the head
pains, with the accompanying deafness and
blindness, passed away ; but what surprised
me most of all, with thankful amazement,
was the cure of my chronic dysentery, for
this, as I have mentioned, had afflicted me
for thirteen years and defied all! remedies,
that I had come to never hope to escape
from it.”
“ And you are positive Clements Tonic
cured that V ”
“Yes, I am positive, and more than
thankful to say it cured me and made a man
of me again. My digestive powers are
quite restored. Meat, that had not passed
my lips for nine years, I now eat freely ;
and from being an old man, helpless, blind
and deaf, doubled up with pain, and praying
for my coffin as speedily as might be, I am
now strong and hearty, willing and capable
of doing the hardest physical work. You
may judge of the truth of this when I tell
you that after taking three bottles of
Clements Tonic I signed for a trenching
contract on stiff ground, and carried it out
with perfect satisMffion.”
“ Have I your consent, Mr. Campbell, to
make this testimony public?” asked the
reporter.
“ Of course I am willing, and most freely
consent. A man saved as 1 have been by
Clements Tonic can never forget it or the
obligation it has placed him under. Nor
can he miss an opportunity of telling its
merits wherever the occasion calls for it.
Believe me, I am always talking to my
customers of Clements Tonic and recom-
mending it, and shall continue to do so in
simple gratitude for what it has done for
me.”
STATUTORY DUCf.ARATION
I, William Campbell, of Bexley, near symey,
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemn.y
andsincerely declare that I nave carefully read the an-
nexed document, consisting of five folios and
consecutively numbered from one to five, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way;
and 1 make this solemn declaration voluntarily,
and without receiving- any payment, conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“ An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
departments of the Government oi New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits ’’ j
Declared at Arncliffe, this 2btn day of June, 0.-i
thousand eight hundred and niuetv-nine, before, mu,
D. i- CM If.COXT.J **.


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mttdd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Not a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4.6; post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COT.OMIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips. 317 Collins St., Melbourne
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. ROOT, 28, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DO N.
Does This
MEAN
YOU ?
bankers, Brokers, Insurance Men, Clerks, Collectors,
Letter Carriers, Railroad Men, Tram Men, and all who are
much on their feet, tire themselves needlessly when they
refuse to use this gentle, efficient support. The man with
the SUSPENSORY on will feel about half as tired and
about twice as good at night as the one who does not
wear one. A SUSPENSORY effectually prevents that
utterly fagged-out feeling which is so familiar to those
who stand and walk a great deal. A savage does not
wear a hat, civilised man finds it better to do so : in-
creased comfort comes with increased knowledge. The
first thing a SUSPENSORY does is to bring a comfortable
feeling of support and lightness to the wearer, feels as if
he could run and jump easily, and if he does run and
jump he will find it fatigues him less than usual.
We have been saying “A ” BUSPENSORY. What we
really mean is an
0 OLD
P POINT
C COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
o-p-c
rmjer&bwck
Chicago;
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2—0.P.0., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands .. .. 5/-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ .... 71-
No. 4 Silk „ .. .. 9/-
No. 5 „ Fancy „ „ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Clarence-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
health and strength
■ I may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition? Do you feel generally debilitated?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 10 /- and 20/~ ; Course 401 -
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address :—HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
lIIDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Cousrhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
a
ā
fringes,
NltoraJ Curly, from S/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
tdln. lone, f/0. oil real bale.
CUTTINGS & COMBISOi
•opted up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapettlo Me
India for all Hair Work.
Send Color ol Hair. '
W. H/WigzQll
lio vinAAi.it Stebst,
eomer of Palmer-street,
i r SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Doot
ă
6»od stamps (or Mil. _
lb Ooontiy'i
The Life of the System.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!«gE£
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in j'our own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
A Iso on Sale —
-1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £6O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kinto-copes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
W. «/. N. Oldernhaw, lUnnfilter. Nearly opposite G.P.O.
&Hi
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ot the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
l m
M
'JBSSdBF
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
mam.
IBP.
B m
Va z
SPARKLING S
2
7/ '////
■ B B
a i
A«\ I
IMF
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
»Vhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
I
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
; strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
; CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambition* of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bull tin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydnej*.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of t.he Wise, and Bll3’ the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
SUUO pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capilal Trousers, 10 6. Very
pood patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84 -. Cleri-
cal Suils to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cyclinp Suits, 35-
Ridinpßreeches,2s/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Ridinp Habits, etc.
W e su ppl.v R eady • mad eMen’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serpe Suits,
Indipo dye, 25/-. Serperette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serire Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys'Clothinp in Australia. Ele-
pant Tennis Shirts from 26. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2-, 2,11, 33. Warm Travellinp
Rups, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2,6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t he afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
0
\
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish ((jives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments). Wizard Pack of Cards (can he
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. od.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
and 718 Georjfe-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES
. . AND . .
Their Treatment,
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
Books. Books. Books,
"POPULAR EDUCATOR —£5 for £1 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for ±T. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 0(1. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for 12 16s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
imr. Is. 3d. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sjdnev.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and laughable books:
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
XT-TLm XT S T R A. T E D
ą
TX7ITH numerous anatomical
' ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Audios, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
ǻ
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET USg
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If naturelms not gifted you witli words and manners that
win hearts. The Ixivers* Encyclopaedia w li supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
6tep in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chanters also about
dress, personal.appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets, Reproductions of cu rious love
Jettersand FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find dailv use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps. 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and inci entally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing
i 0., Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.s.'NV. Mention this
paper when writing
Medical.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. I¥>&- each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.


VEve’rywhere KJbiA.I-wayß
No IVSiddlemen’s Profits! Save you 25 to 50 per cent
No. EB797.— New Elegant Design, 9e. Gold
Brooch, Set Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire, 14s 6d.
No. E73fi4.—New Lucky Bean Pin Charm,
90. Gold, 4s fid.
. —New Bar Brooch, Amethyst,
and 9c. Gold, 10s. 6d.
No. £.7364. —New Lucky Bell Pin Charm,
9c. Gold, 4e Cd.
•No 512.—Heart and Lovers’ Knot Brooch,
Artistic Design,
Amethyst and 9c. Gold, 18s 6d.
No. 184a. —Keeper,
18c. Gold, £1 7s 6d.
No. 162.-3 Fine
Diamonds, ISo. Gold,
£4 17s 6d.
No. 165. —2 Rubies, 1
Diamond, 15c. Gold,
£1 ss.
No. IS3. —Eleg-ant
Carved Keeper, 18c.
Gold, £2.
No. 172.—Fine Wnite Piatriond,
£4 10s. Larger, £5 10s.
No. 17Ca. —Lady’s or
Gent's 18c. Gold Band
Rinji, £1 is, £i 10s, £2.
iV
No. 171.-]Br-. Gold,
!) Diamonds, 3
Sapphires, £3 10s.
No. 160.—1 Diamond,
2 ltubies, 18c. Gold,
Jl2.
No. 178. — Wedding
Ring, ISc. Gold, tl Is-
Ko. 150.—15 c. Gold Biacelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
Jti 7 s (id.
No. ’oB.—lsc. Gold
Heart, Ids 6(1.
9c. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 139. 9c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 217.—150. Gold
Heart, Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 sa.
; a
No. 134.—150. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, 4.7 10s.
No. Js3a. —Daisy Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds,
3 Kilbies, £4 17s 6d.
No. 125.—150. Gold Brooch, 4 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £2 15s.
No. 115a. —00. Gold Two Bar Brooch,
Amethyst Centre and Heart, £1 ss.
No. 117.—TYetty 15c. Gold Gar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Bullies, £.l 7a 6d.
No. 157. —Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine
Diamonds, ‘2 Whole Pearls, 3 ltubies, £0 15s
No. 130. —15c. Gold Opai and Diamond Bracelet.
New and Handsome Design, ,£l2 10s.
No. 108.—The “Little Pet’s ” Bracelet,
oc. Gold, 16s. 6d.
No. 148.— Solid Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds,
4 Rubies, £4 4s.
No. 756.—The New Lucky Bells. Latest Lonrlon Novelty.
oc. Gold 5-Bell Biaeelet, £1 10s. Ditto, 3-Bell, £1 6s.
k
No. 201. —Set Links,
oc. Gold £1 Is ; 15c. Gold £2.
Silver, 6s 6d,
No. 194 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, Al ss; 15c. Gold,
£2 19s. Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 124 A Gold and Ame'hyst Brooch,
Speeial Value, £1 7s 6d.
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d; 15c.
Gold, £1 6s. Silver,3B 6d.
o
No. 120.—15 c. Golf), Diamond, ai.d Uub.y
Brooch, £2.
No. 130. Set Heavy 18c. Gold
Links, Set with Fine Diamonds,
£8 10s.
No. 199 A.—Set Links.
oc. Gold, 18s Od; 15c. Gold
£1 17s (id ; Silver, 6s (id.
No. 242.—15 cl and Pearl Wish-Bone, 10s 6d.
No. 235.—16 c. Heart, Key and Diamond, £1 12s 6d.
No. 233.—15 c., set Pearls, 15s Cd.
No. 240.—Double Shoe, set Pearls, £1 6».
:
No. 286.—Elegant Photo. Frame, Solid
Silver, Cabinet size, 16s Oil.
Plain Silver, Midget size, 4s. •
No. 311.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6]in. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
Other Designs, £1 10s.
5 :
m
No. 26SA. —Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments ; Nail File,
Scissors, and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s Gd.
Hi
WM
No. Sl6. —Solid Silver Sweet D'sh,
Others, j.Bs 6d and £1 Is.
No. 295. —Solid Silver Serviette Ring,6s fid
Best Silver Plate, 3s 6d and 4s.
No. 246.—Telescopic Pencil, very Special Value, Finest Finish. 9-c. Gold, £l lss. Sterling- Silver, 10s 6d.
No. 245.—Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s. Heavy 9c. gold, £1 15s.
No. 290. —Silver Mounted
Toilet Salts Rottle, 2£in.
high, 6s 6d.
Larger, 7s 6d and 10s 6d.
No. 297.—501 id Silver
Thimble, Steel lined, 3s 6d.
Others, Is and Js 6d.
? * .*»
m
rA
r\'i
No. 281. —Finest Cut
Glass Silver Mounted
Salts Bottle, 16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
Small sizes 3s 6d & 4s 6d
v -- - - i.ciMnnu - -
No. 302 A.—Two Solid Silver Gent.’s Hair
Brushes, in Case, i. 3 3s.
No. 253. —Solid Silver Match-Box,
10s 6d. Plain, 8s 6d.
Wo. 282.—Silver Boot Button Hook, 8s 6d.
Shoe Lift to Match, 10s 6rl.
Glove Hutton Hook, 2s 6d.
The “Triumph ” Watch for Gentlemen or Youths is a
Gigantic Triumph over any other low-priced Watch
already in the market. Polished Nickel, Keyless, Short
Wind, 18s 6d.
No. 284..—C0t -Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. hi”h, £1 Is.
Heavy Solid Silver Clasps, New and
Elegant Designs, 16s 6d, ISs 6d, £ 1 is.
(draws half-size).
No. E7l2l.—Best Silver-pis ted
SMOKER’S COMPANION,
comprising Tra\, Cigar Holder, and 2 Ash
Holders, tl 10s.
No. 321.—Silver Glove Stretcher, 6£in. lonpr,
Shoe Lift, and Button Hooks, in Morocco Case,
£1 10s.
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct.
be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance.
*H-ntt?m"?>? n fc^e ne ' v anc ' exquisite character of the goods, any of which will
NEW BOOKLET OF SPECIALITIES (80 pages), POST FREE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George-st- and Strand, Sydney, n.s.w.
London, Melbourne, Auckland, Perth.


‘HARLENE’
% HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair*
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall*
Strengthens the Roots*
Preserves the Hair*
Renders it Beautifully Soft*
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full desc> iption and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
'll-, 2/6,and (triple a/6 size) 4-I& per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ HarSeit© Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
<c 2£amma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow up 2 ”
“Certainty, my dear, if you use Edwards’ * Harlene.”*
THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD.’
General Gordon.
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
mm
*
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural ExeiJement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Siek Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &c., &e.Use
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling. Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
JL INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous svstem to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists :
From Dr. REDWOOD, Pli.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
J'harmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50years—during
which time I have* never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—eveu that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Lublin, and Chemist to the Apat he -
caries' Halt of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfectmanner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being'
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. 1 cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Ph.D., See.,
Jecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“ I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and f can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap. ”
Mr, and Mrs. Smith.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day was darkening when Mr. Smith went
home. It was Saturday evening, and he had been
delayed, so the waste land near the tram-sheds
\yas.one gray sheet with twinkling yellow sparks
of light across it in the distance, marking the
spot where his one-eyed cottage lay. He stumbled
over the uneven ground in the gloom, amongst
the old tins and the gorse-bushes, and gave vent
to sundry muttered grumblings as he went.
“A wife’s place is with ’er ’usband alius,” he
growled to himself, as the result of some cogita-
tions and expletives. “’Tis so,” he added, as if
to make sure.
Before he got to No. 17 he had found out that
none of the light came from his small abode.
He banged the gate angrily, and Mrs. M'Pherson,
in the next house, chuckled to herself as she fried
the bacon.
“My! M'Pherson, there’s big Smith come
’ome to a empty ’ouse. Maybe he’ll be sorry ho
druv his pore wife away.”
M'Pherson, who was under strict petticoat
government, did not dare reply, and his better
half chuckled again, and went on.
“ Eh ! he’ll soon find out which side ’is bread’s
buttered, and no mistake ! . He’ll be right sorry,
I’ll warrant! ”
The subject of these remarks had blundered
along the dark passage, hitting his shins violently
against various obstructions. He cursed his ab-
sent wife and his bad luck as he plunged into the
kitchen and fell over a chair, after steering suc-
cessfully clear of fireplace and table.
There was dead silence for long after that, and
Mrs. M'Pherson, in the next kitchen, knew what
was the matter.
She rubbed it well into the unfortunate Mac.
“An’l should just think he would be sorry!
What brutes pien are, to be sure! Vicious
wretches, with tempers like the devil ! ” she began,
glaring with full force at her meek spouse.
“You’d uphold ’im, I s’pose?” she went on,
warming up to her subject; “you’d say ’twas ’is
right, I dessay. My word, M'Pherson, I’d brain
you if you dared say sich a thing.”
“ Marire ! ” expostulated her hubby feebly, as
the lady paused, breathless, “ I never sed nothing.
I never did, Marire.”
“ I should think not,” replied Marire promptly,
not taking long to recover herself. “I should
think not, indeed ; let me ’ear you, that’s all !
Pore thing, and sich a cold night, too, the drunken
beast. Serve ’im right she did leave him ; I’m
jolly glad, I am so.
“ Sit down and eat this while it’s ’ot, Sammy.
D’ye think I’m goin’ to cook things fer you t’let it
get cold afore you eat it ? Smith ’ad a ’ot tea last
night—sounds as if Vs goin’ without any t’night.
’Twon’t ’urt ’im, neither. And ’er such a little
thing, and ’im sich a great lump of/i man. Fancy
a huge beast to come in at one o’clock o’ morning
an’ beat a little thing like that ! It makes my
blood boil,” she went on, rising by force of her
own eloquence to a scream and a stare that quite
wrecked M'Pherson’s appetite.
“I didn’t think, though,” she said, calming
down and taking a second lot of fried potatoes,
“ that she’d ’ave ’ad the spirit to go’way from ’im,
an’ when I saw ’er goin’ out this mornin’, I thinks
to meself, ‘ I’ll just arsk ’ow the pore thing is.’ ”
“ ’Ow d’you know she ain’t cornin’ back?”
M'Pherson interrupted, rather eagerly ; too
eagerly for his sovereign mistress.
“ Do I ushily say things, Mr. M'Pherson, wot
there ain’t no reason for?” she demanded.
“ No, Marire, no ; cert’inly not,” said the meek
Sammy, hastening to correct himself; “but I
thought perhaps”
“ You thought! ” she said, scornfully. “Well,
I arst. ‘ ’Ow may you be this mornin’, Mrs.
Smith?’ I ses, an’she ses quickly like, ‘Oh, I’m
very well, thank you, Mrs. M'Pherson,’ an’ I’m
blest if she wasn’t off down the road afore I could
say another word ; but, afore she’d gone further
than the righterway, she come back an’ went in
an’ tuk the little pot o’ red geranium from the
winder-sill an’ giv’ it to me. ‘I mayn’t see you
agin, Mrs. M'Pherson,’ she ses, ‘an’ I’d like you
t’ have this. Good-bye,’ an’ off she was agin. ‘ I’m
not much for flowers; ’ousekeepin’ ’s nuff forme,’
said Mrs. M‘P., with a glance round the dirty
kitchen, ‘ but I’m blowed if I don’t keep this ’ere,
an’ look after it, too.’ ”
“P’raps she’s drowned herself!” suggested
Sammy, timidly.
“ P’raps she ’asn’t been sich a fool,” said Mrs.
M'Pherson, decisively. “She’s round at ’er
mother’s, that’s where she is, a’corse ; an’ ’e don’t
dare go there, big feller as ’e is, fer Mrs. O’Houri-
gan is a woman o’ my size an’ sort, an’ she’d stand
no nonsense—she wouldn’t. If I woz ’er I’d come
’ere after ’im, but Sue wouldn’t let ’er, I s’pose.
Sue woz alius soft about Smith.”
The man in the next kitchen was sitting with
his head buried in his arms on the kitchen table.
He had lighted the lamp, but he wasn’t looking
round at the clean, tidy kitchen—Sue’s pride—
nor at the fireless stove. He was just utterly
miserable.
“ I hadn’t ought to have,” he was thinking, as
last night’s events passed before his mind. “ She
was a good little woman. She needn’t ha’ gone
the first time, tho’.”
He fumbled in his pocket and brought out a
grimy note, which he re-read. There was little to
be got from it, this twentieth time of reading-
just the bare statement that she had gone and was
not coming back.
“ Poor Tittle thing! ” he said, and then he
rubbed his eyes viciously and got up slowly and
heavily. It was too miserable in the house, so he
went out and walked down to town. After a
sausage-and-potato tea he felt better and walked
the streets until half-past nine, when he went
homewards. -
The Saturday night carnival was in full swing.
On a vacant allotment the Salvationists were hold-
ing forth, and their torches, burning high over the
dark crowd beneath, threw strange glaring lights
and shadows on the black forms of the men and
women and their earnest upturned faces. But
even the big drum did not attract Smith, and he
passed on.
The barber was doing a good business, and Smith
wanted someone to talk to, so he went in there.
But the men were all quarreling over the ’leven
and the deserted husband didn’t care much about
them. The barber voted him turned quite a quiet
fellow, and he went out after his shave was over.
Past the greengrocer’s window, gay with oranges
and red apples, and the grocer’s, with the flickering
light falling on the tins of fruit and the hams and
eggs, past the groups of careful housewives who
were hurrying from Brown’s with starch (which is
a ha’penny cheaper there than at Robinson’s) and
on their way to Robinson’s for butter (which is a
penny cheaper there than at Brown’s—not that it’s
so good, “ but then,” as they say, “ you can’t have
everything.”)
As he went by the cobbler’s he looked in, and
therq, behind the red curtain, talking to the
cobbler, was his own property. Sue Smith.
The righteous wrath of the owner of straying'
domestic animals possessed him for a moment, and
he felt inclined to walk in and say, “Now you
just come along o’ me,” in a lordly tone.
But she’d some spirit, and p’raps she wouldn’t
come, and he couldn’t drag her along the street.
There was another feeling, too, a kind of shamed
acknowledgment that he hadn’t acted quite
square. So he stood outside watching the little
woman explain that the boots were to be soled but
not heeled, and a small patch (“put it neat,
please ”) on the inside of the left foot.
When Sue came out she turned the other way,
but ’twas just as well, for there was a dark spot by
a vacant piece of land before the next blaze of
light. Big Smith’s heart thumped oddly as he
strode forward and touched her arm.
“ Sue,” he said, but it was a choky kind of voice,
and the little woman stopped.
“Yes?” she said; and then after a minute,
quite chokily herself, “ Well ?”
“Don’t go way and leave me, Sue,” he said,
choking hard. “ I know I woz a beast, old girl,
but I won’t never again, s’elp me Gawd, I wo’nt,
Sue.”
“ I know—l know yer won’t,” she said hastily;
“’s all right, Tom ;’s all right.”
So they went in together to buy some pork chops
for Sunday’s dinner, in honor of the evont.
“ Sivinpence ’apehny,” said the butcher, throw-
ing them down.
“ Sevenpence,” said the little woman.
“Sivinpince ’apenny,” persisted the butcher.
“ Oh, I’ll go th’ extrer ’apenny,” interrupted
Tom.
“ Don’t you bo so free with yer ’apennies. A
fool an’’is money’s soon parted. I won’t give a
single farthin’ moro’n sevenpence,” said Sue
severely; and then he knew that the reconciliation
was complete.
P. R. FORD.
An Australian with the British at Spion
Kop, writing to a relative in Melbourne :
Of course a fellow’s got to see it through ; they’d call
him a coward otherwise. But it isn’t cowardice that
makes a man long to be out of this business —it’s sickness,
horrible nausea. I saw a man yesterday flung backwards
over a rock with his head —or what had once been a head
—dangling down the steep side of it. You know how we
used to treat the grasshoppers as kids? It was just like
that. I’d rather grin into the mouth of a Boer cannon
than come slap on to a sight like that again. The older
chaps can stand it. I heard a Yorkshireman laughing
over “ a damned dwarf ” he’d found in a trench. The dwarf
was the body of a Boer with both legs blown off at the
thighs, but still upright in the cutting.
Alleged that at Perth recently £l4O worth
Q f champagne was drunk at the official opening of
, , ■ , , . oinn
a Structure which only cost £4OO.
During an important debate in Vic. Leg.
Council Sargood told this story : “WhenWilber-
, . , ....
force s anti-slavery agitation was at its height m
England, a London draper put up the placard,
‘No goods made with slave-grown cotton sold
here.’ A rival on the opposite side of the street
advertised similar^ 7 , ‘ All goods made with slave-
grown cotton.’ And the latter got all the trade.”
Moral—the British consumer buys what he
believes to be the best article, irrespective of his
sentimental or religious opinions.
A Melb. pressman found himself in an
awkward predicament the other evening. Sent
out to interview a great man he didn’t know per-
sonally he reached the latter’s house at about 10
o’clock, and after much delay was admitted by a
well-dressed young man who said his father would
be along directly. He asked the scribe in, gave
him a seat in the drawing-room, and after placing
before him a glass and a whisky-bottle, left him to
his own resources. The reporter remained in his
seat for a full hour, during which he saw
no more of the well-dressed young man, but
at 11.30 someone opened the front door with
a latch-key, and a party trooped in, several
ladies being among the number. _ They turnod
to the drawing-room, and seeing a stranger,
gave vent to such fearful screams that a wild-eyed
celebrity came headforemost into the room brand-
ishing a pistol, with which lie terrorised the un-
happy pressman, who was told that any attempt
to escape would mean Instant Death. The rest
of the household followed, armed with pokers and
meat-saws ; the women gazing at him, awe-struck,
and whispering to each other “ What an ugly
ruffian!” Entirely at a loss to account for this de-
monstration, the visitor tried to be dignified, and
announced that he had come from the Daily
Trumpet, and that the celebrity s son had
invited him to wait there until the boss
returned. Whereupon the whole assemblage
laughed loudly, and the celebrity himself do-
manded to know where the Stolen I roperty was
hidden. r ihe journalist protested his innocence,
and was at last marched at the point of the pistol
to the dining-room, where the whole of the furni-
ture had been turned upside-down and ransacked,
The bedrooms were in a similar state, and the
owners made a hasty calculation that several
thousand pound?’ worth of goods had been stolen.
In their conversation they also referred to the
reporter as a burglar, and at last, after many
attempts at explanation, which were laughed at,
be was permitted to telephone to the police bar-
racks. The wondering celebrity acquiesced, and
with his ear at the spare receiver, heard the mes-
sage: “ Scribe speaking ; I’m at the house of Hon.
Fluffum at Toorak) an( ] he takes me for a
burglar, and wants me locked up. Can you swear
m y vo [ ce ?” When the reply came back the
face of tbe g rea t man dropped as he hastened to
apologise to the pressman in a most overwhelming
and effusive manner, and proceeded to fill him up
w Jth all the information he couid carry away,
rp be reporter’s description of the gentlemanly
„ man wbo welcomed him so cordially has
circulated to every police station it the
province.


A WOMAN’S BACK.
—DOAN’sI-^
Backache Kidney Pills
■ ■ —"■
The Tonic for Every Woman!
KKKu
mm&
3 ?&&&
z<>
i«SB
•%K
&
saßSs
$
&
&
//
v//.
/'
ys
Mrs. M. A. BISHOP, OF LAUNCESTON.
Household duties should not be a drudgery—
they are not when women are strong and well.
But where backs are aching and heads throbbing
as though they would break, even the joys of life
are turned to drudgery.
Do you know what makes the backaches, and
headaches, and the all-tired-out feeling ?
Sick kidneys. They are the filters of the blood,
and cannot stand all the work put upon them.
Backache is the cry of the kidneys for help—and
it is a warning of more serious trouble to follow.
Unless this backache is taken in time, it will run
into urinary troubles, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease,
and—Death.
Women do not need to suffer—there is a remedy
for backaches and for all other symptoms of kid-
ney disease—Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They should be used to stop the progress of any
and all disorders of the kidneys and urinary
organs, and may be thoroughly depended on.
When your kidneys are not doing thei;- work it
will be manifested by pain or dull ache in the
back, rheumatic pa ns, sciatica, sediment in the
urine, scanty supply, scalding irritation in passing
it, obliged to go often during the day and to get
up during the night, uric acid, sleeplessness, ner-
vousness, irritability, sallow, unhealthy complexion,
puffy or dark circles under the eyes, loss of energy
and ambition.
If your water, when allowed to remain undis-
turbed for 24 hours, forms a sediment or settling,
or has a cloudy appearance, it is evidence
that your kidneys and bladder need immediate
attention.
If you have any of the above symptoms, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will set you right and cure
you. We will gladly send you the names of thou-
sands who have testified to what Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done for them.
Mrs. M. A. Bishop, whose picture is given
above, of 153 St. John Street, Launceston, Tas-
mania, said she had suffered from kidney disease
for five years. “My kidneys were very weak,”
she writes. “ My back was very bad. It ached
so dreadfully that I felt tired out after doing the
least thing. The pains would at times work up
between my shoulders, but they were worst in the
small of my back. The kidneys were very weak
indeed, as certain symptoms showed. Oh, I tried
everything, liniments, plasters, and many medi-
cines, but nothing ever reached the kidneys like
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They seemed to
act directly on the kidneys and on them alone.
They strengthened my kidneys, helped my back,
and have done me a world of good—more than
anything I have ever taken. This is true, and you
may publish it if you wish.” (Signed) Mrs. M. A.
Bishop.
.
If any woman who reads this has suffered as
Mrs. Bishop did, and thought the symptoms were
due to some female trouble, let her take heart, for
nme-tenthsof all so-called female troubles are really
kidney troubles, and should be treated as such.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a splendid
tonic to the whole female constitution.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will
be posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
or from any of our branches, as follows-Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (main
office); 292 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King
William-street, Adelaide; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
Bros.; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “D-O-A-N-S.”
Itchiness of the Skin.
Ever had any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from tnat complaint.
Eczema, too; hives don’t sound dangerous, but
they cause much misery to those unfortunate
enough to be troubled with them, Doan’s Oint-
ment is “a wonder ” for any such trouble. Any
troublesome irritation of the skin can’t resist its
healing, soothing influence. Lots of Sydney
people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, “Waratah,” Orange-street,
Land wick, Sydney, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter, aged
10 years, was cured of Eczema by Doan’s
Ointment. Mrs. Carter thought her daughter
contracted the disease at school. It affected
her scalp, which was terribly inflamed, and all
broken out, and irritated her terribly. She pro-
cured some of Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s
Pharmacy, King-street, and, after thoroughly
washing the child’s scalp, applied it. The result
was the scalp entirely healed in a few days, and
left no scar, much to their joy.
“ I have also used the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin—a sort of Eczema—and it has
done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
facts at any time, and I will only be too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles,
Eczema, or any form of Itchiness of the Skin, for
one moment. Doan’s Ointment will cure them
absolutely, but do not take our word for it; send a
penny stamp for a sample box. The large size
box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.).
If you cannot obtain it locally from your chemist
or storekeeper, same will be posted on receipt of
price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
The Apologetic Pub.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was Hennessey who owned it, and he kept it
straight and square,
In accordance with the customs of the ancient
court of Clare—
When the harp was heard in Tara; when the
green flag proudly flew ;
In the days of Erin’s glory; in the time of King
Boru.
Down at Comtown, on the Clarence, where they
grow the maize and cane,
On the corner there forninst it stood the pub. of
Pat M ‘Shane;
And a jaynial sowl was Patsy—never better
crossed the sea—
Though, in point of fact, unlettered, and of
manner rough and free.
Thus it came, by gravitation—which is everywhere
in force—
That Patsy got the roaming crowd, and Hennessy
of course, ’
Took the bankers and commercials shure his
“ maynoo ” was sublime
With the silver serviette-rings—at a half-a-crown
a time!
Now the people of that district, where the maize
grows out of sight,
Were divided into factions—into parties “Left”
and “Right,”
And the patrons of Tim Hennessy’s being Right
Folk of the town, —
As is common in bush places,—on the Vulgar Left
looked down.
In their politics they differed, in their Social style
: and views,
■ Arid ’t was natural and fitting they should differ in
their booze.
So the Left found consolation in a plebeian jibe or
sneer,
Left the toffs to “ Tim’s ” and whisky, while they
stuck to “ Pat’s ” and beer.
It was Thornton of the Clarence, and a joyous
chap was he,
And most kindly and convivial—although com-
pelled to be
Somewhat circumspect in public, for the “Rights”
had eyes which saw—
And “it wouldn’t do for Thornton,” who was
practising at Law.
It was Thornton, of the Clarence, and he came
and “ took me round,”
For the country to the city it is courteous, I’ve
found.
And, forthwith, we went to Hennessey’s, thbugh
the night was rather young,
Tried a Special Vat—with soda—Tim’s assortment
from among.
And we sipped it in a parlor with a carpet on the
floor —
Quite an elegant apartment that a shaded lamp
gleamed o’er.
There our English was most polished ; there our
manners full of grace
As we spake on occult subjets with the Magnates
of the place.
It was “ Will-you-pray-permit-me” and “I-be°--
your-pardon ” there
With a Versailles air about it, or the Ancient
Court of Clare.
Hennessey he begged my pardon when a tiny drop
or two
Of his soda’s effervescence on my coat-sleeve some-
how flew.
Thornton begged the barmaid’s pardon—oh ! she
was a vision fair,
With the carriage of a duchess and a pile of
Grecian hair.
If a stranger, though a-thirsting, made appear-
ance at the door,
He begged pardon for intruding, and was visible
no more.
It was manners, it was polish, it was culture, it
was tone;
It was very much high collar, with a color quite
its own.
There was nothing like in Corntown, though the
; sneering Left might dub
This refinement of the Clarence “The Apologetic
Pub.”
But as night was growing older—l admit the fact
with pain—
From Tim Hennessey’s we drifted to the place of
Pat M‘Shane,
And—hey presto ! Midnight Magic ! though
twas but the hour of ten,
We were altered as we entered—we were plainly
other men. J
And we sought a private parlour; it was private
in a sense,
And the beer it fell to frothing, and the yarns
they did commence,
And, I grieve—but must confess it—that a-drifting
through the night
Came, with gait apologetic, certain members of
the Right!
There was laughter loud and ribald, there were
wicked jests along,
And an absence of “ I beg-yours ” ; but a chorus
and a song.
And the Corntown Ladies’ Doctor with his stove-
pipe hat a-tilt
Told a rather guilty story, which was innocent of
gilt.
Came the aftermath of evening, and the cocks
commenced to crow.
Hennessy’s lay lapped in slumber, but we did not
rise to go
Till the red eyes of the morning blearing East-
ward into Light
Brought us h azy, sad remindings of our duties as
the “Right.”
We had left the Paths of Order ; out of Rectitude
had strayed—
We had struck the second level, we had struck it
and had stayed !
But the sense of Right was in us, and as flushed
the Eastern skies,
We got hiccupy politeful—started to apologise.
There was Thornton— lawyer Thornton-—with his
back against the door
Where the floor had baulked and hit him, begging
pardon of the floor,
And the Doc., beneath the table, he was happy
and serene,
Singing, “Mizzher-Meeshum-Patshey Forror,
soidiersh of ’er Queen ! ”
Now, I know not how it ended, if it ended up at
all,
I found myself apologising most politely to the
wall.
There’s a moral in it somewhere, which on study
doth appear, J
That we started out on whisky, but we finished ud
on beer.
And the moral of the moral—well, it stands out
clear and bright
That a chap is often “ left ” when he is trying to
go right ; J 6
That our int rests they are Hennessey’s, and will
Hennessey s remain,
But htlcai, human inclinations often lead us to
M Shane.
Grafton, N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
The Boundary-Rider.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old type of boundary-rider is fast dying out
or, as he himself would say, “ passing in.” Soon
he will be as extinct as the moa. While he is
going, let us remark a few of his habits.
Generally the boundary-rider springs from no
one knows where. Apparently he does not know
himself. There is, however, never any doubt as
to his destination. Bnt that is beside the
question.
The long, hot days and dry weary weeks in the
saddle give the boundary-rider a tired, drooping
appearance and leave his legs thin and bandy as
those of a tame swan. The first thing he always
does on dismounting from his horse is to sit down.
A true boundary-rider is never known to stand
up except under compulsion ; then he leans against
a post. His hard knotted hands are the only ap-
parent sign of strength about him—except his
language, which is slow but very strong.
His home is a hut in which there is barely suffi-
cient room to stretch himself; just enough room
for his dog to squeeze in beside him on a winter’s
night. At those times he does not stretch ; his
sole aim being to get into as small a space as
possible, with a view to conserving his scant
supply of natural warmth and dodging the cutting
windasit whistlesmournfully through thenumerous
crevices between the old gum slabs.
On one side of the hut is his bed—two flour-bags
stretched on a couple of sticks and supported by
legs similar to his own. His blankets are better
adapted for mosquito-curtains. A cast-off wool-
bale is his eider-down, or, as he call it, his
Wagga-rug.” Sheets are unknown. One of the
profession, having seen a bed provided with these
articles, enquired what a man wanted to sleep
between table-cloths for, “ What’s the use of
blankets, I d like to know ?” Above the bed hang
a spare pair of moleskin trousers, a Crimean shirt,
and the saddle and bridle.
6 i s surrounded by a small horse-paddock.
His horses are a couple of old broken-down sta-
tion hacks. There is no need to hobble them ;
they are too lazy to move much. The white
patches of hair on their sides testify to that.
The boundary-rider spends his days in the end-
less, soul-killing monotony of jogging round wire
fences ; straining up the slack and mending the
broken wires, or pulling sheep out of a bog. The
only change in his work is when he arrives home
some day to find a note telling him to meet next
day at some given point to take part in a general
muster. Sunday he makes-a day of rest, that is
sleep or perhaps, as a break, lie does his quar-
terly washing.
His literary wants are few, all that ever interests
him being a stray copy of some newspaper left
now and then by the man who brings his rations.
Having probably a pound or two in a sweep on
some of the classic events, he eagerly spells out the
racing news and notes the latest tips ; always,
he thinks, with a view to making his fortune,
which would simply mean his death by drink!
Having read the racinc news, he listlessly scans
the remaining pages of the paper. Finally he
rises excitedly, and, putting his hat on a stick,
leans it against the wall; then stands off and
delivers his views on racing, religion, politics, and,
probably, his boss. At least, he never tires his
hearers. By-and-by, getting tired of talking (it
generally takes a good while), he sets to work to
bake a damper and boil a bit of salt-junk and a
billy for tea. Then he sits down to his meal, and
the old dog, which has been watching uncon-
cernedly, gets up, walks quietly to the door and
lies down again. Soon a bone comes sailing out
to the dog’s feet, and, grabbing it, he walks away
satisfied.
Periodically the boundary-rider gets his cheque,
and goes away to the nearest bush public-house to
have a spree; returning in a fortnight or three
weeks more erratic and worn-looking than ever.
. Bet one day comes a time when there is silence
m the hut. The dog moves about uneasily, sniff-
ing here and there, lying down, jumping up again
and whining till the whine breaks into a howl,
and the howl dies into silence. The horses won-
der why they have not been at work as usual for
the last three or four days. The crows, seeing no
one about, begin to get closer round the hut, till
at last the dog breaks the monotony by making an
angry dash and a short, sharp bark at them. They
rise and spread in the air, only to return as soon
as the old dog lies down again.
Saturday arrives, and the spring-cart comes
rattling out with the rations. ■ The driver, seeing
the dog, calls the owner by name. No reply.
**Hullo!” he thinks; “something wrong with
the old chap.” Going inside, he finds a corpse
with a bottle by its side. “ What a nuisance ! ”
he ejaculates testily, and, getting back as quickly
as he can, he jumps into the cart and drives away.
Next day men come out with pick and shovel.
A hole is dug under the shade, of the tree, and a
few words—hollow mockery !—are said over the
corpse. The dog is shot or given away, the hut
and horses are put in. some other man’s charge,
and the boundary-rider is forgotten. What, one
wonders, was his use in the scheme of creation ?
What his aim .and ambition in youth ? Some-
thing, no doubt. Perhaps, even now, when his
death becomes known, old recollections will rise
in some mind, and a few heart-felt tears will plead
for him with oblivion.
WILL M. FLEMING.
Ke gan Paul, in his just-published memoirs,
tells of a fashionably preacher, one Rev. Hookins.
He took up a golden collection on an anniversary,
and said “No half-crowns, please. You won’t
want half-crowns in Heaven.”
“ I find that Englishmen living abroad are
usually ardent Conservatives, their adherence to
this policy being, for the most part, based on the
belief that this party is the most consistent on
foreign politics and pledged to an Imperial policy.
On the other hand, the Liberalism which would
allow the colonies to go their own way is thought
contemptible, narrow-minded, and selfish. I may
take this opportunity of saying that I have found
the colonies generally more devoted to the mother
country than she is to them, although the affection
of the human parent for the child is, as a rule
greater than that of the child for the parent.”—
Morley Roberts.


For Weak and Delicate Children
For thin Mood and loss in flesh; for poor
appetite and weak digestion; and for the de-
pression from long-continued hot weather.
a
m
m
X,
2?
&
n
m
' **My son, whose picture I send you, was taken very sick, became languid,
losing his appetite and seeming to lose all energy. Apparently he did not have
hardly any life left in him. He was so weak he would become unconscious
at times. He also had large swellings in his neck. I was greatly worried
over him. I took him to the doctors with no satisfactory results.
** I then resorted to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, remembering that my sister derived
a wonderful amount of good from this same medicine.
“ After a few days my boy’s health began to improve, his appetite returned,
and he gradually lost his extreme languiduess. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla acted as a
grand tonic upon his whole system, and he soon began to scamper about like
other boys. I attribute his wonderful recovery solely to the fact that he took
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and took it in time.”
This is the experience of Mrs. Arabella Graham (whose son’s portrait is given
above), of 73 Station St., Petersham, New South Wales. It is also the happy
experience of thousands of mothers all over the land. And it is the reason
Why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been named
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
It brings color to white lips and plumpness to pale cheeks.
AYER’S barilla
It Gives Nerve Power and Muscular Strength.
Ayer’s Pills are Liver Pills. They cure biliousness.
ã
PLBIN HOM€ TBLK.
KMBRACINO
MEDICAL COMIVroiXr SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. SO Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS I KkE MIOM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
aalure as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngond old, hut atiout
wlm h they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chanters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning ninr-
riatre, winch makes it a superior guide to ttie action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the'imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth covered edition of this great work. PLAIN lIOAIE TALK*
posted tor only 7s. Cd. ■> , '
Swreenra AND Toasts readi -made for nil occasions and
everybody • public speaking made easv. is cd Dost
Practical Palmistry (latest)- Post Is fid.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is: post, is 3d.
Beauty'S Secrets. Post-free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is The
Art ok Wrestling, post is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etkiukttk— Parties, Lore, Dress, etc. Is Cd post.
Every Man Ills Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is fid pos.t*-d. Cl m I iancinG Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals ' 3s Cd
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Skorkts of Ancient and Modern Maoio. Is Gd post free.
Akt ok Boxing, by Neil Donnelly, 40 illtis. Is Oil posted
L< \\*uTKil'7s™i Wlll ' rEB ' ls l x,st - General Letter
fRON Ned Kelly and llis Gang (only true history).
Is Oft posted. J/
Edith 0 Gorman's Convent Life Unveiled, Is6<l post
Ur-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), lstid post free
How to Head Heads (Jas. Coates), ls (id posted
Crevasse's Advice to a .Mother, 3s 6d posted. ’
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest
Is 3d post free. k ’
O. W. Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s ea. posted
Pit VSIOGNOM Y, IS 3d posted. .
Howto Mesmerise, Is (id posted.
Every Man IDs Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
‘ l ‘° COME»£JXITIO]\r.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
NO DECEPTION.
Troeessor : “Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will show
you a simple and easy trick about which there is
no deception, and one that all may learn with great
advantage to themselves.. In one hand you take a
glass of water, and in the other a few BEECHAM’S
TILLS ; you place the pills upon your tongue and
take a sip of water. The pills will do the rest.”
IMFORTA.MT A.Kr3XTOTT3SrOEM3S]XrT !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the W ORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
æ
r».
m.
s r
p cXruM
S t *Xt
Sen-Sen & \
FARRINODONAVENUe\
LONDON. I
<o —: ■ d
INVALUABLE TO
51NGEB5 & SPEAKERS
cK c
m
ve
reft
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OS’
BONNINQTON’S
MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “ Dear Sirs. —I experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold iii the head and throat upon taking a few doses of your
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bennington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
u>. .
CONTKACTORS.
66 Margaret Street, Sydney;
3S Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman'g Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COG O A
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market- Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
60
VOU Tam LABIS&
- 4
n:
* u
*f
*l2gfc>BB3A-t
22*1**18 g|
61 o'gt = -3- s * e||
Sglffi =”'
K S5-*BS
*B(Z‘
fiSiiiili!i|
*SZZ
*6*B
I*£*l
* e
&i*Zi
i
•4 © P >
vl | g JJS
iS*i|f|iPi
* &f as fc * «-
«8S »-«■»-*
■5 a-a £««£»s
ǽ
A Simple
TANGYE
PUMP.
Represented In Australia by
BENNIE TEARE and
THE MINER’S GREAT WANT
KOW SUPPLIED *T THE
“ Koerstz Patent Kfondyke Quartz Crushers.”
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day*
This is a very superior machine, capable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the fines*
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. j and, if using horse-power, on®
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be take®
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5. N®. 3, with
a capacity of two to three tens per day, price £6O.
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No. 1 at £Z and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired fee
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON, SOLE AGENT.
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes.
a
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY. Tho Ho. 2 Miner’s “ Klondike" Cruthar, Price £3l
N.S.W
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the ¥©ry finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactery
to kuow that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, b© «LTl ti ifully-fluyO T © cl blister and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
Sit o»3iy Brice. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-Street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
Sydney:
,
R23S
■■■■■
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AMD PRICES.
60 Clarence Street.
Have in Stock for Immediate Delivery—
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
ENGINES, BOILERS, COMPRESSORS, DRILLS,
CRUSHING ROLLS,
CONCENTRATORS, HUNTINGTON MILLS,
—AND —
All kinds of General Machinery and
■ Engineer Fittings and Supplies.
Blake Steam Pumps
s2%
Single & Duplex,
Vertical fk Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
Estimates given for Complete
Pumping Plants, including
Boilers, Piping, ete.
Sole Agents for Australasia
Blake Duplex
Pump.
H. P. GREGORY & DO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
r SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOSiT BROTHERS,
Sol* Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Go.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WOltvi HiMCaTON.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
BOILKH FKKB PCMF.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AJTU WIT*
Gun-metal or Iron Water End&
. . Send for Catalogue® . .
