

McEWAN’S ALE.
• V' ~
?>. a *'■
GAELIC WHISKY.
STOUT.
Pure,
therefore
Best.
7
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Mining
107 Kent:
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Street, Sydney,
—Fon— . '
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
h
BUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engine.
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK'R GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
SK*M
ĥ
ħ
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyro Steel, IWI !d Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Lin.ks, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL;CASTINGS.
DREDGING.
THOME’S
A 1 WHISKY.
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAIN ABL E A T AL L HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
a.*
II
1
h
HOBART.
■—
YOUR WATCH
WOFT CrO ?
Why not lay it aside and invest in a new one? Eight
here we introduce to your notice one of our
FAMOUS SILVER KEYLESS LEVERS,
the cases of which are solid silver. The movement i<
of the best quality, and manufactured specially for
rough handling. The balance staff pivots rotate ia
the best-quality jewels, and the balance itself is com-
pensated. This ensures the watch keeping
Accurate and Reliable Time.
On receipt of the sum of £2 we shall be pleased to
Forward this Watch on Approval,
and if you are dissatisfied with the value we wilt
return your money. Remember that this watch w
guaranteed 6 years. Thus you can h&ve
Reliable Time for a Penny a Week.
The watch will he forwarded, securely packed a*d
postage free, to any part of the Australian colonie*
on receipt of £2.
D S lUg&!R Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
v> 084 Georoe Street, Sydney.
CO
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIG MAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
PIONEER
ĥ
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading iieit of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. VV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUOOWICT&- SON, LTD.,
117 "STorls. Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of tlie System.’’
ERICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price "4/6.
SENT) FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue 9
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
ħ
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
h
HIGHLAND
CREAM
ĥ
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE GKE&EVA.T TVA-SIMI. . .
CASCADE ALE
IS BIIEnaIE
for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEOR
’O
ST., SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
JOSHUA BROS, 'nave been authorised to
SUPPLY BOOMERANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of H.M. the Queen, tlie Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
Oiarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Ifblic and
rivate Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
- ..
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
PHOTOS
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minaturhs, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s
Money Order or Cheque. '■ '
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R GENNERT,
896 FAUBOURQ ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
“ The Last of Six ” .
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Ernest Favenc. Paper covers, 141 on ■Gd
post free. ’
The Bulletin
Vol. 21.—N0. 1079. 1
[Saturday, October 20/ 1900.
Per-stcred at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a hTows^aner.


Ready Early in November.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
and Other Stories.
By ALBERT DORRINGTON
(“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
Note.— This book contains all the best stories
which Dorrington has contributed to The Bulletin,
and several unpublished tales of equal or greater
interest.
Orders addressed to The Bulletin office will be
forwarded immediately on application.
CONTENTS.
Castro’s Last Sacrament.
A Bush Tanqueray.
La Revanche.
The Mother op ant Invention.
A Bush Singer.
Red Rafferty’s Son.
The Sign op the Cross.
Silhouettes—
THE QUEEN OP CLUBS.
A STUDY IN COMPETITION.
GOLIATH.
THE SECOND SATIRE.
The Return.
Smokk-Ho !
The Curing op Little Jan Troup.
A Blind Man’s Holiday.
The King op the Domain.
The Hunchback’s Syllogism.
The Sneeze.
Cardigan.
The Coward.
In the Grip op the Martyr.
Quilp.
Price, 4s. 6d. post free.
Send P. 0.0., postal notes, or stamps of any
Australasian province.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
SYDNEY COPYING AGENCY
104 Woolloomooloo-St., Sydney.
QAREFULLY-TYPED COPIES made of rare and un-
published Books in public and private libraries.
Students’ information, literary extracts, etc., in two days.
Price according to work.
Any Book or Magazine procured at Sydney prices.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
DOUGHS, COLDS,
BIIONCIIITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
(REGISTERED).
O^
c^
yg-ai
«ipg&
m
IN TINS, IS. 6d„
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
The machinery of Words.
TUCKED unobtrusively away at the side of
the brain—leftside in most people—just
under the temple, there is a small patch of
cells and fibres upon whose activity has
depended the evolution of the human intellect
and all its works. By the mechanism of these
few square inches of tissue we hold communica-
tion with the minds of our fellows. Disorganise
or destroy this patch, and tongue and. pen
are silent, language becomes but a hissing,
clicking gibberish; the carefully-stored lean-
ing of centuries is locked up under a for-
gotten combination. A rap against a mantel-
corner, or a pin-head clot of blood swept
into its blood-supply, can reduce a Darwin to the
productive level of a piccaninny of the Cave Age.
What about the'other brain hemisphere, you ask ?
In right-handed people only the left speech area
(for the present we will include under this term
the entire mechanism) is active, for a reason to be
understood later. The corresponding area on the
other side may ultimately be educated, but it is a
lengthy process. The machinery is in duplicate
indeed, but only a single engineer is provided.
In the easy simplicity of trained brain-action,
we do not realise the extreme delicacy of the
mechanism. Speaking broadly, our power of
communication with our fellows depends on two
word-memory storehouses—one for sounds, the
other for pictures. These are connected with the
ear and the eye, and again with two sorting and
delivering agencies, where the memories of as-
sociated movements for mouth and hand, on
receiving the order, sort out and deliver what is
required in speech dr writing. Put into scientific
terms we have then (1) an auditory word memory
centre, and (2) a visual one ; (3) a glosso-kinaes-
thetic centre,, and (4) a cheiro-kinsesthetic one;
with intercommunicating nerve-tracts, connecting
all up in circuit. So simple an affair does speech
“’seem, that an occasional block in any of the in-
tricate lines or centres appears an unwarrantable
personal injury; and the apparatus works so
smoothly in health that some have prophesied
that it will become automatic, the infant speaking
as soon as it is born, like the philosopher’s babe in
the Bab Ballads.
Of the two word memory centres the auditory
is inconceivably older than it's brother of the pic-
tures ; and correspondingly better educated.
We—-the speaking, writing we—are essentially
auditive. The visual centre may be highly trained,
and educated deaf-mutes using lip and finger
language depend on it altogether ; but the audi-
tory rules all who have acquired labial speech.
It is simple enough to prove. Call up, without
definite thought, a few of the derelict Words
floating at large in your mental Atlantic—the
first words which “come into your mind.” You,
listen for them, do you not ? You cock your ear
(physical reflection of mental action); your lips
and tongue automatically endeavour to perform
the associated muscular movements necessary for
their pronunciation ; and, in the action, feqns-long
of listening, speaking ancestors outweigh the
-few poor thousand years of visual writers.
Watch the working of the machine in ordinary
speech. An impression registered through the
ettr calls the auditory centre for a reply. The
selection is made, and a word message goes to the
associated movement centre for the mouth. The
machinery of lips, tongue, and larynx is set going
to the pattern furnished by memories of previous
experience—and we speak.
* * • •
Switch on another circuit, a rather more com-
plicated one. We wklnto take a note of a striking
quotation. The eye telephones the visual centre,
which calls up the auditory for the recording of
the desired words. We pick up the pen, and the
visual centre acts further, calling up the associated
movement memories for the hand in the act of
writing. The pen scratches obediently, the audi-
tory centre dictating the while and rousing up the
associated tongue movements to check the result
if necessary. (Note how often we correct;'a slip
of the pen with an admonitory whisper). The
visual centre brings „o:it the memory-picture of
written words for the guidance of the hand, and
behold ! our quotation is duly recorded.
Writing and reading have been grafted on to
speaking and hearing. The mechanism is seen
plainly enough in the agonies of certain unskilled
penmen, so nakedly auditive, who must speak
words or letters aloud before the visual centres
can be sufficiently roused up. Under excitement
the readiest writers “throw back” like this —wit-
ness Alexandre Dumas, in the days when he wrote
his own books, yelling the defiances of his supple-
wristed heroes as he set them down. I believe the
most hardened bookfellow is not above repeating,
as it forms, any phrase which stirs him—no doubt
to the scarce-veiled perturbation of the office-boy,
who sees the weekly wage evanishing into a
padded cell.
The process, then, is sufficiently simple in
health. Suppose we try the effect of breaking the
circuit here and there, just as a clot or a passing
molecular disturbance will do in their degrees.
Cut out the mouth movement memory centre—our
man is struck speechless. Lips, tongue and
larnyx are as good as eVer for other purposes ; he
can read and write ; and he expresses very visible
annoyance at the meaningless noises which have
replaced his speech. He is suffering from motor
aphasia, and were he the whple Academia Della
Crusca under his own hat, he could not ask for a
fill of tobacco.
Another experiment. Break up the visual word,
memory centre. Now your man can talk to the
top of his pitch, but he cannot read. He has
alexia ; all written or printed words have lost their
associated meanings. He can write spontaneously
in an uncertain hand, but he cannot read what he
writes. Yesterday, perhaps, he could read San-
scrit inscriptions; to-day he doesn’t know his
own signature.
Again. Destroy the auditory word centre,
where sound memories are stored. Your, man is
one of those who fled from Babel, on the plains of
Shinar. He can hear sounds as well,-as ever—as
sounds; but all spoken tongues have turned to
meaningless jargon. He is word deaf; he has lost
his mentaldictionary and phrase-book. Since the
auditory centre is the real controlling centre of
the whole area, there are other disturbances. He
can read well, but speech and writing are very de-
fective. Wrong words and syllables slip in with-
out his knowledge. The visual centres help him
somewhat through the communication, but the
governing power is gone.
• * * *
Now for the scribes. Cut out the hand memory
movement centre and our victim is straightway
in a condition of agraphia. Hand and arm are as
snpple and strong as ever ; he can read and speak
thoroughly ; nothing is wrong except—except that
when he handles a pen only a meaningless scrawl
results in place of the clean-cut sentences which
erstwhile were the delight of editors. Complicate
this with the destruction of the auditory centre
and its connections, and had he the collective
genius of the Elizabethans he must needs be mute
of tongue and pen. A spicule of dislodged bone,
the plugging or rupture of an artery little bigger
than a hair, can reduce the productive level of a
Stephen Crane belo.w that of a Solomon Islander.
Just a stumble against a mantel-corner—think of
that as you drink tobacco ! There is hope, though,
in uncomplicated agraphia, for the left hand can
be readily-enough educated, with its governing
power.
Other disturbances incidentally crop up in
injuries about the speech area. Arnusia, an abso-
lute incapacity for distinguishing musical tone Or
rhythm, may result in similar fashion from injury
or disease. It depends on the destruction of cer-
tain storage cells closely related to the auditory
word centre. Again, a man may have his visual
centres mysteriously reversed so that he writes
backwards and can only read from the reflection
in a mirror. He may become mind-blind, so that
objects have for him no associated meaning;
he can neither recollect the use of a fork nor of
the food it accompanies. The painter forgets the
meaning and use of a brush ; the writer that of a
pen. Mind-deafness may smite him so that sounds
lose their purport, -and a cry of murder becomes as
destitute of meaning as the tinkle of a dinner-
bell, though he be both humane and hungry. It
is well thus to remind ourselves, in this Tin Grod
Age of mah, that our ideas and impressions are
poor, uncertain things depending on the accurate
working of a very intricate mechanism, and that
a small disturbance may make a large difference
in the picture presented to the Ego.
There are points of interest in the dry physio-
logy of the speech-centre. We naturally seek a
reason for its location on the left side in the great
majority of brains, and find it in the associated
use of the, right hand. The nerve-fibres of ope
hemisphere always supply the opposite side of
the body. Right-headness depends primarily upon
the freer blood-flow obtained by the straighten
course of the left carotid artery as compared with
the right. In the left-handed the position of the
speech centre is reversed, depending probably
(although the question has never been definitely
settled) upon some arterial peculiarity. Anropos,
I once knew a man of strange ideas who insisted
that his children should be so trained as to become
ambidextrous. His aim was that they should de-
velope, not greater dexterity, but increased facul-
ties of speech. Reasoning from anatomical pre-
mises, he argued that the increased blood-flow to
the left-hand centres of the right hemisphere
would tend to stimulate tire adjacent speech-
centres to an equal activity with those of the op-
posite-side, thereby cultivating a double fluency
of tongue. The experiment was not a success, and
as yet the double-barrelled orator cannot be grown
at will. The specific gravity of the portion of
brain corresponding to the active speech centre
is appreciably higher than that of the opposite
latent one, and this specialised area has a greater
complexity of convolutions than its uneducated
brother. The reason for the one-sided develop-
ment lies in the fact that the extreme concentra-
tion of nerve-force necessary for such complicated
processes as speech and writing is rendered pos-
sible only by the limitation of the area of activity
to the smallest possible space. Nature is no
spendthrift.
* * » *
Regarding the theory of the existence of an in-
dependent centre for ideational concepts, from
which thoughts spring fully armed like Minerva
from the brain of Jove, no definite proof is forth-
coming either way. Non-believers argue that all
thought arises in the auditory centre as a result of
external stimulation —that all thought requires a
physical foundation for its inception. The other
side premises the existence of an independent
centre capable of actually originating ideas. The
weight of anatomical argument is in the affirma-
tive scale. There are brain areas close by which
do not belong to any other body function, and
which may well be assumed as having definite
association with the speech mechanism. More-
over, these areas are undeveloped in any animal
except man, and in the infant do not take on the
characteristics of active brain-matter until a con-
siderable time after birth.
I have explained the machinery of words suffi-
ciently, perhaps, to show dimly something of its
method. Actual cases are seldom so clear as the
experimental instances we have called up, since
the destruction does not limit itself to this centre
or to that, and the phenomena must be picked
out of a jumble of symptoms by patient observa-
tion. It is a fine piece of mechanism, this brain
of man; and the Doctrine of Small Causes
dominates its working. Given but a dislodged
bone-speck entangled in the wheels, and we
become as those other sages of whom Omar sang
that—
“. . . their words to scorn
Are scattered and their Mouths are stopt with
Hust.”
V.
POYYAKA.
Sydney Art and Artists.
Another artist talks on the burning question of
Art in Sydney— -
Of course the triple subsidy should be abolished. I
agree that the results of the Technical College classes
show a ridiculous waste of time and money. Why, my
second-month pupils show better work than was hung in
the exhibition solemnly blessed by Minister Berry. But
are the results of the Societies’ classes so very much
better? One Society gives us a wooden uniformity of
pupils’ work—the master’s heavy hand runs all through,
crushing Out individuality with his particular formula.
It isn’t education—leading out; it’s lessons driven in. My
idea of a good teacher is a man who lets his students
develop themselves —suggests and stimulates, but leaves
them free to work (heir own salvation. If they can’t
become artists of themselves, a teacher can’t pound art
into them. .
The work of the other Society’s students seems to me
plebeian, mechanical. .
And if N.S.W. Gallery trustees were entrusted with a
single Govt, subsidy for tuition, it would he the greatest
mistake in the world to put one artist, however good an
artist or efficient a teacher, in charge of all the
classes. Divide the work up among the artists, and
you’ll help the artists and profit the students. In-
stead of giving £5OO a year to one man, give £lOO a year
to five, and let the trustees or a sub-committee of them
act as honorary directors, examine the students’ work
every six months, and judge the results so as- to
pass the students from class to class. Suppose, for ex-
ample, Vander Velden were put in charge of a composition
class, Long-staff in the life-class, ahd Ashton and others
were given the nude, the antique, the draped model,
geometry and perspective; and the rest, while another
man took a preparatory class,—l know and affirm that
you would get better results than if any artist taught
everything single-handed. No local artist excels in every
branch. Why not take specialists in each, and let the
students benefit ?
I would n’t even appoint any teachers permanently—not
until after six months, anyway. Let them come as pro.
bationers, and let their teaching powers be judged by
their students’work. A committee of trustees could sit
in judgment, or four of the artists might pass the other’s
students from class to class.
The Govt, money will be wasted if the change merely
means a lucrative billet and a man to fill it—you mark
my words!
Another idea.
Here the. Gallery trustees go round the Societies’ shows
with so much to spend ; and if you don’t sell your big
picture, you’re done. ..Nobody else Js likely tp buy it.
Result : . Our artists are more and more pressed to con-
fine themselves to little sketches which do not fully
show their talents, give no scope for their best energies.
I suggest that, if the Trustees have £5OO to spend, they
spend say £4OO on pictures, and £lOO in giving medals
and small money prizes for work not purchased, but
worthy. ' That would cost little, and greatly encourage
the artists. The smallest distinction, the smallest
reward, are better than none. Besides, a picture so dis-
tinguished has a cachet of honour, and is more likely to
find a purchaser. I recommend this idea to the Gallery
trustees. f
Another idea.
When a work comes back from exhibition, no matter
how much time or pains he has spent upon it, it comes
back to face thejwall of the artist’s studio. He can send
it to a picture-dealer if he likes; but as a rule it isn’t
worthwhile. Why can’t the Gallery trustees, or Govt'.,
or the Societies, arrange a permanent exhibition, where
an artist can hang his work all the year round on the
chance of getting a. purchaser. The rent Wouldn’t be
very much —not as much as the Societies spend in keep-
ing two salons empty for the best part of the year ; and
the exhibition would be attractive to the public,
even if they only came to disparage. That could
be done in one of the Gallery annexes, or in a
building hired in town. And there are lots of returned
pictures which our country cousins and visitors, who
have n’t had the chance of seeing them - on exhibition,
would like to have a look at—maybe to bu^.
Now, these are practical ideas—good for the" public and
good for the artist, who wants all the good he can get.
And when these ideas are digested I’ll give you some
more.
Amen!
—-
Not long ago died R.W. Bro. Henderson, a
prominent Freemason of Bend go (Vic.). In his
life R. W. Bro. Henderson’s portrait was painted
by Lon^staff; after his death it was painted by
Wor. Bro. Harry Hall, P.G.D. Follows : tha
commentary of the Freemasons’ organ ( Masonry,
Sept. 27) upon the second portrait,
The painting of the picture was entrusted to Wor. Bro.
Harry Hall, P.G.D., Eyre-street, Ballarat, and he had for
his guidance only a portrait of the deceased taken some
little tiifie before his demise. In the Art Gallery of the
city of Bendigo hangs a portrait by Longstaff on a larger
canvas, which cost the citizens some £l5O, and although
it presents, perhaps, some intrinsic values commensurate
with the greater cost, as a likeness of the deceased, and
for a natural and easy position, it offers no advantages
over that painted so successfully by Wor. Bro. Hall. . . .
Charming, isn’t it?
A publisher has been found for “ More Journals
of Marie Bashkirtseff ’’—when the subject-interest
is exhausted. And when the translated “Letters”
were offered, the publisher wouldn’t give £5O for
them.
Mrs. Craigie’s (“John Oliver Hobbes”) new
novel, “ Robert Orange,” is heavier than “The
School for Saints,” which was 80 per cent, pure
lead. Instead of buying it, read her early books
over again, and profit both ways.
London’s spring publishing season is reported
the worst for twenty years. Pfebple read about War
in the newspapers, and didn’t buy books —nor did
publishers. The current autumn season promised
a little better, they say; but opened badly
enough.
Henry Newbolt edits for John Murray a new
maga .—The Monthly Review, whose first number
is dug in Australia shortly.
A verselet by Gpe'the-i-reputed unpublished till
t’other day—
HER RE 1 CHE MANN.
Ich bin cin reicher Mann ; ich habe
Has goettliche Geschenk, die Gabe
MU Wenigem. beynueyt zuscin :
Her Frcunde viel, ein gut' Geivisscn,
Ein Maedchen wdlig mich zu kucssen,
Und taeglich cine Flasche Wein.
A dainty version may be sent.
Swinburne’s revised and collected poems, in six
volumes or more, are promised for publication
next year.
Wm. E. Smythe, in “The Conquest of Arid
America,” recently published by Harper, finds
that U.S. soil and climate away from the seaboard
are producing the best crops and the best men.
The theory is that chemical plant-foods and
formed in the “weathering ” of rocks
to make soil, are washed away from the sea-
board states which lack “the inestimable blessing
of aridity.” Maybe our Australian desert, then,
will yet.prove our best heirloom from the ages.
Dr. .Ralph Worrall, of Sydney, in Austra-
lasian Medical Gazette for September, reports
the-case'of a. two-months’ ovum retained m utcro
for nine months —the patient’s health remaining
excellent all the time. At the end of nine months
she was delivered of a two-months’ child ; and Dr.
Worrall comments—
Had this woman’s husband been absent for eight dr
nine months prior to the expulsion of the ovum, there are
few medical men who, Seeing the patient then for the
first time, would not have felt convinced that illicit inter-'
course must have taken place about two mouths pre-
viously.
From a medico-legal point of view this case is thus
of great importance.
Alex. M.—
In making Boaliieea belong to “ the dark-haired Celtic
race,” “ Willewa (6/10/0), is misled by the erroneous
popular application of the designation ” to the
non-Aryan race which occupied Britain before the arrival
of the people, which subsequently opposed the Roman
invasion. The former people, the Silures (now more
commonly called by ethnologists—on account of demon-
strated affinities With certain Continental races—the
Iberians) were small, dark, dolichocephalic, buried their
dead under what are known as “ long burrows,” and are
how represented-chiefly in Wales, the Highlands, and the
West of Ireland. In Ireland and in the Highlands, in-
deed, very potable is the existence, of this type side by
side with the big, raw-boned, red-headed descendant of
the race that invaded Britain about the beginning of the
Bronze-Age—the race to which Boadicea belonged, and
to which, as spea,ldng an Aryan tongue of the group now
known as Celtic, the name of Celts most properly belongs.
And this race—which buried under “ round burrows”—
was, upon undeniable- exhumatory evidence, tall, strong,
and brachyeephalie ; while, upon equally indisputable
contemporary historical testimony (Lucan, Vitruvius,
Tacitus, &e.), it was florid and light-haired. Dion Caseius,
indeed, describes Boadicea herself, in so manj- words, as
having “ great proportions, a fierce aspect, and an abun-
darjeeof tawny hair.”
N.Y‘. Century Maga. Co. is issuing a new
“Library of Music,” with Paderewski as chief
editor—nominally, anyway. Twenty volumes ;
illustrated—biographical—and “the cream of
pianoforte music ” newly phrased and marked by
latest methods.:
An Australian writer hit the blot on S'. F. Argo-
naut when he received this notice recently—
The editors regret that they do not find the enclosed
manuscript available for the Argonaut, and return it
with their thanks. We do not print original verse.
The would-be contributor’s comment : “ Isn’t it
sad ! ‘I never felt the same since I had wee
Johnny’!” -
From Mercure de France.


Size, when closed, 6in. over all.
W. JNO. BAKER’S
Wire Key Sportsman’s Knife
(Registered)
Contains Pile, Wire Key, Lance Blade, Long Skinning Blade, Screw Driver,
Leather Punch and Tin Opener combined, Cartridge Extractor, Corkscrew,
Gimlet, Rhymer, Picker, Tweezer, Shackle, with Tab
Chain, complete, mm
each.
Post Free.
21/-
Tab Chain has Hook and Button Tab for securing knife against loss,
or Belt Pouch in lieu of Chain, if preferred.
£2T Please Write for Free Illustrated Catalogue.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
js— —Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SYDNE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
L \
V?
4
lilt
Vr'
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
*
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
■ ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
| CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention,
i THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
iDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
'■ LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
'Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extrn powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
ASTORAL
INANCE
SSOC’N I. TO.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
i r nv
uoj: hivh ceoo-o
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and living Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
g&T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
gar For RESTORING GREY lIAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, 6s. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. (soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE*
h
C B B
sfloo
I- IS&.
5f107
5800
*<?,
oor lo or hum.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipe.s
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
i application. Thousands Selling 1 Daily.
r CBB
BRIAR
snonwiis mill
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere*
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges*.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming' Wool Season
2J
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
I
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
2 per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Gd. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. Gd. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Sliins Held 'Weekly.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
8 OUis’ Velveteen.
'o\*\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\*+
NOTE WELL! —Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L" , O ,, U"S"S an£ * * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
oOtiJiltt'aftiihcCd,
Regd.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
ĥ
0&Ui)ltld
ħ
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
BTOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, Ceorgre St., Sydney.
Publications.
LADIES >■
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.l.i 300 Collins St.| Melbourne.
Bo oka. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for ±T. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for t 2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-street, Sidney.
h
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET ISS!
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
I T - T,XTaTR A TED
TyiTH numerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
ing. A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
_ - (stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.O.f SYDNEY.
ĥ
Publications.
Tmcocotn
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by l) r .
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
I üblisherg : Ttivnev and Hendevson, SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOP/EDIA.
Srt«l W . ish , to p , OS! i es3 ' You can—the knowledge im-
l>y this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
mofo n„Hi „ 0O " S , Je,a t,le w >iole subject from the time y you
other t!S7' ' ba s hful P ne e S s 9 , and many
K,‘S;rM sstws* “SXiSiSIfFJ
?V Itlrln V rn 01,0 | y 0" * ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING (h?
th& te pa,“r wH wHtlng. Geor S e st - S Y dne Y. N.S.W. Mention
RARE & CURIOUS
BUMS
ENGLISH, FRENCH,
GERMAN.
LargestCatal. with Model, nice
25 miniat. 3 Sh.
APPY <sc Co.,
65 Rue Pigralle,
PARIS, FRANCE.
ETC.,
LOW PRICES.
lll g iuinerais, 68 (Jd : Lock’s ’i . „ *
Eissler’s MeUllur Joold I7 S - W 14s 5
Guide, 5s 6d ; Danas’ Min’eralosrv ’isT fid^T 3 ,*? n £ lneer ’ 8
13s ; Wellington’s Railway Sion 26s ’ PoS ®° ilera ’
Address. Catalogues Gratis. J. DON air d J ln - V
Booksellers, 34e\.«,„ K ,£,£*


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS. Hobart.
MELBOURNE 0.
Not. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
£
MELBOURNE 0. Not. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
MELBOUKNE 0. (Special).
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me „shares in above.
Name ;
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
;V : . ; . ' .'tfll' :
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
(Sitfg Bgst Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
S§B
\
\
V
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24- Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating,pils, as used on the Railways of
N.B. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
<sf
a np
f °*
V^'
ħ
Chills
Ever become
chilled through and
through ?
The acute sen-
sation of cold is
followed by fever-
ishness and aches in
all parts of the body.
Finally the whole
trouble settles in the
throat and lungs in
the shape of a cough.
There is nothing
so bad for a cough
as coughing.
i^rm
cherry.
Pectoral
will cure these chills and coughs. A
few doses are sufficient at first. More
time is required later on.
Stop coughing and you will get well.
Keep coughing and you invite bronchi-
tis, pueumonia, or even consumption
itself. Better stop your cough at once
and thus end the whole matter.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &• Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
6 IXyWIUDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SPECIAIj KTOTICB.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 313 t DECEMBER, 1900.
AT.L POLICIES issued before the close of the current year will participate in the profits to lie then distributed.
The Amount of CASH BONUSES distributed among the participating policy-holders during the single year 1S!)&
was £510,771 (bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). Every Year a Bonus Year,
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their proposals at once, either direct or through,
the Society’s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
DIRECTORS—Sir J. P. Abbott, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman ; Tiros. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman; Joseph
Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C- ; The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.O. ; B. Short, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary —RlCHAßD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
h
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
B3T Send for a
Catalogue.
ĥ
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIEIC, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SinAILE
ħ
FOR THE
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMOIMIAL »
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
QjU ■e-v-udXn aM C
2 S'* 1 iS<fS>.
•[fill (MsUlsC£ 9 HaaaaJ
C U: ukx. 'fajz&L <2-o'^,
,2^£X^w/C«
n/v-v
KOKO
h
HAIR
Eradicates S-urf and Danir ff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimon als prove it to be undoub edlyth* Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Coo', & I n vigors tl •- g. i-, 2 6*4 6 siz*- s, cfall Chemists,
Stores *c. THE KOKO PAS CO.. ! TO.. I*. P-v's mUDOW, ENG.
EDWARDS’
ĥ
FOR
THE
HAIR
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dress ng, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Palace throughout the World.
ħ
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace , Athens, Greece.
H R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs. Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
Palace of Prince Royal, A /hens.
H.R.H. The PUKE OF SPARTA requires six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Psierhnzy Uteza.3o. Bvda-Pest.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HQHINLOHE writes : Please send ir.e three bottles
of “ Harlene “foTthTHahby return. Crete.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of GREECE {High Commissioner 0/Crete)
writes: Please - to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
Bottle,
everywhere.
X/. # 2/6, and (3 times »/6 size), 4'6 per
KT.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Sadcilery Matif. Company
193 to 195 Cieveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 16; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Sprint: Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, ell.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S t i'OLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bs
misled by any firms who say they will deHver for lea*
than we oan. They oannot do so, and you pay 16 per
am t more for your requirements.
(close to Itedfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL So. 2
£8 18/6
h
DcllTered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Hallways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It now turns out that the tombstone (B.
l/8/’OO) found in Little River, Canterbury (M.L.),
inscritied “ sacred to the memory of B. Townsend ;
died A.D. 1774,” was a little joke on the part of a
Chinaman employed by surveyor B. Townsend in
1874. After surveying the Kaituna estate this
genius erected a rude stone and put the date back
a hundred years, making it appear that Towns-
end had “pegged out’’tour years after Captain
Cook visited Australia.
Navvying.
O ! it’s trench it at the edges, and it’s undermine
below,
A bar or two behind it —heave away, and “Let
her go! ”
And the shouting of the gangers can be heard
above the din,
From the “bank” below the township where
the “ lads ” are “ linking in,”
And the shovels are a-grating in the gravel and
the clay,
As We load the old muck-waggons on the tem-
porary way.
“ Fill ’em up, ye sons of —horses, there ! and
hook-on blanky quick ! ”
And you’re never kept a-waiting with the shovel
and the pick.
Then it’s keep the shovels going though you’re
failing in the back,
And you haven’t quite recovered from the
starving On the track ;
And it’s keep the waggons rolling till the “ sprag-
ger ” makes a slip,
And the foremost goes a-crashing into splinters
off the “ tip.”
“Hi! you upon the slope, there, have you got
an eye at all ?
Cut down them bloomin’ bumps a bit and regu-
late the fall.
No pointin’ there, Maloney, or ! Look out!
it’s falling, lads ! . . .
Here, nipper, to the blacksmith like the devil
with those gads ! . . .
Stand by and let the waggons in—once more, ye
cripples, go ! ”
And anxious ears are waiting for the dinner-time
“YoHo!”
And for building up an appetite there’s nothing
known can lick
A morning’s heavy grafting with the shovel and
the pick.
Then it’s keep the picks a-swingmg till the sweat
is all a-drip,
And the waggon-wheels are ringing as they’re
rolling to the “tip,”
For the Co. is in a hurry and the contract’s got to
pay,
And it wants a lot of muscle for the “ six-an-eight
a day.”
So, it’s grafting in the daytime, and it’s drinking
beer at night,
And it’s “ headin’ ’em ” on Sundays, or it’s looking
at a fight.
Though it isn’t elevating you will follow for the
fun,
And get yourself a “ plugging ” p’rhaps before the
day is done.
Ah! well, the brute’s but hidden by the regal
raiment bright,
And the grime upon the navvy often hides a man
that’s white.
His mind it may be rusted, but bis sympathy is
quick,
And of sin he’s fully shriven by the shovel and
the pick.
v.
BEN SUN.
A White Man.
There was a man on the Western Side
With a heart as big as his lands were wide;
For his squatter-friends he had open door,
And a helping hand for the weak and poor ;
He was the heir of an ancient race,
With a firm hand-grip and a laughing face,
And a courtly style and a record fair,
And they called him the White Man everywhere.
And the swagmen passing at any hour
Had their pound of meat and their pint of flour ;
And the drivers bogged on the black-soil plain
Never asked for the White Man’s help in vain,
For the famous team with the Spade-Bar brand
Would slew them out to the nearest sand ;
And the teamsters swore, as they took the track :
“ He is the Whitest Man out-back ! ”
But the droughts made havoc of grass and sheep,
And lined his forehead and wrecked his sleep ;
And troubles came to him one by one,
Till the Bank took over his river-run,
And left him one paddock that men might say
They had not taken his all away ;
And he toiled at the plough behind the hill
But the bushmen knew him a White Man still.
And there came a day when the White Man died,
And the neighbors gathered from far and wide,
From far and wide and the fenceless west
To follow their friend to his last long rest;
And the bushmen crowded from far and near,
Bronze cheeks wet with a silent tear,
For out in the land of the sunsets red
They know how to honor a White Man dead.
And they buried him down where the wattles
grow,
By the road where the wool-teams come and go,
Where the night is a splendid silence, save
For the curlews calling across his grave ;
And, stumbling under their world-old load,
The swagmen turn from the dusty road
To the truth of the head-stone’s carven scroll:
“He was a White Man : rest his soul! ”
N.S.W.
WILL OGILVIE.


THE
PLUM
h
Price—SINOLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plain Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. tpji;
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIGI «Sb AITKIBINr, 630 GEORGE ST.. SYDOTBY
The Australian Ujidoas’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
niWTR BAniuTv • .J.,. Established 1871.
J. • 1 V V? n t,on to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
wiuoh issues Special Policies granting—
it R i e "’ iss ; on °f proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
' ■ A 1 aid-up Policy m the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Dir rotors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENYVICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman:
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 CtEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
'pSk'v'T.U' i
msrm
FEDERAL hike HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
11. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
ĥ
The enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your Wool and Produce is one of the ways in which we have studied your interests
before our own.
our supporters.
IX IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in getting every possible good result for
GIVE US
YOUR BUPPORT
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
STHE BEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L™
Financiers; Wool , Hides , Tallow, Shins , General Produce Brokers.
;aNvug 3HiivAnnj:
El
BB
fev'
s tottc
Qhco
P&B SPECIAL No. 3
is a Preservative Paint of exceptionably heavy body, it
absolutely water-proof, dries readily, and leaves a protect-
ing coating equal to S coats of good metallic Paint. A
gallon covers dbovt ISO square feet of smooth surface ,
P&B SPECIAL No. 3
(s useful for coating Brick, Cement or Wooden Tanks,
Floors, Foundation Timbers, Mudsills, and Joist Ends
in Bride or Stone Walls, Fence Posts, etc. For painting
the hulls of Boats and Barges before an anti-fouling
Paint is applied, P&B Special No. S has no equal.
P*B SPECIAL NO 3
P&B SPECIAL No. 3
while wet has a strong odour, but when dry it becomes per-
fectly odourless, leaving a surface that won’t taint water
the second time it passes over it. Its colour is a good
black. Be sure you get the genuine P A B SPECIAL
No. 3.
P& B RED IDEAL PAINT
is an ideal colouring, and water-proofing surface far New,
Faded or Discoloured Tiled Roofs; it. dries very slowly.
It is specially adapted as a Colour Paint on RUBEROID
ROOFS, and may be used as a priming coat under any
colour desired.
E. RICH
COMPANY LIMITED. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Sydney y for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 21.—N0. 1079.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 11)00.
Prick 6d.
THE FEDERAL CAPITAL QUESTION.
(The Commissioner has recommended only three sites for the Capital out of a possible 1001.)
Average Citizen from Up-Country (armed with a dub and a bull-dog): “Is Mr. Olver in?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... .... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing With Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 5000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and, White .
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions. under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street fie Co., Cornliill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2hß Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in VictoriaS. Australia,
Westralia and, Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l £<£. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth —
Federal Old Age Pensions.
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have
power to make laws for the peace, order and good govern-
ment of the Commonwealth with respect to
XXIII. Invalid and Old Age Pensions.— Commonwealth
Constitution clause 51.
So far none of the States of the coming
Commonwealth has really established an Old
Age Pension system, though the matter is
being talked about with the same deadly and
abstract persistence that has made N.S.W.’s
Local Government Bill and Sydney’s city
railway cheerful but unproductive subjects
of conversation for 35 years. Maoriland,
where a virile race does things, instead of
being only on the verge of doing them, has
led the way, and proved that the Old Age
Pension idea is practicable, and perfectly
within the range of everyday politics. Vic-
toria has proved the same thing accidentally
and without being aware of the fact. Under
a disastrous Civil Service Act, passed by
certain wildly irresponsible parties in the
very early days, Victoria is paying about
£312,000 a year in pensions, not to the poor
and aged, but to a rather affluent class—
many of them not at all aged. The pension
law was repealed nearly 20 years ago so far
as concerned new-comers into the Civil Ser-
vice, but its consequences remain, and will,
remain, though in a constantly diminishing
degree, for many years. According to Maori-
land experience, and according to the respec-
tive populations, £312,000 a year would be
about sufficient to provide for every indigent
male and female Victorian of 60 or 65 and
upwards. The State pays this sum t j its ex-
civil servants with so little effort that
probably not one voter in twenty is aware
that the responsibility exists ; and while the
Tories of the land denounce Old Age Pensions
as an impossible burden Victoria proves
every day, without being really conscious of
ihe fact, that there is no real difficulty in the
matter. The State Governments of New
South Wales, Victoria, and S.A. are all
understood to be “ considering the matter ”
with great energy, and the other three States
are supposed to be keeping it in view—with
rather less energy, perhaps, but very steadily.
In fact, some kind of Old Age Pension
system is inevitable in several of the Aus-
tralias within a very few years, either as a
State or as a Federal responsibility.
* m * m
The reason why it should be made a
Federal matter is that the Central Govern-
ment can carry the system out more
thoroughly than the individual States. As
a matter of necessity there must be a
residence as well as an age stipulation.
The applicant must qualify by living in the
State for a certain number of years—enough
to make it reasonably certain that he gave
the State some value in labour and taxes, and
in carrying the other burdens of citizenship,
before he began to receive value from it.
If any State granted Old Age Pensions with-
out a residence qualification it would become
a home for the Aged of all Nations, and on
the deck of every incoming ship the white
heads of the applicants for State aid would
be like Kiandra’s snows in winter time.
Therefore, if the matter is left to the States,
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria, Tasmania,
S. A., and Westralia can each pension, out
of its own resources, the aged inhabitant
who has spent, say, 25 years of his working
life in Queensland or N.S.W., or Victoria,
or Tasmania, or S.A., or Westralia, as the
case may be. That is all they can do. And
when this has been done there will remain,
unprovided for and rejected all round, a
multitude of good old deserving Australians,
who have spent, it may be, all their
years in this country, and done it good
service, but who never remained long
enough in one State to qualify anywhere.
The hardiest of the pioneers—the prospec-
tors, carriers, shearers, cattle-men, pearl-
fishers, the men who find new goldfields,
new pastoral country and new stock-routes,
the great legion that never was listed, the
whole tribe of Clancy of the Overflow—
would be shut out. The inhabitants who
vegetated would qualify for pensions because
their vegetable souls kept them in one place.
The inhabitants who opened up Australia
wouldn’t. But if the Old Age Pension sys-
tem is the concern of the Federal Govern-
ment, then the only needful qualifications
will be that the applicant must be in need,
of the prescribed age, and have put in so
many years’ residence anywhere in Aus-
tralia or Tasmania—or in Maoriland, when
Maoriiand comes in. To leave the pension
system in the hands of the States when
there is a Federal Government to attend to
it would be to greatly reduce its usefulness
and make it a gratuitous mockery.
• • • *
And when the Federal Government does
take the matter up it will probably find it
one of the best investments any Government
ever undertook. Australia wants to gain
population, and when it is known as the
one country in the world where an old
citizen can’t come to absolute want, that will
bring population. It will probably do more
in that direction than all the millions of
revenue money and loan money that have
been spent in promoting immigration. Aus-
tralia wants to retain its own population,
and there will be a strong inducement for
population to, remain in the only country
which offers something better and more
reliable than a workhouse or Benevolent
Asylum to the impecunious citizen-in his
last years. The Old Age Pension system
will probably cost the Commonwealth
£1,000,000 or £1,500,000 a year for a popu-
lation of 4,000,000, and the bill will naturally
increase as population increases. But at
present the charitable votes of the various
States amount to about £600,000 or £700,000
a year, and that also tends to increase as
population grows., In all probability about
half of this amount will be saved. Private
charity absorbs a sum which it is im-
possible to accurately estimate, though
it is certainly a vast amount, and much
of this will also be saved. There will
be a saving in gaol expenses when the
broken-down pioneer is no longer run in
under the vagrancy laws. There will be a
certain saving in hospital expenses, in
coroner’s inquests upon the ancient who is
“ found dead,” and in pauper funerals. The
pressure on the labour market will be some-
what relieved when the fringe of broken-
down toilers, who are now ready to sell such,
powers as they still possess at almost any
price, are no longer on the market, and that
will make things better for those who re-
main, and reduce the expenditure on relief
works and other like expedients. The grant
of a pension of, say, 10s. per week to every
impecunious male and female of 60 or 65
who can show a reasonable residence qualifi-
cation may look a large order, but the
burden will be alleviated by so many savings
that it will probably be found only half as
large as it appears. So far as concerns the
other half, it will be merely a question of
systematising the relief already granted,
making it a matter of right instead of
a favour, abolishing the pauper element
in the receiver and the arrogant pat-
ronage of the giver, placing the pen-
sioner in the position of a free citizen
who has simply come into the annuity he
has himself paid for by his tax-contributions
in better days, and enabling him to collect
iFwilhout cringingTo any unpleasant person
clothed in a little brief authority.
* • *9
Probably, in the long run, an Old Age
Pension system which costs £1,500,000 a
.year will be less of a burden on the com-
munity than a £5,000,000 British loan at
per cent.—and heaven knows that is a bur-
den on which this country enters lightly
enough. It is always made a condition that
the old-age pensioner must live in the
country, and therefore circulate his little
income in the country. By spending' his
money here he improves trade and helps the
grocer and butcher and other deserving and
more or less greasy fellow-creatures on their
path, and if in 40 years perhaps
£60,000,000 has been spent in Old Age Pen-
sions, the money hasn’t left the country, and
the country is none the poorer in the aggre-
gate. And in 40 years a £5,000,000 British
loan at 3| per cent, takes £7,000,000 in cash
out of the country and out of circulation,
and leaves the country that much poorer,
and its expenditure doesn’t aid the local
grocer and butcher in any way. The differ-
ence between £7,000,000 and £60,000,000
may be large, but £7,000,000 taken out of
the country is certainly much more costly
than £60,000,000 left in it.
* * * *
When the Commonwealth Government
takes over the vexed Old Age Pension ques-
tion it is to be hoped that it will do it in a
wide and generous spirit. Above all it is to
be hoped that it will drop the weary shib-
boleth about confining State aid to the “ de-
serving.” If a citizen has the requisite age
and residence qualifications, and is in need,
no further questions should.be asked. If he
is undeserving by reason of drink it should
be remembered that drink is one of the
principal sources of revenue, and he has
manfully aided the State with his mouth,
and helped to keep down the deficit. If he
is undeserving through mere shiftlessness it
should be remembered that the man who
gets up does it through being a little more
energetic and intelligent than those who re-
main down, and many a man who
is a semi-millionaire to-day attained to
that giddy elevation through being a
great fool but not quite so great a fool as
others. If the bulk of the community wasn't
shiftless, most of the members of the Upper
House would be in the road-metal business,
and they should bear lightly on those whose
incapacity enabled such incapable persons as
themselves to be less incapable than the
average, and to profit by it. If the undeserv-
ing person spends his pension in drink, the
State has the satisfaction of getting three-
fourths of it back in liquor duties, and of
knowing that it will be rid of an undesirable
person all the sooner. A thoroughly un-
deserving citizen may drink himself to death
with one year s pension, and the economist
who would keep him alive and miserable and
useless for 20 years by confinement in some
kind of dry asylum is a person whose £ s. d.
is defective. Even if the pension applicant
is a chronic gaol-bird there is at least the
satisfaction of- knowing that, should he
relapse and go back to gaol, his pension will
be saved during his confinement. And if he
doesn’t relapse—if the possession of a small
regular income induces him to keep out of gaol
—it probably costs less to pay him his pension
when he is out of prison than to maintain
him in it, so there is satisfaction that way
also. At all events, when the undeserving
person is old and past work he must live on
the community somehow , unless he is pole-
axed by special Act of Parliament, If he
gets a pension he will probably live on the
community as cheaply that way as any other,
and the public will at least have the advant-
age of having his address, which will make
it easier for the police to find him should he
relapse into crimes and be wanted. There
is no real reason to believe that the State
would save anything appreciable by refusing
the undeserving patriarch his pension. It
is even possible that it would lose heavily. It
might economise by refusing his little
allowance to the good man ; he would pro-
bably starve to death quietly and-inexpen-
sively. The bad man helps himself and
breaks things, and runs the country into
grievous outlay. The community has itself
to consider in other ways also. If it refuses
a pension to the otherwise qualified old man
who is past work merely because he has been
a frequent law-breaker, and he is driven
thereby to drown himself in the com-
munity’s water-butt, his moral badness
doesn’t make the circumstance any the less
unwholesome.
The Victorian Political Crisis—A Man
Wanted.
Last week, the M‘Lean-Shiels Government
ascertained, to its surprise, that it hadn’t fully
sized-up the vastness of the effrontery of Vic-
toria’s famous House of Landlords. That body
has already rejected, on five different occasions,
a Womanhood Suffrage Bill, passed in the Assem-
bly by overwhelming majorities. One Liberal
Government after another has gone to the people
with Womanhood Suffrage as an essential feature
of its programme, and the people have endorsed
it in the only way hitherto open to them, bv
electing supporters of the measure with huge
majorities. But, despite this unanimous support,
the House of 48 Rich Landlords has persistently de-
clared that “ the people hadn’t demanded Woman-
hood Suffrage,” and rejected the measure accord-
ingly. Of course, it was impossible to absolutely
prove that the people had demanded it. A General
Election turns on a dozen large questions, and a
hundred small ones, and on the personal character
and influence and private or political or social or
sectarian record of one or two or three hundred
candidates. The people can’t clearly specify
which were the especial items in the Ministerial
policy that made them put the Ministry m power.
The Victorian electors have kept the Liberal
party in office for many years and by huge majori-
ties. And the Victorian House of Landlords has
rejected or grievously mangled almost every
important item of the policy on which the Liberal
party was returned, and declared regarding each
one that it wasn’t the particular item which made
the people return the Liberal party.
* * * *
The Womanhood Suffrage Bill being rejected
for the fifth time on the old, weary, lying Tory gag
“the people,haven’t demanded this measure” the
M‘Lean Government decided to find out for
certain whether the people did demand it or not.
It proposed that, at next month’s General
Election, a referendum should be taken on the
Woman’s Suffrage question separately. And the
House of Landlords rejected the Referendum Bill
also, with a shriek of horror and by a large majority.
It intimated that it was absolutely opposed to the
principle of the Referendum on this question and
on every other question. So, to all intents and
purposes, it defines its positional! us :
You (the Assembly) represent 252,000 electors. We
(the Council) nominally represent 129,000.
You actually represent your 252,000 electors, for they
are allowed to select practically any one of their own
number to represent them.
We (the Council) don’t in any sense represent our
129,000 electors. By reason of the property qualification
for membership these 129,000 mostly-Liberal electors are
allowed to choose their representatives from among about
2000 hopelessly Tory capitalists. The position is just the
same as if Oom Paul had given the British residents the
suffrage with the proviso that they might elect any Boer
they pleased, but no one save a Boer, to represent* them.
We insist on our right to block all progressive legis-
lation. We reject every important item of the pro-
gramme which the people accepted at many successive
Assembly elections, on the ground that the people haven’t
demanded that item separately, individually and dis-
tinctly. They can’t, in the. turmoil of a General Election,
demand any one measure separately, so we reject every-
thing on this ground.
The only way they can do what we insist on ( i.e .,
demand any measure separately and unmistakeably) is
by the Referendum. And we reject that also.
*****
And now, if there is one real Man (not a mere
part of a man) among Victoria’s political leaders,
that Man’s time and opportunity nave come. The
Womanhood Suffrage question should be dropped;
it is only an item. It is no use wasting time and
labour and years of agitation to get it passed if
the Upper House is to be left in a position to
make the same trouble over every other progres-
sive measure. Victoria will never move with
the times, and keep its place among civilised
communities, if every small item of pro-
gress involves the passing of a Bill eight
or ten times, and five or six general elec-
tions, and thousands of acres of printed appeals
to the House of 48 petrified Egyptians. The pro-
cess is too slow. It is no longer a question of
dealing with the one small symptom, but with the
whole huge chronic disease. The Rich Landlords
have laid it down that, while ready to bow to the
will of the people (they always say they are ready
to bow to the will of the people) they have a right
to refuse to accept the result of a general election,
or of any number of general elections, as showing
that the people want any measure whatsoever, on
the ground that the people haven’t shown an un-
mistakable desire to have that one measure in
particular, but have merely accepted a lot of
measures and a lot of men in a heap. They also
lay it down that they have a right to refuse
the people a chance to even express an opinion
on any measure separately. Between these
two propositions they declare that the House
of Landlords has a right, by its constitu-
tion, to permanently veto every item in the policy
accepted by the people in the only way they can
accept anything (per medium of the Assembly
elections). And the only point worth fighting
about now is the abolition of the constitution
which makes this position possible. It isn’t worth
while to put any other item whatever in the pro-
gramme for the coming general elections. It
should be a one-line programme. There is noth-
ing to be gained by laying democratic propositions
before the people when there is an overshadowing
House of selfish dotards which throws every demo-
cratic proposition down the stairs, and which has
filled up the cup of its arrogance and iniquity by
declaring its right to even prevent the Assembly’s
constituents from clearly expressing their views on
a subject of the greatest possible concern to them-
selves.
* * _ • *
At the coming election the M'Lean Govern-
ment should make a new departure by taking on
its own authority a Referendum of the Council’s
constituents on these two simple questions:
(1) Are you in favor of making every male person who
has a vote for the Victorian House of Landlords eligible
for a seat in that House, and making it a paid body,
elected by single constituencies—a body which will ex-
pire and go bodily for re-election every’ three years?
(2) Or are you content with the present system wherebv
98 out of every 100 Council electors are declared to b’e
political lepers and outcasts, unfit to sit in the House
which they themselves elect ?
That is the question ; all the rest are side issues
and red herrings. The Council constituency is
quite wide enough to return a reasonably demo-
cratic Upper House if any and every Council
elector was qualified to sit in the House of Land-
lords. If the electors had a free hand it would be
possible to get a Council liberal enough to make
every other reform easy of attainment. It is the
property and other qualifications for membership
that confine the representation to a handful of the
worst, and meanest, and most selfish Tories —a
corrupt handful, who use their political power
solely to promote the private interests of their
own little class. It is a case of 130,000 teetotal
electors being informed that they can freely choose
anyone they please out of, say, 1500 confirmed
drunkards, to represent them. And this handful
declares at times that it is quite willing to widen
the suffrage so that a larger number of teetotal
electors will elect these same drunkards —which
won’t _ make the drunkards any more repre-
sentative of their teetotal constituents. The
Council’s constituents are also the Assembly’s
constituents and the Assembly has a perfect right
to consult its own constituents, or as many of
them as it pleases, on any subject it pleases. The
action of Kingston in South Australia has
established an invaluable precedent to that effect.
* * * »
The Victorian House of Rich Landlords bases
its claim to annul the work of the House which
represents 252,000 electors by the plea that it rep-
resents 129,000 electors. The referendum above
suggested, if it was taken alone with the General
Election, when it would be possible to get a large
and comprehensive vote, and if the issue was
clearly put before the people, would show that the
disgraceful House of Landlords docs not represent
129,000 electors, nor a quarter* of them, They
only let its members wander back unopposed year
after year because the men they want
to elect, and who would really repre-
sent them, ate disqualified. If the M‘LeaN
Government put the same issue to the Assembly’s
constituents, anct'ex plained clearly and strongly
that every reform which Victoria has been de-
manding for years is included in this one question,
it would come back with two overwhelming man-
dates—one from the people at large and one from
the Council's electors separately—to make an end
of the brutally arrogant House of Landlords.
The Council would doubtless be as bitterly Tory
as ever, and it would still voice the exploded lie
that it represented 129,000 electors, but it would
haVe received a valuable Moral Shock ; that un-


reasoning section of the community which hitherto
believed that the House of Landlords really rep-
resented these electors, merely because it said so,
would be enlightened as to the real state of
affairs; and the utter hollowness of the great
political Fraud would be exposed.
♦ * * *
Then when the Assembly had passed a measure
for the reform of the Council on these lines, and
the Council had rejected it, a strong and capable
Man (not the half men who make up the M’Shiels
Ministry but one of Kingston’s stamp) would be
wanted to engineer the fight that must ensue. It
is a foregone conclusion that the Council would
reject such a measure, and unless it was fully
intended to fight the matter to a finish, and break
anything and everything that might stand in the
road, the matter might be as well left alone.
There is no existing way out of the
difficulty; what is wanted is a man who can
make a way. One possibility would be by
appealing to the British Government to pro-
vide Victoria with a new Constitution, and
the referendum of the Council’s constituents
would be a valuable means to that end.
Another method would be to buy out the existing
48 by providing that, on the abolition of the old
Council, each member should have a free railway
gass and £IOOO a year pension. There are many
ouncillors to whom the cash bribe and the
degradation would be almost irresistible. In fact,
a body which uses its political authority so exclu-
sively to further its own private interests is just
the degraded kind of institution to which a cash
bribe would appeal; and though this policy would
cost £48,000 a year, till the ex-M.’sL.C.
died out, it would make many things possible
(a graduated land-tax among them) that would
more than compensate for the loss. And, again,
if the Assembly really meant fight, it could inti-
mate that it refused to vote the sum required for
interest on the public debt till the Council
Reform Bill was passed, and that, if it didn’t pass,
the payment of interest would stop short, the
Fat Man’s securities would depreciate to about
nothing, the Fat Man’s banks would be struck by
a panic, and there would be Chaos. This would
be a hard expedient, but the case fully justifies it,
and it would pay to get reform even at that price.
The insolence and tyranny of the Victorian
House of Landlords can’t be ended by gentle
means.
* * * »
But it requires a Man to meet such an emerg-
ency as the present, and the M‘S riels Ministry
of half-men doesn’t look equal to the case.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Latest Freetrade Budget.
When Temporary-Freetrader W. Lyne presented
his recent Financial Statement his principal
enemy, Temporary-Federalist G. Reid, found him-
self in a difficulty. He had to say that the
Financial Statement showed N.S.W. to be in a
glorious state of prosperity because N.S.W. is
still being run on tne Reid customs policy—that
Revenue - Tariff - with - a-small-dash-of-Protection
policy which Reid says is Freetrade while he
knows it isn’t. So he said the Financial State-
ment showed N.S.W. to be in a glorious state of
prosperity. And at the same time he had to say
that the statement showed N.S.W. to be languish-
ing through the loss of the guiding hand of G.
Reid and to be blighted and unprosperous through
Lyne’s misgovernment. So he said that too, or
strongly hinted it. As a matter of fact Temporary-
Freetrader Lyne’s budget is apparently a gross
political swindle and a shameful fake, like most
other allegedly Freetrade budgets, and it shows
N.S.W. to be in the usual ditch of partial insolv-
ency. It ran up against the old, old trouble.
The Reid tariff doesn’t yield enough revenue
to cover expenses. Nobody has courage enough
to put on Is. 6d in the £ income-tax
and 3d. in the £ land-tax to meet the
shortage, or the gag about “ lifting the burdens off
the people” would be blighted and exploded.
Nobody dares cut down Civil Service salaries one-
half and make ends meet that way. So N.S.W.
last year, as per usual, spent more loan money on
unproductive works which should be paid for out of
revenue than Victoria, S.A., Westralia, and Tas-
mania put together; and ended up as usual with a
huge deficit, and covered it up by putting £242,000
of expenditure into the accumulated shortage;
and it squares this year’s accounts as usual by a
cold-blooded fake. Premier Lyne reckons as part
of his revenue £218,000 to be received as rent
from properties in the resumed area of Sydney.
It isn’t probable that, at the most, more than
£lOOO or £2OOO of this will be real revenue. The
value of the properties has to. be decided by a
slow legal process, and when it is decided the
State has to pay for them, with interest from the
day of resumption. After that it will have to
meet the interest on the money borrowed to pay
for the properties, so the interest started at the
moment when the resumption was effected, and
foes right on for ever afterwards. But while
’rentier Lyne takes credit as revenue for the rent*
to be received this year from the properties
resumed, he doesn’t charge himself among his ex-
penditure with the interest payable on the value
of these properties. His apparent idea is that the
law will move so slowly that the interest bill
won’t come in till after Ist Julv, 1901, and it won’t
have to be actually paid till next financial year.
But the interest will have to be paid for this year,
whether it is paid in this year or not, and this
year’s interest will probably amount to over
£200,000. Every penny of the money received
this year as rent from the resumed area should
have been put to a suspense account to pay this
year’s interest on the cost of the properties, and
the item is a gross political fraud to the
extent of over £200,000. Possibly Lyne means to
pay this year’s interest on the cost of resumption
out of loans ! The item is another striking
example of the dry-rot and moral leprosy which
has come in recent years over N.S.W. finance.
Reid ousted Dibbs with the assurance that his
Revenue Tariff system would greatly reduce the
people’s burdens as com pared with Dibbs’s Protec-
tion. And as he couldn’t run the country any more
cheaply than Dibbs did, he had to make his
policy look cheaper by charging enormous
amounts of ordinary expenditure to loans, lhe
unreasoning public asked no questions, and
assumed that all was well. Then the office-hungry
Lyne ousted Reid on the promise not to raise more
taxes to keep the accounts square, so he had to
do the same political fakes that Reid did. I he
Protectionist in office dare not be. straight and
honest, beoause he can’t be straight without
increasing taxes, and he is afraid the public will
set down the increase to the blighting effects of
Protection and throw him out. The fi reetrader
in office dare not be straight and honest lest the
public sets down the necessary increase of taxes to
the blighting influence of Freetrade and throws
him out. The financial leprosy assumed its worst
form when Reid put N.S.W. up to Dutch auction
and advertised himself as the Great Cheap
Premier, and now it is a struggle to find the
cheapest Premier. And the latest Freetrade
Financial Statement, wherein a deficit of £200,000
or more is covered up by not providing for that
amount of inevitable outgoings, is the natural
result. In any country that was accustomed to
honest finance the Lyne Government would be
thrown out of office on this Financial Statement,
and neither Lyne nor Reid would even get the
chance to hold a portfolio again.
»
The Queensland Stonewall.
A fruitful subject for a constitutional moralist is
“The Decadence of Parliamentary Institutions in
Australia.” A pregnant example is Queensland.
Q. Parliament is almost wholly degraded to sub-
serve the personal ends of the ruling party.
Members are dismissed for seven or eight months
of the year, during which period the Ministry
rule as autocrats, sure that their acts will be up-
held by their pliable majority. When at length
the tardy session commences, private measures
in which members of the Govt, party are in-
terested are put before public business ; and the
minority is told in effect that no public business
whatever will be done until the private measures
are passed ! As the House prorogues at
Christmas probably till July or August
next year—this means that unless the
private measures are hurried through no pub-
lic business at all will be done. No less
than five private railway and tramway bills, in-
volving big State land-concessions and other
privileges, are thus before Q. Parliament at pre-
sent ; and every one of them requires the closest
inspection before Parliamentary assent is given.
They establish a new policy—that of hand-
ing over the making of railways to pri-
vate syndicates, whose members are not even
known, and who give no guarantee whatever that
they will do any work of value in return for the
enormous privileges granted them. Q. Labor-
party has steadfastly opposed these Bills; and
the Govt., in revenge, proposed to abolish the
right of free speech in Parliament by
making the closure of the debate depend upon the
will of the chairman for the time being—who
might easily be a mere Govt. tool. This would
practically destroy the minority’s, rights alto-
gether, and disfranchise their constituents. The
Govt, party already outnumbers them at a. vote ;
and if they are not allowed the fullest right of
debate their Parliamentary office would be void.
The result of three days’ stonewalling is a com-
promise by which the Govt, can closure de-
bate if 30 members desire it, and as the
Govt, fighting strength goes up to 40 in a house
of 72 this merely necessitates whipping up sup-
porters to a closure division. So the Opposition
really cedes the point at issue. The whole course
of the conflict gives point to The Bulletin’s
frequent assertions that Parliamentary Govt, in
Queensland is a farce. And Queensland for the
most part is content ! Australia came by her
Parliamentary institutions too easily. If we had
fought for them, as elsewhere, we should respect
them more.
♦
Outside the Act.
Melbourne Trades Hall leaders, who seem to
have got hold of a master organiser and have been
lately forming new unions and enlarging existing
ones at a great rate, have at last tackled the farm-
hand question. Beginning with a few milkers
and ploughmen gathered locally, they formed a
union which they hope to extend all over the
State. The first meeting had no lack of evidence
before it that the farm-hand is, perhaps, the most
sweated worker in the country, as he is in every
other country. Speaker after speaker detailed
his own personal experience of t"hat pastime,
which begins in the registry-office, where the
milker has to part with a week’s wages before he
can get a job at all, and ends only when he
becomes himself a farmer-sweater, or kicks
the soil from his boots and gives the
whole thing best finally. Average wages for
milkers in Victoria now run from 10s. to
15s. and found ; for ploughmen and skilled hands
a trifle higher. The hours average from 10 to 15
a day, and the accommodation is generally vile.
Probably a vast majority of farm hands don’t
know what it is to live and sleep in a decent,
healthy room. (Writer knows a number of dairy
farmers in a long-settled district of Victoria, not
50 miles from Melbourne, most of whom own their
200 to 400 acres and clear over <£2oo a year out of
milk alone, but he cannot recollect one who
houses and feeds his hands as a city tradesman or
factory-hand would expect to be housed.) The
cry of the “ poor farmer ” has been heard in Vic-
toria ad nauseam. The railway department studies
him. When seed wheat is supplied by Govt, it
is carried free; it puts on cool trucks and special
trains for his butter, and helps him in many other
ways. The Department of Agriculture also lays
itself out to assist him, in the matter of cool
storage, of ocean freight, and of proper supervision
and inspection. This is not done purely out of
love for the farming persbn, it is done to benefit
the State, but so far the man on the land—
especially the dairyman on the land—seems to
t have gathered in most of the shekels. Notwith-
standing that his butter brings (through the
aforesaid Govt, supervision and assistance) a
steady, remunerative price for as much as he can
supply, and though his factories and creameries
pay him handsome dividends in addition to a good
price for his milk, he habitually sweats his em-
ployes. If the Union, formed the other even-
ing, can extend its branches only moderately
during the next two years it should then be
strong enough to demand, when the Factories
Act comes up for re-enactment, or the Federal
Legislature takes over the whole business, that
the trade of farm-hand generally shall be brought
under said Act, and that the country worker shall
have the same rights and benefits as his town
brother. There is no reason why a wages Board
should not be empowered to fix varying wages and
hours, on a sort of sliding scale, for winter and
summer, for the different branches of the farm-
hand profession. There will always be thousands
of applicants for employment on public works and
for city billets, and there will always be unem-
ployed, while employment on the land, in addi-
tion to its social drawbacks, is made so profitless
and so hopeless for those who would otherwise
willingly take it up with a view of gaining the
necessary experience and capital to start on their
own.
:
The N.S.W. Hospice for Dying Toryism.
“ Hermes ” takes a look in :
The Legislative Council lives next to Sydney Hospital,
presumably in case of emergencies, for there is a strangely
infirm look about the whole body. The chamber itself
is a comfortable room with long, high-backed, leather
benches in which hon. members can bury their aching
frames. Round the cornice are numerous electric-lights,
and there is a large one let into the centre of the ceiling,
so that the room gets the henefit of its illumination while
the edge is taken off the glare. Below is a parliamentary
table littered over with papers and dotted with electric
candles with shades of beautiful emerald green. Round
the table sit most of the Councillors. Round the walls
are white busts of dead-and-gone Presidents. It doesn’t
look like a Parliament—more like an ideal Old Men’s
Club. Members get up and jerk out a few remarks in
low, tired tones, and then subside suddenly, and one
wonders how on earth the writers in the gallery above
manage to get even half of what they say. In the matter
of dress there is a most amazing absence of frill. The
cheerful Jack Want, the night writer was present, wan-
dered about in a shabby sac coat that would have done
excellently to potter round in the garden with. Yoko-
hama Jack is beginning to show signs of a good
healthy crop of barnacles, and at a distance, in the
uncertain light, he appears to be wearing a pigtail care-
fully coiled round the hinder part of his cranial nobility.
He seems to realise his own proper value as the boss
skiter of the Chamber, and treads the carpeted floor with
the satisfied air of an Angora tom, the most dignified and
self-conscious of all the cat tribe. This suggestion of
feline attributes is not peculiar to the man from Japan ;
it seems to pervade about three-fourths of the Council.
They are nearly all more or less reminiscent of the pre-
datory animals.
The watch-word of the Council is Justice—of a sort.
The Councillors prate and gabble eternally of justice—to
the man in the nail-keg. They were discussing the Den-
tists’ Bill, and man after man arose and drivelled that he
hoped the Council would “ do injustice to no man.”
Jack Want also got up and hoped that no injustice would
be done. He would like to say a word or two for the un-
qualified gentleman in the Ned Kelly head-armor, who,
by reason of long legislative laxity, had acquired a vested
interest in defrauding the public by getting its money
under pretence of being a qualified tooth-smith. It would
be harsh in the extreme, after a man had been thus defraud-
ing the public for years, and perhaps doing them an
irreparable injury as well by his incompetence, for the
State to step in and take away his means of living in a
Ned Kelly nail-keg. Mr. Want didn’t use those very
words, but that is the brutal meaning of what he did say,
and altogether it was a very touching appeal. Then that
pawky statesman and financier, Dr. M'Lauiun, Chancellor
of the University, arose and (in effect) hoped that no injus-
tice would be done, and that the Bill would recognise every
individual who had been wrecking people’s jaws for two
years before the passing of the Act, no matter how incap-
able he might be, as a" lawful practitioner, and give him
a diploma or something, whereby the law would practic-
ally guarantee him a reliable dentist when he wasn’t one,
and consequently become a liar by implication and an
accomplice of swindlers and quacks. It never seemed to
strike any of the statesmen of the Hospice that it was
time some little consideration was given to the public.
Messrs. Want, M’Laurin and Co. exist only, judging by
the tone of their remarks, to conserve the interests of, and
see that no injustice is done to, such as wear nail-kegs.
Any elector who is dubious about the necessity of sweep-
ing away the Council should attend a few of its debates.
A week will convert any ordinary individual to an earnest
advocate of a meat-axe method. The Councillors, as a
body, are smug, comfortable, and utterly oblivious of the
public. No matter bow dilatory and backward the
Assembly may be, the Council always lags behind it. Its
only apparent emotions are greed and fear—greed for the
interests of the men who wear pot-hats and fear of politi-
cal extinction.
♦
The Adelaide Tramways Grab.
Owing to the vacillation of the Holder Govt.,
Adelaide is in great danger of losing its valuable
tramway rights for an indefinite period. Awhile
ago one F. Gentry Bingham, an English promo-
ter, agreed with Adelaide City Council to take
over its street rights, paying the Council £l5OO
per annum and 10 per cent, on yearly profits, but
the suburban councils objected and the scheme
went bung. Then the numerous parish coun-
cillors endeavored to formulate a Municipal Trust;
but they quarrelled, as everyone expected they
would, and the Trust scheme went bung
too. Meanwhile Railway Commissioner Pen-
dleton had formulated a sound business-like
scheme of nationalisation, and reported that the
tramways—converted into an electric traction
system—would return the State a handsome profit.
Premier Holder, notwithstanding the fact that
State ownership of tramways was part of the policy
of the old Kingston-Holder Government —fa-
vored the municipal trust idea, and said that only
failure to inaugurate it would lead him to advocate
State purchase. Months went by, and nothing was
done. One Snow, who represents the wealthy
Westinghouse Co. and has already purchased
most of the big lines, now has a Bill before the
Legislature which is about the biggest and most
blushless grab, in S.A. history. Snow proposes
that the citizens shall be allowed to repurchase
his lines in ten years time for (say) £400,000,
paying him in addition £lO,OOO per mile
(£700,000 for 70 miles) for converting to electric
traction (Railway Commissioner Pendleton esti-
mates cost of conversion at £BOOO per mile, so
this is a clean present to Snow of £140,000 !), also
costs of flotation of companies (estimated at
£100,000), and interest at 5 per cent, (estimated
at £140,000.) This makes a total of £1,340,000,
but Snow doesn’t stop there. He asks for a
bonus of 10 per cent, in the event of
repurchase rights being availed of, and £134,000
is therefore added to the sum. Snow paid nothing
for getting the use of the streets, but for giving
them up again he asks practically £514,000 over
and above the actual value of the lines, and
Adelaide is to eventually pay Snow’s absentee
company about £1,474,000 ! Railway Commis-
sioner Pendleton estimates that during the
first 10 years the profits, under State con-
trol, would average £lO,OOO a year, and S.A.
isn’t so rich that it can afford to make Snow
a present of £lO,OOO a year. And over and
above this there is the saving of £514,000 in the
matter of buying back Snow’s privileges. Yet,
astounding as it may seem, the Snow promotion
is supported by the great bulk of the members of
Adelaide City Council and the suburban corpora-
tions (the latter rejected the much more generous
Bingham scheme), who, with one accord, condemn
State ownership ! And will it also be believed
that the democrat Holder and his colleagues still
remain dumb as to State purchase, although their
Railway Commissioner strongly urges it ? What
has Kingston to say about this matter ?
From Launceston (Tas.) Examiner :
As there is no longer a vestige of Boer Government re-
maining Lord Roberts will be justified in proclaiming
outlawry against those still in the field. Under a civi-
lised Govt, the war would have been brought to a conclu-
sion long since. The Boers, however, are not civilised in
this sense of the word, and therefore those remaining can
be treated only as disturbers of the public peace. ... It
may be that a few irreconcilables will fight to the last,
but they will do so with the knowledge that in the future
when caught they will be tried as criminals, and not
treated as prisoners of war.
These may seem hard words, but still they are
solid truth. De Wet and the. few Boer leaders
who still remain in arms have now sunk to the
degraded level of William Wallace, Robert
Bruce, Judas Maccabeus, Kosciusko, Gari-
baldi, Kossuth, Benito Juarez, Diaz, the
Greek insurgents of Byron’s day (Ipsilante,
Kolokotrones and Co.), William Tell (if there
ever was such a person), Washington, and other
depraved characters. None of these had a
recognised Government behind him, and people
like that should be put down—or hanged
up. Some day, when the -writer has a holi-
day, he is going to wander over to the Scotch
city of Dunedin, and there publicly burn
William Wallace and Christian de Wet in
effigy. Wallace, as the worse offender, will be
kicked in the stomach before burning. Both
these individuals fought against the spread of
civilisation—England was as much ahead of Scot-
land in what is conventionally termed civilisation
in Wallace’s day as it is ahead of the Transvaal
now. Both fought against the unity of the Anglo-
Saxon race. Both wanted to burst up the Empire.
In fact, Wallace, being obviously a low-minded
ffian, was a great factor in a process of revolt
that did burst it up ; and the big Empire which
Henry 11. founded, and which extended most or
the way from the Orkneys to the Pyrenees, went
to pieces through him and others like him, and
there was no Empire for 300 years as a, conse-
quence. He was agin’ the Flag and the civilised
British government —in fact, he was ade \V et,
and a very bad sort. And all good Jingo Scots
should meet once a year to curse Wallace and
Bruce (another Empire-burster) all over the place,
and to damn the Covenanters with a big D.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, in a recent leader,
urged N.S.W. not to worry about getting the best
site for the Federal capital, or the one which
would be most suited to the interests of Australia
in general and of the future Australians of thou-
sands of years to come—but to select and barrack
for some site, even if a less suitable one, where the
capital could be fixed up quickly, so as to get the
Federal Government moved into N.S.W. a year or
two sooner and proceed to grab the profits for
“ our State ” :
The fact that the means of communication by rail
(with Bombala) would have to he furnished before the
building of the Federal city was entered upon would
mean a very long delay. It cannot be thought that the
many preliminaries would be completed and the neces-
sary lines opened for traffic until several years had
elapsed. It may be granted that'the other provinces are
prepared to act in good faith towards N.S. Wales, and
will be quite ready to expedite the removal of the Federal
capital from its temporary location in Melbourne. Bat it
would, surely be folly for N.S. Wales to fix her eye on the
far .future, and, in order to provide for the widest pos-
sibilities, place obstacles of time in the way of the trans-
ference of the Federal capital to some spot within her
own border.
Don’t trouble about the far future and the best
interests of Australia, says the Telegraph ! _ The
great consideration is to get the capital as quickly
as possible within “our” own borders, and get to
work land-booming and syndicating, and darn the
interests of Australia.
♦
The N.S.W. Old Age Pension Bill, introduced by
the Lyne Ministry, is a reasonably satisfactory
measure in most ways. It demands 25 years’
residence in Australia, of which 10 must have
been spent in N.S.W., and, in this matter, it is
more liberal than the Maoriland Act. The
pension-age is fixed at 65 years; the pensioner
must not have an income of over £52 a-year or
property worth more than £390 ; and he or she
must be of good moral character, and have
a continuous record of five years’ sobriety.
Where a husband and wife are both qualified,
they will receive £l9 10s. a-year each
(£39 between them), and the single pensioner
will receive £26 a year. This is provided these
amounts do not raise their income above £7B a
year in the case of a husband and wife or £52 a
year in the case of a single pensioner. Where it
does the pension will lie diminished so as to leave
the total income at £7B a year for husband and
wife or £52 for a single pensioner. But there is a
great and glaring silence as to where the money is
to come from. That problem of raising the money
is always shirked as long as possible.
The state of Brisbane dirty, unregulated, un-
drained Brisbane, with its smells crying out to
heaven, and the Plague at its back door, and the
hot breath of summer coming in at its front
window—has at last drawn the Philp Government
to introduce a large and rather comprehensive
Health Bill, which promises, if decently adminis-
tered, to work a revolution in things. The Health
Bill made the bowed-and-bent ghost of old B. D.
Morehead emerge from its grave to protest
in the Upper House. One clause provides that,
when a house is so utterly foul and decayed
as to be unfit for human occupation, and the
owner won’t repair or pull it down, the local autho-
rities may do it without compensation. As the local
authorities are mostly landlords, this proviso
isn’t likely to be very rigidly enforced But old
B.D. declared that if the dirty landlord who mur-
dered not only his own tenants but the surround-
ing population with his foul properties, and who
made his town an eyesore, wasn’t “ compensated ”
at the expense of the community he had injured
for the loss of his fever-den, “ it would be a dis-
grace to our legislation.” He also said he would
approve of the dirty landlord resisting by violence
the destruction of his precious plague-spot. But
Morehead tottered alone in his protest—a solitary
advocate of the rights of Property to spread fever
and plague as it pleased. The others feared for
their Property much, but for the Plague more,
and the clause was passed.
N.S.W. Labor-party has, in the projected Hope-
toun orgy, the chance of its existence. It brags
of holding the balance of power. Let it work the
balance by backing-up the non - Labor members
of the Leg. Assembly (some Reidites and Lyneites)
who are ready to vote-down all eating and drink-
ing at public expense, and insist on the sum esti-
mated to be thus saved being donated to
the Children’s Hospital or a National Con-
sumptives’ Home, or some other worthy ob-
ject. The contemplated gorging alone —the cham-
pagne and turkey and so on, which even washer-
women must help to pay for, but won’t get
bite or sup of—will figure out at £20,000. Is the
Labor-party game to move ? One Minister says it
won’t move. Another says the Labor-party’s
teeth and stomach will prove it the greediest cor-
morant of the show. The chance, however, is
there, and, if MGo wen won’t take it, some other
should lead the van against national waste in
general, and sponging on washerwomen and
kindred classes in particular. If there must be
an eating and drinking carousal, let it be at so
much a head, and the tickets be paid for by the
participants.
*
Premier Lyne draws in his horns. He now says
no road is to go through Sydney Botanic Gardens,
but a fence is to be erected along the sea-wall;
the Nicest People are to be admitted to the Gar-
dens by ticket when Hopetoun lands; and the
procession is to prance along the present narrow
track. Why does he want to drag the procession
through the Gardens at all ? Aren’t the Domain
and the city streets good enough for vehicles ? If
Sydney citizens have any grit they will protest
against the public Gardens being reserved for the
use of a few. Mrs. Smith, of Waterloo, in her
four-bob-robbo, has just as much right there as
Mrs. De Smythe, of Darling Point, in her C-
spring carriage, and the Labor members who rule
Lyne should see that she gets her rights. Mean-
while, The Bulletin believes that the Gardens
road project is only put by for the present. If it
is put by for good, there is no sense in making a
new road round Lady Macquarie’s Chair to end
in a blank wall. The advocates of the new road
guite misconceive the spirit of the opposition. It
is an opposition to extending the sights and
smells and noises of the city to the only natural
beauty-spot accessible within the city. The
natural charm of plain rocks and water is
infinitely preferable to the dust and rattle
of vehicles and the odour of horse-drop-
pings. Ninety-nine hundredths of Sydney’s
population are very well satisfied with the Gardens
as they are. The city tumult is precisely the thing


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
8. W. D’ARCY-IRVIN it, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. MoOOLL and B. H. PASCJOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
HELIDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATEwMBMI
W/m
h
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can he Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a 0 n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought-^*
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT GASH.
Special Terms quoted for Lnrrje Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
- Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE, GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Mawaobr. Aponte for Australia.
they go to the Gardens and the Domain to avoid.
And in order to cater to the small class who wish
to drive past Govt. House, and through the
Gardens and Domain, Premier Lyne is prepared
to sacrifice the pleasure of all the rest of the com-
munity. And the road-making is now being car-
ried on at the community’s expense ; rocks are
being shifted, water filled up, hillsides levelled, as
if a vulgar suburban terrace of houses were to be
erected. It is the most senseless proceeding since
Premier Lynk’s last proceeding ; and a direct
assault on the rights of the masses for the benefit
of the privileged classes.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “La Tosca."
Royal “ War of Wealth.”
Criterion “East Lynne.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season.
Theatre Royal “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
“Ingomar” is a drama of very rare
appearance nowadays. It is revived occasionally
to suit some man of might whose brawny limbs
Step out like the supports of the diprotodon in the
ancient Gallic forest, or some lady who feels that
she looks well in the long clinging white garment
and the very little underneath of the Greek
heroine. In the present case it was revived
for the benefit of Miss Nance O’Neil, and
the lady is plainly the central character, and
though Plimmer is a respectable Ingomar, he
doesn’t light out like the diprotodon afore-
mentioned. Maria Lovell’s old drama must needs
strike the average reader as an unsatisfactory
capsizing of the usual order of things. Ingomar
was a Gallic chief, a mighty Cow-shaker before the
Lord, an untrammelled and long-haired son of the
wilderness, a fighting man, and a scorner of
women and the effeminate joys of marriage. And
one day, when this Samson was throwing up the
gates of Gaza for his casual amusement, and
catching them as they fell, there came to his
camp, among the wild-haired barbarians, and the
bones of the shaken cows, and the cow-horn
drinking cups, Parthenia, the Greek girl
of Massilia. She offered herself as a host-
age for the release of her father, an
ancient damp gentleman whom the band had
unfortunately captured and enslaved, and who
spent his time in weeping and bringing his masters
liquor in the cow-horn. They accepted the lady
as a hostage, and she enslaved Ingomar. The
mighty Cow-shaker abandoned his beloved forests,
his chieftainship, his fighting record and his sword,
and cut his hair short, and went down to Massilia
to be one of the street-bred people about whom
Kipling kipples. He ploughed and harrowed,
and became a beast of burden and a bill of lading.
He learned to be humble before his future mother-
in-law, and was ordered about by his future wife,
and bore himself respectfully before the Timarch
and the aldermen. He even became the slave of
a bent worm to whom Parthenia’s family owed
money, in order to prevent the family being sold
up. And in the end he had his reward, for
he was allowed to marry his Parthenia, and
have her mother’s society all the rest of his
days, and his hair was cut permanently,
and he never went back to his forests, but
settled down in Massilia where, it is to be
hoped, the local aldermen took notice of him occa-
sionally. He became tame and fed out of the
hand, and so the tribes lost a good Gaul, and the
city gained a man who was too honest ever to be
a good Greek, and whose weight must have cost
a great deal in pavement-repairs.
* m * *
The character who stands out as an un-
questionable success and a success all the time is
Atholwood, as Polydor, the money-lender, who
desires to sell the family up. Atholwood made
his first distinct mark in Sydney as the very
remarkable drunk in the “Royal Divorce,” and
he has made his mark on several occasions since.
Polydor is a very fine piece of work, and as he
wanders to and fro, looking hard on the floor for
the main chance, he is a person whom it is a
pleasure to meet. Plimmer’s Ingomar, on the first
night at all events, ended better than he began.
He is a fine, large, hefty barbarian, but on Saturday
there were times when lie seemed oppressed with
doubts as to how the part should be played.
Later on he forgot to nave doubts and simply
played it, and then the result was reasonably suc-
cessful. As for Parthenia, Sydney hasn’t even
yet quite forgotten Essie Jenyns, and Nance
O’Neil isn’t quite an Essie Jenyns. Yet she fills
the sandals of Parthenia much better than she
did the costly raiment of Countess Fedora; she
manages to subdue herself in Parthenia’s gentler
moments, and the result is tolerably satisfactory.
Yet, where a big opportunity presented itself
Essie Jenyns took it with both hands, and Nance
O’Neil only seizes it with one. Parthenia is
rather a mystery. She gives herself up to the
Gauls without any carpet-bag or brown-paper
parcel, and with obviously nothing save the one
snow-white robe and the very little underneath.
She is detained by them some time, and returns
home in the same spotless tog. What she
wears, or what bush she hides herself behind,
while her outer garment is hung on a tree
to dry is a matter of grave uncertainty. The
three persons above-mentioned are the bulk
of the drama. Joseph Carne does the little part
of the Timarch like a true artist, and makes him
stand out'as a much larger and more gentlemanly
potentate than he usually is. The Timarch has
only , three appearances, but when the city is
besieged, and strange sounds like the frying of
many eggs in the distance betoken the approach
of the enemy, he faces the tumult like a real ruler
of men. Mrs. Bracy, George Becks, Harry Over-
ton, Frank Hawthorne, Barton Hill, J. W.
Sweeney, junior, and other deserving characters
ANOTHER OF HAGENBRECK'S HAPPY FAMILIES
(Under Enyayement to Fitzyerald Bros.).
also hold up the glory of old Massilia in a greater
or less degree.
* * * •
The fine tragedy of “La Tosca,”
sacred to the memory of Mrs. Brown-Potter’s
immense hat, is to be staged at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday.
# * # Mf
“All for Gold,” now enjoying a brief run
at Sydney Criterion, is founded on Sue’s “ Wan-
dering Jew,” and, like most plays taken from
novels, neglects to explain matters as much as it
should. Hence there is no apparent cause why a
weird old Hebrew should appear at the back of
the stage now and then with an Aurora Borealis,
like a new sample of halo, round him—though he
is a change from the large silver angel who is
generally deputed to save little Florrie at the last
moment. For the rest, the audience gradually
gets to understand after an act or two that an
immense fortune is waiting in Paris for the
descendants of a certain family, who seem to be
identified by a sort of dog-collar with a medal
attached. Anyway, when anyone finds a little
boy with this arrangement on his neck, he is en-
titled to assume that the boy is part heir of the pro-
perty, and that charity towards him will be in
no wise thrown away. The only condition regard-
ing the property is that the heirs must claim it
at Paris at a certain hour of a certain day, other-
wise their claim is “off.” This happening in
stageland, two of the claimants, who are small
girls under age, are naturally brought from Russia
at the last moment, with just enough time to get
to Paris if no accident occurs. The father, who
can’t come himself because he is fighting somebody
somewhere, is so placid about the matter that he
gives the care of the children into the hands of a
rather lunatic and elderly soldier, who, when he
loses his passport or gets into trouble through
allowing his horse to be eaten by somebody’s valu-
able panther, can only exculpate himself by saying
that his ear was once pulled by the great Napo-
leon, or something to that effect ; said pulling
evermore branding the pulled one as an honest
man. The father bears the loss of the fortune and
the reputed loss of his children with equal forti-
tude, and when he is finally pitched over a preci-
pice by a villain in long boots he is still calm.
* • • *
It goes without saying that Dampier acts
well the old man whose maunderings about the
empire foreshadow what our grandchildren will
have to put up with, when our present Transvaal
heroes are old and garrulous, and* inclined to get
out of police-court cases on the ground that
Baden-Powell once spoke to them. John Forde,
as the faithful and humorous servant, tries to con-
sole the audience for the continued absence of
Buffer, and succeeds, towards the end, in his
attempt; while Appleton shines rather brightly
as a money-lender with an immense bald head.
Two small girls take the difficult parts
of the co-heiresses, and show a surprising
equanimity in the day of trouble, and resign
themselves to frequent deaths with undue cheer-
fulness. Stiff thereisagood deal more promise about
the two than can be said for the average child-
performer, who glares across the footlights in a
wooden manner when informing her dear papa
how she loves him.
*# * *
That unavoidable calamity, “East Lynne,”
will occupy the Criterion stage on Saturday.
Some day, perhaps, Ibsen or Pinero will re-write
“ East Lynne,” and make Lady Isabel a real flesh
and blood woman, who leaves Carlyle because the
ordinariness of that good, plain, dull solicitor is
sadder and flatter than the Old Man Plain;
and who leaves Levison afterwards because he is
only an ordinary, duff, bell-toppered villain ; and
dies at last unrepentant, unmusical, and
unspectacled, a rebel to the end. “ East
Lynne ”as it might be, would be worth seeing.
As it is it is a kind of tea-meeting trying to be
wicked and failing badly.
** * *
“ Banjo ” Paterson is overlanding to
Adelaide, enlightening a few of the smaller towns
on his way. He appears at Adelaide Town Hall
on the 22nd, and the Holy City will meet with a
very different “ Banjo” from the one who looked
uneasily at his boots on his first Sydney appear-
ance. The lecturer’s nervousness has worn off,
and he faces his audience now as unconcernedly
as if it was one of Botha’s batteries. Paterson
saw more of the war than most correspondents—
far more than any other Australian correspondent
—but at first he was packed so tightly with facts
that he couldn’t get them out as he wanted them,
and he was unaccustomed to the work and got lost
among his vast stock of material. He was like a
universal provider whose six-storey emporium had
become mixed-up, and who was looking for a
stove-lid in the drapery department. But that is
all over now, and “Banjo” has not only a good
story to tell but knows exactly where his story is.
* * *
The Tivolians of Sydney Tivoli have
vacated Carldam Woods and settled in Arcadia,
which has a background of ferns and a fountain.
The revellers have also adopted a more becoming
dress, so that the countenance of Harry Diver no
more rests on a large white collar looking like
.lohn the Baptist’s head on a charger. The
Catnbry Sisters make their first appearance.
They take the place of the Clarence couple, and
make a pleasanter impression. Miss Priscilla
Verne is somewhat worse. Mr. Will Whitburn
has one good story of the Trilby Tragedy reduced
to goat life, and one long joke which has run
through the saddest comic papers during the last
three or four years. The Georgia Magnet remains
as immovable on her two small feet as she was
last week, but when a lady is immovable one
week, and quite fixed the next, and can't be
shifted the week after, and later on several people
try hard to lift her but can’t, the fact begins to -
have a sameness about it. The “great” Lottie
Collins, from London, makes her first Australian
appearance at the Tivoli next Saturday.
m» # *
“ New Babylon,” at Sydney Royal, ends
this week, and the public will hear with regret
that its ever-beloved Bland Holt closes one week
later. “The War of Wealth,” to be staged on
Saturday, is the final production of the season.
“Jones” also-ends his long career at the Palace
to-night (Thursday). The circus has already de-
parted, and “ Banjo ” Paterson has done likewise,
and the silence which always falls on Sydney at
Melbourne Cup-time is coming down like a big
cloud.
** * »
Of George Musgrove’s grand-opera ven-
t_iro at Melbourne Princess’s The Bulletin
wishes to say, in the first place, that it made an
admirable start on Saturday. There are so many
P- aiseworthy items in a first-class production of
even “II Trovatore ” that a brief notice must
m .ke one word cover a lot of ground. ' “ Admir-
able ” is intended to represent fully a dozen
different notes of admiration.
* * * *
“Trovatore,” all the same, is a less im-
posing fable in its present English form than when
warbled in the original Italian, so probably a lot
of people will deplore its translation into a lan-
guage which they can understand. As a matter
of fact, Verdi’s opera runs a neck-and-neck race
with “ The Bohemian Girl ” for literary demerit.
It is a luridly melodramatic story, without
the least sense of humor in its antique
situations, and the new co. plays it strictly
according to tradition. Manrico encompasseth
himself with tin armour, Leonora wears
a black dress for the miserere duet, and the
prisoner within the dungeon accepts an encore
without pausing to consider his grief. Happily,
the prima-donna doesn’t shatter the illusion by
shaking hands with the conductor at the conclu-
sion of a triumphant solo. The novelty of this
“Trovatore” revival is in its artistic refinement.
* • • «
Costumes and scenery are good ; the
choristers are not ranged in an absurd semi-circle,
and the low orchestral pitch certainly makes for
realism in the performance. The principals are
able to sing without fear of bursting a blood-
vessel, and their notes come forth rounder and more
sweet than if they were produced under the high-
pressure system. There’s an unexpected delicacy
in the musical effects. You leave the opera with- <
out a headache. Of course, it is a question whether
the new charm will have a greater attraction for
everybody than the grand old operatic tumult of
yore. The first company of big-voiced Italians
whom Simonsen brought to Australia were a
popular success. They sang furiously, and the
orchestra backed them up, and the excited multi-
tude in front enjoyed a “blow-out” of melody.
The Musgrove entertainment is a lighter, daintier
musical repast, easily digested, and remarkably
tasteful. Five of the imported principals appeared
on Saturday, when a critical audience found a
verdict in favor of them all. The smart German
baritone, Max Eugene, scored the least success,
but he gave the impression that his voice was not
doing itself justice. Prima-donna Miss Cecilie
Lorraine is a charming, not very passionate,
singer, and a fairly good actress. She fills the
bill. Salvi is the typical plump Italian tenor,
somewhat taller and less puffy and mechanical
than most; and his full, mellow voice is
a treat. Charles Tilbury, the basso, commands
respect as a fine vocalist who can act, whilst
Miss Agnes Jansen, the chief contralto of the
co., promises to be a particular favorite. She sang
and acted with fine dramatic force as the lurid
gipsy woman who had mixed two babies up and
thrown the wrong one into the fire. The charac-
ter of Azucena naturally suggests Little Buttercup,
in the last act of “Pinafore,” yet Miss Jansen com-
pels one to take her seriously. Messrs. John
Crook and Slapoffski have the orchestra and chorus
under perfect control, and their work can’t be over-
rated in an ordinary way of eulogising the men
who rule the forces. “ Faust,” introducing the
other half of the co., is to be alternated with
“Trovatore” three days this week—Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday. “Carmen” presum-
ably will come out next week, Miss Jansen taking
the name part.
** * *
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) went into recess on
Saturday after three turns of “Trilby.” Just
now the house is taking on a new d.c. entrance, a
crush room and other improvements, including a
lounge whither the male animal may pass the
time ’twixt acts in an odour of tobacco smoke.
All this by way of introduction to “The Rose of
Persia,” which falls due on the 27th.
*« * *
At the Royal they have decided to take
away “The New East Lynne ” after Friday. The
despondent lady in blue spectacles has not grown
on the public to any great extent, though her
burst of grief when she discovers that Willie is no
more, and her energetic attempt to shake the dear
departed back to animation, are rather impressive
in their way. Perhaps The Bulletin ought to
reconsider its suggestion re placing all the mem-
bers of the co. in the forefront of the fatal railway
calamity. Some of them don’t deserve anything
worse than a shock to their nerves, and these
might be allowed to get a gentle upset in the
guard’s van, whilst the worst offenders were suffer-
ing sudden death next to the engine. On Satur-
day our well-beloved sister, John F. Sheridan,
revives himself in his female capacity. He will
appear as Widow O’Brien for six last farewell
nights, and then he will depart for Sydney,
Maoriland, Westralia, and foreign-lands. Mean-
while he hopes to inaugurate the Widow’s fare-
wells by backing the Caulfield Cup winner, in the
interests of “ fun, sunshine, and jollity.” Sheri-
dan’s desire to promote “jollity” is very notice-
able in his advts.
** * *
Nothing fresh has happened at the Bijou
since the two cheerful brown comedians and the
two ladies to match were added to the first part.
The very volatile lady who has got her faithful
Walker dead is a decidedly original success ; also
the cake-walk retains some of its bloom of novelty.
Little Fanny Powers, too, is a bright first-part
item. Fanny’s precocious talent for singing about
dollies, silvery moons, &c., no longer takes Mel-
bourne by surprise. All the same it is a great
talent and it seems to be developing with the
nipper’s growth, and as for her sturdy young legs
they are the most intelligent, active and dis-
ciplined members of their age that Australia has
ever seen or dreamt of.
** * *
Rev. Haskett Smith has abandoned Melb.
Athemeum Hall to its fate, disgusted, prob-
ably, at the general lack of interest in his
lectures. Haskett, the Egyptologist and
shatterer of Conventional delusions, is really
a more fascinating entertainment than ten
melodramas for any who approach him in
a teachable spirit, but Melbourne is just now
“off” lecturers, unless they talk war-gore and
kharki. Which reminds The Bulletin that
Uitlander Sampson, of the Akgus, the invincible
Jingo who painted South Africa red on the map
before the trouble started, is now about to lecture
on the History of the War. And, by the way,
Fitzgerald’s Circus is understood to be marching
upon the Victorian capital, but it has to march
slowly on account of the ruminative elephant.
The fattest Melbourne policeman weighs
225 t., and is known as “ The Blue Mountain.”
The S.A. Protector of Aborigines estimates
that there are now 2861 in the province; there
was an excess of 273 deaths over births in the 12
months ending June 30.
Dr. Laure (whose portrait appears in this
issue, proposes shortly, after a residence of 32
years m Sydney, to return to his native France
He was born in Toulon, and having studied medi-
cine in Paris, joined the French navy, retiring
after several years into private practice in the
island of Bourbon. Thence, 17 years later, he
came to Sydney, where he is well known. Out-
side his professional work, Dr. Laure has been
closely identified with music, in which he took an
active interest. He takes with him the good
wishes of many friends of all nationalities.
If B usby-Jawbone Neild wants credit for
his profession that he desires to see the N.S.W.
7th Regiment report tabled, let he, himself, move
Govt, to produce io. There is a shrewd suspicion
that at present Neild’s attitude to the report i 3
the small-fighter’s “Let me at it! Hold it
back ! ”


wr
9
JINK IT
FOR HEALTH
IAnoyoo Derive
PlEJSUl^
0RINK1T
for Pleasure
iHDYOUACQUiRf
Health
ZETZ-SPA PROPRIETARY LIMITED
■SYDNEY^
ħ
Famous
s6baeeed
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAVT AMD WAR OFFICE.
h
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.’’
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cone Bros. & Co., Ltd, Liverpool Agents; I, Entty & Co,, Syflney.
The Financier and But.uonist, London, 2nd
August, 1900, writes re the Colonial Mutual Society :
“ The unprejudiced student in actuarial affairs will, on
going through the report before us, be struck with the
full details given, and the candid manner in which the
directors take their members into their confidence. *
* • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Mr. F. W. Payne, Consulting Engineer to the
Kia Ora Gold Dredging Co., Ltd., N.Z., has placed an
order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co., South
Melbourne, for all the dredging and gold saving and
tailings elevating machinery for a complete bucket gold
dredging plant. This is one of a large number of plants
in course of construction by the Otis Co.*
* • • *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “ Lu.hrig ” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
• * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * *
„ If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
» * * »
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironf minder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Hunting, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
• * * »
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81°/o
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN METAL COJJD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET, 7
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching 1 Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
finished another prosperous half-year on 30th September,
1900. Starting from the date when the Royal wrote off
£150,000 capital and the last of its £26,521 reserves and
undivided profits, progress has been as follows :
Profits. Dividends.
March, 1897 .. .. £3,399 3 per cent. = £2,250
September, 1897 .. 3,625 3 2,250
March, 1898.. ... 3,865 3 „ 2,250
September, 1898 .. 4,088 3 „ = 2,250
March, 1899 .. .. 4,314 3 „ 2,250
September, 1899 .. 4,624 3 „ 2;250
March, 1900 .. .. 5,843 4 „ 3,000
September, 1900 ~ 5,863 4 „ = 3,000
£35,621 £19,500
This leaves the Royal Bank with reserves of £16,121
(reserve fund, £lO,OOO, and undivided profit, £6121), so
that some little progress has been made towards replacing
the £176,521 of shareholders’ funds which disappeared.
The last half-year’s earnings are equal to £7 6s. 7d. per
cent, per annum on the capital and reserve fund—a very
high average as things go nowadays. During the half-
year deposits have increased by £61,800 (from £363,538 to
£425,342), and the reserve of cash and liquid securities
has expanded from £125,497 to £185,628 —equal to the
very solid proportion of 40 per cent, on all liabilities to
the public. The Royal is in a decidedly prosperous con-
dition nowadays, but it wants to avoid anything like
undue haste after large dividends if the management
intends to make it a large and strong institution. It
would be interesting to know whether the said manage-
ment looks forward to some day replacing the lost capital
out of earnings, and restoring the institution to the
position it occupied before the Great Slump fell on Mel-
bourne. In fact, it would be interesting to know that re
quite a number of institutions. The Royal management,
by the way, makes a wise departure this half-year by
putting its reserves in State and municipal securities, and
it is to be hoped this practice will be permanent.
* « * ♦
The Australian Alliance Assurance Co. (Mel-
bourne), a concern which appears to be steadily under-
mining a splendid business in the struggle to pay un-
naturally large dividends, finished its 38th year on 31st
August, 1900. In 1893 this co. had £50,000 paid-up capi-
tal and total reserves of £235,089, but it transferred
£75,000 from the latter to the former, making the paid-up
capital £125,000 and the reserves £160,089. In the fol-
lowing table, however, the dividend is calculated on the
£50,000 capital actually paid up by the shareholders, in
order to show the real return which these fortunate indi-
viduals have been receiving on their money :
Dividends (on capital of
Profit. £50,000 actually paid-up),
August, 1894 .. £24,778 40 per cent. = £20,000
Added to Life
Funds .. 8,548
Written-off .. 22,972
£51,520
„ 1895 .. 9,30 i
Transfer
from Life
Fund. 27£ per cent= 13,750
„ ~ .. 18,874 Written-off .. 1,335
Profit. 15,085
„ 1896 .. 19,865 30 per cent. = 15,000
Written-off .. 10,654
25,654
„ 1897 .. 11,850 30 per cent. = 15,000
Written-off .. 14,790
Loss. 29,790
„ 1898 .. 14,974 y
Transfer
from Life
Fund.
„ „ 9,235 15 per cent. = 7,500
Written-off .. 438
Profit. 7,938
„ 1899 .. 18,044 25 per cent. = 12,500
Written-off .. 14,182
26 682
„ 1900 .. 14,779 25 per cent. = 12,500
Written-off .. 6,581
19,081
Profit, &c. . £111,755 Dividends, &c. £175,750
♦ • * *
There are many interesting points about these
figures. The Australian Alliance had, in 1893, reserves
amounting to £160,089. The reserves are now only
£96,094—a falling off of £63,995. The ordinary profits
have been £83,646, and against that the management has
paid dividends amounting to £96,250 —this at a time
when there was heavy depreciation of the assets to be
provided for. At the last two triennial valuations of the
life department the whole surplus was transferred to pro-
fit and loss account to cover depreciation and to help in
paying dividends of from 15 to 40 per cent, to the share-
holders. Even now no systematic attempt seems to have
been made at writing down all the assets to their real
present worth, and it is carefully specified that £315,000
worth of them (out of a total of £504,000) are merely
“ book value.” “ Book value ” may be the same as real
value, or it may even be less than real value. Or, again,
it may be so much more than real value that, on a per-
fectly fair valuation, all the rest of the reserves are swal-
lowed up, and the Australian Alliance may have no real
reserves at all. “ Book-value ”is an unsatisfactory kind
of remark.
• • * •
The life department seems to be expensively
managed. The Australian Alliance does practically no
new business (only four new policies were issued last
year), and, as it is new business which is most costly, the
expense-rate should be very low. Something like 8 per
cent, should be ample. Yet, last year, the total life-
income was £24,349 and expenses £3761 —equal to per
cent. “Commission and branch charges” were only
£139, so it actually cost £3622 (nearly 15 per cent.) in
mere management. The Australian Alliance estimates
future interest-earnings in its life department at £3 10s.
per cent., which should be low enough if the assets are
worth their book value ; it is the rate assumed by such
excellent offices as the A.M.P. and Maoriland State Life
Department. But last year it only earned £3 10s. lOd.
per cent, on the average funds of its life department,
which leaves a very small margin of safety indeed. Ana
the smallness of the interest earned strongly suggests
that the assets are not worth full book value just now,
and that to bring them down to real present value
another heavy writing-down is required—which the al-
ready depleted reserves can stand none too well.
The Australian Alliance, with its immense
paid-up capital of £125,000 and £96,094 (on paper, at all
events) of reserves is a sufficiently safe concern . for
insurers. But it looks as if it might (unless there is a
great increase in property values) be, ere long, none too
good a concern for shareholders. The dividend should
be rigidly cut down to 5 per cent, on the nominal paid-up
capital of £125,000 (this would be 12J per cent, on the
£50,000 actually paid up by shareholders, and 121- per
cent, is a very fine dividend). And then a systematic
process of writing off depreciation out of earnings—not
out of reserves—should be initiated.
* * * *
Brisbane Permanent Building and Banking Co.,
a large concern with £112,624 of paid-up capital, com-
pleted its 26th year on 31st August, 1900. In 1893 this
concern, then burdened with about £250,000 of deposits,
reconstructed, agreeing to pay 4 per cent, interest on
current accounts and 6 per cent, on fixed deposits. Since
then it has progressed as follows :
_ Shareholders’Dividends,
.Fronts. Dividend-duty, &c.
1894 .. £3363 2£ per cent. = £2814
Written-off properties .. 1362
£4176
1895 .. 3281 2f per cent. = 3172
Written-off properties .. 569
3741
1896 .. 2642 21 per cent. = 2957
Written-off properties .. 1926
4883
1897 .. 3410 21 per cent. = 2980
Written-off properties .. 2705
5685
1898 .. 4019 2| per cent. = 3289
Written-off properties .. 1262
4551
1899 .. 4711 3J per cent. = 3880
Written-off properties .. 333
4213
1900 ... 6618 3| per cent. = 4464
Written-ofl properties .. 315
4779
£27,044 £32,028
Reserves have been reduced in seven years by £4984,
from £23,024 in 1893 to £18,040 in 1900. Still, the reserves
have been increasing again for the last two years, and
there seems no reason why they should not get up to
their old figure again in a year or two. The Brisbane
Permanent Building and Banking Co. has now £144,500
of deposits, so it has paid off over £105,000 of them, and,
in doing so, has realised a large quantity of assets in a
very bad time with remarkably little loss. Also, it has
performed a remarkable feat in keeping up the payment
of dividends through the worst days of the slump ; and it
has long since released all its reconstructed deposits, pay-
ing the 6 per cent, interest in full to the last. It has
solid reserves of cash and liquid securities, and seems a
most prosperous institution. Ex-Premier Dickson, chair-
man of directors, has read (or intoned) the report to the
shareholders at 26 consecutive annual meetings.
• • • *
The little Sun Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) continues its gradual process of liquidation.
In view of the improvement in business this seems rather
a pity. The record for the past two years is :
In- Ex- Trading Total
come. penses. Loss. g a ] eg J Loss.
1899 .. £366 £417 £5l £2l' £72
Trading
Profit.
1900 .. 545 484 61 431 370
The capital (£11,020) is still intact, on paper anyhow, and
£6BO remains of the reserves, also on paper. But the
society is again beginning to pay expenses and leave a
small balance towards writing off depreciation. And
though the assets (about £19,600) yield barely 3 per cent,
gross, which apparently implies that they aren’t worth
much more than £lO,OOO or so j'ust now, they seem to be
improving materially, and might improve much more if
held for a better market.
* * * *
The balance-sheet of the Dunlop Pneumatic
Tyre Co. of Australasia (Melbourne), for the year ended
26th July, 1900, shows a profit of £16,257 —equal to £9 1 Is.
3d. per cent, on the paid-up capital of £170,000. The
biggest asset is the paper or goodwill item, “goodwill,
trade marks, patent rights, leases, &c., £130,716.” Of
this, £3216 is written off, reducing the profits to £13,041.
This is £7 13s. sd. per cent, per annum on capital, which
isn’t equal to a very gorgeous dividend. And, at this
rate of progress, it "will take very many years to fully
write off the goodwill item, so that the shareholders’ capi-
tal will all be represented by saleable assets—and the
bike and the Dunlop tyre, great as they are, are both
liable to be killed dead any day, and the remaining
£127,500 worth of patent rights and goodwill turned into
waste-paper, when some better device comes along.
» * * *
Great Cobar Copper Mine : Consternation at
Lithgow over the decision of the Cobar tributors to
change the system of smelting, abandoning the reverbera-
tory furnaces at Lithgow and establishing at Cobar the
Bessemer system of turning matte into blister copper.
Also stated that the tributors have exercised, or are about to
exercise, their option to buy the big mine right out, and
it is unlikely that the determination to change the smelt-
ing system would have been arrived at unless they had
also decided to become owners instead of tributors. Lith-
gow doesn’t like the idea of 200 men being thrown out,
but takes consolation in the fact that most of them have
been offered work at Cobar. When the tributors become
absolute owners of the Great Cobar copper mine the em-
bargo by way of royalty charged on all ores smelted there
will be removed, and a" good thing it will be for the other
local mines. At present the system is to heap-roast about
one-half of the sulphides, putting the whole into blast
furnaces and making a 30 per cent, to 35 per cent, matte,
largely by one operation ; training this to Lithgow,
making copper by means of reverberatory furnaces,
a small blast furnace being there used to work
up the reverberatory slags. The new system will consist
of doing away with all heap-roasting, bringing the matte
up to 45 or 50 per cent, by a second operation in the
blast furnaces, and turning this into blister copper per
converters. No doubt in the latter operation there will
be a great saving in fuel, none being required in the con-
verter itself, and only that necessary for the production
of the hot blast. Naturally there would need to be a
great saving in this direction at Cobar. Their excess of
iron and deficiency of silica will be further accentuated
in the new system, as they will need silicious ores in the
bringing up of their matte. Here comes another oppor-
tunity of arranging with the Cobar Chesney for the
blending of its high-grade silicious picked ores and con-
centrates. It is just as good an idea for these two mines
to work in unison as it was for the Mt. Lyell to acquire
the South Tharsis mine for the sake of the latter’s silica.
* * » *
Eldorado, Cobar : Said to have struck 6oz. sul-
phide ore. “ Three tons have been dispatched from the
mine, and bagging of the same-grade ore is continuing.
The lode appears defined and permanent.” The Dr.vsdale,
too, is said to be showing a general improvement, and
good stone is going through the battery. Well, if the
mine is looking up the market is going down. When the
directors of these two mines put their heads together and
formulate a basis of amalgamation, Tnu Bulletin will
credit them with a little common-sense —never before.
Gallymont (N.S.W.) : “It is ..reported .that a
reef has been discovered going 6ozs. to the ton.” The
60-head stamp mill and other machinery on this mine
are being dismantled to go to Mt. Boppy, Cobar district.
Shares in London a shilling, but that is a better price
than offered for the Gibraltar Consolidated, the initial
float of the Angdo-Australia’n Co. ; buyers 6d, sellers Is.
Yet the Gibraltar is'producing from 800 to 1200ozs. a
month, and the price of the shares does not pay for
more than a tenth of the cost of the plant. It is the
way of all mining things in London ; shares are either
monstrously over or under valued. Think of it—
Gibraltar shares were once £2 . 10s in London. That was
no greater an anomaly than their present price.
* * * *
Hillgrove Proprietary: “ During the last few
feet the reef in the face has been very thin, but this is
quite a characteristic of Smith’s reef, so it is not altoge-
ther-unexpected.” It is, anyhow, refreshing to have the
truth about the reef. In N.S. W. reefs are nearly always
widening. No details given, but from what the writer
knows of Smith’s reef, “ aery thin ” would mean the thick-
ness of a penknife-blade.
* * * *
Jenning’s Sluicing and Dredging Co. : So far a
disappointment. Shareholders to be called together to
find additional money.
* * * *
Turon River dredge, N.S.W. The tipster last
Sabbath : “ Recent events all tend to show that the high
estimate will be realised. The results themselves are
eloquent enough and there are miles of splendid ground
and a progressive average may be fairly anticipated.
The monthly profit from one dredge alone must reach
between £6OO and £7OO, and in the operations of No. 1
dredge a still bigger result is being obtained.” The
Bulletin last week : “ Now if a dredge works for many
months at a certain average return that is suddenly
doubled, which is more likely—that it will go back to the
old average or keep up the new ” ? Sydney D.T. this
week : “ The decreased return from the Turon dredges
for last week depressed the shares somewhat. The
returns were 30oz. from No. 1 dredge and 39 from No. 2.
Total 690 z. Just a little over one-half previous week’s
yield.
* * * *
Dayspring mine (N.S.W.) has been resuscitated,
and is going to have a new shaft and a new battery. All
it will want then will be a new mine or a new shute in the
old lode which is well defined, but too poor to pay. It
has one fairly good shute of ore in it. If it were double
the length with the same richness, or double the richness
with the same length, it would do.
* * • *
Victoria Cross, now the Victoria Broken Hill,
has got off 30,000 shares in England ; and as these have
been taken fully paid, the co. starts with £16,000 in hand
instead of the handful of cash which the Australian share-
holders provided.
• • * •
Gympie Sept, returns show a big falling-off.
Principal producers for this year are Scottish Gympie,
18,6320z5., divs. 195., and 2 South G. Eastern, 14,4870z5.,
divs 10s. 9d.
* * * *
Tindal’s, outside Coolgardie, claims to have
made a profit of something over £3OO from Aug. 18 to
Sept. 15 out of 1042 tons of stuff averaging 3dwt. 20gr.
This is no douht the Westralian record to date. Of
course, Tindal’s formation is all in favor of records of
that sort—an 80ft. body, mostly easily-worked quartz,
broken out in a quarrv. Down to this, 6dwt. at Hope’s
Hill, and 7dwt. at the Craigie More (Mt. Margaret), were
claimed as the best results in the Western province.
* * • ■
Lake View and Boulder Junction. Five leases,
4 acres in all. Main shaft 764 ft., crosscuts put out at
750 ft. level. Gold found in most of the rock passed
through, but nowhere in payable quantities. Thousands
of feet of driving and sinking done without finding any-
thing worth crushing. At the 100 ft. level there is a for-
mation 20ft. wide, worth 5 to 6 dwts., but not good
enough to pay in this camp ; doubtful if it ever will. It
is wider still in the 200 ft. level and also poorer. There is
another formation 10ft. wide at 370 ft. level. Plenty
mineralised country, but no payable gold. It is outside
of the Golden Mile, a poor mine surrounded by others
equally poor—Boulder North Extended, Golden Pipe and
Lake View East, Boulder Central, Hannan’s Central
Extended, and the Ironsides North.
» » * *
Kalgoorlie Mint and Iron King intends to try
another parcel of oxidised ore. Development work from
the 500 ft. level having proved barren, sinking is to be
renewed to test the formation at greater depth. The
share-market shows that the public are getting very
tired, but at Hannan’s mines are prospected before they
are abandoned to an infinitely greater extent than in any
other part of Australasia. Why ? Because the patient
—and pig-headed—Bull owns them.
* • * »
Hannan’s Block 45. “ It is probable that when
sufficient stone has been raised a parcel will he crushed.”
Quite a usual circumstance. Telluride was first found on
this block, which is surrounded by the Federal, Croesus
South, Venture, and other leases. It is outside the
Golden Mile, surrounded by a lot of wild cats, strikes an
occasional rich seam of ore having no abiding place, rich
to-day and poor to-morrow ; and ekes out a languishing
existence by means of favorable reports, constant calls,
and water. It produces about 20,000 gals, daily—which is
something to he proud of at Hannan’s, wheresome mines
having the least gold have the most water.
* * * *
Perseverance : Milled 1950 tons, 8330 z. ; cya-
nided 1394 tons, 1185 oz. Sulphide plant treated in Aug.,
291 tons, and in Sept., 3210 tons, yielding by amalgama-
tion, 27140 z. ; by cyanide, 301 oz. Estimated value of
three tons of zinc sludge shipped to Fremantle smelters,
981 oz. ; total, 61840 z., including 170 oz. silver. The market
regarded the result as a great disappointment, and shares
fell nearly £2 in a few days. It is not so much the result
as the capacity of the mill which is disappointing.
Manager Nichols says the extraction is up to his expecta-
tion, that the mill was hung up some time in Sept., and
so far only three furnaces have been in operation. It will
probably be some time ere any of the Hannan’s sulphide
plants are brought up to their full capacity, and it is
impossible to arrive at the cost of treatment until they
are. Impossible, too, to start plants of such magnitude
without small breakdowns, and it is doubtful whether
any of them will work up to the capacity estimated ;
chances also are that the cost will be heavier than antici-
pated. Roasting is the trouble. The main difficulty is to
get a “ sweet ” roast at small cost, and the great feature
of the Diehl process is that it does without roasting.
• * * »
Sons of Gwalia : 5018 tons crushed for 35160 z.
Gold from tailings and concentrates brought the total up
to 52620 z. One of the few big isolated mines in Westraßa
with a long div. career before it. Two other producers
have come into the field—East Murchison United milled
1820 tons for 13260 z., and 23260 z. from cyanide treatment
of tailings. Long Reef, 1560 tons for 10650 z. The other
widely-separated big Westralian mines are the Cosmo-
politan, the W.A. Mt. Morgan, Murton’s Find and Great
Fingall Consolidated.
* * * *
Chaffers: “Development work has been
stopped, but will be resumed in a month. So far, with
the exception a few narrow veins not payable in the ag-
gregate, the developments in this mine have been disap-
pointing. Possibly, deeper working may
develop ore in payable quantities.” The most cruel thing
we have read of Chaffers for four years. It has done
thousands of feet of driving and sinking, other thousands
of feet of diamond-drill'boring. It is a proved duffer—
with a market valuation of £300,000 ? It is next to a big
mine—Golden Horseshoe —but sitting next to a million-
aire in a tramcar does not increase a poor man’s wealth.
* * * *
Lake View Consols. Sept, output: Slimes
3641 tons, 18350 z. Sulphides 2922 tons, 36770 z. Total
55120 z. Value £21,250, wotkingcosts £10,617 ; machinery,
mine development, management, etc., eating up some
thousands of the balance. Shares down to £ll IKs.
Were over £l4 three weeks ago, when several big
“bears”, were forced to cover under the delusion that
they were going to £2O. They are more likely to go to
£lO. Diehl process likely to Btart next month. Five
months ago it was to start in Aug., then Sept., then Oct.,
and now Nov. Perhaps December.
* • • I
Northern Associated: “Still furnishing stone
of sensationally high value.” Shares dropped 10s. in the
face of “ magnificent development.” The main lode is
dipping very fiat to the west, by which it is inferred that
it is identical with that of the North block of the Oroya,
and if it continues to go flat no doubt some of the “ flats’ 1
controlling the side-on-blocks will be starting to bore
for it.
* • * *
Brownhill Extended : Another parcel of 80 tons
sent to the Fremantle smelters, and stated there are close
on 2000 tons of fair-grade ore in the dump which would
pay handsomely for treating. Probably a lie. Though
the B.H.E. has no reducing plant of its own, there are
several in the vicinity languishing for ore to treat, and if
sulphide ore is referred to, 10 to 1 it is too poor to send
away. The average mining-news item from any part of
Westralia is a lie.
* • • •
South Kalgurli : 1300 tons, 1310ozs. “No par-
ticulars are available.” Sufficient to know that shares
continue to fall. They are now down to 755. They were
nearly double the price before they had a crushing, and
having had many a crushing without a div., holders are
depressed.
# * * •
Golden Horseshoe: 6221 tons crushed for
4810ozs. ; 2233 tons sulphides, 45990z5. ; 2893 tons tail-
ings, 23630z5. ; 3852 tons slimes, 19020z5. ; 27 tons con-
centrates, 2(>7ozs. Total, 13,9410z5., or over lOOOozs. more
than last month. This is the record. Shares about £l2
in London, a valuation of nearly four millions 1 For
some time the G.H. has been the “ boss ” producer of
Westralia. A well-equipped and well-managed mine, but
not worth four millions 1
Golden Zone : Payable stone is being raised
from the winze. Good news is always regular from the
Golden Zone; so are its calls. It. is a “ wild cat ” sur-
rounded by wild cats. It was never anything else, and it
is much cheaper to forfeit shares than to pay calls on a
wild cat’s shares. It has been kept alive mainly by a
journalist’s big interest in it. Probably better for the
journalist if he had allowed it to die naturally.
* * * *
Paringa Consolidated : Has had some assays
averaging 20dwts. to the ton and some more that only
averaged 3dwts. “West Australian” still barracks for
this “ wild cat ” in the Financial Times, but never gives
his name. He says : “ After anxious thought I have come
to the conclusion that the holiday season and the general
dulness may account for the apathy and want of public
interest displayed, and surely those that are in the know
must be availing themselves of the circumstances.” Those
in the know would leave Paringas religiously alone. It is
an amalgamation of several “ cats,” each of which ex-
hausted its working capital in failing to find gold, and it
will not be long before it will collectively repeat its in-
dividual experience. There are more “ wild cats” within
a few miles of the big mines of Kalgoorlie than in all the
rest of Australasia.
* * * *
Great Boulder South: “There are rumors of
the striking of an Bft. lode at 600 ft. averaging from 2 to
40z., but so far there is no official confirmation of the
news.” Ten to one there never will be.
• * m m
Brownhill Central. Says Sydney D.T. and
other papers : “ Several delays have occurred in the
starting of the new 200-head battery.” It never had a
battery of any kind—has nothing to crush if it had. Pro-
bably the Croesus United 20-head battery is the on?
referred to.
( Continued on page 24-)


h
COMPL€TE OUTFITS.
AN ORIENT BOOT—
-16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT—
-63
TO MEASURE
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES-'
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
<s*orge * Barrack Sts., Sydney.
the original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKEY
ESTABLISHED J. J. & S. 1780
Trade Mark.
John Jameson <fc Son are not Blenders of Whiskey, but Distillers of one
quality of spirit, viz., the finest old still whiskey that can be produced
the only difference between the grades being that of AGE.
In order that customers may feel assured of genuineness, attention is
requested to our Special Export Label, and to our Name and Trade Mark
on Corks, Capsules, and Cover ; also to Age Mark.
Agents-J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
SOCIETY
Lovely item from S.M. Herald of Friday
last:—
The works for the construction of Hopetoun Avenue
were visited yesterday afternoon by the Premier, who
found that they were not being carried out in precise
accord with his instructions, and that a great deal of
damage had been already done along the foreshore of the
Domain to trees, shrubs, and some of the familiar rock
surfaces. This destruction had mostly occurred on the
previous day, before it was made clear to the officer in
charge that it was the Premier’s wish that the road
should be constructed outside the foreshore on a founda-
tion reclaimed from the harbour.
Before it was made clear to the officer in charge,
<kc, I I Was there ever a more miserable attempt
to drop the responsibility on to the man under-
neath ? But perhaps N.S.W. is a country where
the officer in charge receives vague, verbal in-
structions to make some kind of a road round the
Domain, somewhere near Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair,
and goes down with a crowd of men and starts
work without a plan or anything else !
* * • *
There is no doubt that the long, grovel-
some centipede who devised the “ Hopetoun
Avenue ” intended to perpetrate the boss piece of
vandalism in the history of N.S.W. Along the
east and north of Sydney Domain foreshore the
men had already cut down several picturesque
native trees, and tell-tale pegs of red show where
the rounded bluff was to have been cut and blasted
away till it looked like a hunk of a railway-cutting
dropped into the middle of Paradise. At Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair heaps of broken stone have
begun to obliterate the natural baby reefs that
were such an ornament to the place ; but, pre-
sumably, now the project of bringing the road
round the east side has been abandoned, these dis-
figuring heaps will be removed —when the people
have revolusned about three times and threatened
to hang the persons responsible,
• • • •
Editor Bulletin.— Be Premier Lyne’s ex-
planation that the proposed drive round Sydney
Domain and Botanic Gardens “would be for
private conveyances only.” What regulation
could prevent the butcher or baker, or the green-
grocer, from taking his missus and kids for an
airing in his “ robbo,” right under the noses of the
Naicest? I hardly think the community would
stand the shutting-out of aforesaid citizens from
their own property because their equipages didn’t
take rank as “kerridges.”—H.S.
• * * •
According to the London correspondent
of Sydney D.T. :
The Princess Louise’s intense dislike for publicity no
doubt influenced her refusal of the Governor-Generalship
of Australia. She “ could never make a friend there. It
would be worse than in Canada.” At Rideau-hall she
might be able to preserve a provisional incognita.
If that’s so, Australia has escaped an infliction.
Funny, though, to find that the Governor-General-
ship was apparently offered to the lady instead of
to her marital appendage. The whilom Lome,
nevertheless, would have been precious glad of the
screw to help out the somewhat scanty revenue of
his dukedom. Anyhow, wherever she got it, Louise
has a pretty good idea of what Australian polite
society is like. There would be no “provisional
incognita” in Australia. It would be “ Yer
R’yal Highness” every time, and poor Argyle
would have to sit around in dark corners to get
out of the blinding glare of his wife’s exaltation.
• * • *
The Yorks’ visit to Australia may prove a
good thing democratically. Nine-tenths of our
people have never seen Royalty, and probably
never would; they used their imaginations and
servile newspaper versions in their conceptions,
with the result that Royalty as they think it, is
greatly superior to and immeasurably more
magnificent than the real article. When the
sft. 4in. Duke arrives, representing Royalty
as it is (representing it fittingly, too,) this game-
loving and hero-worshipping country will receive
a shock that will take very much condescension
and Royal favor to soften.
* * * *
Toby Barton was the only one of about a
dozen speakers at the Melb. Mayor’s luncheon
who did not slobber like -a boa-constrictor over the
Yorks’ impending visit. In a half-hour speech
Toby did not even refer to the coming Crawl, and
dodged all contentious questions in a mass of
rhetoric that made the assembled fatmen say
afterwards he had made a magnificent speech,
but they were hanged if they could remember
what it was all about.
• * • ♦
Nobody can say Griffith, C.J., doesn’t rule
Brisbane Girls’ Grammar School with a rod of
A SOLTLOQUY.
MONK: “ Yers, ’Attie Binks, I see yer game.
Want to nark me by kiddin’ the cheild’s yer
own .”
cold iron. In ’9B, the head-mistress was, to all
appearance, highly esteemed by the autocratic
Samuel. In ’99, she was summarily dismissed,
and all the king’s horses and all the king’s men
couldn’t drag a reason for it out of the trustees.
Then Miss Sellars was installed as second mistress,
and Griffith called her “a loyal servant of the
trustees, and deserving the thanks of all parents
having children at the school.” In 1900, Miss
Sellars is given her conge, and letters from be-
wildered parents still fail to elicit any adequate
reason. Query: Does the present head-mistress
feel shaky on her throne ?
» * » •
A very tremendous recent Sydney wedding
led to an unfortunate adventure which befell a
young man from Melbourne travelling for pleasure
with the missus and the kid. It was announced
that the principals of the magnificent marriage
hereinbefore alluded to were going honey-moon-
ing in a certain picturesque locality not far distant
from the metropolis, but this announcement was
merely a “ blind ” to preserve the fond but shrink-
ing couple from the offensive curiosity of the vul-
gar. The bride and groom took another direction
altogether, but fate carried the travelling Vic-
torian with his missus and his kid to the salubri-
ous township mentioned in the papers, and to the
man’s surprise he found the station platform
packed with a sympathetic crowd. When he
stepped from the carriage his surprise heightened
to amazement, for the sympathetic populace
howled joyously at the sight of him, and threw
up its hat and cheered till it went purple in the
face. _ But when that bewildered stranger handed
his wife on to the platform, the delighted popula-
tion cheered more furiously still, and discharged
about 2ijcwt. of rice down the backs of the dis-
tracted couple. The young man arose to protest,
but when he opened his mouth to speak the popu-
lace heaved lbs. of rice into it, and howled like a
delighted insane asylum, so the man grabbed
his baby from under a rug, and turned and fled.
At the sight of the infant an Arctic coldness and
an awful calm fell upon the populace, and as the
couple broke from the station the engine whistled
a long, low, insinuating whistle.
* * * *
Re Premier Lyne’s proposed bonus to the
Australian poetical industry, what a dreary hope
we have of getting an Australian ode at this day
and date ! Think of the garish foreign “tripe”
that would result from the Imperialistic inspira-
tion now in the air—a Kiplingesque yap mainly
about motherland, Joe Chamberlain, African
slaughter, and Duke of York.
When Melb. City Council was talking of
painting Melbourne red and planting foreign trees
all over the place in honor of the visit of the Duke
of York, one timid councillor ran the risk of being
cursed black as a pro-Boer by hinting in an
apologetic way that a few Australian trees might
be planted too. Whereupon a ponderous alderman
named Maloney squelched him with the declara-
tion that ‘ there is no beauty in Australian trees
compared with the trees of other lands.” This is
the true Imperialistic and “patriotic” attitude.
Ihe Council greeted it with approving grunts,
and no Australian trees are to be planted.
* * * *
A pleasing little circumstance elicited by
the current N.S.W. Military Inquiry Board is
that, through the miserable bungling of the local
military authorities, some of the N.S.W. officers
in S’Africa have been reduced practically to rags,
and to the necessity of infringing discipline by
borrowing money from the men under their
command.
The Tramway dispute has grown so hot in
Adelaide that everybody who holds tram-shares is
under suspicion, while everyone who might, could,
should or would be connected with the proposed
conversion of the city system to electric traction
is accused of either giving or taking bribes.
* * * *
Prof. Morris, of Melb. University, at the
close of a lecture on “Capt. Mathew Flinders,”
in Adelaide, advised S.A. to alter its absurd name
and to substitute “Flinders” for it. Once upon
a time an electorate stretching from the south to
the north coast of the province, and from the
eastern to the western boundaries, was called
Flinders, but in recent days the Northern Terri-
tory and Newcastle have been taken from it.
Still, even now the district of Flinders is one of.
the biggest constituencies in the world.
« * • *
Minor offenders brought up at Sydney
police courts extenuate the charges against them
by alleging they have taken part in the Boer war.
On two occasions lately magistrates reduced the
fine one-half on this allegation.
DR. LAURE,
Photo, by Grouzelle.
Beautiful bit of snuffle from a competition'
essay on the best means of advertising the beauties
of rural Daylesford (Vic.):
Here you cannot help pausing to moralise that the
great disposer of events has surely been ungrateful to
civilised man to have locked up for so many thousand
years such a charming portion of His vast dominion to the
thoughtless, mindless, wandering savage, who never
uttered a prayer of gratitude, or a sentiment of admira-
tion for the blessings he enjoyed. I’ut He works in a
mysterious way His wonders to perform, and no doubt it
was according to the dispensation of Divine Wisdom that
Captain Cook arrived at Botany Bay in the fulness 0j
A DREAM
OF YOU
ħ
I Bat one fifelit eve and dreamed %
Of many things, and most of you—
No, all of you. Till so it seemed r
That what I longed for to ensue
V f as what had come:
For by me, in the lamp’s red glow,
I heard a quick breath taken low.
A flame leapt up alert with fear,
Then died in ecstasy of light— :
All blue and gold. I strained to hear
That breath—impatient of the nighj. .
It breathed upon ;
Then thought I waked (.q find it all
A dream of you at evenfall.
But now, once more, warm ’gainst my hair.
That breath again in faint caress
Falls soft. No dream could be more fair
Than this that you are here—unless
You kissed me in’t.
Beloved I—that kiss 1 God lis it true
My dream is pass’d, and this is you ?
g.A.
ALAN.
CAULD KAIL.
“It has been alleged—and not denied-
that there are in Victoria 80,000 lapsed Presby-
terians.”— The Rev. W. O. Wallace, Moderator
of the Victorian Presbyterian Assembly. Age 7 th
Sept.
Na doobt I’m o’ the non-elect
Ear-marked ahint o’ Time,
An’ but a puir, daft, fashous chiel
Wha blethers feckless rhyme ;
I ken richt weel I’ve had a fa’,
A michtie fa’ frae grace,
I mind me o’ the days lang gane
When I ken’d naething base.
Ah ! then I was a sonsie bairn
Wha trod the narrow ways ;
I mind me o’ the dear auld kirk
Where cauld kail gaed for praise
Na organ tones wad desecrate
Those bare, unlovely wa’s ;
The Sabbath was a lang, lang, day ;;
There were na ja’nts, nor ca’s.
I mind me weel I dare na rin,
To whustle was a crime ;
I dare na sing aught but a psalm,.
There was na wee bit chime ;
Na carnal joys the day to soil,
But aye the same cauld kail;
But hout awa ! the deid are deid,.
I wadna at them rail.
Aye, there were giants in those days*.
I ken that verra weel;
Gude fearin’ men o’ michtie deed,
Hail-hairted, upricht, leal;
An’ there were dour an’ drumly loons,.
Wha made o’ life a greet:
But hout awa ! the deid are deid,
An’ Time is awfu’ fleet.
I wadna at my forbears rail,
I lo’e them much ta weel;
Na doobt we aw have had a fa’’
Frae grace, an’ doon we reel::
But hout awa ! we fa’ to rise,
The warld gangs aft agley—
I lo’e a drap o’ steaming punch*
No mair cauld kail for me.
VIO.
ANDREW SARD.


Medical Science asserts
that
LIFEBUOY
XOYAL C(Y\ 13
_ DISINFECTANT AjV/rVJT
will effectually destroy
the germs that produce
infectious diseases.
SoreTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
CoNDY’S FLUID ’ ’ can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
h
Hoots for Gentlemen.
17/6 20/- 22/6 25/- 28/6
add 1/- postage.
Boots for Ladies.
14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
add 9d. for postage.
BOOTS SHABBY TOO SOON ?
GANT BE A PAIR OF
CALLAGHAN’S.
Callaghan Boots don’t lose their shape
they last a long: time, and look
well all the time they are lasting:.
Callaghan & Son,
395 George St., Sydney
time, like the event of our Saviour, to give to our country
agrand gift of this grand continent as a reward for our
virtues and religious sentiments.
Think of God not being properly grateful to
J. Bull ! And why does the average Australian
always talk as if this country’s history began with
Captain Cook, seeing that the place had been
known for 200 years before that casual navigator
came along, and its coasts had been already ex-
plored by some dozens of Dutch and Portuguese
(mostly Dutch) navigators? Many of its most
prominent features had even well-recognised
names before Cook was heard of.
(The hearing of the charges against certain
Marist Brethren in connection with the Stoke
(M.L.) Industrial School Inquiry promises to be
of a very sensational character. The head of the
order in N.S.W. instructed the accused to return
to Maoriland and submit themselves for trial —
the charges then being considered trivial ones of
common assault. Immediately on landing in
M.L. defendants were arrested on other charges
of a much more serious character. There are no
less than 16 charges of common assault against
certain of the brothers audio charges of indecent
assault on boys against another. Of toe boys
alleged to have been assaulted by the latter, one is
now silly and the other a consumptive.
* * • »
Victoria's romantic small female with the
small dirty story has turned up again—at Castle-
maine this time. She said that she had been
criminally assaulted by a man named Beggs, but
shg apparently thought so little of the matter that
she didn’t even mention it for some time after-
wards. Then she withdrew the charge against
Beggs, and said that she had really been assaulted
by one Smyth, but had wilfully brought a false
accusation against Beggs in order to screen
Smyth. Thus the Crown’s only important
witness was, by her own confession, a liar,
who had tried to get an innocent man a long
term of imprisonment on a false charge. All
the same the Crown prosecuted Smyth on her
evidence, and got him committed, and but for his
good fortune in getting bail he would have spent
two. months in gaol awaiting trial. . When his
case came on the small female (she is about 16)
broke down again and Smytli was acquitted.
Net though the law knows that its witness laid
a false accusation against Beggs, and has every
reason to believe that she did the same against
Smyth, nothing has so far been heard about a pro-
secution. There never is in such cases, though
they happen by the dozen. And this is the reason
why The Bulletin says again that the Victorian
Government is the aider, abetter, and accomplice
of perjurers, and that the announcement is written
large over the Vic. law offices where the eye of
faith may see it: “The Law cordially admires
and approves of any Unclean-Minded Female
who tries to get a Man condemned to years ot
Imprisonment on a False Charge—always pro-
vided that the False Charge is of the dirty kind
and pattern which appeal to the Laws Dirty
Instincts. And it hereby Guarantees that the
said Girl won’t be Prosecuted if her attempt fails,
but will receive every assistance to bring more
False Charges, and it will be Dashed Bad -Buck
if, with the Law’s aid and connivance, she doesn't
get some Innocent Man into Gaol before she is
done.” On the Word of a Woman !
* * • *
The sea-serpent has been “ seen again—
this time by the people of s.s. Nemesis, en route
from Fremantle (W. A.) eastwards. It s a very
curious thing that in these days of the übiquitous
camera none of the persons thus favoured appear
ever to be provided with the means of getting a
corroborative snapshot. A single photograph
would outvalue bushels of protestation.
The Hospice for the Dying, conducted by
the Sydney Sisters of Charity, is a unique institu-
tion in that it is entirely unsectarian, and that
as pointed out by Mr. Hughes, M.L.C., at the re-
cent laying of the foundation-stone of a new budd-
ing—“the only conditions asked of inmates are
that they be poor and miserable, and in want of a
place wherein to die.” The new quarters, to the
cost of which all classes of the community have
freely contributed, will be a great improvement
on the present more or less makeshift accommoda-
tion.
An Adelaide resident recently lost, from
consumption, within three weeks, three daughters
aged respectively 18, 21, and 27 —-the third death
occurring with appalling suddenness. A brother
of the girls suffers also from phthisis ; and alto-
gether it looks as if our bubonic scare was a bit
absurd in view of the more deadly plague we have
with us all the time.
* * * *
Sydney Catholic Press (13/10/’00) heads
an article “Will Lord Hopetoun go to Mass?
Well, the bulk of the population won’t care a rap
what Hopetoun may or may not do. The prob-
lem which is now agitating the great heart of the
nation is “What’s a good double for the two
Cups ?” * »
The long-drawn dispute among the 0. of
E. trustees, which has alternately wearied and
maddened Goulburnites during the better part of
the last 20 years, is to be taken in hand. by a
select committee of N.S.W. Assembly. It is not
quite clear what a select committee can do m the
matter, but, as the law-courts and all other avail-
able tribunals have failed to settle the difficulty, a
try in this direction may chance on . somethm'”
good. A large area of Crown lands is involve 1
TWO SOUL S' WITH BUT A
SINGLE THOUGHT.
APOLOGETIC EMPLOYE: “Sir, I would like to go to my mother-in-
law's funeral to-morrow.”
BOSS: “So would I.”
Queensland Parliament, on the motion of
Labor-member Turley, lately committed a curious
foolishness. It amended the Health Bill to pro-
vide that, if a parent or guardian has conscien-
tious objections, he need not vaccinate his child.
Vaccination is either good or bad. If it is bad it
should be abolished. If it is good, and all the
evidence points that way, then to deprive a child
of the benefits of it because of the ignorance or
bigotry of its guardian is very rough on the child.
Will Turley go to the logical conclusion and pro-
pose to let a child remain quite ignorant, quite
naked, or wholly unwashed if its parent has con-
scientious objections to education, or clothes, or
cold water?
» * * *
A recent Australasian devotes 23
lines to working out the interesting sum : If a
snail crawls up 2 - 58333 ft. of a 7ft. post in 12 hours
of day, and slips back l‘333ft. in the succeeding
12 hours of night, how long will it take it to reach
the top of the pole ? The answer having been
given, arrangements for the inauguration of the
Commonwealth can now proceed without further
delay.
* * • *
P.M.-General Watt (Vic.) is still puzzled
how to deal with the employes in his Department
who take undue advantage of the fact that full
pay is given to sick absentees. The average of
sick absentees is now three times as large as when
half-rates were paid. But for all that, civil ser-
vants are remarkably tenacious of life—probably
because the State does not undertake to pay their
funeral expenses.
* • • *
The same M.L. journal that advocated
leavingnot a living thing” in Pekin now cries
out against the ferocity of the Russians, as shown
by the alleged raasacre of 5,000 Chows. Is this
repentance ; or blindness in one eye ?
* * * *
The drivers on the George-street (Syd-
ney) electric trams complain that the schedule
to which they are compelled to run gives them
insufficient margin for unavoidable delays.
Drivers are fined for being late in consequence of
stoppages for which they are often in no way to
blame. In consequence they are obliged to hustle
their vehicles after a block, with often fatal re-
sults to a stray citizen or two. Anyone gazing up
George-street from the front of an electric tram
must marvel that the driver ever gets through
the traffic at all. The idea of rigidly keeping him
to a hard-and-fast time-table might explain the
frequency of accidents in George-street.
* * * *
A brave captain-commanding addressed
his men on parade-ground in Sydney lately:—
“I’ve got a lot of your letters requesting me to
have a church-parade next Sunday. I don’t mind
once in a while, but I’m not going to take you
every Sunday, merely to mash the girls.”
* * * *
Rumoured that the absorption of a Sydney
evening paper by a Sydney morning paper is
being seriously discussed.
* * * .*
A novel application was recently; l.nade to.
N.S.W. Justice Cohen by a man who, two years
back, had been sentenced to imprisonment for
forgery, but had been released on surety under
the First Offender’s Act. He asked now to be
sent to gaol to save him from an apprehended
lapse into liquor and possibly thereafter into such
conduct as might cause the forfeiture of his
securities. The Judge was nonplussed. The law
leaves entirely out of sight the possible preven-
tion of crimes which it is prompt to punish when
committed.
* * * *
Sydney Town Hall organ-recital for Oct. 6
advertised itself as a “Wedding Programme.”
The first item printed on the list of that wedding
programme was Chopin’s “Funeral March” !
r- • * * *
N.S.W. Govt. officially intimated lately
that all returned contingenters “fit to earn their
living” will be paid what is owing and get a
bonus of one month’s pay beside. Then the
warriors, the gas of romance squeezed out of them,
niay hustle round for an honest crust.
• * * *
When N.S. Wales P.S. Commissioners were
at Broken Hill listening to the reasons advanced
for extra allowances to officials, one gentleman,
somewhat famed out-back for his eccentricities,
gtavely informed them that he thought he was
entitled to an extra allowance as “confinements
cost much more here than in Sydney.” Also, the
wife of a Broken Hill civil-servant pleaded for an
increase for her husband as in Sydney a shave cost
3d. as against 6d. at Broken Hill.
♦ • * *
Talk about the heathen in his blindness !
There are some people round Sydney who can
knock spots off the heathen for eyeless supersti-
tion. A woman of Port Jackson lately paid a
Syrian gentleman £3 12s. to cure her of an inter-
nal disorder by sacrificing goats and making a
sweet savour of burnt William to the Almighty.
The Syrian accordingly slew three unfortunate
nannies in the bush at Mosman’s Bay, but the
fourth victim, or intended victim, was a large bill-
goat, which refused to be offered up. It butted
the prophet into a mud-hole, and then left,* and
the incompleteness of the sacrifice is supposed to
account for the patient’s non-recovery.
* * * *
It- is said that peculiar scenes are obser-
vable from the top-storey windows cl Melb.
Working Men’s College, which overlook the
women’s quarters of Melb. Gaol.
* * * *
“ Star ” on a point of municipal law :
The Armidale (N.S.W.) cabbies are driving their vehicles
through the local municipal by-laws. They were sum-
moned for alleged breaches of the code, originally drafted
by N.S.W. Municipal Association as a model one( and the
Bench dismissed the cases, alleging that as the broken by-
law prescribed no penalty the magistrates were not com-
petent to impose one. The Crown Law authorities, too, re-
fused to direct the Bench, and the cabbies were trium-
phant. But how about clause 252 of part XXIII. of the
Act itself, which says: “Every person committing a
breach of any provision of this Act, or of any by-law
made hereunder, by wilful act, or refusal or neglect to
act or otherwise, shall, when no specific penalty has been
provided for such offence, be liable to a penalty not ex-
ceeding £20.” What is the matter with the array of legal
talent ■at Armidale ? And also the Crown Law authori-
ties. •
* * * •
Sydney E. News lately printed a photo of
a pair of enormous Boer-woman’s stockings to
demonstrate the hideous fatness of Boer women’s
legs. . Now.writea.LoNnoN. Star-: -
Of course people with stockings like that ought to be
glad when a slender, high-souled, slim-soled people come
to take their country away from them. But in view of
Mr. Halstead, the American Consul’s, discoveries about
the comparative thickness of the British matron’s ankle
we fear that the Americans may be basing on the propor-
tions, of British hosiery an anti-fat campaign for the
annexation of the British Isles.
DISPOSED OF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Please, Dad, buy us two whistles and a drum;
For all to-day we’re going to practise stamp-
ing;
And when you bring the whistles and the drum—
We’re going to play at little soldiers tramp •
ing.”
“Whistles and drums?—Great Scott! that isn't bad!
Your noise now sets my very marrow creeping—
You little romps, your “band” would drive me
mad!”
“ Well, Dad, we’ll only play it when you’re
sleeping /”
ALONE.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY*B success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing !
JZOH MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attention as If you bought amongst the daily crowds at the counters.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
IICHT^'
ftUNNINC
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
Write for our iltnofrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
ħ
J.W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
Sl9l 39019
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Dimited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ Sydney, October 16, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
Vice-regally, socially, Sydney is taking her
October sleep, beauty-sleep for November, and
Cup week’s exactions.
At Govt. House, the chintz comes off and on.
Last week Lady Lamington and Miss Briscoe
popped in for a couple of days, and this
week see 3 Lady Ranfurly and two little
Miss Ranfurlys putting up at our State man-
sion for a while. Mr. Perceval Landon, the
latest aide, with a face like Clement Shorter,
turns out to be such an ardent journalist, such an
enthusiast _ in Ink and Kipling and Modern
London print, that one can’t help wondering how
he comes to be inviting Mrs. De Jones to At
’Omes at Sydney Govt. House. My entirely
unauthorised explanation is that he has come all
this way to detect literals in the thrilling book of
impressions that His Ex. is said to be promulgating
up there about—or should I say against—Australia
as it struck ME.
Ah, but it is all very well to jest! In spite of
jests, in spite of birth-stains, blue-tickets, in spite
even of spite, Sydney is getting ready to be truly
sorry for the coining departure of Little Billee.
Did you read the Premier’s speech at Yass last
week? He eulogised Lord Beauchamp in warm
words, remarking that some people in the State
did not know what our present Governor was
worth; that his instincts were of the highest
character and that lie had endeared himself to a
large section. And do you know, judging by all
one hears and sees, I fancy the Premier has not
overstated the case. Certainly Potts Point is
sore still, and society people en mo-use consider
that the Dignity of the Points has oeen
decimated by some of his Ex.’s doings,
but the real, living, actuating part of the
Erovince knows better. It realizes that in
little Billee we have had a Gov. who hasn’t tied
himself to stale old customs—“ the Majority
Truths ” Ibsen denounces, truths so stale that they
are almost crumbling to pieces. And artists,
poets, musicians, poor clergymen—theothah class,
m fact, that is not supposed to know the front
Govt. House door from the back—they have
nothing but regret to utter at the loss of their in-
formal young patron.
You may remark that it is a little late in the
day to recognise this, but the violet that wasn’t
prized till the lovely flower was blown is the his-
toric precedent to which I must point you if you
are not already looking thitherwards.
By the way, a desperate struggle to get on
the Federal A. D.C.sship lias lately been happen-
ing. Applications extraordinary overwhelmed
the Governor-General, and the choice was a terri-
fically complicated affair. “Wally” was a fore-
gone conclusion, with Mr. Saville Gore as assistant
sec. As far as I can discover, one of the staff
is a Benedict—Lieutenant B. F. Corbet, whose
wife .is an intimate friend of Lady Hopetoun.
Lieut. Corbet ought to be a success in this land of
blanks and asterisks. He enjoys the distinction
of being son of a sporting gent whose language in
the field has become a hunting classic.
Quite English in its tone was “Squire” Alec.
Hay's return from his honeymoon trip. The
popular manager of Coolangatta and his bride
were welcomed home by tenants and employes
gala fashion, and escorted to the picnic grounds
by the Berry Lancers and the Berry Brass Band
Pretty blonde Mrs. Alec. Hay (Miss Burdekin) is
the first bride to make her home at Coolangatta
since the founding of the homestead, many years
ago.
A bride of last week was Miss Annie Nugent,
who married Mr. T. A. Dalton at North Sydney
last Tuesday. Card. Moran tied the knot, and a
large and festive wedding party, including every
prominent Catholic in the city, was entertained
afterwards at “ Wheatleigli.” The bridal gown
was tucked white satin, with transparent yoke
and sleeves of chiffon ; and the two pretty brides-
maids wore white glace and ecru lace, and black
crinoline hats. After a spirited interval of toasts
and cake-cutting, the happy couple left for a
honeymoon in Melbourne, the bride in turquoise
voile skirt and bolero over clusy lace blouse
topped with a black hat.
A small, select gathering, including Lady
Darley, came together last Monday to hear Miss
Maud FitzStubbs play her own waltz, the
“Governor-General.” The Governor-General is
nicely got. up in duck-egg green with small crowns
on a pale-blue band. The melody itself is not
more reminiscent than new dance-music generally
is. The introductory bars express the agonised
longing of this country to have its Governor-
General, and the rest is joyful triumph at having
at last got him. The waltz may not be strikingly
original, but it is certain to take, as it is the kind
of stirring piece that gives a man strength to
whirl round 12st. of partner, and that, in this tired
climate, is the main thing. The Federal Orchestra,
conducted by Mr. N. Gehde, played it over once,
and then encored itself three times, with intervals
for conversation.
Verdi’s “ Requiem,” produced bv Sydney Phil-
harmonic Society on Thursday, with full chorus
and orchestra led by Allpress, had for soloists
Edith and Jessie King, tenor Edgar Fulton and
bass W. T. Collyer. There was a large audience,
including a sprinkling of Catholic priests and
heaps of Catholic laity, who could be picked out
by their non-applauding—for that would be sacri-
lege. _ Hazon conducted, looking more Mephis-
tophelian than ever, even when gazing upwards
towards the chandeliers with both arms gracefully
extended in the soft andantes as if about to em-
bark on an aerial flight to the regions where
“ John Harris, Mayor,” is embedded in architec-
ture above the organ. The Mass is not very
massy, but rather operatic—not a bit devotional,
but rather crashy. There were several really blood-
curdling crashes in the “ Dies irae ” chorus and
elsewhere. The soloists had heaps of “ fat,” as
veteran Verdi has provided most luscious melodies
for them. Both those queens of song—the Kings
—sang beautifully, but the men did not rise to
their opportunities. The orchestra was in first-
rate form, but the chorus was the most perfect
feature of the show, and the fugue “ Sanctus ” for
double chorus and orchestra had to be given twice
over. The principal feature of the chorus is the
elderly sweet-faced lady in the sopranos who
sings with such energy and go, beating time
eagerly with her head. She must be nearly as old
as Patti, I should say. Rumor says that she was
once a distinguished prima-donna.
“Ingomar” following “Fedora,” shows Nance
O’Neil in a quiet part of two frocks only, that
allows her no opportunity to make scenes, and
let her voice out. Consequently, she moves
heavily about as the fair young maid in Greek
robes, and wears an air of awkwardness when-
ever there is nothing much for her to do. A
novelty in her impersonation is that she no
longer swishes up and down the stage with the
loud swish that marked her in other plays.
Also, she scarcely ever turns her back
on the house. The discontinuance of the
former trick is due to the skimpy, silent white
robe, unaided by silk linings, that couldn’t be
made to swish for love or money. And the latter,
the back attitude, has been abandoned probably
because the back view of a big, plump woman in
Greek white cashmere would raise no {esthetic
thrills in the jaded modern bosom. If only for
these reasons it is interesting to see her Parthenia
and know that she can get through an evening
without the two characteristics that have marked
her career hitherto. Magda, Camille, Fedora, all
her silk-lined heroines—how they rushed, how
they tore, how they swished !
By the way, Nance’s favorite entry is a thing
worth noting. Have you observed how she loves
to come in, covered with an enormous cloak,
generally black, with a gorgeous flowered pattern,
a high collar reaching past her ears, and her head
tossed back imperiously. Entering rapidly, she
takes her reception with her cloak a little loosened
as her body gives several large bends. And then,
ere the eye has time to grasp the cloak properly,
she is out of it and has flung it aside across a chair.
Women who like to “copy” things find thf
brief visions so tantalising that they are obliged
to come again for another glimpse.
As Parthenia, Nance wears first a white robe
with pink flowers in her hair and at her neck.
Her hair is plaited tightly round her head, and
her features look heavier and older under this
trying coitfure. In the last act she dons bright
flowing yellow, with red flowers in her belt. Mrs.
Henry Bracy, as Parthenia’s mother, looks cold
and homeless in dark, sleeveless brown ; and Miss
Rica Allen is the best-suited female in the play,
with red bands in her dark hair, and a picturesque
robe. Speaking of clothes, a little man in very
little pale-yellow singlet with a frightened expres-
sion, looks as if he had arisen hastily in the night
to get away from a fire. It quite hurts one’s
feelings when Nance turns to this forlorn-looking
being and begs money from him to pay her father’s
ransom.
Harry Plimmer’s Ingomar relieved Sydney of
an awful pressure—the threat of M'Kee Rankin
to play Ingomar himself. Harry wears, with
commendable grace, two pigtails, tied with red
ribbon, and a forest of beard, but he walks like a
Johnny, in spite of his wolfskin clothing. Joseph
Came, looking real thrilling in black hair and a
scarlet mantle, plays the Tim arch with a muffled
voice and stiff gesture. And Athol wood, as Poly-
dor, rants so violently from a badly-assumed
old-man larnyx that one can’t help doubting if a
miser would give away such an unnecessary lot of
voice.
Young Sweeny, looking picturesque at the
right-hand comer, reminded me of an ingenuous
little episode that happened lately. Two little
stage-struck sisters were taken behind to be in-
troduced to their adored Nance. As the
party stood talking in the green-room, handsome
Harry passed through. Instantly the eyes of
the sisters grew round and eager. Staring after
the retreating figure they gazed in hushed silence,
until one burst out ecstatically right in Nance’s
face, “ That was the loveliest thing in Queen
Elizabeth 1” The queeu smiled, and took it like
a woman.
At the Tivoli the Georgia Magnet is the attrac-
tion. “ Little ” Georgia is an ill-fitting epithet, for
the Magnet looks just an ordinary-sized woman,
dressed in white satin with huge red flowers
in her hair ala Jap. Every night her manager
calls a committee from the audience. A
study in masculine bashfulness follows. On
Monday night it was a long time before any one
moved. At last Mr. Percival Waddy rose from
his seat and marched down through theD.C. with
the air of a man who has a sacred mission to per-
form and who'll do it, by the gods. Then Mr.
■ Charlie Bull slowly emerged from his velvet chair
and passed out amid loud applause. Two Jack
Tars waddled up from the stalls, Mr. Alfred
Milson appeared from somewhere, and after a con-
siderable time the circle of chairs was filled.
Once on the platform, however, marvellous to
see how bashfulness fled ! The Committee’s time
was agreeably taken up with clasping black-eyed
Georgia in its arms, lifting her, then failing to lift
her. At their first essay she was lightly danced
up off her feet. Then she would cry, in a loud,
twangy voice, “ Now, get a furrum grasp and lift
me as neigh as ever you ceau.” Nobody succeeded
in lifting her an inch after she said that. Jack
Tar rushed at her with a contemptuous air, seized
her in his arms, and began a heated struggle. It
ended in his retiring, crestfallen and ashamed.
Some of her tricks come near failing, but as soon
as she shows signs of being worsted she cries:
“ Theank you vurry much, that will deo ! ” And
the investigator is obliged to unhand her
promptly.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“First night of ‘Trovatore’ a huge, cheery
crowd packed the Princess. The Maddens, with-
out one of their decorative daughters, made rather
a dull appearance. Madame, pale and fagged, in
sky-blue gown and powder-pink cape, brought her
mother, Mrs. Stephen, in all-black. This white-
haired old lady likes to take a hand in vice-regal
junketings and at smart race-meetings, &c., and
gets herself boosted upon a bench for a better
view of a ‘pretty finish.’ (N.B. —She’s a great-
grandmother, so there’s something in Australian
air, after all.) Aides Nevill and Campbell, in
their pale-blue revers, looked like faint pencil-
sketches in comparison with the theatre staff
trimmed effectively with cerise.
“ Most of the human gems present glittered in
the boxes. Nellie Stewart, in bediamonded black,
had a pancake of plaits atop, flat as a Chow’s.
Round the base she sported a circular, mop-
like halo; but pray don’t gloat over these
details, girls. It’s a coiffure nut meant for non-
theatrical heads. Mrs. Menzies (Dorothy Vane)
looked nice in black, with lily-of-the-valley in her
low-down tresses. Mdme. Slapoffski, much
petted by the Conservatorium clique, sat in the
d.c. with Mrs. Pinschof (Mdme. Wiedermann)
and party. The newcomer’s reddish blouse clashed
with her warm-colored thatch, piled in a touzled
heap.
“ Cecilie Lorraine, who sang soprano Leonora’s
music first night, is blonde and buxom, with a
shortish nose, a low-cut bodice, and well-fed facial
expression. Her first gown, of greeny brocade
strewn with black lovers’ knots set in pink haloes,
looked a heavy garment to trail about, and neither
the wearer nor Maud Harrington (Inez) in white,
brocaded with black, seem expert drapery-car-
riers. Miss Lorraine’s sweet, bird-like voice is
not phenomenally strong, though Nellie Stewart
says it reminds her of Melba’s. Contralto Agnes
Jansen, as the old gipsy, put plenty of fire into
her songs and scooped most applause.
“Can’t say yet whether feminine hearts will
beat high at a glance from Tenor Salvi. He’s
dark, with a hooked nose and a cynical smile, but
don’t conjure up a swarthy, sinister vision—lie is
too plump and placid for that. He is more effec-
tive as the gipsy’s operatic son than as Leonora’s
lover. I liked his wedding suit, lilac-velvet tunic
with puffings and slashings of ivory satin and
heliotrope hose —it went so well with the bride’s
white gown. Not a bad idea if bridegrooms of
to-day were encouraged to face the altar in some-
thing more artistic than tail-coats and tweed
pants. The chance of looking really nice for once
—or twice —in their lives might coax a few beauty-
loving bachelors into matrimony. Haven’t you
noticed how some men snap eagerly at every ex-
cuse for getting into uniforms, kilts, knee-
breeches, &c. ?
“ Baritone Max Eugene is a German, and looks
it. His sour glances at his rival are exactly those
of one’s own German friend discussing the Boer
war. Then his smile, when Leonora agrees to
marry him, is own cousin to that of Herr What’s-
his-name, scenting a successful herring salad as he
passes the kitchen-door.
“At the sight of Williamson cheerfully ap-
plauding his sometime partner’s success, observers
routed up a mare’s nest and surmised that the
alleged breach between \V. and M. must have been
a put-up job, arranged for business reasons.
“1/ Madame Slapoffski is unconnected with the
opera co. at the outset, ’tis said that her inclusion
is only a matter of time. The Conservator! um
Heads declare that Chief Musgrove intended to
engage his pritna donna in Australia. Conductor
Slapoffski knew that this scheme would end in
smoke, so he brought along his wife, in the sure
and certain hope of an engagement. That’s why
Mdme. S. was so desperately anxious to catch on
(which she did) at Marshall Hall’s concert, t’other
Saturday.
“ Nellie Stewart looks blooming as ever, though
a shade stouter than of old. Her knockabout suit
seems to be a trained black gown, chatelaine at
her belt, crinoline hat tilted up at one side and
down at t’other, and a diamond ‘ Nell ’ brooch.
“Theatre-goers were agreeably surprised by the
sympathetic and quiet tenderness which crept
into Rose Musgrove’s acting in ‘The Only Way.’
The severe illness of the young actress’s "mother,
by the way, is causing her family great anxiety.
“The Madden clan is just now under a little
cloud, in consequence of an insulting remark
made by the» impetuous Parliamentary brother
Frank. In a debate in the House Frank Madden
lost his temper and accused the Radical Higgins
of attending Fenian meetings, and turning his
political coat for the sake of the £.'loo a year
salary. Whereupon Dr. Nick O’Donnell, a pro-
minent Irishman, rose up in wrath and made a
dignified but scorching remark about religion and
social ambition, which remark it would be most
unwise to print in full.
• ‘ The Dowager at ‘ Cliveden ’ is about the only
entertainer in Melbourne who worries about
novelties in invitation cards. Those sent out for
Wednesday’s at-home (Oct. 17) at Cliveden are
illuminated with a teapot and cups, with crotchets
and quavers rising from the steam of the spout, in
one corner of the card, while decorating the other
is a cleff and what looks like a b-sharp—so that
there’s no room left for the usual R.S. V.P.
“ Minister Salmon brought his bride to Mel-
bourne in the Customs yacht Lady Loch. She
was taken round Parliament House in a wonderful
dress of lilac-colored silk, with a picture hat of the
same hue, setting off her dark charms to perfec-
tion. She looked so fascinating that, at that par-
ticular time, if her husband had wanted to carry a
Bill to impose a tax on bachelors, not even Gillies
and Peacock would have said a word against it.
After being shown over the building, the bride
was taken out into the beautiful Parliament Gar-
dens to read the newspaper paragraphs about the
wedding, under the shade of the Federal oak
planted by Parkes in 1891. The new Mrs. Salmon,
with wealth, comeliness, and intelligence, may, if
she likes, be something of a personal force, because
the ordinary run of politicians’ wives in Victoria
are lamentable errors of judgment. Their hus-
bands seem to have married them when tired
after an all-night sitting.
“ S’Malcolm's manner of entertaining Mus-
grove’s song-birds and a few Social Somebodies,
on Friday afternoon, was a droll one. All the
ordinaries arrived early, and sat round the
Council-chambei, while S’Malcolm gushed greet-
ings at the various stars. Nellie Stewart, in black
with Turkish-delight sleeves of cream lace and
turquoise jewels, came with Mr. Musgrove, who
carried a showy silver crooked stick. All the
operatic stars are fleshy ; Miss Lorraine is the
bast looking. Conductor ‘Slap’ was there,
fresh and fat and important. The gathering,
led by the Mayor, moved into the gallery and
listened to Una Bourne (in a pink frock) making
music, as a change to solemn organ strains—
during which all the theatrical stars waned, and
threatened to finally go out. They did steal out
at the first opportunity, after a long vacant stare
at the hundreds of chairs in the body of the hall.
They had tea in a monotonously grave way, and
then decamped. George Allan, of the Sing-Song
Warehouse, was almost the only one who had
anything to say to the company. The rest of the
gathering stood afar off and stared unblinkingly
at the new arrivals. Mrs. Gillott was surrounded
by felicitating friends. ‘ I suppose you’re tired of
hearing theße congratulations,’ insinuated one
rather learned lady from Melb. University to the
new Mayoress. ‘No,’ was the candid and truth-
ful reply, ‘ I love to hear them.
“ Blamire Young, the Melb. poster artist (his
work on the hoardings is not his only form of
advt. business) delivered a lecture a fewnights ago
on ‘ Impressionism and Poster Art ’ to a mixed
audience, comprising a few of the Naicest. Bla-
mire was painfully nervous, butjie managed to
escape any awful embarrassment until he came to
the subject of National Gallery encouragement
of local art, and stammered, ‘lt would—er—be a
pity to see Rob Thomas’s —I mean Tom Roberts’s
—splendid canvas, ‘ Milking the Rams ’ leave the
country.’ Before he could give any further par-
ticulars some dear girls began to giggle, and the
giggle expanded into a shriek, in which even the
men joined. ‘I mean Shearing the Rams ’ cor-
rected Blamire. But during the rest of the
lecture, every nowand then an explosive sniff told
how deep an impression had been made on
woman’s sense of humor.
“By the way, some songs and reciting’ were
tacked on to the ambitious Poster gentleman’s
entertainment, and among the amateurs who took
the floor was Miss Una Russell, the golden-haired
best pupil of Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis’s elocution
school. Critical people cried ‘ bravo !’ at the end
of her turn. She spoke ‘ The Passions ’ charm-
ingly, with any amount of intelligence, the sweet-
est of voice inflections, and the kindling eye that
suggests a soul. Miss Russell is the graceful
young girl who was rumored to be going to appear
somewhere as Parthenia in an “ Ingomar ” per-
formance after Nance O’Neil had dealt with the
character, but the show never came off. It seems,
though, that she is to play -the heroine in a one-
consecutive-night production of a brand new
drama, ‘The Wreck of the Inverness,’ by Mrs.
G.B.W.L. Which interesting event will come to
paso (D. V.) at the little Gaiety Theatre—of all
places!—before the end of the month. Miss
Athena Claudius and the manageress are in the
cast, so the assisting amateurs will not want for
helping hands to pull them through their trouble.
“ A belated story of that very short-lived sensa-
tion, the Poster Ball. Rupert Clarke, who
rather prides himself on the possession of a com-
mercial instinct, gave in his little advt. (there was
a little cheque attached to it, of course) as Ruperts-
wood Factory Butter. If the name of his
baronetorial estate was likely to add another half-
penny a pound to the price of his butter
Rupert wanted it set forth in all its glory. But
when his sister found the family pride in danger
of getting spotted with grease she quickly changed
the name of brother Rupert’s advt. exhibit to
‘ Waterlily Butter.’
“ The Melbourne Canterbury Pilgrimage affair
in celebration of the 500th Anniversary of
Chaucer’s death, on 25th inst., is off. Instead
Prof. Morris, Prof. Tucker, and other pedagogues
have hired a hall, and are going to spout their
opinions about Chaucer to an audience chiefly
pedantic. But these wordy celebrations are
weary. Let someone propose to celebrate Chaucer
by publicly reading some of his bluest produc-
tions unexpurgated. The reader would probably
be locked up by the police, but there would be more
real Chaucer in the thing than in the spoutings
of the urofessional fuzzy-wuzzies.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Victorian damsels need not feel anxious
because Dr. Carty Salmon sought a rose from Syd-
ney’s garden of feminine loveliness. Wherever it
be, the beauty of the Australian girl, when en-
hanced by the P. D. corset, is absolutely irre-
sistible. When the P.D. knocks at the door of
even the least susceptible man’s heart he sur-
renders at discretion. He is lost. The girl has
“got him dead.”


Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY —Company’s Building, Martin Place
MELBOURNE— 2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE —2IO Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 Kino William Street.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART—93 Macquarie Street.
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOII ALT, STOCK AM) POULTRY.
LEo'SiL BROS. Ltd., Sydney
HATS. HATS. HATS:
Mountcast3e & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes ntted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcasiia & Sons,
Queen Stuekt, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Thomas Bowe died at Bacchus Marsh,
Vic., the other day, aged 102. The long Bowe.
Tom Roberts is painting a portrait of Gov.
Beauchamp to the order of the trustees of N.S.W.
National Gallery.
The late Mr. John Rae, Sydney’s first
town-clerk, who lately died, left £60,987, which
by his will is divided pretty equally among his
four children.
Lieut. Duff, who comes as one of Hope-
toun’s aides, was for a time in Sydney during his
father’s Governorship from 1893 to 1895. The
Duffs are of an old Liberal stock—Gladstoneites
and Home Rulers.
Gov.-General Hopetoun’s early ambition,
it is said, was to marry the lady who is now
Duchess of York. It had gone the length of being
discussed by Her Majesty, but Clarence courted
and York married her.
In death as in life, Henry Parkes shapes
badly from capitalistic standpoints. The State
Btatue of him was secondhand, the bursary to his
honor is a failure, and his grave at Faulconbridge
is dilapidated and overgrown with weeds.
Victorian ex - Attorney - General Isaacs,
lately returned from London, where he has been
arguing the case for Melb. Tramway Co., in
the action against Fitzroy Council. Always a
capital talker, Isaacs’ clever little chai-acter
sketches of eminent men he met in England
are keenly relished by Victorian politi-
cians. One anecdote illustrates the small
jokes that can be made by men with big
minds. One night, at dinner, Isaacs sat
near a great judge who would, he knew,
probably be one of the Appeal Court before
which he would appear. “I have heard,
Mr. Isaacs,” said the learned bigwig, “that
your brief in the case you are in is
marked at 3000 guineas.” “Quite true,
m’lud,” said the lawyer. “Then, sir,” said
the Judge, with a calf-bound equity smile,
“ when you have finished your argument I
shall say to you, ‘Mr. Isaacs, the Court
thanks you for your most valuable argument,’
and you, sir, will know what I mean.”
The £lOOO each on the heads of Jimmy
and Joe Governor raises these worthies to the
starring rank of Morgan, Clarke, Gilbert, Hall,
and Dunn. Morgan, Hall, and Gilbert were shot
dead ; Clarke and Dunn were captured and
hanged.
Mr. A. W. Howitt (son of William and
MaryHowitt), Commissioner of Audit in Victoria,
retires from the public service at the end of the
year. Mr. Howitt led the relief party which
discovered John King, survivor of the Burke and
Wills expedition.
Colonel Bull and his wife (Vic.) are prob-
ably the oldest married, couple in Australia. They
have been married over 70 years. The Colonel is
94, and whenever he hears that somebody he
knew has died, he says, “ Dear me, how on earth
did he manage to do it ? ”
Squatter Hugh Macdonald, who died lately
at Duntulin Station, at the age of 72, was a part-
ner with A. A. Dangar in Myall Creek Station in
the early days. This is the station which, in the
hands of Henry Dangar, was branded in the history
of over 60 years ago as the murder-field of twenty-
eight (that many bodies identified —how many
slaughtered is unknown) men, women and children
of the black race.
■' Chief Justice Darley is not quite entitled
by length of service to a pension, and those, there-
fore, who push him forward as first N.S.W. State
Governor are engaged on a scheme very much like
that which Chief Justice Griffith’s admirers are
trying to engineer in Queensland. If the State
Governor’s salary be cut down to £2OOO by Parlia-
ment, Judge Darley’s friends will endeavour to
have the full Chief Justice’s pension conferred at
once.
“ AFTER LIFE’S FITFUL
FEVER SHE SLEEPS NOT.”
O’SHAMUS: “ Oh! Bridget, Bridget. Oh! Oh!
Oh! Don’t lave me — ’TIS THE GHOST OF ME
FURST WIFE.”
Rev. T. Howard Smith and wife are on
their way from Thursday Island to Sydney. Mrs.
Smith, a daughter of Mr. Edmund Burton, late
editor of Sydney Mail, was reported among the
massacred in Pekin, and her reappearance has
something of the character of a resurrection.
“Rolf Boldrewood ” is said to have got
from that brilliant bushman and gold-prospector,
Phil. Saunders, a narrative of the latter’s experi-
ences in Australia and elsewhere. Mr. Saunders’
adventures should make bright reading, especially
as he wields a pen well enough to put them into
good shape.
A Sydney lady is sending the much-
boosted Baden-Powell an Australian cabbage-tree
hat. These is nothing like a cabbage-tree to
make you bald ; but as B.P. is already hairless as
an egg he can safely wade in. Now which insane
Jingo will send the man of wind a stock-whip to
complete the kit ?
Although Paris Nesbit, Q.C., still per-
sists in issuing Morning —it has advanced to its
seventh number —there is no pretence that it is a
profitable investment. His aspiration to develop
it into a Federal daily, with all the ablest journal-
CIVIL WAR.
LARRY LOO : “ Wot did Jim wanter go to the
war fer? Didn’t his missus make it willin’
enough for him?”
j n Australia on its staff, seems still a long
from rea i isation .
. .
Col. Bells farewell compliment to his
banquet secretary. J. D. Hennessey- 11 one of the
m ost gifted of Australian authors” (!)—was due to
James rather than to John. It is James D.
Hennessey who is one of the most gifted Aus-
tralian authors. Think of all the fiery inspiration
James has poured out!
w jj Sufctor retires f„ )in N.S.W. Leg.
£ , -r» i- * - ~~ °
Council after a Parliamentary career of 25 years.
He has been in both Houses. His father spent
29 years in Parliament and also satin both
Houses, but the Leg. Council of that day consti-
tilted Parliament. Both father and son closed
the book of active politics at the age of 66. The
Parliamentary services of the pair go back 57
years. Mr ‘W. H. Suttor, who now retires
through ill-health, frequently filled Ministerial
office, and if not a politician of initiative parts
was a staunch partv man and careful administra-
tor.
Investigation lias shown the number
of names of dead men which still remain on
the electoral-rolls of N.S.W., but this is a
tritie compared with the startling dis every
made by a Govt, audit-officer some years
ago. He was inspecting the books'of a
high public official to whom was entrusted
the paying of pensions in one of the pro-
vinces. The suspicions of the inspector
were aroused by a discrepancy or two, but
the officer concerned, a society light, was
so well known and trusted that it was
i hard to believe anything was seriously
wrong. Unluckily for the inspector, he
was in bed, ill, when the audit-man
j made his visit, and consequently the
latter was without the plausible ex-
planations which had before stood him
(the pension-man) in good stead. So
the inspector thought he would pay a
visit to the sick man. “Did you
know, ”he began, ‘ ‘ that W illiam Anderson
is dead ? ” “ What! ” broke in the other
“ not old Anderson ?—not Billy? Poor
old chap, I will miss his kind, old face. And
he’s dead ! —dead ! Well, well, we must all
coiny to it. He was pretty old.” “He was,” drily
replied the inspector; “ and he died in ’B3. He’d
be 119 to-day.” But as his pension did not die
with poor old Bill, nor with several others like
him, the official got five years.
Gresley Lukin, now editor of Wellington
(M.L.) Post, passed through Sydney last week
and was welcomed by many old friends. He had
come to Australia on a melancholy errand—to say
farewell to his brother, George Lukin, the much-
esteemed old-time Queensland P.M., now in a
hopeless state of health.
.Purves, Q. 0., is said to be likely to go
for one of the Vic. seats in the Federal Parlia-
ment. Should Purves go—he probably will not
go—what colors will he sport? The red cap of
Australian Republicanism, or the red jacket of
Imperial Jingoism ? Within the past few years
the truculent barrister has spouted both ways.
Grand-opera artists are rarely con-
spicuously gifted in the matter of beauty, and
consequently the very obvious absence of un-
earthly loveliness in Musgrove’s Grand Opera Co.
is not astonishing. The male members are too,
too solid in substance, and it must have cost
Muzzy a fortune to bring them out if they were
paid for as a bulk shipment.
Sam Gillott, who is to be Melbourne’s new
Mayor, is David S.yme’s solicitor. His firm was
formerly Gillott, Croker and Snowden, but the
firm somehow split up—it is said over the gigantic
Speight-Syme libel action. Gillott is very
wealthy, but childless —a hearty, good-natured,
sound-headed man. He is likely to be one of the
best Mayors Melbourne has ever had.
The English police are still exercised over
the identity of the supposed Australian, “ Walter
Morley Martin,” who died recently at the Dart-
ford Lunatic Asylum, after a short stay at a local
hotel. All that could be gathered from him was
that his real name was not Martin, and that he
had relatives in Sydney. He was tall, well-
looking, and blonde-moustached, and had plenty
of money.
Pastor Sugden, the big, brainy, cheery fel-
low who has just taken his seat on Melbourne
University Council, is always doing something to
shock the Wesleyan mind. He will think for
himself, sings lively songs, and, alas—smokes !
Smokes a pipe ! In the Wesleyan compartment
of the Heavenly Kingdom there is very little sal-
vation to be found by the parson who colors a
meerschaum.
Thomas Bent—the rejected of Portland
and Brighton—addressing the electors of latter
district, t’other day, besought them not to
disgrace themselves by returning a gentleman
to Parliament when there was a reliable
market-gardener to hand. This is the time when
Thomas’s old commendable occupation stands him
in good stead. Thomas the Land Boomer is not
mentioned now, but Thomas the ’orny-’anded
ton of soil is all to the fore.
Big John Forrest says that he will resign
the Westralian Premiership early next year. Con -
sidering that it is growing almost impossible to
borrow money, except at exorbitant interest, that
a huge sum must be raised unless the Coolgardie
water scheme is to be left unfinished and all the
expenditure on it wasted, and that the shiversome
time is coming near when that affair must either
prove a success or the record failure of Australia,
this is as good a time as any to get from under.
Murray Smith’s retirement from Vic. poli-
tics has been accounted for by three different
yarns. Tlie first story, which had a lady in the
case, was a pure fiction, founded on the giddiness
of quite another soit of Freetrader than M.S.
Then it was said that the little man had merely
decided to snuff himself out because the Cause
was lost. And now The Bulletin regrets to hear
some mention of alarming physical illness as the
reason for Mr. Murray Smith declining a renewal
of his Parliamentary lease.
When the first of Kipling’s “ Stalky and
Co.” stories appeared in Windsor Magazine
Prof. Haslam, of Canterbury (M.L.) College,
rushed into print to inform the public that he had
been an assistant master at Westward Ho in
Kipling’s time, and how very “stalky” Kipling
had been, and so on. But as the series progressed,
and Kipling proceeded to record his conviction
t! at the assistant masters were mostly a set of
fools, and generally objectionable, the amiable
Prof, was sorry he spoke.
Gov. Lamington’s peregrinations through
Queensland are to take book form. Some of his
views on the men in Queensland politics are
said to be startling. He will be far away when
the book is published, and he doesn’t hope to come
back as Gov. -General, His reputation in Aus-
tralia is wholly unlike what it was among his own
set in England. There he was a sort of Randolph
Churchill Conservative freelance with a Radical
diapason ; in Queensland he has been a combina-
tion of ladies’-man and small social tootler.
President Lackey, of N.S. W. Leg. Coun-
cil, touched 70 the other day. His marble bust
was placed in position in the Council chamber a
short time back, and the President himself said
that the incident was ominous. He has been an
ideal President. His bearing in Council proceed-
ings is absolutely devoid of friction. He is every
man’s friend, and every man’s opinion is handled
tenderly. And yet he has been 40 years toddling
about the two Houses, and was in his time a lusty
battler for one opinion and one cause only.
In N.S.W. Assembly last week Jawbone
Neild remarked that the proceedings of Parlia-
mentary committees should be conducted in a
manner not derogatory to the dignity of the
House. In the current military inquiry, for
instance, he said “ you had the chairman conduct-
ing the proceedings with a big pipe in his mouth,
and a pair of dirty boots on the table, and this
was the man who had formerly taken some
trouble to explain that his position as chairman
was analagous to that of a Supreme Court Judge.”
“S.” : The early death of Stephen Crane
has provoked appreciative paragraphs and sketches
about the young American all over the English-
speaking world. The writers gush most strenu-
ously about the author of ‘ ‘ The Red Badge of
Courage,” and wonder how he, a comparative
youth who had seen nothing of war, succeeded so
wonderfully in depicting its horror and its move-
ment, and in conveying so vividly the whole
atmosphere of the struggle and the slaughter. All
this makes me bitter, for it seems to me that the
source of Crane’s inspiration, his style, and his
knowledge, is so obviously Ambrose Bierce. Bierce
has given on the small canvas of his wonderful
short stories of war all that Crane gave in his
novel, and matter and manner in the younger man
bear so striking a resemblance to Bierce’s sin-
gularly original and graphic work, that discerning
readers greeted “The Red Badge” with the ex-
clamation, “Bierce!’’and all thought the Cali-
fornian was experimenting under an alias.
The old difficulty of insuring valuables against
fire and burglars has come up again. It is, however,
becoming an acknowledged fact that it is impossible to
arrange a satisfactory insurance. The Sydney Safe De-
posit has overcome the difficulty by offering to secure to
insurers the articles themselves in their fire and burglar
proof vaults, and thus, by the payment of a comparatively
small premiuin in the way of rent, avoiding all possibility
of loss. The system is most interesting, and the manage-
ment invite a call for inspection. The Safe Deposit is
situated at the back of Paling’s, off George-street.*
Jas. Balfour, M.L.C. (Vic.) is said to be a
map without a single redeeming vice. Years ago,
wFen a discussion arose in Melbourne about the
/iniquity of cooking dinners on the Sabbath, he
publicly announced that, though he had hot pota-
toes for the principal meal on that day, they were
cooked by an atheist who lived next door.
A rather ardent pro-Boer who wallowed
in the Transvaal whisky - monopoly, gave
£lO,OOO towards a statue for Paul Kruger in
Johannesburg. That was more than a year ago,
of course. The statue scheme hadn’t gone
further than the erection of a pedestal when war
broke out, and now that Oom Paul looks to be _a
clean goner as far as Government is concerned his
dear Oriental friend has offered to put a statue of
Queen Victoria on the pedestal! In point of con-
temptibleness there seems to have been nothing
to chose between Kruger’s barrackers and
Kruger’s maligners among the Outianders at Jew-
hannesburg.
When J. A. Froude, the historian, visited
Melb. 15 years ago, Mayor G. D. Carter gave him
a public luncheon in the Town Hall, indicating
a representative of the Argus, Froude said he
would much like to know who that was, because
he was the image of Joe Chamberlain, at that time
a noted radical with a three-aeres-and-a-cow scheme
for the regeneration of the masses. The required
information having been given, the historian ex :
pressed surprise that a journalist with that phy-
siognomy should bear the Conservative, brand.
Perhaps the scribe was a radical in disguise. At
all events, he subsequently transferred his alle-
giance to the Age.
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos a recent “cor-
rection.” It is recorded in authentic histories
that the father of John Pascoe Fawkner reached
Australia as one of the bond, with his wife and
son (who were free), in the ship Calcutta, which
anchored for several months in Port Phillip, off
what is now called Sorrento, in 1803. Col. Collins
afterwards removed the settlement-to Hobart, on
the ground that there was no fresh water in Port
Phillip. It was from the Sorrento settlement
that Wm. Buckley, “ the wild white man,” who
was a private soldier, ran away to escape a punish-
ment he had incurred. Fawkner, jun., met him
32 years later, soon after he had been discovered
among the blacks at Queenscliff by John Batman.
—Rex.
The Bulletin guesses that Dorrington’s
book of stories, to be published from this office
next month under the title of “ Castro’s Last
Sacrament,” will make literary Australians open
their eyes. No one who has merely read “ Alba
Dorion’s” yarns singly in this paper can have an
idea how good they are when taken together.
They will undoubtedly rank as the best book of
short stories yet printed in this country. Other
well-known men have given closer pictures of
Australian life, with more photographic detail;
but Dorrington, in losing something of the Aus-
tralian point of view, gains the universal. He
writes with a style, too ; and his experience covers
many fields. A considerable portion of the book
is composed of stories yet unprinted. The price
is 4s. 6d. post free from Bulletin office.
A somewhat eccentric individual unfavor-
ably known in old-time Vie. Tory politics
figures in a new and interesting light. The ex-
celebrity recently entered the house of a neighbor
to whom he is only known by sight, unannounced
and without apology, and, finding the family about
to sit down to dinner, calmly jumped the seat of
N.S. WALES’ OLDEST CIVIL-SERVANT.
honor at the head of the table. Then to the con-
sternation of those present, who sat back and
glared speechlessly, he began to examine and
criticise the joint in low, irascible tones, cursing
the cook back to the nether depths from whence
the devil sent her to ruin the digestions of men.
“I tell you, madam, you’ll have to get rid of that
; woman !” he cried, threatening the trembling
housewife with the carving-knife. Then suddenly
a new light dawned in his face, he glanced from
one face to another, his frightened eyes wandered
round the room, the carver fell from his trembling
hand, and moaning, “Good God ! I’m in the wrong
house ! ” he turned and bolted from the place,
leaving his big hat in the hall and his gamp in the
stand to be used as evidence against him.


MACONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FrcSb NcmogS
Kippered HgrriQgs
HerriogS *0 Toipato Sa6cc
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
.r £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
A few of
“The Australia’s” Attractions.
Fireproof from tower to basement.
Telegraph office inside hotel.
Cool and elegant drawing-rooms.
Handsome and spacious dining-room.
Splendid table and table service.
Hot and cold water in every room.
Lofty, airy, cool bedrooms (free from dust
and city annoyances).
Attendance unsurpassed.
At The Australia the summer
is served on ice.
J. SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
We sat down to dinner in the way-back
pub., and the landlady placed on the table a roast
“poult ”of some kind. The energetic little man
opposite offered himself as carver and was
accepted. He made a slash at the leg first, but,
to our dismay, the edge of the knife turned and
slid off that leg as a piece of tin would off the leg
of a chair. The carver paused in astonishment
for a second, then hitched his shoulders, and made
a jab at the breast. Same result. “Might I ask,
ma’am,” he said turning to the hostess, “what
this is ? ” “ Why, it’s a black duck ; my son shot
it yesterday down at the river.” “Shot it,”
echoed the little man in surprise ; “might I ask
what with ? ” “With a gun, of course,” snapped
the landlady. “Well, well; it’s wonderful,” the
carver returned in a musing tone “ I should have
thought he shot it with a thunderbolt. Your son
must have a very powerful pom-pom, madam.”
And he sadly relinquished the instruments.
* * » *
A new phase of the alien question. The
Indians, who now form a fairly large percentage
of the Richmond River, N.S.W., population,
have begun dairying. And Lismore Chamber of
Commerce is moving for legislation for special
supervision over the dairies of these people,
although there is no reason to suppose that they
will not carry on the industry in as cleanly a man-
ner as most of the whites. But this is where the
shoe pinches. The Indians would never have got
a foothold in this country had the farming classes
refused to patronise them as hawkers. But
now that they are trenching on the farmers’ own
province the latter begin to kick, although they
cared nothing for the injury done to the store-
keepers by the hawkers’ competition. Same old
No. 1!
• * « •
After all, w',at marvellous country much
of the Centralian desert is ! The Lower Darling,
a sandy wilderness for four or five years past,
has had less than 7in. of rain this year; but the
showers came just at the right time, and there
have in consequence been hundreds of thousands
of acres of as fine grass-land as there is in Aus-
tralia—grass that will fatten like lucerne and
clover. But it is wasting; droughts have reduced
flocks to a quarter of their normal size, and the
owners can’t buy stock at the current price. A
few score miles further back, where some of the
timely showers were missing, the old desolation
prevails unbroken. Less than 4in. of rain scat-
tered over February, March, April, and May
made all the difference.
* * » »
“Drought” : Re drought item about the
Warri bore, N.W. corner N.S.W. The con-
ditions there are fairly favorable compared
to what some of the bore-contractors have
to put up with in S.A. I know one con-
tractor who has to cart chaff out to feed
horses 170 miles from Hergott Springs, and has to
cart water 10 miles. Also, the horses have to go
20 miles from water to where the wood is, and
there is no feed for hundreds of miles.
• * * *
A N.W. Queensland correspondent writes,
Sept. 24:
Have often heard reports of drought in N.Q., but no
idea can be formed as to the state of the country until
you take a trip. After leaving Hughenden, going towards
Oloncurry, nothing but heaps of dead sheep and catt e
meet the eye, and the few existing are walking skeletons.
On the country I have seen, from Hughenden to Olon-
curry, there is no more grass than on a doorstep ; and if
rain does not fall shortly everyone will have to abandon
the place. For the past year people have been sinking
shafts in the bed of the Flinders and Gilbert rivers for
water —about 12ft. deep ; and even this source is giving
out. Without rain there will soon be no “ Gulf country.”
♦ * • *
The Upper Hunter blacks once planned
the extermination of the whites. As a begin-
ning they murdered five employes
on Wattingbark Station, near the
Barrington. One of these had evi-
dently almost escaped. He ran
round the stockyard, as the imprint
of his hand in blood on the corner-
post showed, and got across the
river, making for Rawdon Vale, 3J
miles off. He probably thought
himself secure when, right in a gap
overlooking Rawdon Vale, he came
upon some niggers watching that
place, and was promptly dis-
patched. The whites banded to-
gether, but never caught any of
the slayers, though they came, one
day, upon the whole tribe swimming
in a big water-hole.
m * * *
One striking thing about the Way back
just at present is that, despite a good season and
abundance of grass and herbage in some parts,
the dust and sand storms are almost, if not quite, as
severe as when the country was all a wilderness.
Grass and the soft stuff have only appeared where
the surface is more or less protected by scrub of
some kind; where that has been destroyed—by
drought or by removal for firewood and fencing,
or through being cut down unskilfully for fodder
in drought time —the surface is more barren,
because more wind-swept, than ever it was.
♦ * • *
*“ Drover ” : Recently met a man em-
ployed on a station in the vicinity of Croydon
(Q.). Told me he was getting 7s. per week, under
verbal agreement for three years, and that at end
of first year the boss was to give him a moke, but
if he left before expiration of his time he was to
refund £5 for fare up. On same station are
several others working at from £7 to £9 per
annum. Talk about white slavery !
* ♦ * •
Notice nailed round a Maori pah near
Picton (M.L.):
We, the elect of Te Aroha Nui, Waikawa, hereby give
notice that under the seventh rule of Jehovah men
women and children have strictly agreed not to take
spirits of any kind ; also, that any persons intoxicated,
or having any bottles of spirits on them, shall not be
allowed to enter our gates or round about.
“Trotter ” :
Stumping it in West
Queensland recently
I struck a humpy
inhabited by two
brothers and a sister
(white) and some
blacks. One white
man was legally mar-
ried to a lubra, and
his sister was legally
married to a fuli-
blooded’Q. nig. The
white and his dusky
one occupied the
humpy, and the nig.
with his white love
roosted in a “gun-
yah ” more aboriyi-
nalico. Next night
I made a shanty 25
miles further on.
The boss was lying
in front of the door
and I had to step
over him to gain
admittance. He was,
doubtless, suffering
from “that tired
feeling.” Mrs. Pub-
lic-House served the
poison and handed
me a glass of muddy
water to mix with
it. Her costume con-
sisted of an old skirt
and a chemise.
• *
“Eller”: A
railway engine-
driver tells me he
would sooner drive
in pitch - darkness
than in moonlight,
because the shadows
of trees thrown
across the line have
often the appear-
ance of material ob-
stacles, thus causing
a “slow - down.”
Many drivers, he
says, cannot drive
at all on moonlight
nights, they get so
nervous.
“A.H.T.”: It was out Greenbushes tin-
fields way, in Bigjohn’s country, on the night
before the Referendum. Some of us were discus-
sing the matter round the fire, when the only
Groper present suddenly broke out: “ Well, look
’ere chaps, the t’othersiders come over ’ere, and if
they makes a bit ’o splosh, off they goes back to
their own blanky country —and good luck to ’em,
say I. And, likewise, if a Chow makes a bit,
out he clears to ’is country —and good luck to ’im
too. But there’s one thing I will say about them
Chows— they don’t ask for no votes ! ”
* * * *
lb has come at last ! The day of the
“Bullocky” is done, and the “langwidge” of
crimson wrath to the provocative quadruped is no
more. At Balaclutha, Maoriland, W. Evans
was sentenced to four days’ imprisonment for
using obscene language to his team of bullocks. No
liquor ! no blanky ! This is indeed Prohibition.
* * • *
From Tasmania :
At Launceston police court to-day Wm. Jones pro-
ceeded against W. 0. Malcolm for leaving his hired ser-
vice without leave. Defendant, who is 22 years of age,
was engaged as a farm hand for £5 a year and a suit of
clothes. The magistrate severely criticised the small
wage, and dismissed the case.
TOUGH.
CASEY: “So yer havin’ whisky this toime, Mr.
Smith. Ah, well it’s glad I am, Mrs. Casey
do he down with rumatiz agin, an’ thim beer
poomps are turrible hard to pull.”
SMITH (briefly): “ Yes, I noticed your beer was
getting very hard to chew — that’s why I’ve
changed.”
AT PEACE WITH THE WORLD.—GEORGE REID, AN EIGHT-
MONTHS-OLD PICANINNY FROM BULLOO RIVER (Q.).
Photo, by Tosca, Brisbane.
“ Peter K.” : Re strange tastes of animals.
I have a small spaniel very fond of cheese ; he
will also eat apples and grapes, and on two occa-
sions have known him drink a saucerful of weak
whisky and water without any after-effect save a
half-hour snooze. Also had a cat which lived
almost exclusively upon vegetables.
* * * *
“ A.G. ” : Talk about Chow cruelties !
An old Araluen miner assured me that, in the
50’s, he and four mates caught a Chinky, pulled
out his pigtail, rammed him into a hollow log,
and sent the lot rolling down a gully 400 ft.
deep. The “ haythen ” had been sneaking
round after their wash-dirt. The same
party, he said, once surprised a Chow
m the bottom of their shaft. It
happened to be a “ duffer,” and they
“ just filled her in.” What price that
Chow’s chance of getting to the
“ Flowery Land ? ”
• * *
“ Haredale ” : “Alia” (8.,
18/8/’00) is correct about goats being
effective eradicators of briar. Goats
will eat and thrive on weeds and
shrubs that are poisonous to cattle
and sheep ; and will do well generally
on food that other animals won’t
taste, but will not thrive upon even
the best grass alone.
* * •
“ Coogee ” : Re animal craving
for salt. Horses that can’t otherwise
get it will hang around old huts
and camps, licking the ground which
is saltish with the water used in
boiling salt beef.
* * *
Overheard in a. Vic. train.
First old dame : “ And how many
boys have you ? ” Second o.d. :
“ Three; one alive, one dead, and one in the
West.” Now what is the West ?
Re gulls breeding away from
the sea (“ P.K.” B. 29/9/’00). On Lake Eyre
there are myriads of gulls, and in 1895 I was on
the lower Bulloo when in flood, and found any
quantity of gulls’ eggs on the islands formed by
the flood waters on the plains below Bulloo
Downs stations. There were four eggs in each
nest —or rather dent in the ground with a few bits
of grass around. The blacks said that they
‘‘ penty times gettum that fellow copinga (egg)
when big water come up.” And this at 600 or 700
miles inland.
* * * *
“ Wat Tell” : Travelling up north once,
stone-broke and horribly tired and hungry, I
struck a bush pub. In the bar was a chap lolling
at his ease in a chair behind the counter. He at
once pushed a bottle towards me and invited me
to help myself. I suggested something to eat
and was told to go inside and take what I liked.
This I did, and when I felt comfortable I began
to look about and enquire. Discovered that the
landlord and his wife and the handy man of the
establishment were all “paralytic” drunk, that
the place was running itself, and that my friend
behind the bar was only a chance caller like
myself. It’s not often a dead-beat strikes such a
bonanza.
* * * *
“ Talk about ‘dealing with ’ the darkies !”
said Jones. “Me an’a mate was onct splittin’
on the Barcoo. We were pestered with the black
varmints cornin’ after tucker, and we decided to
give ’em a start. Well, one day four of ’em came
along and wanted tea and sugar. We had a log
open, with two wedges in, one at each end of her.
1 told the nigs, that we hadn’t enough left to go
round, and that when I’d drop the bag down the
crack they were to dive in their hands for it—the
one that got it to keep the lot. Bill stood ready
at one end of the log, and I at the other, and
when I said ‘ go ’ the darkies dived, and out came
those wedges like a shot. Yell ! I should smile !
Two years afterwards their skelingtons was found,
still fixed in the log, and that s the last I ever
heard of the biz.”
* * * *
“ Wat Tell : I have a horse that prowls
about the premises and eats all the scraps of meat,
raw or cooked, which happen to be thrown out.
Never knew of any other horse eating flesh. [The
Dick Turpin legends set forth that mare
“ Black Bess” used to discuss an occasional beef-
steak. Present writer has seen several horses eat
meat.]
* • • •
“ Lar ” throws a side-light on the nigger-
and-opium question :
If “Myall” inquires he will find that I am not far out
re quantity ot opium imported into W. Queensland.
Opium is almost universally smoked amongst the niggers,
and (granted they are well-fed) opium in moderation is
no more harmful than the vile tobacco they smoke.
From a station-verandah recently I could see tiny lights
dotted about the paddocks—niggers smoking opium with
the ingenious lamps they make for the purpose from a
stone ink-bottle, a piece of cane, and a broken glass-
bottle. A good many Queensland whites secretly sell and
smoke opium. I knew a coach-driver who was an in-
veterate opium-eater, yet remained always fat and jolly
on it Some years ago—time of the shearers’ strike —I
had to press niggers into the service to shear, and had to
send to Brisbane for opium for them. The drug was then
275. fid. a small boxful, and I soon found that I was losing
oyer the deal, so I got some burnt sugar and mixed it up
with the opium. The stuff looked all right, but the nig-
gers struck work and began to yabber. The sugar had
made the opium sticky, and they couldn’t smoke it, so I
went to the Ohow gardener on the station, bought him
out of opium (he had about 2 ) boxes of it stowed away
in all sorts of holes and corners), and told him if he didn’t
give me the straight tip about doctoring the stuff he
could roll up and “clear.” Was then informed that cold-
tea was the proper “fake,” and I got that shearing
through all right.
* * * *
“W.J. ” : Jibs I have known. A work-
ing-bull which refused to stand up when wanted
to pull was promptly made to with a nose-full of
mud. A horse similarly disposed was hospitably
set fire to with some dry boughs, and another was
immediately interred in a few tons of sand. They
both got up and bolted. By the way, some men
will make anything go “ with hair on.” If gentle
persuasion doesn’t do, the plough-chain does I
* * • *
“C.F.” : Does any Bulletin reader
know anything about a cavern said to exist on the
Murray Hi ver near Swan Reach, S.A. ? Said
cavern is alleged to be 70 or 80 miles long, and to
be an old course of the river. At the upper end,
2 or 3 miles from the mouth, is a huge gum log
jammed crossways’ which could only have got
there by the force of a powerful current.
THE LAND OF WHATS-THE-GOOD.
“Why don’t you hunt the flies away, man?”
'What’s the good; they only come hack again.”
“ Franken ” : “ 1 give ’im a taste o’ gin
now an’ agen, en’ do all I can for ’im, but ’e will
not go to sleep! So I’m tryin’ this. ’Old the
spoon, will yo’?” The infant was two weeks old,
the bottle held chlorodyne as sold in patent-
medicine form, and the drops were administered
in due course. I have seen chlorodyne used out-


WEPPIN6
SILVER
h
We make a Special Department of and study to keep
the Stock replete with every Novelty, and further to
maintain the Highest Standard of Quality with Minimum Prices.
Eyery Article is marked in Plain Figures at London Prices.
Best Silver-plate on one Solid Piece
of White Ifard Metal, 15s.
In the above Toast Rack
there is no solder to break.
Fairfax # Roberts,
Vice-Hegal Jewellers, 23 Hunter Street, Sydney
Aii M.P.’s Important Disclosures.
An eminent Queensland legislator, Mr. Andrew
Lang Petrie, M.P. for Toombul, has made some
important disclosures of peculiar interest. When
a reporter recently waited upon Mr. Petrie he
courteously granted the request for a short inter-
view. After speaking of current affairs, Mr.
Petrie, in giving some reminiscences of his life,
said : —“ Many years ago I suffered great discom-
fort from the dull, aching pains of rheumatism
which attacked my shoulders and limbs. Later
on the digestive organs became impaired. The
medical skill available to combat my complaints
gave me only slight relief. My. appetite deserted
me, and though I forced myself to eat I could not
do so with relish ; after meals came a sense of
weight, discomfort, and sleepiness. Headaches
now and again troubled me, and my ill-health
certainly affected my spirits. Noticing Dr.
Williams’ pink pills advertised, I tried them, and
with signal success. In a few weeks my troubles
perceptibly decreased, and before long I found
myself perfectly cured not only of the indigestion,
but of rheumatism also. As it is over two years
since then, and I have not used the pills again,
there is no doubt about the permanency of my cure.
Several of my friends and relatives have obtained
great benefit from them, and I have pleasure in
recommending them to all sufferers from rheuma-
tism and indigestion.”
“ How is it that Dr. Williams’ pink pills cure
so many diseases ? ” is the question often asked.
The answer is that most diseases, although appar-
ently diverse, owe their origin to impoverishep
blood and unstrung nerves. Dr. Williams’ pink
pills by their tonic action enrich the blood and
retone the nerves, thus removing the cause of
disease. They consequently cure neuralgia, bron-
chitis, consumption, St. Vitus’ dance, rickets,
paralysis, rheumatism, sciatica, nervous disorders,
eczema, effects of influenza and fevers, measles,
etc. Sold by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box, six
boxes fifteen and three, post free, and by chemists
and storekeepers—but mind you ask for Dr.
Williams’. Mr. Petrie’s office and the extensive
works which he controls are situated at Toowong
(Q.).
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
back as prescribed on label, with most evil re-
sults. Once knew a woman in Gippsland who, to
my positive knowledge, used in one year 500
small bottles of this same “ emergency.” White
as a sheet she was, and with the temper of a
dozen cornered cats in one. The chlorodyne-
habit!
* * » *
“ Long-’un eulogises the camel:—
Bulletin- writers and others have just about succeeded
in persuading the jibbing horse to “ git-up ” ; but what
about the obstinate camel ? Old Whalebone isn’t in it
with that smellful animal. Ishmael was the least tired
of our overworked and leg-weary team. A new water-
cask stood alongside his hind-quarters as we saddled him.
After an hour’s fruitless effort to get him on his feet, Jack
tried the live-coal test as a last resort. Ishmael replied
with a wriggle ; and a short, sharp movement of his hock
staved-in the water cask. He was satisfied now, and did
the 35-mile trip for the mail in record time. Returning
rather late next day, attempted short-cut across a pad-
dock to save time. Strapped the fence-wires together
in usual fashion, and, after repeatedly failing to
lead him over, rushed him from behind. No hope !
Ilooshed him down and mounted. Too tired to rise.
Got off, whipped him up, and, being uncommonly
long-legged, mounted standing, and sent him at it.
Result, a graceful hooshta on his own account, a snaky
twist of his neck, and a shower of frothy slime over rider.
Heated and thirsty, I lifted the new water-bag.
It was dry 1 Unstrapped the wires, and sent Ish-
mael down the fence-track, hell-for-leather, to a gate
half-a-mile distant. A quarter-hour's fuming, and pulling
at nose-line ; 10yds. progress ; nearly sundown, and 15
miles from camp. Five bob for a drink. Dragged him
by sheer weight for another hour, walking backwards.
Out came his nose-peg, my heels ploughing through air
and flies. “ Done ! ” (A week previously he’d bitten a
hole through a man’s hand.) Cautiously and trem-
blingly' advanced, and hooshed. Great display of
green filth ; lassooed his nose and mouth, pulled tight,
and, in a new-chum’s sweat of terror, at length refixed
the peg. By sundown, another mile. Famished and
utterly tired of life, I sat on the edge of the red-clay
track in the treeless wilderness, and longed for a
gun for Ishmael and me especially for Ishmael.
I shook my' fist in his face and recited that
Bulletin poem, “ The Australian Adjective.” Then
I collared a blanket, and staggered back four miles to
a boundary-rider’s hut. Returned at sparrow-chirp,
breakfastless, but hoping to reach camp before the
heat further affected the old gent’s temper. Dragged
him half-a-mile to the saddle (same old drag). Mounted ;
calling him a good old chap, &c. No trouble this time ;
jogged along a couple of miles—and subsided comfort-
ably, like the tired woman after a dance, who yawns, and
remarks—“ Thank goodness, home at last 1 ” Hobbled
him short, bade him a disgusted “ good morning,” and
started tramping the last 11 miles to breakfast. A couple
of miles from camp met Jack coming out in search of the
new-chum, with an extra camel. He smiled sarcastically.
He’d bring Mr. Ishmael back all right. He
returned in the evening ; never had such a treat in his
life. Tied him on behind and started. Looked back ;
broken nose-line ; Ishmael grazing a quarter-mile away—
“Hooshta!” Got off and walked towards the latter,
whereupon the other beauty scooted in the opposite
direction. Jack’s description of his day’s outing was
balm for me, but he humped his swag next day, with a
parting thrust—“ If yez want me ter do any more camel-
dri vin’ for yez, yez’ll have ter get ’orses ! ”
* * * *
“ F.H.” : T’other day a navvy “ out back
of here” pin-pricked a detonator and so r/moved
one of liis hands and most of the other. A pass-
ing teamster thereupon related, how when he
had a “place,” his pigs went wild, and, having no
means of cornering and killing them, but knowing
where they sometimes came to feed, lie stuffed
half-a-dozen potatoes with.a detonator apiece, and
left them in the track of the swine. Later on, he
heard the hoped-for smash, and going to the spot
found any quantity of fat pork lying about on its
back with its head blown off and its jugular rib-
MISS MAY ABBOTT , THE LITTLE GEOBGIA MAGNET.
Photo, by Kerry.
boned. Also, some other pigs were eating it. Of
course teamsters never lie, nor fight, so he was be-
lieved.
* * * *
The children of a Watson’s Bay (Sydney)
resident possessed a Manx (tailless) cat, which
was the envy of all the neighboring kids, and when
said cat was about to have kittens the juvenile
owners were prouder than ever. But, alas, when
the kittens arrived; they were compromises—
papa, of course, having had the normal amount of
tail. Not to be beaten, however, the youngsters
brought chisel and mallet to the aid of nature :
and now those young cats are “best artificial
Manx.”
Some ladies were lately travel-
ling in a coach in a picturesque part
of Victoria. They alighted to enjoy
the scenery, and one of them re-
marked to the driver that it was a
shame the poor horses were not allowed
to view the magnificent prospect, and
persuaded him to remove the winkers.
The animals immediately bolted and
upset the vehicle. Sympathetic women
are common enough, but Jehus like
the one who participated in this inci-
dent are rare.
* * *
Curious letter recently received
by a N.S.W. country J.P. :
Dear Sir,—l want you to teil me if Arry
can make me marry im, George come up this
mornin and they had er fite, As airy got the
best of im, and did not think they wos in
ernust when they started and will you kindle
tell wot i can do as soon as posible Arry
seys iam too marry im—i never give him
no encoragtnent whatevere nor maid im
eny promises, Arry as treatned to shute
Georg if he comes ere i told im e cude do the
same to me as e done to Georg, pleas let me
no as soon as posible as e is goin inter
on saterday to by the rings and I am terihle
worryed, and i donot want im at no price.
Arry seys you carnt do nothink if you are a
J.P., but you jest show im what you can do
for me—he dont know nothink abote the lor,
e thinks i am fritened of im now sins e give
Georg the hamerin, whativere he dose to
Georg he can do to me. yours truely .
• * *
“Geo. T.” re back-block cour-
tesy :
I’m an out-back station-hand—have lived
west of the Thompson nearly all my life
and put in years on the Diamantina, and I
never met any of those chaps who give you
the sour “G’day” (“ D. 8.,” B. l/9/[00), and
grudge you directions. A stranger is civilly
saluted by all out-back, and readily given
any directions he may want—provided he
is civil himself. Also, let “D. 8.” ask the
newsagents in Winton and the Reach
whether the station-hands prefer “ Dead-
woods ” to newspapers. Nearly all decent
stations about the Reach have Schools of Arts now (with
hundreds of volumes of good books), and at shearing-
time take in all the leading papers. I doubt if “ D.B.
has ever been 100 miles from the coast.
* * * »
“ W.T.” : On more than one occasion a
dog managed to take my salt-beef from a kerosene-
tin of boiling water upon the fire. How this was
done without spilling the water I can’t imagine,
as I didn’t witness the transaction. [A Bulletin
man once saw the thing done—when too sick with
fever to interfere. The thief—a big (more or less)
kangaroo dog —kept snatching at a tiny portion
of tne meat which projected from the boiling
water (keeping his lips carefully retracted out of
the way) until at last, with a deft jerk, he yanked
the prize clean out of the pot—scalding his muzzle
so in the act, however, that with a yelp he let the
meat drop on the ground. Then he mounted
guard over the spoil until it was cool enougli to
be carried off.]
* * • *
“ Kedron ” : Can anyone tell me how to
prevent native cats (white-spotted sort) from
killing poultry ? They suck the blood, after
biting a hole in the head. Can they be poisoned ?
* * * *
“ Sept.” : Was once
sleeping in an upper room of
a two-storey pub., and during
the night I was awakened by
a most peculiar combination
of noises, amongst which I
could make out a man’s
snoring, accompanied by a
vibration which kept on in-
creasing until the whole fabric
shook, so that doors creaked,
windows rattled, and the iron
roof was shaking itself loose.
Then with a last quiver the
row stopped abruptly. Al-
ways afterwards supposed
we’d had a touch of earth-
quake, until I heard two
engineers discussing the sub-
ject of sympathetic vibration.
Then I understood. The
snorer must have struck the
keynote of that pub., and I am
convinced that if he had kept
on the building would have
been wrecked.
* *
“W.S.D. ” : Can any
Bulletin reader explain the
significance of the rough semi-
circles of small stones so
common on the Bogan plains ?
Usually about 3ft. in dia. and
3 or 4in. high. Presumably
the work of aborigines, who,
however, seem loth to discuss
the matter.
* *
“ Weary” : To “ J.G.”
(B. 4/8/’00). The ibis desert
the western plains during
droughts (as do all other birds
that frequent the gilgais and
billabongs of the interior),
and migrate in flocks of
about 40, flying so high as to be almost invisible,
and keeping (like so many other species of birds)
a two-line formation, converging to an angle in
front. Like spoonbills, ibis travel during the day-
time only, whereas ducks and black swans make
their transit mostly by night.
A current proposal, suggestive of some
pretty appointments, is to the effect that the
N.S.W police force shall be placed under a board
of three commissioners, subject to the Colonial
Secretary’s department. The force at present
numbers 2000 men, and costs £330,000 a year.
DEAD WEIGHT.
B OY: “ Why don't yer put some beef on ’im, Pat?"
PAT (indignantly): “Idiot, can't yer see it takes ’im all ’is time to carry wot ’ es got !”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
L.A. (D’hst.): Clever in its way, but not our
way. And it makes 5000 words, which is twice too long
for The Bulletin. .. .Mascotte : In the sample of jam you
send, glucose takes the place of sugar to a very large
extent. The big firm that makes it would be in gaol if
the adulteration - law were properly administered.
Mendo: Why talk of “peace” celebrations?
There is no peace, and there isn’t going to be
any. England has simply made for herself in
S’Africa another and a more recalcitrant Ireland.
For the Boers are virile and fat, and don’t talk much, and
are full of staying power. If you are alive in 100 years
you may be able to talk of peace in Afrikanderdom
Cooked": Why run after quacks—why not consult an
honest qualified doctor? You have two excellent men
within 15 miles —one M.D. of Paris, 1887, and one M.D.,
London, 1890 ; you surely cannot ask anything better
prima facie in the way of qualification. At tne local
police-station you can inspect the Medical Register....
D.L.D. : The Vic. Legal Professions Act, by which
solicitors were entitled to plead before Supreme Court
Judges, did not operate in Vic. previous to'Jan. Ist, 1892.
Ned Kelly was defended atMelb. Police-court first by Mr.
Zincke, and afterwards by Mr. David Gaunson, but as
Gaunson was not an “ amalgam ” in those days, he
instructed barrister H. M. Bindon when the Kelly case
was committed to the Criminal Court... .F.K. (Tib.):
Poem lamented by the ghost of the Father of all ’Possums-
up-a-gum-tree S.G.: Considering. And next time
don’t spare your paper. If you want youc copy printed,
make it readable. Write large, in black ink, on white
paper, with plenty of space between lines J.H.G. :
Thanks for hint. We too believe “On Our Selection ”
could be made into an Australian “In Mizzoura”
to draw big houses. But when we offered it to
an Australian manager’s leading man, he said No
Jaques : Even a brilliant parody is barely endurable, and
yours is a dreadful piece of woodenness E.E.W. : Yes,
he is out of his element in that. But he is not versatile.
Only a “ fine ” actor in parts where his gentlemanly drab-
colored personality is well placed.... K. : The story about
the little detective’s smartness may be true enough, but
the little ’tec is obviously the sole author of it, anyhow.
... .G.B. : The cookery classes in Melb. State schools are
the happiest educational idea that Minister Peacock
struck during his management. As for their competing
with eating-houses—The Bulletin reckons that the
average cookshop is a greasy outrage which calls for all
the competition it can get... .Men. P.D. : Cannot spare
time to decipher such clumsy and unpromising MS
M.W.S. : All very well, but a doctor, if he desires to
prosper as a doctor, must stick to his profession abso-
lu„~iy—must not be known to the public as anything but
a doctor. Must not even sing a song in public. There
are exceptions, but they are very rare... .Corks : Yah 1
Why, money is being begged from N.S.W. Treasury for a
statue of old Jack Robertson ; money is being begged
from the Treasury for a Parkes statue or bursary ; and
the money for Dr. Lang’s statue in Wynyard-square,
Sydney, was also partly begged from N.S.W. Treasury.
Gun: The ear-drum man named is a fraud,
and has often been shown-up in England. Now he seems
to be operating further afield Alice (S.A.) : Try Paris
Nesbit A. (Kiama) : Thanks ; fear not much usable
Yerrawin : Always murder poetry outright; don’t give it
time to squeal like that, please F.S. : Not bad work ;
but climaxless D.B. : Presumably a soldier must wear
clothes of some sort; but surely Australia can get volun-
teers without the attraction of a red coat and busby. And
we only point out what an ignominious ass the suburban
citizen looks in a red coat and busby M.K. : The first
Federal ode—aha 1
Come on, ye odists ! No, come off ! come off ! H.J. :
Just read all the notices to correspondents Gwyneth :
Long-winded enough to run all the way back —and
it ran Nulla: What is “a glow of chrysolite”?
H.S.D. : “ Three Ideas ”is too brutal for anything. And
the hero is wrong in calling himself a cow. He is only an
elderly calf at best W.H.Q. : The small boy who
muddles his prayers requires to be rather more original
than that... .H.M.H. : Proposal to call the Federal
city “Oceana” duly noted Ita : Poem has
as many deficiencies as a Freetrade budget
Yei : Somebody was catching a hen or two from Madden’s
roostery. That is an exciting story. Don’t forget to let
us know when Fitz Gibbon kills a sucking pig W.M.O.
(S.A.): Spiteful-looking libels in almost every paragraph.
It isn’t safe to have such matter even in the same street
with a printing-press W.R.R. (Glenelg) : The editor
who refused to print it knew his business, allowing
that he was dependent on the general public
for support J.F.H. (Carlton): We are
really very sorry. No offence was meant
Kondar : Dog-yarn humorous, and obviously invented;
nothing very unusual in albino magpie B. Jensen :
The wharf-laborer who gets 425. for 48 hours’ work earns
it'—every cent, of it Makoro : In America, anyhow,
they talk easily enough over the telephone for far more
than 600 miles at a stretch Jimmy S. : Why is that
mechanical old joke always put in that same mechanical
old metre? John S. : Voting paper forwarded to right
quarter... .Kondar : Some of it may possibly do. Verse
begins well, hut ends feebly Zulu: Only the ghost of a
sketch John J.W. : Falls very flat Sceal: Case of
sudden disappearance F.B. : Your timbers shivered.
O.E.D. : Gay verses found same old grave Grief
O’B. : Thanks for photos.—though they’re not in charac-
ter. Apropos, we hope you have a sister called Joy
O. : Ideas; no f0rce....0. L. Eastlake (Eng.):
Many thanks, but already noted D.F.L.: Very we 11....
P. : W.B. verses too long and magniloquent—and other-
wise bad. The others also are hopeless Narrang :
Will print “ Big Swamp ”... .Cull : Good enough situa-
tion and some little freshness in the trimmings of the
story ; but the dialogue doesn’t ring true. Try again
Jas. R.: Reid was only an incidental in the matter. It
was the emphatic protest of the general public that
choked Lyne off the proposed Botanical Gardens steal
W. A. : Too crude and clumsy... .Peter : Feeble beginning
and no ending.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Breaking it gently : Joke very ancient A.P.W. :
Will submit to artist J.M.H. : Excellent idea
W.E.G. : You should study at an art-class H.G.B. : A
weak idea : everything would be left to the artist
Arthur R.B. : Ancient text A.M.M. : Some certainly,
and all apparently, 01d.... H. Dixon : Promising, but you
must study from life Phoenix : One or two may serve.
H. West: “ Khaki ” good subject for an artist who
could draw a reallv nice woman Unavailable: T.R.,
Jim, B.A.H (M.L.), T.P.C., A.L.B , Dan, R.B.
Peal! ye bells I in wild rejoicing,
With triumphant paeans voicing,
Far and wide to listening Earth,
Tidings of a Nation’s birth.
Shine ! ye Sun ! in turquoise spherfed ;
Shine on land to thee endeartd.
With revivifying ray,
Beam on Austral’s Natal Day.


A RELIEF AFTER MAFEKING.
“General Eaden-Powell has made a surprising statement with regard to the siege of Mafeking. He declares that the garrison could have slipped away at any time, and that in holding the town to the end he was simply adhering to his instruc tions, w hich were to keep Boe rs busy."-OABLE.
MIDST THE RUINS OF MANY PAINFUL REMINISCENCES AUSTRALIA QUIETLY KICKS ITSELF ALL ROUND.


/V/ / / / / \ < I
>>
fim7»\ r j>Z\
the r>H 8 a^°T e lustration was inspired by reading Kurnel Bell's great spread-eagle speech at the Town Hall palaver
mom 19r ,* u K® fc ‘ 9 ur art * st regrets that the limited space at his disposal does not admit of spreading the Kurnel over
f it, 6 9 OI T> ,fc ' s Yere> and giving copious extracts from the “ speech.' 1 Suffice to say that there are no Peoples but
ng ish-speaking Peoples, and Kurnel Bell ia their prophet.
Up-CountrY Publican: “I see by advt. in the S.M.
Herald that you and your brother have been declared
‘outlaws.”
Breelong Black : “ Who ever reads that dull paper !
ijVhat a scandalous waste of .Govt, money!”
Premier Lyne : “ What’s the good of kicking up a row 1 I’ve decided not >
to touch your precious garden.”
L.8.M.: “ That’s the good of kicking up a row. If I hadn’t you would'
have gone on with your vandalism.”
“Colonel Roberts in-
formed the Military Com- c
mittee yesterday that an fi
Australian officer had f
written from Pretoria
stating that he was
stranded and in a ragged,
and penurious condi-’”’
tion.”
Ist Breelong Black “ Why you think ’em police-
man’s tracks 1 ”
2nd Ditto : “ By their sise and the direction they
are pointing.”
The above picture is respectfully commended to the notice of
Minister of War,See, 'who, if The Bulletin remembers aright,,
made, some rather tall promises to the departing troops.
Murwillumbah, Monday Afternoon.—The
Premier and party arrived at Byron Bay, en
route for the turning of the first sod of the
Casino-Lismore railway, yesterday morning
earlier than was expected. After spending a
few hours in the Bay, the party decided to
take a run as far as Murwillumbah by the
special train. . . . Nobody knew anything
■of the visit, so nobody was present at the
station to receive the distinguished visitors.
The party only remained a few minutes, and
after inspecting the new bridge left again for
Lismore.,
j What! no illuminated address? -Nobody
ko ask the Ministerial party if it had a mouth
[ on it ?
In the foreground of the picture one of the
Ministerial party (probably Mr. O’Sullivan)
is seen taking a drink at the elation filter.
jTis indeed a pathetic sight!
CARTOONLETS.


Handsome $ Useful Wedding Presents.
4:
Call and See our Displayed Showrooms.
An JJp-to-Date Show.
We Replate Old Silverware Equal to New.
A: SAUNDERS.
O&ke BASKET, chased, 18s 6d ; plain, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, aftd £2 10s.
We guarantee the quality.
Send for illustration.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak Biscuit, pure Sflvtr*
plated Mounts. 16s W 4
Fluted Bands, 20sf
Shield only, 12s
4 o’clock TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt insi , pure Silver-plated.
20 Tears' Guaranteed.
43 Ida, worth 44 is. Other styles, hbt, £2,43,44.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated COAL
SCUTTLE, 16s 6d, 20s, 255.
ĥ
a. Launders.
GENT’S FRIEND,” Letter Book, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15a, 20s, 255. A Useful Present.
FLOWER STANDS.
15s 6d pair.
Other styles, 10s, 12s 6d, 20s.
Pure Silver-plated.
Ladles!
KINDLY CALL AND
OUR DISPLAY
Pure Silver BBUSHEI and COMBS, inSilk Ci.se,
£2 18s. Special Value. Send for Illustration.
FLOWER STANDS.
Latest Style, 21s pa'r.
A. SAUNDERS.
« o'clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS, 128 6d ;
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255.
Spoons, without Case, ss, 7s fid, 10s half-dozen ;
Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case, 25s ;
With Toners, 30s and 355.
m
efi
rfi
Ui
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 6 Bottle Design,
£2, £2 10s, £3. £4.
Ruby JAM, 12s 6d and 15s 6d, Pure Silver-
plated. Guaranteed Quality.
„ Send for Price Book.
ħ
h
TEAPOT.
A. SAUNDERS.
T 3UTTER, as above, 15s (id ; Large
Size, 20s. Guaranteed Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, 10s 6d. Other Styles,
Ss 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. Pure f ilver-plated.
Guaranteed Quality.
LADIES’ EMEND.
Pure Silver-mounted, 18s 6d.
COFFEE POT.
A. SAUNDERS.
; olid Metal Silver-plated BUTTER,
255; similar, very neat and pretty,
20s, 22s 6d.
SUGAR, with Cover.
MILK, with Cover.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Electro Silver-plated TEA and GOFFEE, £5 ss.
Other styles, £4 4s, £6 6s 6d, £8 Ss, £lO 10s. Send for List.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral BISCUIT, first-class,
20s, 22s fid, 25a.
LADIES’ FRIEND,
Silver-mounted, 15s.
Pure Silver Manicure SET, First-class,
20s ; smaller, 12s 6d.
TEAPOTS. —Pure Silver-plated, First-claSs, 30s.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255. Send for Book of Patterns.
Pure Silver-Mounted PURSES, 15s, 20s.
Cheap Styles, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
Pure Solid Silver PENCILS (Cedar), 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Old Plat® Made Equal to New.
Estimates Given. • Send Your Address.
ENTREE DISHES, 4 Pieces, Pure Silver-plated, £2 I7s 6d
Others charge you £4 4s. TRY A. SAUNDERS.
Butter KNIVES, Pearl Handle, 15s 6d. Cheaper style,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Send for List.
CRUETS—4-bottle Square Bottles, 21s.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
a
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, 30s, 355, £2. Cheap,
20s, 255. Pure Silver-plated.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER, 8s Old.
Special Value.
.1
tarn
*1?
Tvm
Silver-plated SERVIETTE RINGS, 3s 6d.
Pure Silver, 10s 6d, 12s (id.
Ruby Glass SALTS and SPOON, 10s (id pair.
Other styles, Cs 6d, 8s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water Tea KETTLE, 355;
Embossed, £2. Others charge
£- 10s and £3 for same article.
We Guarantee the Quality.
, SAUNDERS. Spoons an<l Forks—Solid Niokel Silver Table Spoons or Forks,
4s half-dozen ; Dessert, 3s ; Tea, Is (id. Pure Silver-].late (on Raid White Metal)
Table Spoons and Forks, 12s half-dozen ; Dessert, 10s ; Tea, 5s 6d. These are Guar-
anteed to give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 4s 6d and 9s 6d half-
dozen, the very best Sheffield Steel. TRY THEM.
A. SAUNDERS.—Butter KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s;
t „„? r Handle, 3s (id ; Extra Mounted, Cs-6d.
Jam SPOONS, same price. Two in Case, 7s (id and 10s.
A-i
LtSiji
A. SAUNDERS.—Pure Silver FRUIT KNIFE, ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size, 82s 6cL
Cheaper Style, 20s, 265.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller $ Silversmith,
MIND
1)5 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF"
presents.


ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Messrs. Scrubb and Co., Cloudy Fluid
Ammonia, have been awarded a Diploma for their
preparation at the Paris Exhibition.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest, buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian erems. *
Attention is drawn to the advertisement
of the Australian Mutual Provident Society ap-
pearing in another column intimating that the
next yearly investigation into the affairs of the
Society and the consequent distribution of the
surplus will be made as at 31st December next.
Intending assurers are reminded that all partici-
pating policies issued before the close of the cur-
rent year will share in the cash bonus to be then
distributed. The amount of profit divided among
the members during the year 1899 exceeded half-a-
million sterling. Persons desirous of sharing the
privileges which membership with this well-
known and popular institution confers and of par-
ticipating in the profit to be earned for the current
year would do well to make application at the
head office or any of the district offices, or consult
one of the Society’s agents without delay.
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain , U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONIIYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
m
INDEPENDENT ORDER » FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 6$ Vie. and 69 Vie.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
.£lOO Policy.
Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. 6d. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Pates.
Office for Sooth .Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.8.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROOT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73i 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New Sodth Wales :
W. Q. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George Bt.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Bates, <Lc., oh Application.
ARE YOU FOND OF A • •
(jOod Chorus Sons?
k
A
ssmsz
ALLAN'S
nusTßfltmn music books
Will supply you with those you want and all the
Music that’s worth-the playing.
No. 12,—Chorus Songs.
My Nellie’s Blue Eyes -
Scanlon
Watching for Pa Work
Maggie Murphy’s Home
Braham
The Fisherman and his
Child White
Call Me Back Again
Hendrickson
I’ll Take You Home, Kath-
leen
Please Give Me a Penny
Oh, Dem Golden Slippers
Blend
Pretty Pond Lilies Hall
White Wings Winter
The Old Folks at Home
England, Home and Beauty
Bishop
A Boy’s Best Friend is His
Mother Skelly
No. 13.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pleoes,
Dreams of Heaven Blake
Arlina (Entr’acte) McEvoy
Ella (Reverie) Favarger
Waves of the Ocean Blake
Gavotte in A Fliege
Ecoutez Moi Furuce
II Corricolo Galop
Du Orau
No. 14.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pieces.
Christmas Bells
Westward Ho!
Wilson
Wilson
Minuetto (Don Giovanni)
Mozart
Adeste Fideles
Wayside Chapel
Carnival de Venice
The Woodlands
Tipper
Wilson
Oesten
Martin
Price 1/-, or Posted 1/2.
FULL LIST (Nos. 1 to 52) Sent FREE for the Asking.
Allan’s Australian Musio Books are sold at all
Music-sellers throughout Australia, also direct from
ALLAN & CO.
276 & 278 Collins-st. F
Proprietary Ltd.
Melbourne,
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND-
A
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Gingrer Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs. —The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since 1 joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says :—“ It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says “ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says :— “l have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says“ It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity."
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says “ Value of
Machine indisputable; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Go.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Hollow Ground
I
«JV»
h
ĥ
ħ
h
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHB OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. W.
At Poverty Point.
Wybert Reeve, in his younger days, had a good position
on the English stage. He made a hit, 25 or 30 years ago,
as Count Fosco, in an adaptation of Wilkie Collins’s
“ Woman in White ” ; and he is the author of a forgotten
novel, called “ Looking Back,” which was brought out by
a London publisher. At a Melbourne theatrical dinner,
Reeve once related how, when performing in Liverpool,
he acted temporarily as dramatic critic for a local paper,
unknown to his friends of the sock and buskin. Taking
exception on one occasion to some points in the perform-
ance of the “juvenile lead” in his co., that personage
said to him, the day after the notice appeared, “ Did you
ever read such a rotten criticism ? The writer must be a
born fool 1 ” A week later, Reeve was able to praise the
same actor, who thereupon remarked, “ Y«u should’ read
the paper to-day. They have now got a capable critic,
who really understands his business, and can write, too.”
Which story sets the attitude of the Thespian towards the
critic in a very clear light.
A well-known theatrical manager was doing the large
towns some years back. Writer had a front seat and
noticed that an old cornet player did not shatter the
atmosphere much. Next day was irrigating with
manager aforesaid who referred in comprehensive
language to the old boy. Said he : “Fancy having to
cart an old frame like that round the country ! He’s got
me right on toast. He’s my leading lady’s father and if I
shunt him off she goes too, and the old devil never blows
a dashed toot.”
Dion Boucicault the younger (and the present) made
his first appearance in London just 20 years ago, and was
immediately accepted as a chip off the old Dion.
Charles Dickens was almost the first Englishman who
discovered Fechter’s merit. The novelist saw him per-
form in Paris and described him as the best stage-lover
he had ever encountered. The reason that used to be
assigned for Fechter’s retirement from the stage was that
his passion for a beautiful woman left his brain of no
more value than a capful of porridge. Beautiful Alice
Dunning Lingard took some trouble to get a look at the
lady in an American hotel, and arrived at the conclusion
that there was nothing wonderful about her. After
Fechter settled down on his farm in America, he became
enormously fat. “ A plague on sighing and grief—it
blows a man out so,” as Falstaff says. And the figure
that runs to tallow is not much sought after in melo-
drama.
“Itan”: Some of those cinematograph “war-views”
are atrocious fakes. Saw a series of them in a N.S.W.
country town recently, and the clouds of white “ smoke ”
supposed to issue from the guns and rifles showed that
the “ fakers” had forgotten all about smokeless powder.
In another picture—supposed to represent an “ attack by
Australian cavalry ’’—same couple of dozen warriors kept
passing the same spot on the “olf-and-on” stage prin-
ciple. But the most colossal fake of the lot was an attack
by a force of Zulus, on an occasion when a British party
was wiped out—in defiance of the trifling circumstance
that nothing of the kind has taken place since art has
learned to cinematograph ! Again, there was an attack
by Boers on a British outpost, and a short-range battle
between two handfuls of men till only one on each side
remained. Then the Britisher fell, but when the Boer
rushed up to take an important despatch the other was
supposed to be carrying, the latter popped up, shot the
enemy dead with his revolver, and, waving his cap, ran
away ! War! Yet the audience appeared to swallow it
all as the real thing !
“ Alb.” : “ De Governor had come to hear me play Bee-
thoven. He sit in de front. I march up de steps to de
organ und de people stamp ver’ much. Den I put my
feet on de pedals und my hand on de stops und I find no
vind in de pipes. I ring de electric-bell to tell Joe to
send up de vind, und I get no answer. Den I sit dere
like dam fool while de people stamp and laugh. Yen I
could hold myself no longer I climb down 'from my seat
und go downstairs to find Joe. Und de Govenor still vait
for Beethoven. I did not find Joe near de engine. A
man came up de passage und he say, ‘ Joe have gone to
see de man about de dog.’ Den I burst with fury when I
kpow de Govenor still vait for Beethoven. Den Joe come
runnin’ along de passage wipin’ his mouth. ‘ You dam
scamp, Joe,’ I says ; ‘ why you go lookin’ for de dam dog
while de Govenor wait for Beethoven ? ’ Und Joe wipe
his face —it was ver’ hot —und he say, ‘ My cousin Jim
came in, und he take me over de way to have de beer.’
Den I feel sorry dat I did swear at Joe ; und I say, ‘ Joe,
nevar mind, send up de vind quick, de Govenor is
vaitin’.’ Und I go up to de big organ ,und play Bee-
thoven.”
Bland Holt’s full name is Joseph Bland Holt, and he
first faced the footlights as Joseph Bland—Bland was his
mother’s maiden name. Not generally known that, years
ago, Holt was at the top of his profession as a clown of
the modern pantomimic school, and was hailed in America
as the legitimate successor of Grimaldi. A queer little
sidelight is that, as a boy in Dunedin, he regarded the
prospects of a theatrical career with horror, and old
Clarence Holt more than once used a disciplinary birch to
encourage his son’s dramatic enthusiasm. The youthful
Bland had a great taste for figures, and his craving was
to sit in a counting-house.
George Musgrove has imported a male costumier, a
lady ditto, and an expert wig-maker to look after the
companies’ heads of hair.
Marchesi re the singing pupils who hearken to the
fairy tales of perfidious man : “So many dear, interest-
ing girls have come to me with heart-breaking confi-
dences ! And I have wept over so many others who had so
changed as to actually regard the most condemnable
freedom as necessary (that’s where the wicked male per-
suasion comes in) to their full development and to their
success ; indeed, as a natural and, on the whole, enjoy-
able privilege of all artists.” If all the things that have
been said, or suggested, about the full development of
the “artist nature” could only be published in a big
book, what an interesting volume we would get!
To every old Australian playgoer who cherishes recol-
lections of “ Tambour Major,” with Harwood and Johnny
Wallace as the Duke and Bambini (not to mention the
original production, which founded George Musgrove’sfor-
tune), it will be shocking to hear that Offenbach’s opera
was lately reproduced in a Jingo form. A new “ book ”
was fitted to the original music. Scene laid in S’Africa,
the fiirst act taking place near Capetown, the second at
Johannesburg, and the third concluding with a trium-
phal entry of the British Army into Pretoria. Offen-
bach, the Franco-German, must have turned in his grave
when the first performance of the reconstructed opera
came to pass at a London suburban theatre. He died in
1880, the year of the Boer revolt against the first annexa-
tion of the Transvaal, when all Paris was wishing good
luck to the veldt farmers.
“ Jim the Penman,” one of the very best comedy-
dramas ever written, and the sole good work of its
author, was lately revived in London. A lot of Australian
interest attaches to “Jim.” The name-part was well
played here by St. Maur, with Vincent, and afterwards
Christie Murray and Titheradge, as the Baron. The
original Jim, in London, was poor Arthur Dacre, to whom
Marius (who came out here with Mrs. Bernard Beere)
played Baron. Marius made him a Frenchman ; Beer-
bohm Tree afterwards made him a German ; Anson seems
to have given him a broken-English of doubtful character.
Probably this Baron comes from Alsace, says London
Referee.
Edward Lloyd, the English tenor, seems to have for-
gotten his intention of retiring into private life last year.
At latest dates the veteran had been engaged to sing the
name-part in a cantata setting of Cardinal Newman’s
poem, “The Dream of Gerontius.” Tenors take a long
time to retire from the platform.
Ben Fuller, “ the pioneer of permanent vaudeville in
Maoriland,” has now four shows running there. His
Dunedin co. has been going 80 weeks continuously ; his
Christchurch co. 53 weeks ; his Wellington co. 40 weeks ;
and his Auckland co. 18 weeks. His prices are Is. and 6d.,
and he seems to be making money. Anyhow, he lately
bought the old Alhambra Theatre, Dunedin, for £3OOO,
and intends starting another show in Invercargill ere
long. His show is the usual “variety,” and he has at
present the “ Flying Jordans ” amongst his other attrac-
tions.
Among the most charming exponents of English opera
that have ever appeared in Australia were the sisters
Emma and Olelia Howson, who flourished in the early
sixties. Brother Frank used to lead the orchestra and
Father John took a boss part in the opera. Clelia married
and retired from the stage after a couple of years’ ex-
perience of it. Emma went to England and was the original
Josephine in “ Pinafore.” She looked down on the part,
and one day petrified W. S. Gilbert (who had suggested
some improved “business”) with the remark, “But I
played in Italian opera.” Since retiring on her laurels
she has lived in England. Emma never married, though
she had many opportunities in the days of her attractive
youth.
“D. J.” : Once, when writer had contributed a notice
of Barry Sullivan’s performance of Falstaff to Melbourne
Herald (then a morning paper) which the great gun did
not like, he struck the paper off the free list. This did
not worry editor George Collins Levey. “ Write the
truth,” said he ; “if the thing is good £ive it praise, but
if it is bad (as most likely it will be) give it—well, some-
thing else.” Happened to meet Sullivan shortly after.
“ Well, sir,” said he, majestically, “ have you repented of
yourd libel?” “ Not a bit of it,” was the answer.
“ Further experience of your Falstaff has informed me
that an audience that can tolerate —” “ Stop, stop,”
shouted Barry. “ Man, do you know the infamy of blas-
phemy ! Come, sir, let us drink to your better reason.
And, by the way, I’ve restored your—er—journal to its
former—er—privileged position. And I do trust —I
earnestly pray that the—er—concession will serve to
improve your—ah—judgment.” But it didn’t while
Barry burlesqued Falstaff.
Dear Bulletin. —“F.,” in “Poverty Point,” Sept. 22,
in an airy par., sets a 2col. task. Ibsen has made no addi-
tion to European literature. So ? The Norwegian pro-
duces a play in every two years, his plays, as soon as pro-
duced, are pounced upon and translated into nearly every
European language. He is read and acted in French,
Dutch, Polish, Russian, English, Hungarian, Italian, Ger-
man, and his native tongue almost simultaneously : What
other living or dead author has enjoyed that distinction ?
He sells enormously in every language; the English alone
have purchased as many as 100,000 copies of his plays
within about four years. May the above justify the claim
of Ibsen readers that he has made an addition to Euro-
pean literature ? “The Ibsen influence is a cant cry.”
Is it indeed ? The most prominent German dramatists to-
day are all confessed disciples of the author of “ Hedda
Gabler ” —Sudermann. Hauptmann, Halbi, Hartlebin, and
others—and there is not a critic of note in Berlin who will
listen with patience to the sentimental inanities of the
bread-and-butter romance familiar on the English stage.
Antwerp has an “ Ibsen Theatre ” in active operation.
But those are low foreigners. Jones, in England, admits the
Ibsen influence in “ Michael and His Lost Angel,” “ The
Case of Rebellious Susan,” “ The Masqueraders,” “The
Crusaders,” &c. Bernard Shaw’s plays are all ihsenitish
in their outlook upon character and conventions. He is
a confessed disciple. The appearance of the so-called
problem-plays in England followed upon the sensation
created by the appearance of Ibsen on London boards.
Cause and effect. Closely examine the British drama for
ten years before and after that era, and note the change
from undiluted French romanticism to at least something
like a manful and artistic effort to put breathing, actual
men and women on the stage, and to handle them with
some measure of realism. “F.” trots out “The Money-
Spinner ” in proof of his assertion that Paula Tanqueray
is the natural outcome of Pinero’s early vein, and proves
how thoroughly he misapprehends the position. The
heroine in “ The Money-Spinner ” is treated in the purely
romantic vein ; she is the average angelic heroine who is
permitted a little slip which, if anything, rather enhances
her sentimental virtues. Paula is realistic ; she is drawn
as close to life as Pinero dared—or perhaps as close as
Pinero could. The bad and the good of the woman are
blended into a character that surprised patrons of the
British drama by its vivid humanity. But the flavor of
Ibsen in the new Pinero is more obvious still in “ The
Benefit of the Doubt” and “The Notorious Mrs. Ebb-
smith ” (the stone incident in the latter must recall
“Hedda Gabler”), and began with “Lady Bountiful.”
Possibly Pinero is not conscious of the Ibsen influence,
and no sane person will argue that he writes Ibsen plays.
He has merely added some of the vitality of Ibsen to the
literary flashness of Sardon and the dramatic craftsman-
ship and lady-like romanticism of his other masters,
Scribe and Robertson. — Edson. P.S. —“ F.,” says “Mrs.
Tanqueray” was written 40 years after “The Dolls
House.” A miracle 1 “The Doll's House” dates from
1879.—E.
In return for the testimonial with which some serious
people presented Dampier as a reward for his production
of “ Drink,” the great man tried to illustrate the influence
that Parisian drama had for good in the way of enticing
people off the Curse. A man of his acquaintance absorbed
liquor largely, resisting all attempts of the local sky pilot
to cure him of his sin. Then Dampier came to the fore
and offered him a small part in the drama, where he had
nothing to do but bring on a bucket of water in the
i laundry scene. The result was that, in a short while,
the drinker ceased from his drinking, and, as Dampier
pathetically adds, settled down and became the father of
seven. Thus, even after repentance, did his sin find him
out.
“ Skull ” : Australia promises to be a land of awful pro-
digies. We have had a woeful dose of them at the Melb.
theatres and music-halls during the last 20 months or so.
The cry is still they come, and they grow younger every
month, so that I foresee the time when the nurse will
amble on with her long-coated “ ickle ducksee ” to amuse
a grown audience with its amazing gurglings. At its best
the infant phenomenon is but an immature and miniature
serio-comic, and is bearable in brief and infrequent doses.
At its worst and as a steady infliction it is a more
aggravating form of that ancient horror, the happy
parent who would persist in holding you up for hours
while he recounted the astonishing witticisms of his
miraculous infant.
A dramatic co., doing N.S.W. backblox, struck a town
near which a party of blacks were camped. The co.
visited the camp and was entertained with an exhibition
of boomerang-throwing &c., in return for which the
manager invited the lot to the show. They came, and
when the performance was over a gin asked the manager
for “shillin’, buy sugar.” “Why,” said he, “ isn’t it
enough that I’ve let you all into the show for nothing ! ”
“Oh no, boss 1 Give it shillin’. We bin very good alonga
you. Sittem all night listen you yabber-yabber, an’ never
say plurry word 1 ”
A theatrical manager running a scratch co. about the
suburbs of an Australian metropolis, with occasional ex-
cursions into the interior, had a curious experience
recently. He discovered a new genius, a youth with
a wild and roving eye, who was particularly convincing as
15 different villains, and won tons of jam from the Bunyip
Bugle and the Paddyhanglb Banner for the realistic
manner in which he gouged the hero, or strangled the
virtuous maiden who scorned his dishonorable proposals.
The manager determined to exhibit his acquisition before
metropolitan audiences, but, alas! at the first suburban
performance the new tragedian was recognised by a
policeman, and promptly arrested, and returned to the
lunatic asylum from which he had escaped six weeks
earlier.
A conjuror travelling in the backblox had, as the last
item on the programme, “ The Great Disappearing Act
(lOmin. intervals).” While the natives sat waiting for the
turn the magician retreated from, the back of the hall,
having to scale a 7ft. fence on his way. He did not
return, and next morning it was found that he had
skipped without paying his board-bill.
“ Melb.” : The esteemed and demised W. Marshall,
theatrical printer, left a vast and indeed unique collection
of memoranda (as well as 30 years of programmes)
relating to the Melb. stage. They were compiled, it is
said, by H. H. Waters, known as “Cocky” Waters, one-
time accountant of the Herald, and a writer in the
Australasian under the name of “ Callboy.” His whim
was to collect the date of the first local appearance of all
performers. His accumulations would incalculably
shorten the labor of anyone starting to write a history of
the local stage.
“ Sievier” writes : " Please inform me, if you can, why
it is that theatrical managers in Australia often take a
successful piece off to make room for another play, thus
risking a failure. Take Bland Holt, frinstance, with
‘Women and Wine’ and ‘A. M. Beggar.’” Well the
answer is that managers like Bland Holt don’t take a
successful piece off until the treasury shows it to have
arrived at very near the limit of an average prosperous
run for a first production. It is bad policy to let a new
show outstay its welcome by even half-a-week. There are
revivals to consider. And, by the way, appearances are
often deceptive to a casual theatre-goer. A successful
piece may seem to finish its run at top speed, whereas the
house during the last week may contain a good many
passes or other “ stiffs.”
The Gramophone ! Country youth describing back-
blocks concert to acquaintance: “Oh, it was orl-rightl
There was a bloke there had a thing with a brass bugle
on it, an’ he puts photee-grafts in it, and it talks and sings
like the devil I ”


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
4 Hunte:--sf„ Sydney;
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Qollins-st., Melbourne.
ua
GO TO HEBLL-
IUOIjANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
D?MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society
S. Harvey, Ltd.
London Bdge S.E
ch
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLCy * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Anct.on Room - ;, 324 ffeorga Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auctlcfni Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction llooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale*
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
David Syme concludes that Vic. Leg.
Council is incurable, but is of opinion that “ what
cannot be cured need not be endured.”
Politically speaking Victoria is a woman
with a past —a past from which she cannot free
herself. Victoria’s past is the Legislative Council.
The Argus recently re cemetery sites :
“ We owe a higher duty to the living than to the
dead.” And yet the Argus is a strenuous sup'
porter of Vic. Leg. Council !
Q. Laborites are putting up for the House
of Representatives two brainy M’sL.A.—Turley
and Fisher —who look like certainties. Two other
good men—Dawson and M‘Donald—may repre-
sent N.Q.
From first to last South Australia has
naturalised 3588 foreigners, of whom no less than
2513 are Germans. Chinese come next—2B4 of
them. Of Frenchmen there have been only 40,
and of Americans 10.
As to the Australian flag. From the first,
let us have a flag that will need no altering in the
time when we shall cease saying “By your
leave ! ” when we would but make our country
greater and happier.
Premier Lyne declares that £2OOO a year
is an utterly inadequate salary for the N.S.W.
State Governor. Long Bill, as a man of strongly
provincial leanings, may be expected to magnify
the office of State Governor.
On the debate on the M.L. Flag Bill,
Monk, M.P., declared that, as Maoriland was the
most southern of the British colonies, “it is most
justly entitled to the Southern Cross.” Which
bears out Max O’Rell’s assertion that Bull had
already annexed the Heavens.
Sachse (Victorian M.L.C.) on the Woman
Suffrage Bill :
I have endeavored from my heart to concur in .giving
women a vote, but my wretched head would not allow
me.
Sachse’s description of his own head is beautifully
ac'curate.
Kingston got into S.A. Leg. Council just
in time to save an early-closing measure from
death. The democratic leader is now trying to
rescue a Workman’s Compensation Bill from being
destroyed for the fourth time. At present the
Tory barnacles are in a majority of one, and the
only prospect of getting a progressive measure
through is for an Ass. nominee to lie up with gout
or die of over-feeding.
PROBABLY.
GEM: “Mrs. Pegleg never misses a sale.”
CHIN : “Did she get Mr. Pegleg at the remnant-
counter?”
Kingston having converted Symon, Q.C.,
to a belief in the broadest suffrage for the Leg.
Council, has now great hopes of Play ford and
Glynn, who have hitherto been strong on the
Tory side, but who, like Symon, are anxious
to get into the Federal Parliament on the popular
vote.
The British Government states that “ it is
not prepared to consider any proposal for chang-
ing the political position of Fiji.” Which puts
a heavy and uncompromising boot down, for the
present at all events, on Premier Seddon’s great
scheme for making Maoriland the centre of a far-
reaching Brown Man’s Confederation in the
Pacific.
Libor leader Price publicly remarked
recently that he had never before seen so much
“lobbying” in S.A. Parliament as there has been
over a certain Tramway Bill. Now the names of
those who are said to have been successfully
“ approached ” are being mentioned very freely,
and the political institutions of S.A. smell a little
worse than usual.
A N.S.W. civil servant is under the
current law liable to be compelled to resign at 00
years of age, but Premier Lyne’s proposed Old-
Age Pension Bill lays down 05 as the age when
the private citizen is supposed to leave off work.
If the law doesn’t think a man can work for the
State at over 00, how can he be supposed able to
work for private employers ?
N.S.W. Parliament should, by resolution,
fix definitely the travelling expenses of Ministers
of the Crown. The custom is £3 per day for a
Premier and £2 for other Ministers while absent
from Sydney. Ministers lately reported that at
present they only charge out-of-pocket expenses.
But they may, when leaving office, draw the full
amount. This has been done before.
The Queensland Ministry complains bit-
terly of the loquacity of Labor-members during
the syndicate-railway discussions and of the scan-
dalous waste of time resulting therefrom. T’other
day Premier Philp, who is introducing the gag,
adjourned the Assembly so that members might
go and see a pumpkin-show up at Rosewood.
Time is, indeed, precious in Bananaland.
The property qualification fora Leg. Coun-
cil elector in S. A., which Kingston has set himself
to break down, naturally bars more female than
male Assembly-electors. For the Assembly the
proportion of female to male electors is about (58
to 83 ; for the Council 9to 38, Only every third
qualified Assembly male elector has a vote for the
Council; only every seventh female has one.
So restricted is the Leg. Council franchise
in S.A. still, in spite of frequent liberalisations,
that in the whole of the Northern Territory only
86 people are entitled to vote—tha't is, only
per cent, of the total entitled to vote for the
Assembly ! Yet the other per cent, continue
to send Opposition leader Solomon to the Assembly,
presumably to go on fighting against their com-
plete enfranchisement 1
Tasmania’s lost elector has Degun to ask
seriously and strenuously for his fair share of
representation. Zeehan and Lyell have one-fifth
of all the electors on the island and one-nineteenth
Of the representation. Lyell has 6000 voters and
one member ; Hobart has 5400 voters and six
members ; Cressy has 352 voters and one member
—the same as Lyell. No wonder the West Coast
is beginning to put on its big gum-boots
' and kick hard.
* “ The usual cry at the beginning of a
bayonet-charge.”—War Correspondent
“Locust”: Referring to King-
ston’s estimate of British public men
(Rosebery to wit), it is a strange fact that
leading Liberals seem to fight shy of
Australian visiting statesmen. Either
that or the cute Tories rush and get hold
of the Australian and put salt on his
tail. But in at least one case, one of
our men was not only ignored but
snubbed by leading Liberals. Heard
Dibbs say in London that Gladstone and
Rosebery were both “ cads,” and I knew
that lie had reason. Yet Gladstone will-
inglyl gave a Labor-man from Australia
an interview. It ma/ be, again, that
Democrats become violent Jingoes when
transplanted. “If all Our statesmen
were born in the colonies,” said H. W.
Massingham, “Jingoism would be un-
controllable.” But after all I think the
true explanation is that the Primrose
duchesses and countesses are adroit
political canvassers and assist in roping-in
our “statesmen,” for everyone who re-
turns (Kingston, for example, and Dibbs) is
never done skiting about the countesses he has
met—and, strange to say, the Countess of Warwick
is always one of those mentioned.
Premier Philp, in replying to a deputation
of clergymen advocating religious.instruction in
State schools, expressed the opinion that there
was not “ enough religion in this country.” Isn t
it peculiar that politicians of the Philp and Tozer
class should always so sincerely avow the import-
ance of giving the youth of the country a chance
of Biblical instruction ? They evidently recognise
that the country which tolerates them requires to
have its morals improved.
PROPHETIC .
P AT: “ Did ye hear that old Hogan was dead,
Mrs. Ryan? ”
MRS. R.: “Is he, thin, poor man? Sure . I
always knew that’d be the end of him.”
Ex-Minister Joe Cook, though asserting
that N.S.W. Labor Party has ratted to Lyne, has
had himself appointed by the Lithgow miners
Labor delegate to the Australian Labor Federa-
tion. This is a cute move of a man whose
interests have long ago separated him from the
Labor Party both in and out of Parliament. It
will enable him to play nexus between Ileidites
and Laborites, and to work the Labor cause to the
political advantage of his party.
Kingston is very proud of the fact that
his father, when S.A. Constitution was framed,
strongly opposed the property-restriction for the
Council which the son is now, 50 years afterwards,
striving to remove. Kingston pere was a curious
blend of Tory and Democrat, but it is memorable
that the old man, in 1845, strongly and successfully
opposed convict-exportation to S.A., and later
was one of the most prominent opponents of State
aid to religion. He died at sea when 73 years
old.
N.S.W. coal-mine owners have practically
defied the coal-weighing provisions of an Act of
Parliament for a couple of years, and now another
Act is being similarly defied by ferry-boat pro-
prietors. In each case Govt, directed that the
Act should stand in abeyance till one point or
another received fresh consideration. And the
plutocratic press is indulgently silent. Yet the
plutocratic press cry is, when the poorer sections
of the community are affected: “Obey the law
till Parliament alters it.”
Reform of the Vic. Leg. Council is “in
the air ” just now, and even the Tory feels bound
to mention it in his programme. A fine sample is
one J. Eklridge Healy, who appeals to the Mel-
bourne electors: —
It is to be earnestly hoped that Chamber reformers
will, without improper minatory methods, firmly urge
the adjustment of our State Legislature.
“Without improper minatory methods.” The
House of 48 Rich Landlords mustn’t be threatened.
It must simply be asked to pass a reform measure,
and cordially assured that nothing unpleasant
will happen to it if it refuses.
N.S. Wales and S.A. jumped ori Tas-
mania’s proposal of a joint Australian message to
Britain approving of the annexation of the Boer
States. They “ feared the message might be made
a political weapon in the proceeding British elec-
tions.” Yet, why not? Tasmania’s proposal was
the logical corollary of previous Jingo foolishness.
If Australia must have a hand in Britain’s wars,
why not also in Britain’s politics, which bring
wars about? If Australia must spend blood and
money in stealing for Britain, why should she
spare advice about the disposal of the plunder?
Wood’s amendment on the S.A. Land Bill,
making any further sales of State lands absolutely
illegal, was lost by only one vote. The Holder
Ministry went with the minority. South Aus-
tralia practically abandoned the sale of State lands
ten years ago, and has since contrived to pay its
way to some extent without assistance from thi s
source. But the solid Tory vote against formally
abolishing land sales by Act of Parliament sug-
gests that the Solomon party, whenever it gets
into power, means to resume the work of dissi-
pating the public assets ; therefore, if the Hol c i er
Ministry means business it should make another
strong fight for the insertion of Wood’s claus e i n
the Bill. And it should never have left it to a
private member to propose such a clause.
S.A. Parliament intends to veto the
Holder Govt.’s scheme of a national convention
to remodel the State constitution. The alterna-
tive scheme, to which a majority of both Houses is
stated to have agreed, is to leave the work to the
present Assembly and Council sitting together.
The Labor crowd strongly opposes any reduction
of members following Federation, and that is its
main reason for opposing the convention idea.
And the Laborists are consequently supported by
many members who fear effacement in the event
of reduction.
In the past year Victoria paid £311,107 to
retired public servants, or more than treble the'
pensions disbursed by all the rest of
Australia. Charles Cavan Duffy, in con-
sideration of having served two years as-
Lands Minister (in which position he
passed an Act under which squatters’
dummies were enabled to pick out the
eyes of the country), has drawn £lOOO a
year for 38 years. Andrew Clarke
(formerly Vic. Surveyor-General), at pre-
sent acting as Agent-General, is next on
the list with £37,000, his pension being
£BOO a year ; and the widow of Gov. Dar-
ling has been paid £lOOO a year for 30'
years. There is also an ex-County Court
Judge whose allowance is £7soayear, as
a recompense for five years’ bench-work.
Old-age pensions in Maoriland this
year will only cost £193,000 ; and Vic-
toria could provide for all her indi-
gent agfed population for £12,000 a
year less than she is at present paying
to retired .public servants. All the
same. The Bulletin proposes an
addition of £48,000 a year to
the Vic. pension-list—£looo a
year each to the 48 Rich Land-
lords as an inducement to pass
a Bill for their own abolition.
It would be the one profitable
item on the pension-roll.
Sydney Daily Telegraph
gravely observes that “the con-
verts that have been made from
Mohammedanism to Christianity
since the work was begun are pro-
bably less than the number of Chris-
tians who, within the same time,
have lapsed into agnosticism or infidelity.” “ Pro-
bably ” is good-considering that, while Chris-
tianity is practically, if not ostensibly, losing
votaries by the thousand, even the nominal con-
verts from Mohammedanism, the wide world over,
do not total a dozen per annum ; while of real con-
verts it is much to be doubted if there has ever
been, or ever will be, a single one !
tbe second reading in Vic. Assembly
to prohibit politicians holding seats in
. an( Federal Legislatures the lonesome
hliggms rose up as a solitary “ No.” One blessed
a b° ub ns i-s that none of the existing
a ’ Kush Landlords will be in the Federal Parlia-
laeub ■.* they get there they must cjuit the
U o| hse °f Landlords, and the loss of almost any of
them from that bo ly will he an advantage. And if
.iey M t a y j’ l the House of Landlords they can’t get
mto the Federal Parliament, and the absence of
almost any of them fronwA.n body will also be an
advantage,
r|n T) , .. ~
I ne Plulp Government appears to have
done OTle good and wise thing, in proposing not to
take advantage of the clause in the Federal Con-
sf'tiition which permits of Queensland being
divided into three electorates for Federal Senate
elections. It is doubtful if it will stick to its pur-
-1)07<:0 7 <: 111 M'e face of much opposition, for it seems
to have no strong opinions either way, but for the
he six membe »
to represent thermicinn nf ’ are supposed
whole State - and OueensHrMmH T" y m f 1&
Sate will S ’ P^ as one elec-
Referendum, almoft eer ainly“Sid in®
who are true friend* nf ifj ,
do t h e j r i Jest to u„ ]n , ® jf f, l ion, and wbo will
Common we-i Ith T ? ° the interests of the
U, r ™eXa es the , Cut ™ to c
the Federal Ref c j ll ’ by the results of
, R ® ferendum ’ a least two seats in the
South would be secured, though only by narrow
majorities, for bitter Parochialists whose one idea
would be to restrict Federal power and influence
and exalt State authority to the Common wealth’s
detriment.
he political situation -in the US as.
described hv SM Ui.-n.wTVu v ,
S ~ ’ M ’ IIERALU 8 New York eorres-
ponaent .
n’ h, 5 h ° ne ? f the two great Ameri-
SCSSftSttSTttiK ZTSiSSSf
tion. for no matter how unjust and partisan mav be the
accusation, the President cannot ignore a verdict ren-
dered by at least 40 per cent, of his fellow-citizens
this is the one country that can most easily finance her
through the gestative throes of her new empire on the
Asiatlc coast, she will make almost anv concession that in
the Russia,, Court an' toSrtaX,'preJJnt hj-
so elects, in the same costume which in his oto country
ls proper at a State reception at the White House These
and m an .y °Nier like suggestions have been circulated all
w 6 Is ’ 111 : !, n lnterv *ew of the famous Dr. Tahnage
having notTiitUe
wishes to keep the middle path and to stand well with
AV i partles > and wi ll try to postpone a final decision to
hrarfl&i, moment, tor both he and hi s party are at
RBLte'St Sft SZeriJ?
m » house divided against itself-many for and sof-
against—while in regard to Russia, many are friendly
som ® "'different, but none unfriendly; and in certain
confc mg' encl es‘the Administration, even against its will,
?wa?°- V tbe pa J h of least resistance. The trouble is-
l
policy of mutual forbearance and concession J It
i eems probable - in any case, that the next House of
Ke P re ?entatives will be Democratic. The Republican
wn nty nOW i 3 only 18 ‘ Some districts will certainly be
b £ ca " se ° f sympafc !? y wi th the Boers, and it is not
OLE»WSffB, rn'iSsSE"'"' ““ P ‘
THE DIVINE WILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The teachings of our Lord the Host
In many manners come ;
Sometimes it is per Holy Ghost,
Sometimes by trump and drum.
Sometimes they say, “ Thou shalt not kill ”
At others, “ Give them hell! ”*
And we, who know the holy will,
The proper meaning spell.
The riddle we have solved, and teach
There, is one certain test,
And to the multitude we preach
To do what pays the best.
So put the Boer to the sword,
And shoot the rebels down ;
In things like-this you’ll find the Lord
Is with the British Crown.
’Tis thus the teachings of the Host
Preserve us all from sin ;
Sometimes they come per Holy Ghost,
Sometimes per Chamberlain.
OLERICTIS.


Mr. W. E. Toose, optician, of 422 George-
8t., Sydney, has just (after examination) been
made a Fellow of the “ Anglo-American Optical
Society ” —also a member of the British Optical
Association. Mr. Toose, it is understood, is the
first N.S.W. optician to acquire the former dis-
tinction.
Attention is called to the alteration in the
sailings of the Norddeutscher Lloyd steamers, as
per advertisement on page 26. The changes are
unavoidable, owing to the fire at the Hoboken
Docks of the Norddeutscher Lloyd in New York,
and the chartering of 15 of theN.D.L. steamers
to the German Government as troopships for
China. It will be noticed that the service for
March and April is now four-weekly instead of
three-weekly as originally intended, but the three-
weekly service will be inaugurated as soon as the
steamers are available.
Fifty electors of Toorak (Vic.) met
solemnly last week to pick a Liberal candidate to
oppose Duncan Gillies at the coming general elec-
tion. Jimmy Munro, of Federal Bank fame, was
seated at the table beside the chairman, and the
first speaker arose and moved that Mr. Munro, as
the only available Liberal candidate, be asked to
contest the election. There was no uproar. No
eggs were thrown. Nobody howled in derision.
The gathering failed utterly to see the sarcasm of
the situation. (Think of Federal Bank Jimmy as
the only available Liberal Candidate !) The meet-
ing accepted him unanimously. Then James
came forward and said that he would never have
consented to stand had it not been for the gutter
press having referred in slighting terms to him
and his deceased financial institutions. He
wanted an opportunity to refute those calumnies,
and therefore he would oblige the electors of
Toorak and go to the poll. Yet will Jimmy’s
awful banks be any better after Jimmy has been
at the poll ?
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY .. «. „ Nov. 3
CUP DAY » Nov. 6
OAKS DAY .. ... Nov. 8
STEEPLECHASE DAY .. Nov. 10
Largest entries ever received. Accommodation
for thousands. The conveniences for the comfort
of visitors to Flemington now surpass anything in
the world.
t3T Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
ASTHMA CURE>
GRIMAULT’S
IDDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Cousrhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
Immediately relieved by GRIMADLT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Missing Friends,
JOE EMERSON alias WILSON 9 last heard from
W Hazelfield, Eulo, Queensland. 2£ years ago. Wife
and child anxious to hear from him.
Address : c/o Mr. HUNT, 222 Elswick-street, Leich-
hardt, N.S.W.
Why not call the Federal capital Orange-
Peel, after the most frequent substance on the
pavements of all Australian cities.
VITA DATIO
The Great Herbal Remedy .
HYDATIDS AGAIN CONQUERED.
TWELVE YEARS A SUFFERER.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL CURE.
READ WHAT THE PEOPLE SAY ABOUT VITADATIO.
67 Dorcas-street, South Melbourne,
May 10th, 1599.
Mr. S. A PALMER, Agent for Vitadatio.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in giving my testimony
of what Vitadatio has done for me. 1 was taken ill two
years ago last November with jaundice. I was then living
at Kensington, and the doctor who was attending me dis-
covered that I was suffering from Hydatids, lie brought
me through that illness, but after twelve months I was
again taken had, suffering terrible agony at times, and a
large lump formed in my stomach, which the doctor said
was Hydatids again, and that 1 would have to undergo an
operation ; but while arrangements were being made I
heard of your wonderful medicine. After taking one
bottle, which made me very ill, I threw up three
(3) gall stones. I then continued the medicine and passed
14 more. While taking the medicine I also passed
hydatids. I took nineteen bottles of Vitadatio, and now
I believe I am thoroughly cured of both hydatids and gall
stones, and feel better and stronger than i have done for
years. Wishing you every success with your wonderful
medicine, I am, yours very graitefully.
Mrs. H. WEBSTER.
. P-S.—You are at perfect liberty to make what use you
like of this. My cure took place twelve months ago.
Anybody wishing to see the gall stones can see them at
45 and 47 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s (id; Small Size, 3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s Gd.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Messrs. Geo. G-. Sandeman. Sons & Co.
OF LONDON,
trading as
SANPEMAN,
AT 241 Pitt-st.,
L Sydney,
Have the pleasure to inform their friends
that their WINES have been
Awarded the Highest Honors at
the Paris Exhibition of 1000.
PORTS
Messrs. Sandeman and 00.,
Oporto.
THE “ GRAND PRIX. 1
SHERRIES
Messrs. Sandeman, Buck
and Co., Jerez.
THE “ GOLD MEDAL.'
SYDNEY HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN.
Wanted £25,000
Erection of New Hospital.
The Hon. Treasurers hereby acknowledge with THANKS the receipt of the following Donations
Amount previously acknowledged
Sir Edwin Knox
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Limited
Henry Bull and Co., Limited ...
Brunton and Co.
G. Boyce Allen, Esq
Smaller Sums
£6287
100
100
50
25
10 10
7 6
£6580 2 1
Amount still required ...
£18,419 17 11
FURTHER DONATIONS win be thankfully received by any Member of Committee, or by the
Organising Secretary, THOMAS PRATT, 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
CO
£
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
[gpi
m
mu
- i|-
:
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston: Hedley Button.
tsa Agents also for the NEW CENTUBY and DENSMOBE.
13
EEAD
MARK
LEARN
“ I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
by my customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S.W.
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.”
PAUL WILKINSON, Chemist,
Maryborough, Vie.
“ We are pleased to inform you that the
two National Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. CO., Butchers,
Toowoomba, Q.
AND
INWARDLY DIGEST!
ħ
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up)of the
NATIONAL
Cash Register
TO
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINCHAM, General Manager.
CYCLING
V
e mb
.V
A
IS
50
per cent.
more
enjoyable
when
you
ride
Roadster
h
ĥ
7\ Vast Difference
is made in the running of a cycle by fitting
m
The Resiliency, Durability, Ease of Detach-
ment and Repair of these popular tyres making
them perfect for Road and Track riding.
trade
Beware of Imitations. Dunlops are
only genuine when they bear this
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of Aust. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane & Christchurch, N.Z.
ħ
N.S.W. Address: 150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


ladies’ Tailoring
—SPRING—
NEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming? Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
MEMORY
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ It has increased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. C. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z. —“It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter —
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinary memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS.
SjEIE TZHZ-A-T THE Sia-ZEsT.A-'T’TT.R/IE
LEA & PERRINS
IS ON EVERY BOTTLE.
SAUCE
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
0
7 X
°CI
SCOTCH '
WHISKY
\ “ Old & jYtellow.”
“ D.C.L.” Scotch Whisky
is a delicious and finely
blended whisky of excel-
lent flavour, which while
maintaining all the due
stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been
mellowed by age into a
perfectly wholesome and
mild beverage. The large
scale upon which the dis-
tilling and blending of
“D.C.L.” is carried out
guarantees regularity in
quality—a great advan-
tage, which whisky'drin-
kers often miss in other
brands.
Proprietors ’ •
The Distillers Co*fLd.,
Edinburgh,
London, and Dublin.
Ask for “D.C.L.”
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com- ‘
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine.. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Gr. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Brandi : ;
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
fijjjL
cD—Jg
DA.PTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Xllawarra),
near SYDIXTEY
SMELTERS.
• • • •
REFINERS
PRODXJCBiia
Oh'
FINE SILVER.
i 1
•”
■
■
d. •
lii
■
MAKERS OF
S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWAREA”
. . BKAND 01<’. .
SOFT LEAD.
purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP
HIGHEST I’KICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information mmrdinjr Rates, ettf; apnl.v to E. A. Wbinbkho, Manat <r, The SmGiinsr Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO. N.S.W
or Marttv Pt aor. SYDNEY.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD fob
INFANTS
9
FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &0., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, r;-y
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
I AND
The aged.


HeTr RASSMUSSEN’S alfaline herbal remedies
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY-
h
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin” and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFALIHE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
m
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmilSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder,
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming* the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengt,liens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier —A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is, ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil —Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts v Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’sHead Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street), ~
MEL BO ÜBN E ; 150 B ourlce-street (mm. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 7,54 Bundle-street (near York Hotel). '
N.Z., WELLINGTON : 0.1 Lambton (}uay.
PERTH : Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOQRLIE ■■■; Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : JPiesse-street.
FREJHANTLE ; Henry-street.
Premier Lyne says that the largest in-
crease in N.S.W. revenue came from spirits. Mr.
Reid’s surplus used to come from the spirit world,
too.—Star.
A Stipendiary in a Sydney court one day
lately requested that a case called on about
midday should, “if it were of the usual nauseating
kind,” be postponed till after lunch, as “he didn’t
want his appetite spoilt.”
Extract from the advt, of a frivolous tailor
named Whitlock, of Ulverston, Tasmania: —
Pants are made for men, and not for women. Women
are made for men, and not for pants. When a man pants
for a woman, and a woman pants for a man, they are a
pair of pants. Such pants don’t last. Pants are like
molasses—they are thinner in hot weather and thicker in
cold. Men are often mistaken in pants ; such mistakes
are breeches of promise. There has been much discussion
whether pants is singular or plural. Seems to me when
men wear pants it is plural, and when they don’t wear
any pants it is singular. Men go on a tear in' their pants,
and it is all right; when the pants go on a tear it is all
wrong. If you want to make pants last, make the coat
first.
A South Island (M.L.) paper describes
Dunedin tramways : —
As for the Dunedin tramcar system—.well, it may be
better some day but at present it is not much superior to
the trolly system in a coal-mine. A few wretched, untidy
mouldy-looking ears that are over-crowded and stuffed
with all'sorts and conditions like sardines in a box. No
one orders the people off ; no one compels the company
to put on more cars, and no one worries about these
wretched horses.
Which is all true and more. Dunedin is a godly
city utterly devoid of mercy for its tram-horses.
Sometimes this scribe, who spent years in that
town, has dreams to the effect that there may be a
heaven and a hell after all ; that every ratepayer
of Dunedin will deservedly go to the latter place
for his and her callousness to the sufferings of the
bony wrecks that break their hearts trying to drag
misshapen cars up the ghastly hill by Dowling-
street; and that the ratepayer will look up from
that future residence and see his despised tram-
horse in heaven and at rest.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
• h « t Disch . ar * e or otherwise, perhaps sur-
round, d with inflammation and swollen that when vou
«onVlf U so fi unfler H, t e h V-" flamc ? paift il Ieaves ‘he impres-
HXOII / If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted vou
ca" recover, but go on suffering till death releases
2?™™» Pe i rh f 1 ps y ’ JUr k " ees swollen, the joints beina
Ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
ssrvsr ■ k fva
tsusx? '• ”° *—*■•-. ™*4sS
ALBERTIS GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,'
which are a certain remedy for the cure of R„a i
Bunions, and Riniiworin Of til /m ’ • pouchitis,
W' £ b x. p«parad r by
look toi the.registered trade mark of th«r™«i! erS sllou,d
*re S n lal.ei on*,ach box. (ReKa eopyOghtL ° PBer °“ 3
ĥ
FRINGES,
tfstur&J Curljr, from S/6
PLAITS and TAILS,
SOIn. long, 5/0. all real hah,
cuttings ® coMsmaa
•Opted up, 2/U per 02.
tv® are the
tralla for &11 Hair VVorlt,
8«d Color of Hair.
W.'H."Wig2«llji
>lO William Sthubt.
•orner of Palmer-street,
- SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Doot.
Send stamps for full Price UaV\
row* attention given to Country OihlV
ħ
Medical,
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REEUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 PER CfIVT.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Dr. Boxwell’s
PILLS
JN o ™°nou S) . harmless, always effeo-
-LAVE. A Sure friend, dispelling* Misery, Suspense
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price
5/6 Per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert—Dr
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
HosrrrAL, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
e f d "'" • Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
MYTOL
Is a restorative and physical
magic power. A broken-down
system rejuvenated. Vytol
nerves, brain and blood, quicklj
ently restoring to the sufferer
regenerator of
i or weakened
acts on the
' and perman-
the lost vim,
enu s length and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.'
A. Chemical Co., Ehzabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free
* COMMON SENSE ISAM EIIUM.”
DEAF
PJ
COMPLETELY restore lhe
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
m the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
| other remedy. Testimonials
1 from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illusti>*-“d
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins "Street, Melbourne
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. } bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
V
S'*
m
w\
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
IiEITS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 3U days before
payment, which is fully
explained in.our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, ■ however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the .weak part.
Remember, w’e' give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
"ill permanently cine you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
h
, Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .-—STEPHEN GREEN,
2XO Lambeth Kd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
: Should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY
for ™y invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical,
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
y adminptermg
EUCRASY.
H can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and wjII effect a permanent and speedy cure It
never fads. Pamphlet containing full particulars'and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
I 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY'
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
Famous Pills are now universally used through-
nf s „ out . the "! d ’ boln g the most perfect combinatfon
y ,? fc discovered. They contain no poison or
pencils drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, 5s 6d ner
box Write to A. Chemical Co., EJizabeth-street North
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendfgo-street, Prahran
Melb. says : ‘‘Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success. ” 1
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
inventor of Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
nul'H b , est J or a " Wounds and Skin Diseases.
Sore*Eyes,°&c!’ Plcerated Le *? s - Pimples,
OSB Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
i-or all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Sldn
St res Pr ‘ CeS IS ‘ lid ' and 2S - 9 d - each of all Drug
Sole Makers- BEACH <fc BARNICOTT Ltd.
BRIDPORT. England. ’ I
HHj
DEAF
11033
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
b C °' ne t e l y overcome Deafness
|ana Head Tvoises, no matter of
;how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GEINTS.
Address —I
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES
L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


BUYERS of road Bicycles find better service and
greater value in the EASY RUNNING
MASSEY - HARRIS than in any other Bicycle.
What we say they’ll do they do do.
Factories—'Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarter*— Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 885 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
Thousands Have Piles.
THEY ARE EASY TO CURE.
Perhaps there is no disease more irritating and
annoying than Piles. It is the result of imperfect
circulation of the blood. The venous blood settles
in the veins of the rectum, and expanding these
veins produces the nodules know as Piles. This
is sometimes produced by an inactive liver, which
does not permit the blood to return freely to the
heart; sometimes it is the result of a weak action
of the heart itself, and often it is due to large
masses of faeces lodging in the bowels and pressing
upon the veins, so that the blood cannot return to
the heart and lungs. This disease is not only
most painful, but also very dangerous, as the in-
flamed nodules are very apt to take on malignant
action, and cancer of the rectum is produced.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, in their action on
the liver, heart and bowels, strike at all these
causes of Piles and remove them.
ADVISED TO BE OPERATED ON FOR PILES—
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURED HER
TROUBLE.
Mrs. Ricketts, of University-street, Camper-
down, writes : “ I write to inform you that I was
a sufferer from piles for eight or ten years ; during
that time I found nothing that would cure them,
and was repeatedly told that I would have to
undergo an operation to have them cut out.
However, I was advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. I took the lady’s advice, and found
they did me good, and am now free from them,
and have been for over twelve months, and con-
sider I am perfectly cured.
EVER HAD PILES?
THREE YEAR’S AGONY—PILES CAUSED IT.—
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE.
“I write to inform you I suffered for a long
time with piles—say three years off and on,
writes Mr. F. Thompson, Maria-street, Newtown.
“ I could not get anything to rid me of them. I
was advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Ro< r. Fills.
Not having much faith in patent medicines, I
hesitated for some time, but at last resolved to
give them a trial. lam pleased to state that
after taking two bottles the piles disappeared, and
up to this date there has not been any sign of their
return.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pdls positively
cure biliousness, indigestion, constipation, dys-
pepsia, headaches, liver and kidney complaints,
piles, pimples, and blotches. Sold by onemist3
and storekeepers, price Is. l|d. per bottle or six
bottles (is. 6d. Sole proprietors, The VV. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58
Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, AcoessorleSi
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO..
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z
XX th Century Cookery
and Home Decoration
By MRS. ARONSON,
“TUALIA,” Sydney Maid.
322 pages, over 1000 Recipes, with 16 Illustrations
of Home Decoration by Fred. Leist and
D. 11. Sou ter.
Price 4/ (i, Post Free 5/2,
FROM
William Brooks & Co.,
17 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
*
That every Trlok Rider, of any merit, appearing before the publio In Australasia, does hie
Trioks with a RED BIRD pl "y"~ ,
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.
Swanaton-street, Melbourne, Vio.
Branches
/ Bundle-street,
\ Victoria-street
Adrlaidb, S.A.
, Wellington, N.Z.
The COOLD BICYCLE CO.,
Headquarters (or Australasia,
64 Klnff-st., SYDNEY.
Dredging in Otago (M.L.) has of late assumed a
new phase. During the boom some 250 co’s were floated
and shares eagerly taken up for the few shillings pro-
spective premium. Someone had to nurse the baby, and
when the public dropped to the fact that no matter how
valuable the claim the dredge had to be built and
calls paid, down things came wallop. The fact
that local foundries could not take up the contracts
offered them has been the salvation of many rash specu-
lators. They had time to suffer a recovery, and whilst
things were thus it suddenly struck someone that it
might be wise to prospect and bore some of the
hidden mines of wealth, painted in plans and pro-
spectuses with such yellow paint. Result —many of
the bank claims and also some river ones proved
quite unworkable for dredging purposes. The fever
abated and as calls became pressing it was found
that hundreds of shareholders were servant-girls, lads in
offices, &e., and as they were responsible in some cases
for as much as £5OO or £6O0 —all the co.s were limited-
liability—they formed themselves into a “ Wreckers’
Association.” By judicious wire-pulling, and assisted
by other shareholders with full hands, they are liquidat-
ing and winding up companies day after day. Even
prospective Hartley and Rileys are not safe from them.
In several cases where contracts have been let they have
disposed of the contracts at a premium to other co.s
with a well-held share-list. Despite which there are scores
ofco.sonthe Mol.vneux only too willingto buy second-hand
dredges from claims which have proved unpayable on
other rivers. The Galtee More Dredge on Manuherikia
River was sold (to go to the West Coast) for £l5OO more
than she actually cost original owners. Some magnifi-
cent returns have been got lately. The Ranfurly Electric
got over 600 oz. for a week’s dredging and 30 other dredges
got over 25000 z. among them.
Cobar Gold Mines: One of the directors, .T.
Macdonald, after examining the property, some time back
cabled the London board that the mine would develop
into a good, steady dividend-payer, and was so satisfied
of this that he endorsed manager Buekland’s recom-
mendation to purchase a filter-pressing plant to deal with
the slimes, an enormous quantity of which have already
accumulated. Six filter-presses have now been ordered.
Bet ter a million tons of low grade ore than 1000 tons of
very high grade. , , »
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Griimvade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Brcim Bittkrs.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Wentworth Gold Mines, N.S.W., has been
wiped out of existence—otherwise absorbed by the
D’Arcy Wentworth Co. for 125,000 shares. It had a capi-
tal of its own of £500,000, and the shares have been as high
as £3. The falling-off must be enormous when it parts
with its mine, machinery and other assets, for 125,000
shares iri the D’Arcy, which has only a speculative value.
Earl Kilmorey, the chairman, advised the shareholders to
accept as the best thing to do under the circumstances.
A very discontented old lady shareholder turned up to
the meeting and cross-examined the Earl to such an ex-
tent that finally he said : “ My dear madam, will you
allow me to propose you as a director on the new Board?”
And the old lady immediately replied, “ Certainly I will.”
So it now remains for the Earl to carry out his con-
tract or to plead with Frank Gardiner to bring it about.
Many of the London mining boards consist already
largely of old women.
* • • •
A Leipzig correspondent to The Bulletin :— .
“ The wool-boom in Australia from Sept, to Dec. of last
season has now produced, as was expected by
the wise heads of the trade generally, a corresponding re-
action involving many Continental failures. Roubaix
and Tourcoing, the great French wool-centres, have had
three failures and 12 suspensions to the amount of
£1,000,000 in liabilities, but it is supposed that this sum
will be much reduced by assets in the shape of wool, etc.
The failure of many other merchants is said to have
been stopped by the prompt action of the Bank of France
and other French institutions. Venders, the Belgian
wool-centre, through local financial support of its banks,
has so far only announced one failure. Leipzig, the Ger-
man centre, has one failure for £150,000 —said to be the
Continental house that “ bulled ” the Sydney wool-mar-
ket last season. A strange feature of all these failures is
that amongst the claims mentioned in their liabilities is
gambling on the ‘ Terme ’ — i.e., ‘Futures' market. All
failures up to date have been wool merchants, and the
crisis does not seem to have affected manufacture.”
* * • •
It is proposed to fit with gold-saving appliances
the Govt, silt-dredges now at work on the southern
N.S.W. coastal-rivers.
* • * *
Norseman, which is very sick, is turning
towards the newer Phillips River field as Heaven-sent.
Not only are the men leaving for the newer place, but
some of the Co’s are even putting the remnant of their
capital into it. The latest estimate of the Phillips River
population put it at 300.
* • • *
Westralia sells its mining-township allotments
to the highest bidders, and thus gives the absentee
speculator the chance he doesn’t get under the N.S.W.
system of miners’ rights and buying through personal
residence only. So far the Groper Govt, has in this way
received £79,605 for Coolgardie allotments, and £77,061
for Kalgoorlie ditto, £41,115 for Boulder, £27,930 for
Menzies, and so on down to £4059 for Cue. All round,
the allotments have averaged £4B 12s. an acre.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
N.S.W. did better than most expected at Caul-
field on Suturday, through Severity appropriating Caul-
field, and Ilautain the Debutant Stakes. Severity’s
success caused surprise in Sydney, though he went to the
post a strong second favorite. The Held was a high-class
one at w.f.a., and embraced Tarquin, Paul Pry, Seahorse,
Merriwee, Dandy and Mora. In Wycombe Stakes, at
recent A.J.O. meet, Severity came home a bad
last, and yet now we hear of the gelding accounting
for the best hags (at four years old and over) on
the continent, and doing it with a bit to the
good, too. Three-year-old form has been further
mixed up through Kinglike’s win of the “Guineas,"
with Finland second, Maltster third, and Hautboy fourth.
October Stakes, a week before, saw Hautboy lead all the
journey, and Finland couldn’t get nearer than fifth—
which goes to endorse popular opinion that Finland is an
in-and-outer, with little heart. Kinglike is in Caulfield
Cup (7.2), Melbourne Cup (7st), V.R.O. Derby, and
several other events. Prior to annexing the Guineas only
Maiden Stakes and Nursery Handicap (at Randwick last
April) stood to his credit.
• * • •
Severity first saw light at Gobolion, near Wel-
lington (N.S.W.), and was bred by present owner, Mr. W.
A. Gardiner. He is by A.J.O. Derby winner Trenchant
from Loniia, by Welcome Jack (M.L.), from La Maresque,
by Maribyrnong, from Algeria (imp.). His previous best
feats were winning Squatters’ Handicap (A.J.C. Meeting
last year), and second to La Carabine in Sydney Oup.
• • • »
N.S.W. bred and trained filly Hautain, who
got away with the rich Debutant Stakes for 2-year-olds at
Caulfield on Saturday after leading 15 others throughout,
was foaled at Mr. Sam Hordern's Wilton Park stud farm,
and sold as a yearling for 700 gs. after keen bidding.
Hautain secured more than her cost at first time ot ask-
ing. Debutant Stakes event was inaugurated in 'Bl, since
which time nine fillies have got home. Other winners of
same race prepared by trainer of Hautain (Tom Payten)
were Cocos, Metford, and Trieste, and he also hail some-
thing to do with Victor Hugo and Acme. Mr. W. Bailey
(owner of Hautain) hasn’t been on a racecourse for years
through sickness. Hautain is by the St. Simon horse
Haut Brion from Spite (imp.).
* * * *
After Kinglike had beaten the more brilliant,
but less plucky, Finland for the Caulfield Guineas, there
was talk of the two favorites, Maltster and Hautboy,
having been much knocked about in the race. If they
were handicapped with “interference” as well as 71b.
penalties in the saddle, the defeat of said Maltster and
Hautboy leaves their Derby chances unchanged. But
what do the punting public think of a classic race in
which the two first favorites in a small field of seven are
not given a fair run ?
• • * •
Only “stable” money on Fleet Admiral for
Stand Handicap at Fleinington, t’other Saturday, was
trainer’s half-sov. —for fear that that very unreliable nag
might take it into his head to win.
* m . m •
Final acceptances (Monday) for Caulfield Cup
saw nothing well-backed go out, while a lot that “ haven't
a possible ” are still left in through sweep considerations.
La Carabine tops the list of 25 remaining. N.S.W. is re-
§ resented by half-a-dozen—Gauleon, Mora, Vocalist,
yanide, Horace and Barbarossa.
• • • •
A tip for Caulfield Cup needs a lot of luck
before it can bring any credit to the tipster. Last year
La Carabine was named in this column, hut the brave
mare that subsequently won an Australian Cup and a
Sydney Cup finished only fourth for the 1£ mile race. On
Saturday she will have to carry 281bs. more than the
weight she failed under last year—failed because the
course is not a good one for her long stride. Yet she is
fancied this time. Given a chance to work into a favor-
able position before rounding the turn for home La Cara-
bine should get very near to the prize. Which remark
applies more or less to the lot of them.
» * • *
Present scribe, whilst quite prepared to despise
his own tip before the flag falls, will now take seven
horses to choose from : La Carabine, Gauleon, G'ornquist,
Fleet Admiral, Ingliston, Sagacity, Kinglike, and Barba-
rossa. These, in preference to Mora, Vocalist, War God
(likely to make a bigger show in Melb. Cup), Kenley,
Fadladeen, Strathjoy, and others. The tipster who
doesn’t mention “others” runs an absurd risk of igno-
miny when the numbers go up. The old horses appear
to be holding theirown against the youngsters this season,
and as the old ones generally had the best of it at Caul-
field until of late years, and Fleet Admiral is an estab-
lished Bulletin favorite with recent “ form ” very much
in his favor, the tip goes
Fleet Admiral—l,
Cornquist—2,
La Carabine—3,
also Barbarossa as an emergency pick. This scribe’s two-
and-sixpence will be entrusted to Fleet Admiral if it sees
the post.
* * • •
Charles Arnold has drawn Rapid in Tattersall’s
sweep on Caulfield Cup, “ and,” says Arnold, “ there
might he something in the coincidence that Rapid is a
Tasmanian horse and my company and I are now off to
Tasmania. Once before I had a coincidence ; thus—three
horses, Theodore, Bertha, and Murdoch, were to run in
one day, Theodore is my brother’s name and Bertha
Murdoch is the name of my married sister. Ah ! 1 said,
if a coincidence is worth backing here goes. So I
backed ail three horses and they all won. But I don't
believe in my dreams. Oh, no 1 if 1 dream a horse will
win he loses for certain.”
• » * •
Boxer: Kinglike, on performances , stands out the
best thing in Caulfield Cup to-day (Saturday). L. Kuhn,
who rode him in the Guineas last Saturday and won Caul-
field Oup on*Dewey last year, will have the mount to-day.
Kinglike is by Wallace-Bonnie Rosette and was secured at
the dispersal of St. Albans stud for 9uogs. by present
owner, Mr. C. L. M'Donald.
• • * •
On Saturday’s win, Severity with 8.7 looks good
for Melb. Cup, and is now first favorite—lo’s offered and
12’s wanted. Vic. touts were quite taken with his track
work, averring that no more attractive galloper had been
seen for years. • His action is so even as to almost place
question of staying beyond doubt, and he can always put
forth that spurt so useful in a long-distance handicap.
Severity’s trainer was a bit behind with the preparation
of Voyou and Positano in previous years (former, though
running second in last year's Oup, was a much better nag
on last day of meeting). Same mistake hasn’t occurred
with Severity, who is “ cherry ripe” and only needs to
keep going as at present to make his prospects of annex-
ing the big thing of the year second to none.
But half-a-dozen different lines of argument
might be drawn from some of the “ form” shown at Caul-
field last Saturday. For instance, Severity's victory in the
Stakeswould seem to dispose of Merriwee’s chance to win
Melbourne Cup, if the little black horse was wound up
for the nine-fUrlong race, which (in this scribe’s
opinion) he wasn’t. Also Cornquist, Gauleon, and
George Frederick (the latter did not accept) might
be reckoned “out” of the Caulfield Cup on their
Saturday running, if one could accept the Stakes as a
trustworthy guide to impending events. In the light of
experience, nothing that happens in the Caulfield first
day’s racing can be accepted as conclusive evidence
against' all the beaten nags. Thos : that win, or go near
to winning, are palpably fit and well, but among the
many that don’t run conspicuously only a few can
be blaekmarked with confidence. One thing is certain,
Severity beat Paul Pry on his merits over the Stakes
course. For the rest, Merriwee, Tarquin, George
Frederick, and Gauleon promise to cut better figures in
loriger-drstance races this Spring. Gungadin is another
soft chestnut that looks unlikely to distinguish himself
by November.
Monday s mile and three furlongs in 2.28 (best
gallop up to then this season) brought the M.L. crack,
Seahorse, into greater favor for Melb. Cup. Lancaster is
in the betting again ; and, with Severity, disputes first
favoritism at 100 to 9 as the result of a fast mile with his
stable chum Sagacity.
• • • - •
Last year The Bulletin fancied Lochaber for
Toorak Handicap, and the long-backed son of Lochiel
finished lame four lengths behind everything. This year
he carried Bst. 71b. four lengths in front of everything.
Seeing that Lochaber was scratched for the two Cups
some weeks ago,, it is reasonable to suspect trainer Phil.
Heywood of having something much better in the stable,
and George Frederick is presumably the one.
It is seldom a race-meeting passes without an
offspring of Lochiel's getting to the front. On Saturday
at Caulfield (Vic.) Lochaber won the Toorak Handicap;
and at Rosehill (Sydney) Rosehill October Handicap fell
to the Lochiel horse Flodden.
• • • •
Rumored in sporting circles that A..T.C. pur-
poses giving (with Govt, aid) £4500 for rederal race
meeting on New Year’s Day—Federal Cup value 3000
sovs., and five other events of 300 sovs. each.
• • • •
Westralian T.C. New Year programme is out.
Stakes bigger than ever. Perth Cup will be worth £lOOO,
and Railway Stakes £5OO. Meeting is to cover four days,
and cost £2400 altogether. Mo., for privilege of betting,
is asked to pay £6O for this, and £l2 for by-meetings, but
he calls it an outrage, and vows that he’ll emigrate first.
But the game is too good. Henceforth, Ikey won’t be
tolerated alongide the tote, as heretofore, but will have a
“ cage ” inside the paddock all to himself, so that he’ll be
found easily, and can’t play up with the machine’s opera-
tions.
• • • •
“ X.” : Re the suggestion of a match between
bulky Fred Preston and Otto Cribb. It is printed that
Hegarty made a draw with Cribb, but fact is that they
never met, and are extremely unlikely to meet (Hegarty
is a feather and Cribb a middleweight). Of course 'twould
he ridiculous to talk of Hegarty fighting Preston, but not
so much so as is the assertion that he fought a draw with
Cribb.
• • * •
Pug. patrons flocked to Golden Gate A.C.
(Sydney), Saturday night, and filled every inch of space,
to see how the so-far unconquerable Otto Cribb's brother
Arthur would shape against Rollo. Arthur Cribb, like
his brother, is a barber, and, judged by his initial showing
in the ring, ought to go back to shampooing quick.
Nature never built him for fist-fighting—he hasn’t the
physique, and owns a most pronounced nose, which must
always be in the road, and bring him a couple of inches
nearer t’other fellow than he ought to be. Every swing
and jab (short and all, though most were) smashed up
against Arthur’s “smeller”; he caught all the stoush
without giving any back for close on 20min., and then
caved in to a man who wouldu’t be near a “ cert.” among
the novices.
• • ■ * •
Looks as if rough heavy-weights, Sydney Tim
Nolan and Victorian Tut Ryan, will meet in Melb. soon.
They’ll fight in about same style, and each’ll thump as
hard as t’other; but Nolan owns most vitality. “Oi’ll
bate him shure,” says Tiin.
* • • •
Famous black pugilist Peter Jackson has a good
engagement with Fitzgerald’s Circus that may build him
up again. Barring accidents he’ll be with the show in
Melbourne, S.A., Tas., and M.L., and back here next
April. Six months ago it looked any odds against him
surviving till now, but excepting occasional twinges of
sciatica he now feels fit enough for anything, and scales
close on Isst.—as heavy as ever.
« • * •
Home-coming sprint premier Stan. Rowley, in-
terviewed at Adelaide, attributes the remarkable
success of Yankee runners and jumpers (who had with
them a big retinue of skilled trainers and negro assistants)
at British championships and Olympic Games in Paris to
“systematic and scientific training.” The Englishmen
have more stamina, and always won over long distances,
hut in weight-putting, pole-leaping, jumping and sprint-
ing the U.S. reps, were unapproachable. The tendency
of Americans to overdo physical training to the neglect
of other things has long been noticed. Phenomenal
’Murrikan “iepper” Kraenzlein’s recent remark in Eng-
land, “It is about time I began to think of something
more serious,” has a plaintive ring in it. The U.S. ath-
lete makes training his whole aim and object for a time,
whereas the average Australian or Britisher makes it more
of a recreation than aught else.
• * • •
Roberts-Weiss billiard match began in Sydney
on Wednesday last week, but up to time of writing hasn’t
caught on a bit. Reduced prices brought bigger crowds
on Saturday, but the two sessions didn’t draw 300.
Roberts brightened up a heap in the afternoon, showing
more dash and confidence than previously, and (after
getting 122) scored the break of the match (306) in
lSfmiri., bringing quite his best style' to bear. Later he
notched 84 and 166 while there was a corresponding fall-
ing off in Weiss’ play. The venue will be transferred to
Melb. this Thursday.
» * » *
Monday’s play in Roberts-Weiss billiard match
produced some good breaks. Weiss began with 89 ; then
101, 92, 72, 250, (his best so far) 97, and 117. Roberts
knocked up at different stages 89 (unfinished from
previous day) 240, 83, 169, (in 9ijmin.), 131, 135, 99and 155.
Totals were :—Weiss 12,561; Roberts 6767.
• « •
Australian champion swimmer Lane left Eng.
homeward bound last week. Hellings, who lias been
away for years, talked of leaving this month, and may be
aboard same boat. Leo, another front-ranker and winner
of all M. L. championships one year, is also here again
hence this should prove the most interesting swimming
season yet seen in Australia. Leo went to S’Africa four
or five years ago, and when war broke out joined the
Rhodesian Horse and was in Mafekmg throughout the
•iege.
• .• * ... *
Mailed that F. Lane, at Guernsey, last month,
covered the 109yds straightway in 59 l-ssec., and, Guern-
sey people say, without tidal aid. If English A.S.A.
passed this ’twould be the world's best, but writer is
afraid there’s no such luck, especially as British record-
conditions call for “ enclosed still water unaffected by
wind or tide.” In view of facts that Lane never before
got within 3sec. of time registered, and that Guernsey is
one of the Channel Islands, it seems hardly likely 7 that
there wasn’t some current, however little. That Lane
was in great form was made plain by his performance
against Englishman Derbyshire in the furlong champion-
ship.
* • * *
Australian Lane couldn’t start for British
quarter-mile supremacy, September Ist, through
illness, but cornstalks Lind berg and Jack Hellings
entered. Lindberg gave up before covering 100yds. ;
he had no right there at all. Hellings got out at
830yds. ; and English crack Jarvis won easily by 70yds
from next man in 12.25. A rough sea and strong cur-
rent much impeded progress. Last year in this race
Lane sprang a big surprise by beating the ’Ome
champion after a hot finish. Time then was 6.304-5.
# * * #
Quite a winter’s day on Saturday for the start
of Sydney cricket season. Paddington, playing
against Central Cumberland, scored 299, of which
Trumper made 94 and F. Gow 88. Gow made his debut
on Saturday in senior cricket, and looks likely to make a
worthy successor to Alex. Mackenzie, who now resides in
another borough. Trumper and Gow put on 163 for the
second wicket. Leichhardt-Balmain scored 117 against
Sydney District’s 113 for two wickets, which makes the
match a certainty for latter team. The only century
scored during the day was by F. Punch, who, playing for
North Sydney Eleven, scored. 142 against Waverley
Eleven.
• * * *
Harry Trott made his appearance on the cricket
field in Melbourne on Saturday when he captained his old
club, the South Melbourne.
• * • *
“ Bias ” : Composition of N.S.W. bowling team
for Vic. next month isn't finding favor again this year,
despite the fact that a specially-appointed committee of
five selected them. Biggest kick is against inclusion as
captain of an erstwhile N.S.W. bowler now domiciled in
Melbourne. Most of nine emergencies are complaining
about being asked to pay their own exes, over, on the
off-chance of getting a game, when each of the chosen
16 is a “cert” to go. Though the team may be a bit
stronger than any previously sent away, it isn’t nearly
up to expectations, as a lot of fore-front men held aloof.
* * * *
Final day of Sydney League’s bike sports drew
but a small crowd and emphasised the opinion lately here
vented that the popularity of wheel races is waning very
much. Ben Goodson easily won the 5 miles amateur
supremacy by Isyds. in 11.58 3-ssec. Later he met
Megson in event—“ winner of pro. v. winner of amateur
premierships”—l mile, but had no hope, as Megson went
away towards the end and won as he liked in 2.9 l-ssec.
Megson also secured First Class Handicap (Hmiles) from
scratch with Tucker (a Sydney coming good ’un) 92yds.,
second and F. Beauchamp (Tas.), scratch, third. Time
3.9 3-5. Megson wound up by (with Walne) gathering in
laurels and money attached to Tandem premiership of the
continent (3 miles). Only three couples lined up. The
thing was a farce till the last quarter mile as each took a
turn at raking in lap-prizes ; then they had every oz. on
and almost finished ahreastr, Megson and Walne winning
by inches from Lewis and Forbes with Carpenter and
Hunt a close third. Time 7.01-5. Last lap was done in
20sec.
* • * •
Apropos ohampion pigeon shot A. W. Eales’ 99
out of 100, Dr. Carver, Capt. Brewer, Oapt. Bogardus,
J. A. R. Elliott, A. Bander, and E. D. Fulford have 100
“ straight ” opposite their names in records. Eales comes
next. Capt. Brewer, who was out here years ago, is still
shooting in U.S. ; he recently won a big match against
E. S. Johnson at Atlantic City (U.S.A.) killing 75 straight,
and was 13 to the good then. Johnson cried ago at this
stage.
* * • *
Although a rider may possess one of the very
best machines on the market, its merits are set at naught
by a pair of bad tyres, devoid of resilience and reliability;
but on the other hand a moderate machine is consider-
ably enhanced in value when fitted with Dunlops.*
AN IRRESPONSIBLE TIP FOR MELBOURNE CUP.
I’d been to the races, but very few traces
Had I of the pile I intended to win ;
’Twas easy to spot ’em, I reckoned, but rot ’em,
The cuddies I backed were the last to come in.
The lucre I let drop on Epsom and Metrop. ;
Oh, where, and oh where, is that hardly-earned tin ;
It snugly reposes in keeping of Moses,
In case I’d be tempted to waste it in sin.
As sitting disgusted, and pretty near busted,
The night of the Metrop., in Flanagan’s bar,
My chair in position against a partition,
In front of me, handy, a glass of three-star.
My thoughts went a-fleeting to Melbourne’s Spring Meet-
ing,
Wild yearnings I nourished to win back my pelf;
Oh, would that some airy beneficent fairy
Reveal the Oup winner, I said to myseif.
And then I upstarted, with lips widely parted,
Behind the partition a rusty voice said :
“ George Frederick ’ll win it; there’s nothing else in it;
It’s a moral, I tell yer, ’e’ll smother ’em dead.
“ An’ listen to me, sir. I’m no blanky geyser,
1 tell yer I know what the beggar can do ;
It’s no bloomin’ guiver ; you scrape up a fiver
An’ plank it on now ’e’s at fifty to two.
“ 'E showed ’em a trial —cut out the two mi-al
In 3.29 an’ not 'ardlv wound up ;
An’ look at the thumpin’ big weight ’e was humpin’,
A stone more’n ’e’s arst to put up in the Oup."
A wish to be seeing this tipstering being,
Impelled me behind the partition to glance,
And there stood a hairy and beer-sodden “ fairy,”
Beguiling a swell with his little romance.
It may be a goat is a man who takes notice
Of booze-iaden loafers with yarns readied up ;
But somehow I'm aching the risk to be taking,
And punt on George Fred’rick to pull off the Cup.
G.A.P.


WE CAREFULLY GUARD
THE INTERESTS
OF SMOKERS
O'.
•"I,
"nil
<a
i
A
m
3
m
4v
V:
U 3
BY MAKING
DERBY TOBACCO
Ask for Derby.
A SYNONYM FOR PURITY
9
■ft
a
The (I|odern ]|rt Jewellery Co.
[Telephone 3490.] 187 PITT STREET.
LONDOM LEATHERWARE.
An extensive line of Silver-Mounted Leather Goods has
just been received —
Silver-Mounted Morocco Leather Purses, 8s 6d
Silver-Mounted Russia Leather Purses, 8s 6d
Bilver-Mounted Chatelaine Bags, from 9s 6d
Card Casks, Cigarette Cases, Note Books and
Wallets, &c., in endless variety.
Do Your Eyes
Trouble You ?
WRITE TO US ABOUT THEM.
NO CHARGE FOR TESTING THEM.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS
(Opticians by Appointment to the Walker Hospital,
their Excellencies Sir Robert Duff, Admiral Bridge,
etc.), Vlce-Regral Jewellers,
London Prices. . . 23 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Mr. A. 0. Godhard (formerly sub-manager
of the Union Bank of Australia, Sydney, now
managing-director of the Co-operative Coupon
Co.) informs The Bulletin that he considers cer-
tain unfavorable remarks upon the coupon system
printed by it in a recent issue as reflecting upon
the honesty of his particular institution, and
desires this paper to make it quite plain that no
such reflection was intended. This The Bulletin
cheerfully proceeds to do : After carefully reading
the remarks in question, it quite fails to see how
any such interpretation can reasonably be placed
upon them ; and, in any case, nothing was further
from the intention of the writer than to asperse
the personal character of Mr. Godhard or the
business-standing of his company, which, The
Bulletin has no reason- to doubt, conducts its
operations with an integrity commensurate with
the excellent character enjoyed by its manager.
Concerning the Co-operative coupon system, Mr.
Godhard writes thus :
THE CO-OPERATIVE COUPON SYSTEM.
The system provides a method by which retailers are
enabled to give a discount of 5 per cent, on every 6d
cash purchase. The company charges retailers 2s 6d
for every 100 coupons, and the retailer gives his cus-
tomer one coupon on every 6d cash purchase. One
coupon is worth 3-10ths of a penny. There is no coin to
represent this amount. The customer saves these
coupons until 100 or more are collected, when they are
brought to the company, who give goods to the retail
value of 2s 6d for every 100 coupons presented.
As some people consider that cash should he given for
coupons, it is necessary to point out that, if the com-
pany received 2s 6d from the retailer, it could not give
2s 6d cash to his customer, as working expenses have to
be paid : but the company can and xhould give goods to
the full retail value of 2s 6d for every 100 coupons pre-
sented ; as the difference between the wholesale price
at which goods are bought from the manufacturers, and
the retail price, at which they are redeemed, enables
the company to advertise tradesmen giving coupons,
establish showrooms, and pay working expenses. Re-
tail value is all that the public are entitled to.
► The retailer, who gives coupons, increases his cash
trade, and consequently avoids had debts, and saves cost
of booking. He also saves in advertising, as the company
do this for him. The gain thus arising is much more
than the cost of coupons.
The public, for the first time, are enabled to receive a
discount on small cash purchases, and those who collect
00-operative coupons are compelled to save them until
100 or more are collected, and thus are taught habits of
thrift.
The system acts as a sort of Savings Bank.
If it were practicable to give such discounts in coin of
the realm, the coins would individually be of such small
value that they would be frittered away.
The fundamental principle of the system is the en-
couragement of cash trading, and it is claimed that,
wherever it has been introduced, cash trading has in-
creased, and credit trading has proportionately decreased.
_ In districts where the system is in full swing insolven-
cies have largely decreased, while in the districts where it
has not been in operation, there has either been no re-
duction, or an increase in the number of schedules filed.
_ It must be admitted that it is just to make a distinc-
tion between the buyer for cash, and the person who
obtains credit.
■ Now, as both the trader who gives co-operative coupons
and the public who collect them benefit materially, it
may well be asked “ Who objects to the system?” and
here it must be remembered that most beneficent move-
ments have met with bitter opposition at the outset.
Who objects to the coupon system ? Not the trades-
people who have? adopted it. (1600 of these tradesmen
Sectioned the Victorian Parliament against the proposed
oupons Abolition Bill),
Tradesmen who do not give ooupons objeot, no doubt,
as they would object to anything which attracted trade
to their competitors.
Some wholesale houses object for the reason that the
retailer who gives coupons is generally a “ free man,”
and is not tied to one particular wholesale house; the
consequence being that the “ tied retailer ” leans more
heavily on the wholesaler, while the “ free man ” becomes
prosperous.
Large monopolistic firms object, because it enables the
small retailer to hold his own against them. In Mel-
bourne, the small grocers have been enabled to success-
fully compete with a monopolistic firm with 100 branches.
Some newspapers object—partly because they do not
understand the system, and partly because some of their
large advertisers object. In Melbourne suburbs it has
been proved that the system localises trade, especially
with regard to drapery, people buying their drapery
locally instead of going into the city.
Some novices in Political Economy object, on the
grounds that it introduces a middleman; but these
should remember that, as society is constituted, it is
necessary to have middlemen to bridge over the gulf
between the producer and the consumer—and if it can
be proved (and it can) that the coupon system saves
more than it costs, then it lessens the cost to the con-
sumer.
It is also objected that it diverts trade to those who
adopt it. It undoubtedly does ; and in this age of com-
petition this is what we are all striving for. This objec-
tion is so sentimental that it is not worth discussing.
With the exception of the “ Political Economist
Novice,” all the objectors are interested parties.
The 1500 Tradesmen, who give Coupons, stated in a
Parliamentary Petition, that they found the System
Most Beneficial to their business. It is clear that they do
not object.
The Public do not object.—Petitions signed by about
60,000 people were presented to the Victorian Parliament
against the proposed Bill.
The death “ blow ” —funeral eulogies.
At Grafton (N.S.W.) recently a man was
fined £5 for cruelly ill-using a horse. Same week
on Richmond River a man was fined £1 for
cruelly ill-using two children. But then a horse
is saleable property and a child isn’t. Good old
Property!
Piles and thelb Cure.— Mr. Frank Buckhurst,
Chemist, Mutual Store Buildings, Flinders-street,
Melbourne, has now a stock of the famous
“Cannalin ” remedies, so successful in the treat-
ment of the worst forms of this complaint. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles
and the Way to Cure Them,” sent free on applica-
tion—or from the Sydney depot, 257 George-st.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
EOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor * - GEO. W. ELLIS.
rpo CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
pr* YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“IMPERIAL” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Baok Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N-S.W.
A tin-plate, llin. by Bin., was recently
sent uncovered to London from Singapore, the
address being pasted on the plate itself. It was
promptly returned by the English G.P.0., as not
“packed in accordance with regulations.” Thus,
though it could not be delivered to the addressee,
one mile from London G.P.Q., it could be
sent 9000 miles to Singapore.
One of the instructions given to Sir Chas.
Hotham, when he was appointed Governor of
Victoria in *53, was to enquire into the truth of a
report that several millions sterling had been em-
bezzled in the carelessly-managed Govt, depart-
ments of the province. The voucher system was
of such a lax character that the point could not be
settled.
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB &. CO. f LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ĥ
jfSLBRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
The (reymouth [agoons (old (redging (0.,
NO LIABILITY.
CAPITAL, £24,000, in 48,000 Shares of lOs. Each
of which 16,000 Shares are fully paid-up, and issued to the Vendors as full payment for the properties secured to the
Company.
32,000 Shares are available for providing Working Capital and Dredges.
20,000 Shares are now offered for subscription, payable—2s. on application and 2s. on allotment; balance in calls
not exceeding 2s. per Share, as may be required for construction and plant.
The Company may be registered and allotment take place when 15,000 Shares have been applied for.
The balance of the Contributing Shares will be reserved, and may be issued at the discretion of the Directors.
The whole of the cash subscribed, less brokerage and flotation expenses, will be placed to the credit of the Company.
WILLIAM MACLEOD, Esq.
D. K. INGLIS, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
GEOROE ROBSON, Esq.
Dr. GORDON CRAIG
DAVID WILKINS, Esq.
LOCAL DIRECTORS :
Hon. JAMES KERR, M.L.0., New Zealand; ANDREW MATHESON, Esq., J.P., Mayor of Grcymouth.
BANKERS:
CITY BANK OF SYDNEY, SYDNEY.
BROKERS:
SYDNEY : F. O. FURNER, Esq. (Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange), No. 6 Post-office Chambers, Pitt-st.
DUNEDIN, CHRISTCHURCH, GREYMOUTH, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND : Messrs. BAKER BROTHERS.
AUDITOR :
O. F. DIGBY-SMITH, Esq., 70 Pitt-street.
SOLICITOR :
WALTER P. BLAOKMORE, Esq., 114 a Pitt-street
SECRETARY (pro tern) :
J. I. BURFITT, 46 and 47 Post-office Chambers.
EXTRACTS FROM REPORT :
“ I sunk bore No. 13, which cut the seam 18ft. from surface. Here it proved to be 14ft. thick, and prospected
over an ounce to the cubic yard.”
“ Such is the even distribution of the gold throughout the ground tested, out of some 600 dish washings seven
only did not contain a color.”
“ The magnificent results obtained justify me in asserting that the ground is phenomenally rich dredging
ground, and in actual work will pqy large dividends.”
\ P. F. DANIEL, F.G.S., M.I.M.E.
Reports on the Property by Mr. P. F. DANIEL, F.G.S., M.1.M.E., and others may be seen at the Office of the
Company, and the complete Prospectus may be obtained from the Brokers, to whom applications for Shares may be
made.
As flotation is assured, 9000 Shares having been already applied for, it has been decided to Close the List on the
20th inst. Early application is necessary to secure Shares.
EXTRACT FROM THE “ GREY RIVER ARGUS," DATED JULY 7th, 1900.
This very unusual sight of dredges winning gold within a stone’s-throw of a town-hall will shortly be witnessed
at Greymouth, when a Sydney syndicate, that has obtained the valuable concession to work Erua Moana and Karoro
Lakes from the Borough of Greymouth Corporation, starts to work. The gold-dredging record of the Molyneux is
undoubtedly a magnificent one, but, should the West Coast live up to its former marvellous yields, the Molyneux
Clutha, and other Otago rivers will certainly lose their proud pre-eminence. The Greymouth Lagoons Gold-Dredging
Company, which, we understand, is floated in Sydney, will, with the foreshores at their disposal, together with the
Borough Lease of 63 acres, have an area of at least 400 acres—sufficient to keep four companies busy for many years to
come. The careful series of bores put down on this Company’s area by that most careful of pessimistic
mining authorities, Mr. Daniel, go to prove the existence of immense deposits of rich wash, that must
give a great impetus to gold - dredging on the West Coast. When it is realised that a seam of sand
fourteen feet thick, and worth an ounce to the load, has been proved to extend over a large portion
of the area available for dredging, some idea of the big potentialities of this Company may be realised. The
former riches of the West Coast are matters of history. From the Greenstone diggings alone, official records
show that 40 tons of gold were taken out by lucky prospectors. From the beach-sands immense fortunes were
won. On the Darkies’ Terrace the poorest ground yielded 11 ounces to the load, and it must be borne in mind
the prospectors of those days won all their gold with the primitive long-handled shovel and sluice box. Imagine the
dredge of to-day putting through these golden sands at the rate of 12,000 to 20,000 tons a week. That the West
Coast is confidently expected to eclipse the best Molyneux records is not surprising. On the Molyneux but 10 per
cent, of the silt passes over the tables ; the remaining 90 per cent, passes from the screens into the elevators Our
beach sands being free from boulders, snags and heavy gravels, half, at least, of the silt brought up by the buckets
will pass over the tables. The cost of dredge construction on the Molyneux is much in excess of Greymouth and the
West Coast. Instance, timber, which on the Molyneux costs 40s. per 100 ft., in Greymouth can be bought for 8s 6d
Carriage of material by lumbering waggons to the Molyneux is terribly expensive ; in the case of the Greymouth
Lagoons, the Greymouth and Hokitika Railway actually skirts the borders of the claims to be worked, added to
which the great advantage of a foundry on the spot, capable of effecting without delay any necessary repairs to
dredges, is a boon that cannot be over-estimated. With the hundreds of dredging companies that have recently been
started to test the West Coast. Greymouth will probably occupy the proud position of being the centre of the biggest
development of this marvellous industry in the world.”
This Company is formed for the purpose of working a valuable concession obtained from the Borough of Grev-
mouth Town Corporation, comprising Erua Moana and Karoro Lakes, in all some 170 acres (without considering
available foreshores shown in plan), and also the adjoining “ Borough ” Claim, comprising 63 acres. *
Recognising the extreme value of this area for gold-dredging purposes, many efforts have been made to secure the
Erua Moana and Karoro Lakes, but hitherto without success. The marvellous yields formerly obtained in the district
by diggers (who were unable to go deeper than 13 feet without being flooded out bv the ocean) is well known
Claims 45 x 45 feet worked with long-handled shovels in this locality yielded from £7OO to £l5OO per man. On the
“ Darkies’ Terrace ” the poorest ground gave lloz. per square yard, andifliesbest claim yielded £3OO per man per week
Recently a great gold-dredging fever has sprung up at Greymouth and along the West Coast, 2600 claims having been
applied for during the past 12 months.
Mr. Daniel, F.G.S., M.1.M.E., at considerable expense, has put down a series of 25 bores on the “ Borough ” and
adjoining Ball Dredger leases, and the result is a remarkable confirmation of the statements as to the richness of this
area. These bores varied in depth from 18ft. 6in. to 35ft. Steel-shod perforated pipes were driven into the ground
and the sand extracted by a Douglas pump. Mr. Daniel, in the course of his report, which is attached remarks •
“ 1 sank bore No. 13, which cut the seam 18ft. from the surface ; here it proved to be 14ft. thick, and prospected over
an ounce to the cubic yard.” Further—“ So far as prospecting has been done on the Borough lease it has shown
that the ground actually tested averages 39 grains to the cubic yard over the whole extent. It is impossible to assert
with certainty what the yield will be in actual work. The data furnished bv 19 inch and a-half bore-holes is not
sufficient to estimate the value of over 2,000,000 yards of uneven layers of gold-bearing drift; but the magnificent
results obtained justify me in asserting that the ground is phenomenally rich dredging ground.’k “
The concession from the Greymouth Corporation has been obtained on very advantageous 'terms having bppn
secured before the advent of the boom. The rental for the first year is but one shilling per acre, the two years ensn
ing 2s. 6d. per acre, thenceforth ss. per acre. The Company is under an obligation to deposit the spoil under fhe
direction of the Borough Council Engineer, so as not to interfere with dock in course of construction The area i-o
be dredged is entirely free from boulders or snags, thus permitting very rapid treatment. It is intended to forth
with place a dredge in position, to be followed by others as opportunity permits.
The Hokitika Railway runs within a stone’s throw of these holdings. Sawn timber (which costs 40s on th»
Molyneux) can be brought for about for ss. fid. per hundred feet. ' I>ne
. ilJ r ““ * 7*, . f/ . ‘ J. J."* pump uitea sand only, as explained
in Mr. Daniel’s report, and, therefore, discarding the valuation of six shillings and sixpence per cubic ykrd and esti
mating the probable yield at less than one-third, it will be seen that a single dredge putting through but 12 500
a week should yield a profit of over t 50,000 a year. A gold-dredging venture with such brilliant prospects hwrorMv
been offered the public for subscription. rarely
In conclusion, to quote Mr. Daniel“ The facility of working, wealth of spoil, and evenness of gold distrihuHnn
of the virgin leads of the Lagoon system should make them rank amongst the best dividend pavers of anv New
land beach or river ventures 7 ’


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all . Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
ZKT.S/W.
(flont deplete Co.,Ltd-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
4 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Managek.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISH HD 1879.
Established 1879.
the ’
United Australian |l)utual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and A ccident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
' —THIS —.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
: Registered Capital £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4,’001 .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
Genbhal Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jlisliopsr/nte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
.S¥S>NKY - 273 GROUGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong\ New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Tiie Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager-- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. On arker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000
£350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,0Q0,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ijeui Zealand Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. ■■ " 4^1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES . ■ 420,000
Largest Colonial Company .
J. A. MINNETT,
, Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
• Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 20, 1 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 27,1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 20, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Oct 23, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 27, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 20, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 27, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT i
GERALDTON L
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throusrh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €xccGtorS,
AND
Agsocv Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... 16,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. L Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. .1. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOKKOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital p tyable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
W DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at 31 per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at "all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
In spector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN. Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
m
4^
O
tP
OLD
HHS
u*4
SUNBvI
FINg
*■*l
<s>
HA
c?
V
It. c
2/vr
s
H
Y
?7
p «o
Pf?| ET
ttl
ORS
IEE'CtCSM FREEZER
H
WHICH REQUIRES NO
TURNING OF HANDLE.
15/
Price,
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros.,
236 Pitt St., Sydney,
AND
422 &, 424 Elizabeth St.,
h
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds. Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal .
. Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10/-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO
2SI COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calm)a at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 25th November.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, SUEVIC and MEDIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-herth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
II'NGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and -
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Si earn Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
nxr. p. l.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney. General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P6RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be-t,
Cheapest, and Most Stvlish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&PO.
Pnt'PRIKTAI?Y LIMITED, .
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
1
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
a 1 wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or fast
Color Berg-os ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class * f material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, *ery
good patterns 12s. fid.
Dress Suits, to measure. Si.
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
R'ding Breaches. 255.
Riding Habits. Arc.
We supply ready made. Men’s
capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette feuits. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss. lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s fid.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits. 19s. fid. White. Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. fid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s fid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
fis. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. fid.
Travelling Trunks, Bays and
Rugs in groat variety.
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. fid.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. fid.
8o t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4*. fid. Caps. fs.
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots.
!>* fid.
We line to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for any
informstion. Our book, "The Philosophy of Press.” and
patterns of a.l kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
iair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI It IE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Ailinga, Friday, Oct. 19
Transhipping at Melbourne.
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Oct. 20,
Without Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
October 19.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and YV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE —Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS- Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROOK HAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURIvETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nonnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ceouimoda.ti.on, A ttendance and.
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Leaving two days earlier on account of the Melh. races.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, i. 35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, 1 05 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker § g7s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
• v, opcuiciuy ijuuD lur uue JCjiis&eri
’ trade, and are fitted with every convenience
y Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, Unitei
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sjdney.
m‘|lwraith,m‘Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith., M’Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMRO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India Chii
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLI!
SPOKEN ON BOARD. *
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters ini
the passengers for London and give them every assistai
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custor
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Int
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company s Offlc
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M'Millan, Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0.,
Sydney; L. A. Jesbop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Faelane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiorr.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TO UNO. y-
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
- This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manasrer.
(Mention this paper when writing.
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION,
Price ss. 6d., Posted.
I
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSON & CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
C. C 3-. UATTB’S
Display of
Spring; & Summer Millinery
and Dress Fabrics
is the
• SHOW OF THE SEASON •
Ladies will find Hatte’s Show Rooms a
palace of enchantment, surpassing- any-
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.'
The Millinery is directly imported from
the best houses of Paris and London ; and
the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
from the leading manufacturers of
England, the Continent, and America.
m- HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothing better than one of his
TWO GUINEA SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You
have a big range of materials for selec-
tions ; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
(free) ; and your orders will be faithfully
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department, you will save at
least 30 per cent, by patronising
C. <3-. HAVCVC E,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
p
A.Si F. PEARS
1 Reduced Fac simile
> ° f
GOLD MEDAL
y awarded by the
i jurors of the
j Fan’s Exhibition,
) 1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
The ROME BMIK OF IUSTROEIII, t'mitea.
HEAD OFFICE—MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Twenty-Fifth Report presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 31st October, 1900.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the results of the half-year's operations to 29tb Sep-
tember, as shown in the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of Accounts, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £3,258 Is. 6d. brought from last half-year) amount to £9,121 0 6
out of which it is proposed
To pay a dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum, absorbing , .. .. 3,000 0 0
And to carry forward the balance £6,121 0 6
The Directors are pleased to be able to report a very considerable increase in deposits during the half-year, which
is gratifying evidence of the confidence reposed in the bank, and will enhance profits when the additional funds thus
placed at the directors’ disposal can be fully utilised, but, in the meantime, the considerable proportion lying unem-
ployed restricts profit earnings, although it strengthens the depositors’ security.
' The Directors gladly recognise the assistance rendered by shareholders in introducing new deposits and cus-
tomers, and trust to receive a continuance of this support in the future. It is in this way that the business of the
bank can be most readily increased and the interests of shareholders advanced.
By Order of the Board,
-H. T. WILSON, Manager.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.
BALANCE-SHEET
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Limited,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 29th SEPTEMBER, 1900.
Dr. CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To capital authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4 each £2,400,000 0 0
To capital subscribed—
First issue of 150,000
shares £600,000 0 0
To capital paid up .. .. £150,000 0 0
To reserve fund .. .. 10,000 0 0
To profit and loss account 9,121 0 6
£169,121 0 6
To notes in circulation .. .. .. 6,077 0 0
To bills in circulation .. .. ' 19,333 6 4
To Government deposits .. Nil
To other deposits—
Not bearing interest .. £144,124 11 10
Bearing interest .. .. 261,217 14 5
. 425,342 6 3
To interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current 3,436 6 4
£623,309 19 6
To contingent liabilities as per contra .. £147,355 0 0
ASSETS. Cr.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal .. £53,237 19 4
By notes and bills of other
banks and stamps .. .. 407 6 8
By balances due from other
banks .. • 6,014 18 2
By cash at bankers .. .. 106,642 10 0
By Government, municipal,
and other public stocks,
debentures and funds .. 19,325 0 0
£135,627 14 2
By bank furniture, fittings, stationery, &c.,
at cost, less £483 written off for depre-
ciation . 530 0 0
By real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises.. .. Nil
Other real estate, at cost to bank, after
writing off £11,565 for depreciation .. 19,678 14 0
By advances, exclusive of provision for bad
and doubtful debts 305,086 0 9
By bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted not included above, exclusive
of provision for bad and doubtful debts.. 112,387 i.O 6
£623,309 19 6
By liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent lia-
bilities as per contra £147,355 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, and other charges ~ £3,066 14 11
To balance , ... 9,121 0 6
£12,187 15 5
By balance at 31st March, 1900 .. .. £11,258 1 6
Less dividend declared 27th
April, 1900 ... .. ..£3,000 0 0
Carried to reserve fund .. 5,000 0 0
B,OOO 0 0
By balance carried down £3,258 1 0
By profits for the half-year, after deduct-
ing interest accrued on deposits and re-
bate on bills current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts 8,929 13 11
£12,187 15 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance"
£lO,OOO 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
By balance £5,000 0 0
By transfer from profit and loss account .. 5,000 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
A LETTER FROM THE FRONT.
Preliminary comment on Khaki, and the
Story of what an English Soldier did in an
Emergency.
“The Khaki,” says an American newspaper
correspondent in South Africa, “is the British
soldier’s only protection. He cannot learn to
advance under cover, and is sure to stand up and
stretch himself against a skyline.”
When a Boer sharpshooter, hidden behind a
boulder, is watching out for any wandering
Tommies that may be in the neighbourhood it
is well for the latter to look as nearly as possible
like the rocks, the soil, and the grass.
Hence the commonsenical Khaki.
The mud turtle and the crocodile understand
the value of the low color-tones, the one animal
resembling a rusty stone and the other a rotting
log. They bid for no experimental rifle practice
from Cook’s tourists “as they sail, as they sail,”
Not they. Like Brer Fox, they lie low, and take
the air in their native khaki.
But prowling burghers are not the only enemies
our army has to fight in South Africa. The
casualty list in the papers is sorry, yet instructive,
reading. Wounds in lamentable plenty, and
diseases of the stomach and bowels; these are the
leading points of the story.
The boys fight like the gallant chaps they are,
and they conquer ; but the price of victory!—
might it not be less ?
Early in May a dead Englishman was found on
the veldt near the Vet River. He lay in the
middle of a large clear space. Horse and rifle were
gone. His water bottle lay beside him, and
balanced on it was a chess pawn. The initials
“ N,Me. W,’’were on his handkerchief. Was it a
shot, or was it disease? Poor fellow ! And as to
those who loved him ?
“I was sent down from the front,” writes a
soldier, “very bad with fever and dysentery.
The doctors-cured these complaints, but my
stomach was in such a state that I could take no
solid food.
“On eating I suffered frightfully with pain in
the pit of the stomach. I told the doctor about
it, and he gave me medicine which did me no
earthly good.
“Instead of getting better I grew worse. I
could scarcely sleep or walk.
“Not knowing what to do or where to go for
help, I told a comrade of my condition—not that
I supposed he could do anything, but because I
wanted sympathy and friendship in my trouble.
“ ‘Why, he cried, ‘your ailment is indigestion
6r dyspepsia; probably with an inflamed
stomach. The thing for that—the very best
medicine in the world—is Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
It’s famous all over the world ; you must have
often heard of it in England.’
“ I told him I had, but had not used it, as I
was always well when at home.
“ ‘You’re bad enough, now,, anyway,’ he said,
‘and ought to begin taking Mother Seigel right
off the reel.’
“I went directly to the stores and got a bottle.
But they charged 3s. 6d. for the same bottle I
have seen sold at home for Is. IJd., and I thought
the price was outrageous, even for South Africa.
“You know what a soldier’s pay is, and that
Tommy Atkins can’t afford to throw money away.
However, I don’t begrudge that three and a half
bob, for the Syrup turned out to be the best
investment I ever made in my life.
“ Thanks to that small bottle of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, I am again in good form for anything that
comes along, the Boers included. I am going to
the front to-morrow morning, and, with any sort
of good luck, will be with my regiment in a week
or so.
“Why, the Syrup acted so quickly that I was
much better after three doses. I have been in
this country seven months, and am healthier
now than at.any time since we landed at Table
Bay.
“ When I began to break down I was afraid I
should be invalided home, and now I am going
to have my share of the best fun of the campaign.
Once more I blow the bugle of praise for your
grand remedy, and only wish every man in the
aimy had a bottle of Mother Seigel’s Syrup in hi 3
haversack. lam sure that, by keeping the men
well, it would do almost as much to end this war,
and to drive old Kruger into permanent retire-
ment, as 50,000 fresh troops and a dozen shiploads
of lyddite shells.
“ God save the Queen, and reward Mother
Seigel.—Yours, Bds. Wallace Dove, Ist Sherwood
Foresters, Field Force, c/o Shaw Bros., Naauw-
poort, S. Africa. May 15th, 1900.”
“An army marches on its stomach,” said
Frederick the Great, and Mother Seigel’s Syrup
keeps that organ strong and steady.
Old Favorites.
Ten Years Ago.
Dost thou remember the old garden, where
We used to steal,
To build our silly castles in the air,
My pale Lucille ?
I was thy Knight; and thou, my love and Queen,
No shame didst know —
For had we not played—babies on the green—
Ten years ago ?
We part. We meet. Thou statelier grown, and cold,
I gaunt and grey,
For thou art rich, and I—in sorrows old
Since childhood’s day.
“ Lucille ! at last, my love 1 ” —your pale cheek flames.
“ Did you not know
My husband, sir ; we met —when was it, James?”
“ Ten years ago ! ”
Well—mine the fault was if I did not please,
You judged the best ;
You feared for poverty, and longed for ease,
Comfort, and rest.
His horses stepped as high, your diamonds made
As brave a show,
For all he won them in the tallow-trade
Ten years ago.
Yet that white brow, methinks, is less serene
Than in that time,
When bright birds sang, and trees and fields were green
In youth’s fair prime ;
When all the world smiled rosy at our feet
In fancy’s glow—
Ah,me! what wondrous dreamswe dreamed, my sweet,
Ten years ago !
Now you are sadly learned, I am told
Five tongues you speak ;
You sing, compose—what leaf is that you fold ?
Plato in Greek !
I see—you study at all times—you fret
At progress slow ;
—You had not needed Greek, had we but met
Ten years ago 1
Nay, never blush, Lucille. lam not base
To him or you.
From thy soul’s cell no love must his displace
Thy whole life through.
His safeguard and thy solace lie in this—
Is it not so ?
His constant kindness since the bridal kiss
Ten years ago.
We meet. We part. If life’s bright best be lost,
Much still remains ;
Perhaps a higher heaven for him , the cost,
Paid with thy pains.
Good-bye, my dear, and if this tale you tell,
These verses show ;
Say only, “ This man fought a hard fight well,
Ten years ago.”
And ever fights ! For if, as churchmen say,
In skies above
Soul mates with soul, as ray melts into ray,
And Heaven is Love,
He will be there, and —if he still loves thee —
Must never know
That thou on earth hadst e’er a thought for me
Ten years ago.
MARCUS CLARKE.
Album Verses.
What can I write in thee, O dainty book ?
About whose daintiness faint perfume lingers,
Into whose pages dainty ladies look,
And turn thy dainty leaves with daintier fingers ?
Fitter my ruder muse for ruder song;
My scrawling quill to coarser paper matches ;
My voice, in laughter raised too loud and long,
Is hoarse and cracked with shouting tavern-catches !
No melodies have I for lady’s ear,
No roundelays for jocund lads or lasses ;
But only brawlings born of bitter beer,
And chorussed with the clink and clash of glasses.
do tell thy mistress, pretty friend, for me,
I cannot do her ’hest for all her frowning ;
Whilst dust and ink are but polluting thee,
And vile tobacco-smoke thy leaves embrowning.
Thou breathest purity and homely worth—
The simple jest, the light laugh following after,
I will not jar upon thy modest mirth
By harsher jest, or by less gentle laughter.
So some poor tavern-haunter steeped in wine,
With staggering footsteps thro’ the streets returning,
Seeing thro’ gath’ring night a sweet light shine
From household lamp in happy window burning.
May pause an instant in the wind and rain
To gaze on that sweet scene of love and duty,
But turns into the wild wet night again,
Lest his sad presence mar its holy beauty.
MARCUS OLARKE.


DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove.
Triumphant Inauguration of the Musgrove Grand Opera
Season with Verdi’s Favorite Work,
IL TROVATORE.
SATURDAY, OCT. 20, FAUST.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Familv Circle, 25.; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
piCKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■A Sole Proprietor and Manaeer. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS,
The Originator of “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay.”
LAST NIGHTS of ANNIE MAY ABBOTT.
THE 3 HAYTORS, MISS NONI RICKARDS, Mr WILL
WHITBURN, ALBERT WHELAN, THE WILLIAMS
SISTERS, Ferry, the Human Frog, Wallace King, and
all our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wedoesdav and Sat-n-dav
BIJOU THEATRE, MEiutfu UK .*■=..
a Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Prolonged Applause Greets England’s Burlesque Queen.
BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of PAUL’S ANIMATO-
CRAPHE, THE PATTERSON BROS., America’s Wonderful
Horizontal Bar Performers.
Mr. HARRY SHINE, Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, Miss
JESSIE WILLIAMS, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
"T" H EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, THE LAST NIGHT OF
The New East Lynne,
SATURDAY, OCT. 20,
Fuix on the Bristol.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN and GRACIE WHITEFORD,
supported by a largely augmented co.
Prices ~35., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
Summer Suits
TO ORDER
From 45/-
If you would like to see the Samples of TWEED
we build these SUITS of, please send us your
Name and Address.
We will enclose a Tape and Self-Measurement
Form, as you are Sure to send us an order.
Trousers to Order, from 12/6 pair.
WE PAY CARRIAGE on CLOTHING per Post,
Rail, or Steamer to any Town in New South Wales.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
(Clothing for the Boys, made for Solid
Wear, at most Economical Prices.)
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, OOT. 12, LAST NIGHT of
“ Tlae Only Way.”
SATURDAY, OCT. 13, LAST NIGHT of the SEASON,
Special Farewell Performance of
“ TRILBY.”
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of INGOMAR.
NANCE O’NEIL as PARTHENIA.
SATURDAY NEXT, OOT. 20, LA TOSCA.
Plan, Nicholson’s. Cjg" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
-|"HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
POSITIVELY THE LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Melodramatic Attraction,
“WE W BABYLON.”
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, OOT. 20, Last Night
but 5 of the Season, THE WAR OF WEALTH.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Eh’y’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY,
ALL FOR GOLD.
TO-MORROW, FRIDAY, MACBETH.
SATURDAY, FOR 6 NIGHTS ONLY, the New Version of
EAST LYNNE.
Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute
F€€ BY
L€TT€R . . .
£ I
lOclCidiog
HediciOcs
life
THEFi
SI
®I*N
' • ’ s
XX
feme
UJrl m
•*L: -
Eil
383
B :
il
lIP
mliiiilii i^“ c 3f I9r I
3URCICAL INSTITUTE. a,„&SICIcSit”
II
AND
j
m
mJ «.! ~*6
I
l
Mcdicipgs
A Forwarded to
All Parts
of
Australia.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
Open to Inspection.
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS,
Correspondence PO. Box, 1359 . -^—SYDNEY.
A pleasant feature of Nellie Stewart’s return to Mel-
bourne was her rapturous hugging of her old dad,
treasurer Stewart, on the boat.
George Melville died suddenly, week before last, at the
Old Actors’ Homes, Melbourne, and many old friends at-
tended his funeral. An amiable fellow—a very respect-
able actor of the useful type. Geo. Melville is remem-
bered as one of the Auld Licht elders in “ The Little Mini-
ster,” and up to Nov. last, when he was playing with Hol-
loway and Anderson’s co. at Melbourne Royal, he could
always take his own part with credit. His professional
career had_ a tragic ending, for he was struck speechless
by paralysis on the_ Royal stage during a performance.
Melville’s wife, Marion Medway, survives him.
Marshall Hall’s professional visit to Sydney will not
happen until after 20th Dec. in any case. Melbourne
Oonservatorium of Music closes for the summer vacation
Dec. 16th, and then the “ Master ” will he at liberty to
give a series of lectures and concerts to the poor heathen
beyond the Murray.
Almost definitely decided that charming Antoinette
Trebelli will start another Australian concert tour next
April under her new platform name of Antonia Dolores.
This time she is to open in Sydney.
Yet another Boer-war lecturer to the front—this time
in the person of Mr. C. M’lvor, who has returned to
Sydney minus a leg,—broken by the kick of a horse on
board a transport bound for South Africa. When the
sufferer was, later on, landed at Albany, amputation had
become necessary. Mr. M'lvor begins at Burwood,
Sydney, and intends to tour N.S.W.
A significant remark is made by Nellie Stewart in an
Argus interview. When questioned as to the progress of
Amy Castles, Nellie replied : ‘ Madame Marchesi was so
far unable to pronounce judgment upon little Amy’s
future, as her voice had been so badly strained that its
possibilities were not manifest.”
Donald Macdonald was last heard of at Dunedin (M.L.)
—reception by the Journalists’ Institute, money turned
away from his lectures, and all things as they have been
at every point of his tour. The work seems to be telling
on Mac. somewhat. Manager Edwin Geach sends along a
capital photo, of the “ Man from Ladysmith ’’and himself
in an unprofessional group, and the M.f.L. looks even a
little more hungry than sardineic Edwin. But perhaps
the photographer worked lines of suffering into Mac’s
cheek.
Mainly about Wybert Reeve : “ Within a week or two
Australia will lose the handsome old man who has in re-
cent years managed Adelaide Royal. Wybert Reeve has
been a pro. since he was 18. He has written many plays,
and, strangely enough, his first (written when he’was '2O)
was called “ An Australian Hoax.” Reeve battled for 20
years in the provinces before a London chance came, and
one of his first characters was Count Fosco in Wilkie
Collins’ “ Woman in White.” Collins was one of Reeve’s
greatest friends. Reeve came to Australia under engage-
ment to Coppin in 78, and appeared as Fosco, probably'
his only part worth remembering. Subsequently was
lessee of Melb. Opera House and Bijou. Wybert Reeve
is a lovable old warrior, with a kindly heart, and leaves
many friends and not a single enemy behind him in
Adelaide.
“ Cro.” : Mrs. G. B. Lewis as Madame Vinard in
“ Trilby,” gave the best bit of original work discoverable
in the Melb. revival. Am surprised to find quite a
definite strain of humor in the buxom matron, who, when
last seen by me, was posturing as Hamlet on the boards of
Melh. Bijou. Not so very long ago either. Mrs. 0.8.L.’s
Hamlet was an exceedingly matronly young gentleman.
When Plimmer played Ingomar, the best joke in the
performance was the contrast between the elocution of
the cultured Greek maid and the terrible Barbarian. For
instance, after Nance had spoken in her own sledge-
hammer style —“ Two souls with but a stn-gle thought,
two hearts that beat an one,” the gentle Plimmah would
meditatively repeat the lines with the intonation and
general “ intensity ” of a modern drawing-room poet.
Editor Bulletin,—Re Melbourne Opera House
(“ Poverty Point,” 13/10/’00): In justice to ourselves we
will ask you to publish this letter, or the substance
thereof. Our designs for Melbourne Opera House were
1 approved " of by Mr. Rickards, passed by Melb. Board
of Health, and all other local authorities before Mr. Pitt
praotically drew a line. There certainly was a difference
between ourselves and Mr. Pitt, and we eventually went
out of the business. The “ root ” of all the trouble was,
that Mr. Pitt wanted to be “ joint ” architect with us,
while we were only willing that he should be our “ repre-
sentative.” But even as it was, had we altered our de-
signs to suit the ideas of the ground landlords and their
architect, Mr. Pitt, we would have been at work in
Bourke-street to-day. For our own protection, and in
the light of past experience, we attached a condition to
agreeing to the alteration, and, this condition not being
met, the severance resulted. We have been building
theatres for 12 years past, having five now to our credit,
and we are still going on building them. Mr. Rickards
gives us his Brisbane theatre to design, and has for our
work on the Melb. house paid us more money than if we
had carried the work through.- It is only fair to him to
say that he has treated us handsomely, and that there
will not be a law-suit.—Yours, Backhouse and Back-
house.
Billee Barlow’s 14-year-old son is quite the “ mother’s
boy ” —very like her in face, and with the same ingratiat-
ing turn of the tongue.
Musgrove has provided cloak-rooms for the Princess
gallery patrons, and has backed and padded the seats to
propitiate the gods.
They are preparing for pantomimes at three Melb.
theatres. Evidently one cannot have too much of a bad
thing.
George Rignold contemplates a farewell tour of Aus-
tralasia prior to his departure for London. He is now
busily engaged organising a company.
Died the other day, rather suddenly, at
the age of 44, journalist Thomas Veale. Mr.
Veale, who had latterly been conducting Sydney
Licensing Guardian, was at one time on the
Melbourne Age, and also founded in Sydney the
short-lived Tomahawk. He was a man of con-
siderable scholastic attainments, and was a well-
known figure about Sydney.
Reported that Jimmy Governor, one of
the Breelong white-blacks, has been wounded by
a shot fired by one of the hundreds of so-called
“ pursuers,” and the three-months “ chase ” may
end soon._ The method of “chase’’now adopted
is to garrison all the huts and houses in a radius
of 20 miles and wait for the two black-whites to
attack! And they do attack; they came to a
garrisoned hut and shot at a policeman the other
day—hunting the hunters with a vengeance !
The big meeting in Sydney Centennial
Hall to protest against the desecration of the fore-
shores of the Domain and any further inter-
ference with the Gardens was badly gene-
railed. It was a huge meeting, and ready to
make a record demonstration. Had it been led
by men who knew how to use a first-class weapon,
Sydney D.T. would have backed down, and by
next morning the idea of road-making in the
Domain would have been off the programme. Dr.
Cullen, W. Campbell, M.L.C., and Norton,
M.L. A., were cheered again and again ; and when
Norton finished the resolution should have been
put. It would then have been carried unanimously
by 5000 people, who were quite ready to proceed
to the Domain and wreck the hideous crane, tear
up the pegs, and otherwise give practical expres-
sion to their feelings. But the resolution wasn’t
put when Norton sat down amidst thunders of ap-
plause, and one small man after another was
allowed to get up and drivel out vain repetitions,
while the audience tired and filtered away. So it
came about that the resolution was not put till
more than half had drifted out, and a fine oppor-
tunity was lost.
A subscription is being raised to enable
Miss Helen Hart, long known in Australia as a
fearless advocate of, and tireless worker for, the
woman suffrage cause, to proceed to England.
Mr. J. P. Tredgold, Mayor of Leichhardt,
Sydney, will be pleased to receive large or small
sums.
The big foreign steam companies trading
with Australia and on the Australian coast have
advanced their passenger rates by 10 per cent,
owing to the great rise in the price of coal.
Welsh steam coal prior to six months ago was 20s.
in the English open market; now it is from 355.
to 405.; at Colombo three weeks ago Cardiff coal
was £6 10s. per ton !
It is proposed to organise a benefit on
behalf of Sydney journalist John I. Hunt, an
early contributor to The Bulletin and well-
known to-day as a humorous writer in the
Freeman’s Journal (“Flaneur”) and Sunday
Times (“Boondi”). The kind and gentle
“Johnny” has for long years been a desperate
sufferer from an agonising neuritic affection
which has utterly destroyed the sight of one eye
and now bids fair to leave him in total blindness.
But poor “Johnny” Hunt has endured his tor-
tures like a hero, sticking to his work throughout
with a cheerful pluck that has excited the astonish-
ment and admiration of the medical profession.
Now, however, he has at last to go into hospital,
and The Bulletin hopes that the proposed benefit
to the brave and clever little man will be as
successful as the case deserves.


From the letter of a N.S.W. soldier in
S’Africa:
Ever since Cronje’a capture the Boers have been fight-
ing gamely for a lost Cause. They are men—no matter
What anybody says, and if I could get away 1 wouldn’t
fight against them any more. I was prone behind a
big stone the other day, and Could have shot a Boer that
came out into the open, but I hadn’t the heart to do it.
Wonder would he have let me off.”
Judge Murray, in a case where Labor-
Supt. Creer was charged with saying what he
oughtn’t to one of his lambs, spoke the epitaph of
the man who tries to do his duty in N.S. Wales—
Bis Honor, in giving judgment, said that Mr. Oreer had
a difficult and very invidious duty to perform, and he
tried to perform it to the best Of his ability, and, in the
hature of things, became unpopular, because any man in
H.S.W. who tried to do his duty became unpopular. The
more anyone tried to do his duty the more unpopular he
became because he did his duty.
Verdict for plaintiff, with one farthing damages,
and no costs.
A Vic. Parliamentary Committee is now
hitting to inquire into the circumstances attend-
ing the dismissal of a railway porter named. Hall,
for giving information to another commission of
inquiry presided over by Judge Casey. .Hall
Claims that on the formation of this commission
information was sought from all, and it was inti-
mated that communications would be treated as
confidential. Hearing certain rumors he thought
worthy of investigation, Hall communicated them
to the commission who found they were incorrect,
and Judge Casey, he alleges, divulged his name to
the Dept, on the ground that his having given false
information deprived him of the protection of the
commission. If Hall’s assertions re this case
prove to be correct, another committee should be
quickly appointed to consider 'Whether Judge
Casey is a fit person to occupy his billet any
longer. If a man in his position cannot be
trusted to retain a confidence, tlie sooner Hovt.
secures One who can the better. Even If Halls
statements were not correct, he evidently made
them in good faith, and never yet was there a
commission appointed but had tO investigate a
heap Of baseless charges.
A Sydney “push ” synonym for wife is
“incubator.”
Humanity comments trenchantly on the
fact that some of the English newspapers pub-
lished, without a word of reprehension, such state-
ments as that, when the relieving force entered
Kimberley, “fellows went up to smell the Boer
blood on the lances.” Pointed out, also, that in
the Times itself appeared, without unfavorable
comment, an English officer’s letter containing a
reference to the “excellent pig-sticking the
cavalry had enjoyed. A sense of humor, it is
added—if not of self-respect—should have pre-
vented British jubilation about a triumph over a
foe of such inferior strength—attained, too, at a
cost, on the winning side, of at least 40,000 lives
in all, reckoning the casualties of battle and
disease.
AFTER TYPHOID.
WEAK, WEARY AND WORN.
A Complete Resuscitation.
The ease of
MRS. E. S. GLENN.
.{Kepobted fob The Joumcu.)
— &
fa consequence of hearing a few remarks
ftnent the indisposition of a lady residing at
78 Cleveland-street, Sydney, our repre-
sentative called at that address and ex-
pressed a desire to her husband, who
answered the door, to be granted the favor
of an interview with Mrs. Glenn on the
subject. “By all means,” replied Mr. Glenn.
“Just step inside, and Tm sure my wife
will be glad to tell you all about it. The
invitation was accepted, and the erstwhile
patient related her story in the following
manner:— o
\ Some time ago—between two and three
years, it must be—l became conscious of the
fact that an illness of some kind was
creeping on me, almost imperceptibly. It
was quite clear to me that I was becoming
unwell, because of a most unpleasant sense of
general lassitude, a feeling of lack of interest
and absolute indifference to everything that
previously absorbed my attention, a feeling
of unusual languor and depression. I was
always ill at ease, being so restless and dull.
A sensation of drowsiness was continually
upon me, but yet my days and nights were
nearly always sleepless. What little sleep
1 did manage to obtain was not at all refresh-
ing as I would awake just as weary as
before. The work of the day, which hitherto
had been a pleasure to me, gradually became
an aversion. Everything I tried to do
speedily developed itself into a'monotony,
and had the effect of digging out what
little strength remained in my body. I was
altogether exhausted, and the listlessness
and apathy that had seized hold of me was
made more unbearable by the incessant pre-
sence of dull frontal headaches. I became
weaker and weaker through a total loss of
appetite, and lost flesh rapidly. At times
I had a strange ringing sensation in the
ears, and would feel chilly at regular inter-
vals. My state of prostration was now so
complete that the mere action of raising my
head from the pillow produced a feeling of
dizziness and sickness at the stomach. At
other times I lay in a state of utter stupe-
faction, not even being able to engage
myself in thought, and would remain for
long periods gazing into vacancy. I would
arouse myself from this predicament after a
while, but only to realise more clearly the
weak condition I was in.”
You had a doctor’s attention, surely?”
enjoined the reporter.
“Oh, of course ; and my case was pro-
nounced to be one of typhoid fever. Ido
not know whether such a thing is customary
in typhoid fever cases, but I had swellings
of various sizes all over my body. They
caused me no end of anxiety and pain, and I
was afraid of other complications setting in,
although my medical attendant at length
persuaded me there was no reason to be
unnecessarily alarmed. To add to the long
list of other ailments, I must not forget to
tell you that on numerous occasions I was
suddenly made aware of dull, heavy pains in
'the chest, as though it were indigestion ;
but considering that I could not eat I do nob
think it could have been that. Well, thia
state of affairs went on for ten weeks, and
during that time I was just about as bad as
v 'll can imagine a patient could be reduced
1 The doctor’s medicines I drank during
term of sickness would surprise you ;
ou i they evidently did not suit my case.
They made me no stronger, and did nob
remove any of my distressing symptoms.
A.t length I got tired of taking physic, and
iecidea to act upon the advice of a friend,
tvho was continually advocating the ex-
jellenee of Clements Tonic. This gentleman
lequaintance had himself suffered from the
lame 'complaint as my own, and he was so
mthusiastic regarding the amount of benefit
ae had derived from Clements Tonic, and
;he way it restored his lost vitality, that he
convinced me there must be something in its!
preparation which would do me good.
Without any more delay I procured a bottle
and discarded the doctors medicine altr
gether, being quite satisfied that the str J
he had ordered was not doing me an atom ol
good, although his instructions were care-
fully carried out. I had been almost desti-
tute of hope for a thorough recovery from
my long and serious illness, even after the
fever had left me, until the necessary
assistance arrived in the form of Clements
Tonic; and my feelings of gratification can
be more easily imagined than described
when I found the great amount of benefit
which had accrued from the consumption of
the first bottle.”
“ What effect did it have upon you ? ” >
“The most noticeable result of my first
bottle of Clements Tonic was a marked
decrease in the swellings on my body, which
clung to me in spite of my convale--»ouce;
and the agonising pains in my head, jvhich
had been the cause of so much torture and
anguish to me, soon left me altogether, and
I was then in such a happy frame of mind
that my prospects of regaining strength
soon became quite bright. I could also par-
take of the nourishing food which my
enfeebled condition so much required, ana
which for weeks had been returned un-
tasted. And after eating there was an
absence of that dull, heavy feeling on the
stomach which I had previously experienced,
and I knew that my meals were being
properly digested. I continued Clements
Tonic, and I seemed to reap advantage from
each dose. My cheeks began to display a
healthy colour, and each day added more
strength and vigor. By the time I had
arrived at the bottom of the second bottle
the swellings had gone down entirely, and I
was able to go about the house with an
appreciable degree of comfort and energy.
With my daily increasing appetite came an
increase in flesh, and I could now take an
interest in my household arrangements,
having sufficient vitality to do my work
with feelings of mingled interest and
pleasure. When night arrived I could look
forward to have plenty of rest, for I no
longer turned from one side to another in
the vain hope of gaining repose. No ; I could
always feel sure of a good sleep, and would
arise in the morning feeling very much
better for it. ”
“You appear to have made a complete
recovery ? ”
“ Yes; I am thankful to say that
Clements Tonic has restored me to the best
of health, although when I sometimes catch
a chill I get an attack of neuralgia ; but I
always keep to the one remedy, and after
taking two or three doses of Clements Tonic
the neuralgia leaves me.”
“May I make your case known?”
“ Indeed you can, and I trust it may be the
means of alleviating the suffering of other
people.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
• r, Elizabeth Sarah Glenn, of 78 Cleveland-etreet,
fydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care
fully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of ray illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and alst
oontains my full permit sion to publish in any wa'
my statements—which I give voluntarily, and withou
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de
claration coneientiously believing the same to be true
and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made anc
gassed in the ninth year of the reign of her presen
[ajesty, intituled “ An Act for the more effectua
abolition of Oaths and Affinnations taken and madt
in the vinous Departments of the Government o.
New South wa'es, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Sydney, this 28th day of Ju no
thousand nine hundred, before me,
F. McKEKNA
m- THIS IS THE LATEST TYP'jSI
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
ĥ
.BARGAINS 1,
Coin Slot Qrapbophone £c
Same as formerly, £l6.
Dem Phonograph, 30/-
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try l
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOTS
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rcwe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Oidy of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the Wor!d.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OE SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the pnce.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DbiLICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
• Proprietors:— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Sublaco,Perth,W.A.S6B,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
s>
m
USE
SPOONERS
II
SPOONERS
P'.r t
INTENT LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED AI05M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle). Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Eto., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper»,
Boot Shops, Saddlers , etc.
On Your Holidays
you will see many interesing per-
sons and places. To secure pleas-
ing mementoes of these
TAKE A
KODAK
WITH YOU.
Kodak Photography may be mas-
tered by anyone in a few minutes.
No dark room is required 7 for
changing the films.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 15s.
Send for Illustrated Price List, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 ColUns Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienna, St.
Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
r aouT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Phout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
TIMEKEEPERS.
Beware of Imitations
8. D. & Co.’s Special Value in Waltham Lever Watches,
has best-finished movement, enamel dial, gold hands, heavy
hunting Hall-marked silver cases, and is recommended as
Reliable Timekeeper. £3.
S. D. k Oo.'b "Derby” Double Chronograph gives an
instantaneous record of any event in minutes and seconds ; the
movement is f-plate lever,' jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer
expansion balance, Brequet spring. In Solid Silver Cases, open
face, £6 10s.; Hunting, £7 10s. ; in 18-ct. Gold Oases, open face,
£2O; Hunting, £22.
j. D. & Co.’s “ Eclipse ” Watches hare finest quality }-plat«
full-capped, dust-proof movements, jewelled in 8 holes. Extra
heavy sterling silver cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best
watches at the price ever sold. In Hunting Oases, £2; Crystal
Front, £1 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Ladies’ Silver English
Lever Watches. Has fine-finished
rim capped jewelled movement, En-
"-•aved Silver Cases, £3 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunting:
Lever Watch has fine-quality f-plate lever
movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer ex-
pansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18-ct. Gold Cases, £l5 10s.; in open face, £l4 10s.;
size smaller, £l2 10s.; in Hunting Cases, Solid
Silver, £2 10s.
The “Triumph” Watch, for Gentlemen or
Youths, is a Gigantic Triumph over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. Polished
Nickel, keyless, short wind, 18s. 6d.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s “Eclipse” 811-
ver Watch has finest quality J-plate
movement, jewelled in 8 holes, beauti-
fully Engraved Case, elegant tinted opal
dial, a perfect timekeeper, £1 10s. ; in
Hunting Oases, £2. Warranted for 2
years.
S. D. & Co.’s 18-ct. Gold Keyless “ Prin-
cess” Watch has finely-finished
jewelled movement, strong, solid 18-ct.
Gold Engraved Cases, perfect keyless
action, £5 10s.; Half-Hunting, £6 ; open
face, £4 10s.; also in Silver Half-Hunting
or Full-Hunting Oases, £2 10s.; open face,
£2. Warranted for 2 years.
8. D. & Co.’s English Hunting Lever Watches contain special patented improve-
ments, ensuring; durability, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear. The movements
are full-capped, dust-proof, jewelled in rubies, and the cases are Strong Sterling Silver, Hall-
marked, £3 10s. Warranted for 3 years. Special quality, with chronometer expansion
balance, and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s.
Rotherham English Lever, Hunting Silver Key-wind, £4 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Ladies’ Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “Nonpariel” Watches are
truly a speciality amongst specialities,
much recommended to ladies who desire
a unique, compact and elegant inexpen-
sive Gold Watch. The entire watch is
most exquisitely finished, fine full
jewelled movement, 18-carat Gold Strong
Oases, perfect keyless action, convenient
and reliable. Hunting Cases, £7 10s.;
open face, £6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
S. D. & Oo.’s “ Excelsior ” Keyless English
Lever is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best |-plate movement, full jewelled in rubies ; real
chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked Silver Cases,
each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 ins ; in heavy 18-ct.
Gold Cases, £22 ; open face, £lB 10s.; also made Key-
wind Hunting, in massive Silver Cases, at £5. Strongly
recommended. Silver Keyless Hunting Rotherham
English Levers, £6 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s Gold Keyless Wal-
tham Lever ' Watch, with best
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled, strong
solid Gold Engraved Hunting Cases, per-
fect keyless action, sunk seconds, and
enamelled dial, £6 10s., exceptional value ;
Silver Cases, £3 55.; open face, £B.
8. D. & (Jo. s . .. oold Key-
less |-pla.te Levers, in beautifully
engraved or plain cases, fine full-jewelled
movements, chronometer balance, and all
latest improvements, are thoroughly re-
commended. Each watch warranted for
6 years. Open face, £lO 10s.; Hunting,
£l2 10s.
S. D. & Oo.’s Gent.’s Keyless Waltham Lever
Watch, finest quality | plate movement, fitted
with patent safety barrel, expansion balance,
Brequet spring, heavy Government Hall-marked
Silver Hunting Oases, £3; in 10-ct. Gold Oases,
£9 10s. ; U-ct. Gold Oases, £ll 10s. : 18-ct. Gold
Oases, £l6 10s.
Any of the Watches illustrated above will be sent, securely packed and Post free, on receipt of remittance.
412 George Street and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNIV. MELBOURNE. POTN, AUCKLAND. WILUNOTON. LONDON.


t KIDNEYS CLEANSED*< STRENGTHENED
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOLILE
KUTNOW’S 1
proved Effervescent Carl*
POWDER.
€
a
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap.;
London:'
41, FARR’NGDON ROAO, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
By Removing the Impure Matters which Hinder their
Action, KUTNOW’S POWDER Restores Weak and
Congested Kidneys to a Strong, Healthy Condition.
When the stomach, liver, and bowels are deranged
the blood becomes charged with an excess of uric acid
and other waste substances, which the kidneys have to
remove from the system. In this way they act as filters
for eliminating poisonous matters from the blood. Fre-
quently, however, this extra labor causes them to
become weak, disordered, and congested, with the result
that a certain proportion of these substances remains in
the kidneys producing gravel, Bright’s Disease, or other
ailments. Diseases of the kidneys are therefore due to
derangements of the stomach, liver, or bowels, which are
themselves due to carelessness in the matter of food and
drink and unhygienic habits. When the degeneration
of the kidneys has reached a certain point, death must
soon follow ; but, as a matter of fact, it is very seldom
that the kidneys become permanently ruined, as they
are strong enough naturally to last for two hundred
years, and hence it requires a good deal of careless eat-
ing and drinking to injure them beyond repair. Even
when a considerable portion of the kidneys is diseased,
the healthy portion can do satisfactorily the entire work
of the whole.
The proper remedy for kidney diseases is Kutnow’s
Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder, which, by
putting the stomach, liver, and bowels into good order,
enables the kidneys to perform their proper functions.
Kutnow’s Powder has such a cleansing, healing, and
strengthening effect on all the digestive and excretory
organs that thousands of sufferers from kidney ailments
whose lives were despaired of have been restored to
complete health by a course of the Powder.
Kutnow’s does not construct new kidneys. It simply
frees them from the impure accumulations which have
clogged them, and it stimulates their action without
irritating them.
If you suffer from gravel, smarting and scalding sen-
sations, excessive uric acid formation, backaches, swell-
ing of the feet, nervousness, cold feet, and other dis-
agreeable accompaniments of kidney and bladder dis-
orders, make free use of Kutnow’s Powder, which can
do no harm, but is certain to do good.
Kutnow’s Powder is a clever combination of the
purifying and curative elements of the most celebrated
mineral-water springs of Europe, whose value in remedy-
ing affections of the kidneys and bladder has -been
recognised for many generations.
“ Kutnow’s ” is palatable and inexpensive, and
entirely free from any drastic or lowering properties.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and
Medicine Vendors , See that the Registered Trade Mark, (i Hirschensprung 99 (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on “KTJTNOW’Sand firmly refuse any substitutes. They may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS —i
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A. —^
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
Woman Suffrage.
It would indeed be a waste of picturesque matter
if The Bulletin refrained from allowing- “Skotos”
to let off this fine, large picturesque whoop,
despite the fact that the bulk of said whoop will
by no means bear close inspection :
Alleged reform on behalf of woman has drummed about
a third of masculine civilized humanity out of the ranks
of labor. Woman has entered into competition with
man and cut down his living wage, so that he can no
longer indulge in the luxury of a wife. Woman wants to
legislate for the natural legislator. In despair, for having
extinguished the voter, she demands a vote—and, if she
howls long enough and loud enough, she will probably
get it; at least, a section of her will—the faddist section,
the young fool and old maid section, the social-purity and
women’s-temperance-union section, the idle section whose
lack of personal charms debars them from the most en-
thralling of all pursuits—the hunting of big game, of the
biggest of all game, Man.
If all women demanded the franchise, little harm would
be done in giving them the franchise. But the great
majority of women are indifferent, very much more than
that often-talked-of apathetic man who neglects to use
his vote. And, it must be remembered, the most apa-
thetic man does little harm by the non-use of his privi-
lege ; whereas the type of woman who would use it would
do positive and lasting harm ; for the conservatism of
women is the inviolable conservatism of Custom, how-
ever irrational. Democracy will not be served by the
granting of the female franchise. All innovation in legis-
lation is not necessarily democratic. We of late years
have begun to attach a new meaning to the word
“ democracy." We think that it signifies anything
“ novel." The decapitation of octogenarians might be
greeted a democratic measure on grounds just as logical
as womanhood suffrage. Indeed, in a country subject
to clysmic waves of commercial depression, in a country
in which the “ unemployed ” is regarded as a state insti-
tution, not only might legislative sanction to checks to
conception and to the practice of abortion, but even to
actual infanticide, be regarded as democratic measures of
an exceedingly advanced and popular character.
Woman’s subservience to the dictates of ever-changing
fashion will, of course, be advanced by her apologists as
evidence of her progressive outlook. Now, the most
prominent of the women-suffragists are the most dowdy
in dress : their costumes are as antiquated as their social
schemes are crude and impossible. But. to the conten-
tion that woman’s subservience to the dictates of fashion
is evidence of her progressive outlook, may be answered
that she circumscribes her position in the social economy
by “ subservience,” whether to the “ dictates ” of chang-
ing Fashion, age-long Tradition, or ever-present Force.
Her seemingly-rapid adaptation to the whim of the
period does not affect her innermost prejudices. To the
day of her death will she continue to boil potatoes (if she
is not too “ intellectual ” to boil anything) after the
fashion of her grandmother.
On grounds of political expediency, and on grounds of
political expediency alone, can the argument of extend-
ing the franchise to woman be conducted. But woman,
in her advocacy of what shecalls her “ right,” puts under
tribute every conceivable art and science, She appeals
to biology, to history, to authority—and all to her em-
phatic undoing. Having placed herself in an untenable
position, she must be answered according to the logical
conclusions of her self-selected premises.
In the first place woman puts the medico-cwm-historical
argument—viz., that woman’s inferiority to man is cen-
tury-inherited, that it is a matter of social evolution. This
\vould he true if females had no fathers. As a matter of
biological fact the female is more the offspring of the
male than of the female parent. Neither is there neces-
sity to insist on the inferiority of woman. Between her
and man there is a difference of function (Carlyle would
say, a difference of duty) which is purely a matter of
sexual evolution from that remote period when no dif-
ferentiation of sex existed. The stress of environment
and the needs of a scheme of procreation evolved sex,
with the resultant of fruitfulness. The logical extension
of the so-called “rights" of woman would end in the
suppression of the sexual instinct and consequent sterility.
In short, the insistence upon the Saraii-G RAND-advocated
“right” of exercising the functions of maternity is
merely a roundabout method of feminine suicide. Here,
in Australia, we are attaining this delectable condition.
For instance, every N.S. Wales statistical report shows a
lower percentage of births over deaths, notwithstanding
the fact that over 50 per cent, of the total number of first
births are illegitimate or of ante-nuptial conception. Mar-
riage also is growing more distasteful, or more impossible.
Two or more clergymen were, the other day, in a weekly
paper, commenting on the fact that such marriages as did
take place were solemnised between young girls and
elderly men. These marriages between Spring and Mid-
winter were becoming more common. The pietistic inno-
cents complimented the young - womanhood of N.S.
Wales. They were becoming sensible. Pshaw! Young
men cannot afford to marry. They are less able to afford
marriage with every day that passes over their heads.
Girls, therefore, have to barter their bodies with middle-
age ; or, at least, such middle-age as female competition
has permitted to secure a competency. It is an absolute
axiom of political economy : “ That in countries in which
the females, as well as the males, of a family are
compelled to follow gainful pursuits, the earnings of that
family are not higher than in other countries in which no
such necessity exists. All things being equal, the rate of
wages for the man will be the lowest in those industries
in which his wife and children compete for employment.”
Mill, in the 14th chapter of the second book of his
“ Principle of Political Economy,” puts the question in a
nut-shell:—
“ Those trades are generally the worst paid in which the
wife and children of the artizan aid in the work. The in-
come which the habits of the class demand, and down to
which they are almost sure to multiply, is made up, in
these trades, by the earnings of the whole family, while
in others the same income must be obtained by the labor
of the man alone.”
The modern girl, who has ousted the male from em-
ployment, who has usurped his calling, and cut down his
wages, still clings to the tradition of her sex, “ The man
pays ! ” She writes ineffably silly letters to such silly
papers as publish them “ On the Meanness of Young
Men ” —the young men whose businesses in life her com-
petition has ruined, but upon whose purses she still en-
deavors to sponge. She is able to compete against man,
however, only by the splendid chivalry of man which,
like the scent of roses, still clings to the shattered jar.
Thus N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan :
“ Although the wants of woman of the same social
status, for amusements, travelling, and the like, may be
equal to those of the average man, it must be recollected
that they are ordinarily supplied by the male bread-
winner (in relation to the female) —father, friend, brother,
fianc6, and on this account constitute an item in the
normal expenses of the man instead of in those of the
woman.”
_ And the Distaff will continue to beg alms of the Sword
till the crack of doom. Woman can understand subser-
viency to man, superiority to man; but equality with man
—never. She will not forego one miserable privilege of
courtesy which chivalrous tradition has given to her
weakness ; but she wants all the privileges also deducible
from an argument based on her abstract “ rights.”
Woman demands a vote ! Now the extension of the
franchise to females means allowing her a voice in the
determination of great public expenditure—and she does
not know where to bestow her own purse. She carries it
in her hand for thieves to snatch at, or in a ridiculously-
placed pocket which even she herself cannot exploit—
though the light-fingered can.
Why should woman have separate representation ? The
majority of the members of every parliament in the
civilised world are married men. It is to their interest
and welfare to safeguard the best interests and welfare
of all women. No Act affecting anything human can
exclude women. The writer ventures to assert that the
broad and liberal divorce laws of most civilised countries
would never have been carried by a legislature controlled
by the female vote. Womanhood suffrage is a step
towards the accomplishment of absolute sexual license.
August Berel, woman’s great champion, makes no
no mystery of this “ ideal ” :
“ In the choice of love she is free just as man is free.
She wooes and is wooed, and has no other inducement to
bind herself than her own free will.”
In fact, this alleged reform is always patted on the
back by young bachelors who have anything to gain from
its accomplishment without the shouldering of any
responsibility, and by old men who have nothing to gain
save a little notoriety to serve as a torch to light them to
the grave, and only the dead shucks of past responsibility.
Woman’s appeal to biology is ridiculous in its shallow
absurdity. She assumes a female culture, undisturbed
in its protoplasmic succession, since the first germ of life
fermented in a fecundating sun-ray. Now, the pre-
dominant female gives to the world men. In Sparta,
woman was almost supreme —but not quite. Gorgo, the
wife of Leonidas, was addressed by a woman of another
country in these words : “You of Lacedaemon are the
only women in the world that rule the men.” And Gorgo
replied, “ We are the only women that bring forth men.”
The predominant male gives to the world women. The
girl is the biggest sharer in the father’s attributes, as the
boy is in those of the mother ; and thus Nature keeps her
balance of sex. If there is a difference between the sexes
it is plainly a difference of Nature’s making.
Some of the controversialists go to the biological
museum, and come thence laden with a store of facts con-
cerning some very low forms of aphidce and other insect
pests. They appeal to the republic of bees—among other
things. They should remember that female sex can be
produced in bees, or in frogs, and in a number of reptilia
and insectivora, by a simple means—feeding. This is a
reversal application of the gibe at man, “Feed the brute!”
Bees, moreover, are sexless —save the drones, who are all
murdered by the eunuchs of the palace after one of their
number has served his purpose, and the queen—the
queen-bee wears her coronet only on condition that she
lays eggs.
“ There is no sex in Intellect! ” Another absurdity.
Women themselves speak of one of their number, say a
George Eliot, as having a masculine mind. Very true,
but masculine mind as it was, in undoubted female body,
it fell far short of the greatest masculine minds in male
bodies. There is so much sex in intellect that it may be
boldly asserted that never was there a woman whose
alleged womanly function in art, in in learning,
or even in cookery, could not be, has not been, more
successfully discharged by man. Woman cannot argue
logically. She says, “ What! give that illiterate laborer
a vote, and deny it to Mary Somerville 1 ” Eheu 1 Are
there not some illiterate draggle-tails of her own sex
wherewith to compare the illiterate laborer, and who is
Mary Somerville when Lord Kelvin is mentioned ? Then
they complain, “ We never have a chance.” Sappho had
her chance, and took it, in days when the intellectual (us-
abilities of women were genuine grievances. In woman-
oppressed China the whole of armed Europe has been
held at bay by one pig-headed woman. Great women are
the exceptions ! And they are not so great as their male
compeers. Where are the female Homers, Dantes,
Shakespeares, Goethes? A scroll of famous names
would vainly challenge female corellants ! In all the arts
woman occupies second place, save in one alone—
the art of acting, which, as a sex, she uses
both as sword and buckler. All this is said sans
disrespect. It is a matter of fact, not a matter of
opinion. Now and then, woman has essayed an expres-
sion of her intellectual greatness in something she has
labelled “ emancipated” literature. A few years ago some
women who aped masculinity, and a few men with
feminine intellects, deluged the bookstalls and the stage
with plague-saturated filth. Even women scouted it—
and, be it understood, writer is referring now, not to
women as a sex, but to the section who aspire to what
they fairly call “ predominancy ” over mere males.
Be it noted, the advanced woman generally paints her
own sex as angels ; the opposite, as devils. There is to
be no truce, no quarter, no prisoners are to be taken.
They call a meeting, and a “ Man ” presides over it. They
write books, and sign them with the names of men.
George Eliot, a woman of masculine intellect, could, how-
ever, not deceive everyone. There was a flaw in her
armour of proof, which so practised a reader of the human
heart as Charles Dickens discovered at once.
A house that is divided against itself cannot last, and
the home is the political unit. But nobody need worry !
The home will continue to be the political unit. But the
women who live outside “ homes” are deeply to be com-
miserated, should women gain their point. There are
wives enough, and to spare, who are built on the broad,
natural plan, and who will follow man’s lead in war as in
love. Every married man who is married to such a wife
will have hia voting power doubled; and, if he is a
wise man, with grown-up daughters sensibly trained,
trebled, quadrupled, what not ! And the Labor
Party may be trusted, and the Labor Party’s
wife may be trusted to fight with the Female Franchise
as a falchion to the bitter death. But the trouble
looms in the future. Marriage is decreasing at such an
ominous speed, the birth-rate of the Australian race
is diminishing so fast, that verily the sexes threaten to
fall into two hostile camps, with opposite interests, and
conflicting aspirations. War may, indeed, be a blessing
in disguise. If men are wanted in sufficient numbers to
fight, they can well afford to hand over all the arts of
peace to their womankind, including the art of govern-
ment ; for woman’s self-interest would impel her to take
the strictest care of her defender.
It is emphatically inexpedient to confer on woman the
franchise. Honorary members of all societies or associa-
tions are not allowed to vote. Woman is the honorary
member of the community. She is not permitted a seat
in the legislature, therefore she should be debarred from
voting to send someone else there —a traitor, moreover, a
suborned member of the enemy sex.
The chief medical officer of the Indian
Army advocates anti-typhoid (enteric) inocula-
tion. Asserts that “inoculation insures an im-
munity equal to or greater than that which
accrues to a person who undergoes and recovers
from an attack of the disease.” The operation is
said to cause no risk to health. Experiments were
made and 2000 men treated successfully—accord-
ing to above authority. Prof. Haffkine also advo-
cates very vigorously anti-cholera inoculation and
gives a long array of striking figures in support of
his theory.
A trooper, writing from S’Africa: “I
have seen a lot of the Australian Bushmen over
here. They are champions to fight. They are
called Australian Butchers ! ” And Lord Roberts
is reported at second-hand to have said that the
Australians were “ too cruel.” Well, a recently-
printed letter in Sydney Daily Telegraph
(written to the swaddy’s mother) means either
callous brutality or crass youthful thoughtless-
ness :
Burning farms is rather an exciting pastime. You ride
up and tell the people to remove all their things, as you
propose burning their residence. The women and chil-
dren all start howling at once. There is no time to lose,
however; all hands start carting out the things and a fire
is soon going. It is necessary to keep away from the
burning place, as the roof and ceilings are all full of cart-
ridges, which explode as soon as the fire gets to them,
and if you are not careful the women are not above
taking a rifle and having a shot in the general scramble.
“Pastime,” indeed!
Cabled that the Russian liquor traffic has
been nationalised. Russia is far ahead of Australia
in this matter. State liquor control has been in
force for years over a large area of the Empire,
and apparently the experiment has succeeded so
well as to encourage the Government to
apply it all round. Liquor is made in private
distilleries under direct control and supervision of
Govt., which also fixes the price, basing its esti-
mate on cost of material and of production. No
spirit is allowed on the market till properly
matured and rectified, and it is sold in sealed
bottles bearing labels setting forth price, strength,
and quantity. When State control was first
inaugurated the Little Father started to reduce
drunkenness in no half-hearted fashion. In St.
Petersburg, out of 937 taverns 759 were closed,
and 400 out of G5O hotels, all without compensa-
tion, while in smaller towns the closure was
applied even more drastically. As a consequence,
drunkenness has immensely decreased. Also,
when the Russ does get drunk, he does so on pure
spirit.


JAMES DOAN’S
GREAT DISCOVERY.
Hundreds of Sydney People Cured
BY
jjoan’s Backache Kidney pills.
Names of Sydney People Given.
i!
m
I
si
US®
iifMi
:z=:s
■mm
mm
S2S;:S;:
■
HP
•:S?ss?s:
: S
itui
:?:5555?2
-•ss-ss-s
llliiMl
g::;.V
I
..
■
HlHUfUfl
m
83!!?!
IM
s#sSS';';
g:
®; : :
&S
m
','. v,\\\\\W\\\\\\\\
The Kidneys are the most important organs of
the body because they filter the blood .
The statement given below was made by a resi-
dent of Leichhardt, this city. If the same state-
ment had been made by some person in another
town or country it might, of course, be true, but
we would never know, because we couldn't prove
it. But we can prove this statement, for the lady
who gives it lives right here in Sydney.
Mrs. Pat. Duffy, 43 Marion-street, Leichhardt,
this city, says:—“Twelve months ago I took
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for pain in the
back, which I knew to arise from the kidneys.
The doctor said that I could expect it owing
to the change of life. I had been taking
various remedies (both internal and exter-
nal) without getting any benefit. Only a few doses
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills released me
from all my pain, however.
“My husband had been suffering from kidney
troubles, and, seeing how splendidly they acted in
my case, he took the same remedy. He works
for the council, at asphalting, and is out in all
kinds of weather. The pains in his back were
extremely bad. He had been unable to get more
than a passing relief out of anything he had pre-
viously tried, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured him. Since being cured he was out work-
ing in the rain, and he caught a cold in his kid-
neys, and so he took more of the pills. They are
first-rate kidney pills, and he says that nothing
ever did him as much good as Doan’s Pills. I
procured these pills at E. Newman’s pharmacy, in
King-street.”
This is only one instance of what Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills are doing in Sydney. There
are hundreds of similar cases equally as strong
and equally as convincing, and they are all Sydney
people. For instance : Mrs. J. M‘Adam, 40 Ken-
sington-street, Chippendale, Sydney; Mr. W.
Hibberd, St. Paul-street, Randwick, Sydney;
Mr. W. Lane, 102 George-street, Erslcineville,
Sydney; Mr. J. Cameron, 297 Balmain-road>
Leichhardt, Sydney; Mr. Jas. Rees, 6 East-
street, Surry-hills, Sydney ; Mrs. Spear, 32 Good-
sell street, St. Peters, Sydney;' and scores of
others.
As we hear of no other medicines curing Sydney
people like this, why are Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills so successful here ?. We will tell you
why.
Doctors used to think that only urinary troubles
were to be traced to the kidneys.
Modem science has proved, however, that
really all constitutional diseases have their be-
ginnings in disorders of these important organs.
And this is common sense, for the kidneys filter
and purify the blood. When they do not the
whole body suffers.
When the kidneys are ill, impurities permeate
the blood, muscles, bones and nerves, like foul
vapours from a marsh. They saturate every pore.
There is a dull pain in the back, rheumatism,
dizziness, headaches, nervousness, heart trouble,
pains in the limbs, bloating, sallow complexion,
circles under the eyes, bladder irritation, sup-
pression of the urine, worn out, tired feeling, lack,
of ambition.
Our readers will be interested to see the picture
of James Doan, the discoverer of this famous
medicine, which we publish at the head of this
article. He is the noted chemist of Kingsville,
Ontario, and his discovery, spoken of above, has
made his name known all over the world.
Remember it was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills which Mrs. Duffy used. See that you get
the same. You may always know the genuine,
because the wrapper bears the full name, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, in bold type, and has the
signature of James Doan. You need never be
imposed upon if you will bear these two things in
mind.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
Are told by all chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.) or will be posted
on receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-stroet Svdnev.
But be SURE they are Doan’s.
The Ballad of John Bigloy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Bigley, of Giles, Smith and Co.,
Worked from dull morn till day was dim,
And hoped that God would soon put trust
In one who trusted Him.
A wife and child were Bigley’s care;
“ One-ten ” a week was Bigley’s screw;
The foreman was a princely man
And gorged on sovereigns two.
A godly man was Bigley known
As ever drew teetotal breath ;
Though stood he next for Johnson’s place
He wished not for his death,
But merely felt a gladness thrill
His pulse when Johnson’s step moved slow,
Or when the dancing sunbeams showed
Hair nearer to the snow.
One-ten a week was Bigley’s screw,
And one-third more would give the wife
A rush of welcome mountain air,
And with it years of life;
And thus, the destination Death,
There chanced a race between these two—
John Bigley’s feeble wife and him
Who owned the princely screw.
The man who staked his all on one
Walked ’neath the cliff’s all-towering height,
Close where the darkening billows rolled,
Foaming to angry white.
He felt the storm upon his cheek,
And heard unawed its rising roar,
When far apart the foreman moved,
Pacing like him the shore.
What brought him there that dreary day?
What mind-distraction need he seek ?
Perchance griefs visit even those
Who earn two pounds a week 1
The foreman paused, when Bigley’s eyes,
Bent idly on the cliff above,
Saw beetling o’er the waiting man
A trembling boulder move,
Pocked in the rising tempest’s breath.
Then Bigley thought to speak, when dim —
For once linked with the powers of hell—
His wife’s face rose to him,
Sad-eyed and sunken-cheeked ; not such
As years agone he fondly kissed.
Then Bigley murmured o'er a text
From some evangelist
And sent abroad a straining cry.
(The rising storm the warning drowned]);
Then ran with sudden flying feet
That spurned the uneven ground.
And knew ’twas but a moment’s race
Between him and the next sea-breath.
Which with the quivering rock must bring
To him beneath it death.
With all his body’s strength he tried
That man to reach, but vainly tried.
The moment came . . the storm wailed loud .
“Thank God !” the husband cried.
There is a wife of happy eyes
And cheeks sun-browned in mountain air
Who murmurs of a Providence,
And One who answers prayer.
There is a man of kindly heart
And godly life as ever trod
This earth, who nightly pardon asks
Of God—for thanking God !
N.S.W.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
Our New Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.—LEAVING SHINGLE HUT.
A Change had come to Shined© Hut. An air of
prosperity was about it. Broad-backed, up-
standing draught-horses, fat and fresh, fed about
the place; the paddock was stocked with sleek,
well-bred cows and spring heifers, and four
and five-year old bullocks fit for a show; the
reaper-and-binder in the shed was all our own;
two ploughs were going, and —ye money-lenders !
—the mortgage was paid right off.
For six successive years our wheat crop had
been a big success. No matter what Dad did lie
couldn’t go wrong. Whenever he was compelled
to sow late there was sure to be too much rain and',
early crops would run rank, or take the rust or the
smut or something, whileourswould come on nicely
and be a success; or else no rain at all would
fall—somehow it would wait for Dad—and when
Anderson’s and Johnson’s and all the wheat about ;
was parched and perished ours was a picture good
to see. And Dad earned and enjoyed a reputation
for long-headedness, for persistence and practical
farming; people praised him and pointed to him
as a pattern for their sons to follow—an example
of what could be accomplished on the land by
industry and a bit of brains.
Yet Dad wasn’t satisfied. He talked of selling
out—of taking up a thousand acres somewhere
and expanding operations. But mother opposed
it; she thought we were doing well enough.
Shingle Hut was good enough for her ; she had
worked hard and spent the best of her days in it,
scraping and struggling, and all she asked for now
was to live the rest of her life there —to die peace-
fully and be buried near the house.
The rest of us agreed with Dad. We wanted a.
change; what the result might be we didn’t con-
sider—we only wished to shift. Ripping up the
old house -rounding up the stock—camping under-
a dray a night or two on the way to the Promised
Land—this gave food for delightful speculation..
We longed for it all to come about in reality.
* *
“See anything of him?” Dad asked, as Dave
rode into the yard and dismounted, after searching,
for a lost horse one day.
“ No,” Dave said, and leaned on the fence, and
nibbled the end of a straw. Dad leaned on the’
other side and reflected.
A short distance off a new building was going
up. Donald MTntosh, a broad-shouldered Scotch-
man with a passion for politics, and oneM‘Donald,
who didn’t believe in governments at all and
confined his studies solely to the weather and
fjumpkins, were building a humpy with a shing-
ing-hammer. Donald MTntosh was on the
rafters, arguing wildly and shaking the hammer
menacingly at McDonald, who was on the ground.
Dad and Dave looked up.
“Come doon, ye ! -—!” shouted'
M‘Donald, and MTntosh sprang from the rafters
and pursued him round and round the humpy.
‘‘ A fight / ” Dave said, excitedly; “ come on / ”
and ran a few paces. But at the same moment
Joe rushed on the scene out of breath.
“ I fuf—fuf—found ’im, Dad ! ” he said, ex-
citedly.
“ When ! ” Dad asked, eagerly.
“ Bub -bub —bet y’ can’t gug—guess ?”
“ Where th’ devil is he, boy ? ”
(“Look at MTntosh ! —after him across the
ploughed ground ! ” enthusiastically from Dave.)
“Down th’ w—w — well.”
“ Wat?" Dad hissed, showing his teeth and
punching the wind with his fist.
“ Is he dead ? ” he added.
“ Don’t know th — that, Dad ; but he s—s—
st —inks / ”
Dad groaned, and walked inside and out again,
then round the yard.
“Yoke up Gypsy and Tiger,” he said sternly to
Dave, “and bring them down.” Then he went
off to the well by himself.
Dad peered into the well a moment, and drew
back and pulled a very ugly face.
Dave arrived with the horses. He went to the
well to look down, too, but ran away and spat.
Joe held the horses and chuckled.
Dave thought of the wind. It was blowing
towards him. He made a wide circuit and ap-
proached the well on the other side. But when
he leaned forward to look down, the wind changed
and he ran away again. But Dad was deter-
mined. He advanced with a frown and a heavy
rope ; fastened one end of the rope to a sapling
close by, and hurled the rest of it into the well—
then he, too, retreated.
“Now,” he said to Dave, “go down and fasten
it on ’im ! ”
“ Me 1 ” Dave said, backing further away.
Joe chuckled again.
“ Well, y’ don’t expect me to go down, do y’ ? ”
Dad snorted.
Dave grinned a sickly grin.
“It won’t kill y’, will it ?” Then, after a pause,
“ Are y’ going t’ do it—or not ? ” There were
shell and shrapnel in Dad’s eye, and he looked
ugly.
“W-w -wet y’r nose, Dave,” Joe said, ad-
visedly.
Dave hesitated, then reluctantly descended.
He disappeared along the rope and was below
some time. He came to the surface again and
gasped and staggered and threw himself on the
frass and seemed ill. Change of air didn’t do
)ave much good.
Dad fastened the horses to the rope and
told them to “get up.” The chains jerked and
tightened. Gypsy and Tiger hung in their collars
and strained, and tore the ground with their toes.
Dad shouted and waved a big stick over them.
Captain’s form gradually rose till his head was in
sight and his nose caught against the sleepers that
lined the mouth of the well; then he stopped.
“ Gypsy I . . . Tiger ! ” Dad roared, and rattled
the stick encouragingly on their hides. Gypsy
and Tiger began to tire and eased off.
“Look out!” Dave cried, “don’t let them
back/” Dad seized their heads and held on.
But the dead horse gradually descended again and
was slowly dragging the live ones and Dad after
it. Dad struck Gypsy on the nose with his fist to
make her “stand up.” Gypsy reared and fell
across the well and kicked desperately. Then
Tiger tried to turn round in his chains and lost
his footing and lay on his back, his tail hanging
down the well. Dad was horror-stricken. He
threw away his hat and ran in several directions
in search of something. He found a sapling,
lifted it, threw it down again and ran back to the
horses and held his hands above his head like a
preacher.
Sal came to tell Dad he was wanted at the
house, but he wouldn’t hear her.
“ Curse it —can’t y’ do something /” he cried to
Dave.
Then Gypsy made a big effort to rise and fell
■down the well and dragged Tiger’s harness with
her. Tiger jumped up and made-off. Dad stared
aghast.
“W-w-wot did y’ hit ’er F?” Joe asked, re-
proachfully.
“ Yah/” Dad bellowed, and sprang at Joe.
•Joe didn’t look behind till he reached the house. _
But Burton happened to come along with his
Bullock-team and rescued Gypsy and dragged
'Captain’s corpse from the well. Then Dad went
for a drink of water in the gully and sat down
under a bush, and Sal came and spoke to him
again, and when he was calm he went to the
house.
* * * *
The man from town who had offered us £4OO
for the selection was at the house waiting. They
went inside.
“ Well,” said the visitor, “ have you considered
imy offer?”
“Yes,” Dad answered, “I’ll take it!” —and
Bhingle Hut was sold !
Mother clutched her knees with both hands and
istared hard and silently at the fire-place till her
•eyes filled with tears.
Sal ran out to Dave and Joe, and the three of
them dilated on the turn things had taken.
Mother came out to them.
“ It’s sold? ” Sal said.
“Yes!” mother replied slowly, “ it’s— s-sold ! ”
And again the tears came, and she sat on a sleeper
beside the barn, and hiding her face in her apron,
•cried hard.
Sal hung her head and thought; but Dave went
to mother and sat beside her and tried to explain
the advantages of selling-out and beginning a-
fresh, and the man left the house and walked to
his horse and shook hands again with Dad and
went away.
Then Dad paced up and down, up and down,
and round about by himself for a long, long time.
* * * *
A cold, dull day. Heavy, black clouds hung
low and darkened the earth. At intervals a few
•drops of rain fell—a deluge threatened. No gentle
winds blew ; no birds whistled among the boughs.
Dave passing slowly out at the slip-rails with a
dray-load of furniture and farm-implements; Joe
sitting astride Dad’s old saddle-mare, in charge
•of the cows in the lane; Dad loading a second
dray ; Sal putting a horse in the spring-cart; the
rest of us gathering nick-nacks and things about
the place. We were leaving—leaving Shingle
Hut, the old house we. had known so long—the
■old home where Kate was married—where Bill
and Tom and Bert were born —the home where
merriment so often mocked misfortune, and light
hearts and hope shut out the gloom of reverses
and mellowed the harshness of adversity.
And Anderson and Mrs. Anderson came to see
us off ; kind-hearted people were the Andersons !
And Judy Jubb came all the way from Prosperity
Peak to kiss Sal.
“Good-bye, then, and God bless y' /” Mrs. An-
derson said, her large eyes swimming in tears.
Mother held out her hand, but broke down, and
was helped into the spring-cart.
“ ’N’-I hope y’ won’t regret it! ” Anderson said,
as he shook Dad’s hand. Then with a last look
around—a look of lingering affection—we bade
farewell to Shingle Hut and started for “Our
New Selection.”
STEELE RUDD.


Gives Push and fcjiergy
Steadies the Nerves, Gives Tone to the
Stomach, Prevents ill Effects of Extreme Hoat.
“Puts the ‘Go 5 Into You.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
fir
“I am a professional cyclist.”
15 In training and racing in the extreme heat of a Queensland summer, which
requires a heavy expenditure of nervous energy and often leaves one thoroughly
exhausted. I have found Ayer s Sarsaparilla of the greatest benefit.
- makes you have a good appetite, tones up the stomach, steadies the
sSpmdlll” UtS the S ° mt ° y ° U ‘ 1 tGII y ° U ’ lam a S reat friend to Ayer’s
Mr. F. E. Shaw, of Edward St., Brisbane, Queensland, a cyclist well known in
7 lth t] ? o “ Bird Bicycle,” sends us this letter together with a
iUustat,oais TWs <* •«**«
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
v._. S t U A Cstows how, valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to'those who
have to work hard. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces you up makes
your work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and and
bost of all, takes out every impurity from the blood. invigorates, and,
Y:V;
ami
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
. .
AVER'S PILLS cure all forms of Ii
“STEELE RUDD’S’’ BOOK—
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
: at)d Other Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced, Brice, Five Shillings (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
m
m,
m
m®.
PLAIN HOMC TALK
KMRRACIKO
MEDICAL COM MOIST SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Jffctlire as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
Band (|uesti°"B that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, whicli makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; pul)lic speaking made easy. i s 6d „ ost
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d. 1
Dr. Car\br's Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus.
is; post, is ad. ’
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties, Love,Dress,etc. ls6dpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Seif, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s Gd.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is O<J posted.
Lover's Letter Writer, is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
_ Is Gd posted.
Edith O'Gormax’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Uf-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), 1 s (id post free.
How to Kkad Hkads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Cnev assk’s Advick to a Mothkr, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sonjrs
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. STR ROBERT BEAR here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in parties
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
WHATEVER THE WEATHER
Whether the weather he wet
Or whether the weather he hot,
Whether the weather he set
Or whether the weather he not.
Wliavever the weather that causes your ills,
To weather to weather, why—take
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PIL*L<& '
PRICE IS- itx>-
Sold l>y the Profirisisr.
ST. HELENS
XANCASKIBE. ENCt,AK'D.
PILLS
BEEC
SAINT HELENS
These renowned Pills are composed entirely of medicinal
herbs, and are warranted free from mercury or other
poisonous substance. They cleanse the stomach and
bowels, arid purify the blood; invigorate the whole nervous
system, and give tone and energy to the muscles. In the
preparation of BEECHAM’S PILLS the most scrupu-
lous care is taken, and the ingredients form the most
Successful combination that has ever been discovered for
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Wind & Pains in the Stomach,
Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver,
Female Ailments,
, . . and all . . .
Bilious & Nervous Disorders
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors
everywhere, in Boxes Is. l\d. (s(i Pills), & 2s. 9d. each.
Over 6,000,000 Boxes sold Annually.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
ous. Economical. Cleanses the Teeth. Perfumes the Breath.
IN COLLAPSIBLE TUBES, 1/- Each.
ħ
h
ĥ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
m
A
Sold Throughout the
vfrraTiH
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
ħ
h
m
m
2*
Pertn/ue
~k*
%e
[ Sen-Sen
FARRINGDON AVfENUt\
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
i SINGERS S SPEAKERS
ĥ
ħ
retj
,N jj QT O/V- s
IRISH MOSS
_ nR -The besf remedy-
FDR ~~ INFLUENZA, J
COUGHS,
! Ask for Borin mg ton's
and, seethatyou get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHfTISo
ASTHMA.


mu * ci.
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
fcOlM
d. Foot
h
ĥ
h
Or] front,
V VA| v/w V
ħ
;".;v
IS THE ORIGINAL
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
h
Sole Australasian Representatives
SIMPSON BROTHE
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-
32 and 34 Clarence Street, S,d»e,, H.B.W.
TANGYES’
DUPLEX
PUMPS
Are the Latest and Best*
Sole Representatives in Australia:
® ■
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED
genniejeares Co.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers. -
STOCKS CARRIED
sypNcy
MELBOURNE
PERTH ■*»
COOL6ARPIE.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES,
•w. C- lEnXjTD"E?,TX^ < 3-'HI &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOUR STIMUi'I l\ SYDNEY
(,opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post trout all the colonies promptly
all (Hided to.
ĥ
George and
ħ
Board or Apartments at Option.
h
ONB a* dly. And „o*wo*fer. If cifeeus «»0 careless about their supply of Milt, the wonder i, that <t»
are not more deaths. There will be ! !
IEJUEUFMETS -A- SHORT Sl-Q JrtY - ‘ ,„. afraid his healthy cattle would become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another;
A milk supplier to Sydney had three cows suhering from 'Ser now feels annoyed to think that the Sydney purchaser had been paying for all the milk from the diseased animals for soma
supplier who senthis arnlkto tdi© SYDNEY TO-DAY ! This is no fairy tale, but an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an individual case;
there'are many, alas ! too many of a similar nature. 0^_ TrrXjlE (
I3XTSI»E3 01-10 3NT 33 A-*'- « ® ® ow • e dai thoroughly inspected,’ as well as the premises and utensils used. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., .Ltd., have every cow i y y Th/v lose sunoliers because of their strict methods of inspection. ,
arriving under standard quality is condbume . ley aug If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a Premature death. Use only the milk supplied by the
„ , ; The Company suite rndk ...bulk orrA the sfroSger. If after this NOTE OF WARNING, you contone to use nulk from cows Buffering
tom i» «**. to «**iM«v family ' deal ONL¥ with " * but “ yoa mnt
weaklings, or be weak, then Don’t.
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W.
I*ateson 9
Manager-
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ROCK
DRILLS
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia; of
>< New Ingersoll.”
■
PARKE & LACY
■
,1:
L. .
c°.:-
avr.s.
sdwnd
ĥ
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given, for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H, P. GREGORY & CO.,
Ineers and General Machinery Merchante,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE-
S. FREEMAN f. SONS Li£3™E!
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN'S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
h
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillaries!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
frlre, 10s. «d.
r
I’ll Try It.
Soiiß Ahknts :
"»»r *
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
, B. B. ROENNFELDT.
