

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
* Best.
Coco
of
gJlgitost Purity.”
The Lancet.
10*7 Kent* Street, Sydney,
m-
-9
Mining and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL
Engineers’
IRONMONGERY.
and Sawmill
NEW
Machinery, Mining Requisites,
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SR
EUSTOFS Compound Dredge Engine
**£r**l
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WUIT’or.K'S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Op.i*lo Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INULILJIVK TARIt'F for
Boarders, os. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° - 85 pm street, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL'CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNE’
That’s All!
WHISKY.
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
A POLICY FOE THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
. JfiJllEXr — h Jt 2 * ci>&*£ 2?*x*OC2>«
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
.v\t«
i
HOBART.
— zm—
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
Watcli Repairs by Post
oa
!!,
rv:
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
M■. inspring, 2s. (id. All work guaranteed 1 i months.
No ovei charges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D© yjflSß Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
■ BsSftlilj 684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
-
co
AMXJS'EMKNT for OZD (nut XOUSG. yQ
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising: Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book nound and can, be carried invest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondike Grub (which
causes roars of laughter). Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Paoket posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. Od.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt oi Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts. of X.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUOOWKI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
-Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H.. Summers, Barrack-st,, Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Oo.„ Collins-st, Hobart, Tas.; E, Porter & Go., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-St., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of tlie System.”
.'RICE IS per Post Is. 3d.
Fair gtrls and cray horses.
2nd Edition. Price -VO.
- ABBOTT FILTER
- Absolutely Pure Water.
ABBOTT FILTER COY., 33 William-street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-street, Sydney; Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
HIGHLANI
WHISKY
IS GOOD AND FUB.E.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO,, 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE G-BEAT JLTHIJLTsT . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HEBE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, , LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE: ST., SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
JOSHUA BROS, have been authorised to
SUPPLY BOOMERANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of fI.M. the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10IS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
.satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
n Most
easonabi
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FL.OORB
of various sizes supplied.
m
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Caffefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money-Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. G^NIMERT,
89c FAUBOURC St., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
“ The Last of Six ” :
Tales of the Austral Tropics. B
Ernest Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pn. .
post free. ’ ’
The Bulletin
Voi 21. — No. 1085. j
[Saturday, December 1, 1900.
at the Genera! Post Office, Syfiney, for Transmission by TW ns a TMewsnaner.


10 BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY
POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Being' a reprint of a large number
of articles from “The Bulletin,” in
which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and demo-
cratic policy for Federated Aus-
tralia.
Price 6d.—post free.
it®” Supplied direct from The: Bulletin office by-
return mail in exchange for stamps, (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents:
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
The Bulletin Publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s 6d. post free.
A Rose of Regret:
Yerses by .James Hebblethwaitk ; being
No. 11. of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d,,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters: .
By E. J- Brady, Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur 11. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free.' *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (‘Steele Rudd ”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Yincent, Leist, Fisher . and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Yerse, by Bulletin Writers ; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; (id., post free.
The Last of Sis:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free. .
darSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0,
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds !
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
VO IOt:.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C Tlie Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lun
D . A lobe of one of thb
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
’S eu:
, (Registered).s
. . . Contain. NO cocaine or other poisonous dmr/ ...
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in. Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
Artists in Australia .
VI.—GIROLAMO NERLI.
TO admirers of good painting resident in
southern Australia and Maoriland Signor
Nerli’s name is familiar. A native of
Siena, near Florence, he was born in 1860,
and came to Australia aged 25—to remain for
fifteen years, and as many more as the Fates
compel. For the artist stays in this country nob
as long as he may, but as little as he must. In
a community where aesthetic intelligence is still
rare, and opulent patrons do not exist,
every man who strives to embody a lofty
ideal groans beneath the Southern Cross as
grievously as ever the Nazarene groaned
beneath the cross of Calvary. Doubtless a painter
of exceptional genius and energy could conquer
fortune even here ; but so far we have had to do
with talents excellent indeed, yet in a world-com-
parison ordinary. _ So our painters will enter the
Commonwealth vista through an arch of rampant
pot-boilers supported by tired pupils couchant
before their canvas.
Though a son of Marquis Nerli, and bearing the
name of one of the oldest houses in Italy, family
vicissitudes sent the young painter to study at an
early age. In the Academy of Florence, and
under Ciseri and Muzzioli, Nerli gained the
foundation of his fine technique. The head of a
negro, his first work exhibited by the Art Society
of Florence, was honoured by finding a purchaser
in Vinea, whose artistic fame was crowned in in-
ternational rivalry at Berlin. But it is as hard in
Italy as elsewhere to harmonise the past of a Mar-
quis’s son with the present of a professional
painter. Nerli’s mother was English—daughter
of that Baroness Hamilton who married Captain
Medwm, friend of Shelley and Byron—and his
thought turned to Australia. He came to aid in
rearing the tender plant of Art in a new land.
He has succeeded in selling, at Sydney auctions
during the past month, pictures in many ways
admirable for a price which did not repay the
cost of frames and colours.
Reaching Melbourne in 1885, Nerli spent twelve
months of hopeful struggle with Loureiro, still in
Victoria, and Catani, who has escaped to England.
Coming to Sydney in 1886, he was launched by
the large-hearted Dr. Eiaschi, and remained during
six years, establishing a reputation for skilful and
vigorous work. In 1892 he went to Samoa and
painted one of the best extant portraits of R.
L. Stevenson, sold for lOOgs.—the highest
price Nerli ever received. From ’93 to ’9B he was
in Maoriland, tripping to Fiji in ’94 and return-
ing. For some time he was teacher of the School
of Arts classes in Dunedin. In ’9B he went to
Westralia, and in ’99 returned to Sydney.
‘I think in Maoriland the people are more
polite, more intelligent, than in Australia,”
says Signor Nerli. “I mean in the South
Island ; so I think the artist finds them. Very
quiet, you know ; but more considerate,
more time for good manners. I speak of the mass,
of course, not of the exception. Yet in Maoriland
they are peculiar, a little. I remember there was
a picture-shop in Dunedin, and a lady came in.
She said, “ I want to buy a picture by So-and-So”
—never mind his name ; he was painting in Dun-
edin. “I am sorry,” the dealer said ; “I have
not his work just at present; but I have some pic-
tures by Tom Cousin, and, Nerli, and another —
we were all in .Dunedin then.” “Oh, no,” the
lady says, “ 1 would not like their pictures ; I
think they spend a lot of time in hotels.” You
see ? Ha, lia !
• Another time Tom Cousin (he is dead now)
he told me lie had a commission for a por-
trait in Christchurch. He painted it; and
the man came to see—he was a rich
farmer. He looked, and he looked, and he
says, “What is that white spot on my nose?”
“That?” says Tom ; “oh, that is the high light.”
“The what ?” says the man. “ The high light!”
says Cousin. “But I have not that,” says the
man. “Yes,” says Tom, “you have ; and so
have I when we are painted. “No,” says the
man ; “ I never had that disease, and no more did
any of my family. I am very sorry,” he says,
“but it is not a true portrait, and I must cancel
the order.” Tom Cousin tell me that. You see?
Ha, ha !
‘Of the Australian artists I like best the work
of Frank Fox in Melbourne—fine ! Yes, Long-
staff too ; but I like better Fox. I went to see the
portrait of Chief Justice, by Longstaff;—good,
yes ; but I would not know it for work of the
same artist that paint ‘The Lady in Black.’
What has he lost ?—the refinement, I think.
But they say he could not get good sit-
tings. Best, in a way, I like Streeton (but Fox
best of all). Not ‘Fire’s On,’ but ‘Still
Glides the Stream.’ Maliony will make a good
painter ; Sid. Long too—a pity he has not better
technique. His colouring—yes ; but the composi-
tion, the drawing—no, no !It seems so ridiculous
to me that there should be so few artists,
and two’ societies always quarrelling in Sydney.
I do not understand why they should be so
jealous—it is very narrow. But they are not good
comrades, as in Italy. And some !—they are not
genuine; say nice things to the face, and when
you turn the back, the knife in ! A pity ! ’
* * * *
The only work of Nerli’s in N.S.W. Gallery is a
study of a head done at Florence, and bought
from a picture-dealer. In the Dunedin Gallery
are two of Nerli’s pictures. No other Australian
public gallery contains any. Among" the most
notable of Nerli’s works are “The Morning
Herald” and “Bacchanalian Orgies,” owned in
Sydney; and “The Barrister ” and “ Portrait of
Dr. Stuart,” owned in Dunedin. “A Bohemian,”
exhibited in Sydney some two years ago, was a
good example of the artist’s style.
Nerli’s paintings are characterised by free-
dom, energy, vivacity, skilful brush-work and
dashing colouring. His work at its best is gay
and spontaneous, a sure hand aiding his lively
temperament to reach spirited effects. He con-
fines himself usually to figure-painting and to
single figures ; and it cannot be said that his sub-
jects are alxvayß well chosen, either for the idea
or for sale. But he never fails to leave a strong
impression of skilful craftsmanship.
THE GREY COMPANY.
0 the grey, grey company
Of the pallid dawn !
0 the ghostly faces,
Ashen-like and drawn !
The Lord’s lone sentinels
Dotted down the years,
The little grey company
Before the pioneers.
Dreaming of Utopias
Ere the time was ripe,
They awoke to scorning.
The jeering and the strife.
Dreaming of millenniums
In a world of wars,
They awoke to shudder
At a flaming Mars.
Never was a Luther
But a Huss was first — ,
A fountain unregarded
In the primal thirst.
Never was a Newton
Crowned and honored well,
But first alone, Galileo
Wasted in a cell.
In each other’s faces
Looked the pioneers;
Drank the wine of courage
All their battle years.
For their weary sowing
Through the world wide
Green they saw the harvest
Ere the day they died.
But the grey, grey company
Stood every man alone
In the chilly daWhlight.
Scarcely had they known
Ere the day they perished,
That their beacon-star
Was not glint of marsh-light
In the shadows far.
The brave white witnesses
To the truth within
Took the dart of folly,
Took the jeer of sin;
Crying “ Follow, follow,
Back to Eden-gate !”
They trod the Polar desert,
Met a desert fate.
Be laurel to the victor,
And roses to the fair,
And asphodel Elysian
Let the hero wear ;
But lay the maiden lilies
Upon their narrow biers—
The lone grey company
Before the pioneers.
JESSIE MACRAY, in The Otago Witness.
SPRING FIRES.
The running rings of fire on the Canterbury hills,
Running, ringing, dying at the border of the snow.
Mad, young, seeking, as a young thing wills,
The ever, ever-living, ever-buried Long Ago t
The soft running fire on the Canterbury hills,
Swinging low the censer of a tender heathenesse
To the dim Earth goddesses that quicken all the thrills,
When the heart’s wine of August is dripping from the
pressl
The quiet bloom of haze on the Canterbury hills !
The fire, it is the moth that is swinging to the snow.
O, pure red moth, but the sweet white kills :
And we thrill again to watch you, but we know, we
know 1
The long yellow spurs on the Canterbury hills
To a moon of maiden promise waken once in all the year,
When the fires come again and the little t.ui trills,
And who who will name or think on a January sere ?
The lone, large flower of the Canterbury hills
On the slender ti-tree will hang her honeyed head
When the moon of fire has called her to the spurs and the
rills,
Dim and strong and typical of tintless riverbed.
The scent of burning tussock on the Canterbury hills,
The richness and the mystery that wakens like a lyre
With the dearness of a dreaming that never yet fulfils ! —-
And we know it and we know it, but we love the moon
of fire!
JESSIE MACRAY, in The Otago Witness.
Canterbury Bells .
THE editor of “ The Jubilee Book of Canter-
bury Rhymes” (Whitcombe and Tombs,
Limited) blunts criticism’s edge by explain-
ing, first, that his book was collated in
hospital; second, that it “asks a welcome only
on Canterbury soil and from Canterbury men and
women.” It is a book of local rhymes and better,
collected to commemorate the fiftieth year from
tfye foundation of Canterbury settlement, Maori-
land. A previous book of ‘ 1 Canterbury Rhymes,”
of which W. P. Reeves edited a second edition in
1883, gave hint and model. The form of “The
Jubilee Book ” does credit to the publishers,
though misprints abound.
The interest of the book is local and personal,
rarely literary. There are not yet poetic swallows
enough in Canterbury to make a summer. Three
parts of the book are mere newspaper doggerel or
thin sentiment hard-wrung from stony sources.
The editor has been complaisant and uncritical.
“The scholarly verse of Dean Jacobs or C. C.
Bowen,” he remarks, “satisfies the ear as fully as
the mind.” Here is a sample of Dean Jacobs,
otherwise exhibited as a composer of stiff sonnets
with an original rhyme-scheme for the octave
(known — along — song —Jlown —alone — more — shore
—wknown) :
Long live our gracious Queen ! and may
$ The gifts thS.fr in past years were given
Be earnest of a glorious Day
That we with her may share in heaven !
So we with her through endless days
Thy holy Name will bless and praise.— Amen.
This “scholarly verse ” presumably satisfies the
editor’s ear—or his mind? And here is a sample
of C, C. Bowen—
As it is with aging manhood,
So with nations in their prime ;
For the weight of ages hallows
The brave deeds of younger time.
And ’tis well that it should be so :
What were life without a past,
With a future ever doubtful,
And a present fleeting fast 1
For to us all human story,
All the centuries proclaim
That the world is ever changing,
But that man remains the same.
But to us remains the beauty
That inspired the men of old,.
And the knowledge-piled on knowledge,
That the ages still unfold. . .
This “ scholarly verse ” presumably satisfies the
editor’s mind—or his ear ?
Butter-women’s rank to market—
All the centuries proclaim
Butter-women ever changing,
But the butter's mtfoh the same.
But the “local ” plea will not justify that Canter-
bury butter : pass it on the “ hospital ” plea.
The exploded Bracken is counted as a Canter-
bury rhymer; and the over-rated Mary Colborne-
Veel, whose verse is sentimentally palatable
enough, but essentially uninspired and undistin-
guished. Domett and Adams are not m the
Canterbury limit, but are dragged in by the ears
and displayed discreditably. W. P. Reeves
seems to be accounted the chief Canterbury poet;
and his contributions are good literary verse
hinting the poetic temperament and lacking the
poetic fire. The single definite poetic pulse
beating in the volume belongs to Jessie Mackay,
whose recent work has the ring of the right metal.
It is not yet very good; but it.is good in its
limits, good so far as it goes. Two examples are
reprinted on this page. In “The Grey Com-
pany ” the third verse would be better omitted :
the references are too modern, too specific ; and
the last two verses of “Spring Fires” are less
precise in phrase and weaker in poetic feeling than
the first four. Still, the poems are pretty and
promising.
Some of the best verse in the volume comes at
the close, and one is glad to say that Canterbury
makes progress with the years. Dora Wilcox, who
has found a place in The Bulletin, gives distinct
value; and A. E. Currie promises well for
a lad of seventeen. The quaintest rhymer
in the volume is the editor himself—Oscar
Thorwald Johan Alpers—a young Dane settled in
Maoriland to wave the British Sag and write a
British song with the refrain—
Bally, my lads, to the call give heed ;
Arm ye, sons, in the Empire’s need ;
Rouse ye, cubs of the Lion-breed—
Fight for the flag !
Danish patriotic sentiment, it will be seen, has
altered since 1801, or has suffered a sea-change in
the voyage to Maoriland : anyway, Mr. Alpers
has a right to adopt the flag he likes best.
But it stirs one’s comic sense to find a man from
the country whose fleet Nelson destroyed at the
beginning of the century adjuring “ cubs of the
lion-breed ” to fight for the British flag at the end
of it. Truly the times change, and we.
Nevertheless, Mr. Alpers is thanked for his
volume. supplies an interesting measure of
the poetic tide in Maoriland ; and the editor has
taken pains not all unenlightened. Maoriland is
a curiously “educated” country. There are “high
schools” and “colleges” and “universities”
galore ; every bright young man is labelled B. A.
or M.A., and likes it, and is asked fo tea for it;
and there is more “culture” to the M.L. maiden’s
square foot than trips with a dozen arched
Australian insteps. And the M.L. Parliament is
about the only place nowadays where it is com-
paratively safe to lard a speech with familiar tags
from Virgil (they spell him Vergil) or Horace
(they call him Horatius). The trouble at present
is that the average Maorilander, like the Mug-
wump, is a person educated beyond his intellect.
His University label means that he has plodded
through so many books, and : that he has so many
nice plump sisters to play tennis with the examin-
ing professor (the M.L. “Professor ” is a great joke
in a seriously-minded community). (Everybody
who reads this is an exception, of course;
we are speaking of the others, the average...) And
the M.L. climate gives the young men good
bicycling calves, while the M.L. maidens wear
“out sizes” in whatever cramps and confines;
and they are all fine fellows, smattering
recent literature with the best. But somehow,
when they come to do things with their heads,
the things are usually tame and uninspiring. They
keep their life in themselves, do not transfer it to
their work, have eminently sane minds in sound
bodies. The day may indeed come when (as Froude,
proudly quoted by Alpers, suggests) “in the
unexhausted soil and. spiritual capabilities of
Maoriland the great English poets, artists, philo-
sophers, statesmen, soldiers of the future will be
born and nurtured.” But it seems at present as
if the order of Froude’s classes needed reversing.
*—♦
Anyway, Tennyson’s son’s Commonwealth
prayer is curiously feeble in a literary view. Old-
time religion was a force which inflamed strong
men to strong, undying speech. But the etiolated
religionist of nowadays puts no marrow in his
prayers. He is content to woo his fetish in hack-
neyed cant, which wouldn’t urge the least of
Olympians from the path predestined. This mere
satisfaction of a hereditary instinct is an ignoble
process. One begins to think there is something
wrong with Tennyson’s son’s father’s forjnula. It
is only on the stepping-stone of a live self that we
can rise to higher things. Dead Selves breed
Maggots.
Albert Dorrington writes—
Re Wilson Dobbs’ statement that sacramental wine is
not given to the K.O. laity. Just so ; and. writer, who
was once Roman Catholic, knows all about it. Father
Lynch did not administer wine to Castro. Schloss said
originally {Bulletin version) that ’Julia put the poison
“on’’the sacrament. In the book this inadvertently
became “ in” ; but the “in” applies well enough to the
vessel which contained the wafer.
In Castro’s case a priest would not necessarily
“ receive ”at the bedside. He may have dt>ne that ,before
starting. Eleven years ago, on the Teetulpa diggings, a
certain good Father administered the Holy Eucharist
to a sick miner from a tea-cup -a circumstance to make
the rigid ecclesiastic shudder ; and this in defiance of the
fact that a priest is supposed to carry a “ paque ” in his
vest pocket (a metal casket shaped like a sovereign-purse
and mdde to hold the round saCrament-wafer).
“ Chalice ” is certainly the wine-cup ; but “ciborium”
would not have been understood by the general, and in
its general signification of a consecrated vessel “ chalice ”
may pass muster.
Although interesting, E.W.D. is somewhat hypercriti-
cal. The rules that bind the acolyte-hedged bishops on
the altar steps are sometimes overriden by. the hasty
cleric officiating in a Gulf,shanty.
N.S.W. Govt, offers 50gs. for a “Federal ode,”
and 50gs. for setting said “ ode to music. That
means that the “ode” will not be poetry ; since
our bards find it hard enough to soar without the
clogs, and will crawl with them. And what will
the music be ? The thin tinkle of some advertis-
ing piano-teacher ? Absit omen.
Move One: N.S.W. Art Society hurries its
Spring show to get ahead of the hated rival.
Said rival lies low and chuckles, preparing Move
Two: Postponement of Spring show to January,
when a “Commonwealth Exhibition” will lie
held by Soo. of Artists, with all Australia invited
to contribute (including the Art Society ; but
with exhibited 'work -carefulh T barred). Follows
consternation of Art Society, which sees beastly
rival collecting Federal kudos, and hasn’t time to
prepare a fresh show ; but pulls itself together
and answers nobly with Move Three: an Art
Society exhibition in January. And “we are a
comical crew, we are.” O, we are !
The Commonwealth poem of George Essex
Evans, the readable Q. verser with occasional
sparks on his armature, is already in a “revised
version.” It is excellent commonplace, with a regu-
lar rhetorical progress from “Free-born of Nations”
to the “ Eternal Power, remote, Supreme.”
There is an exordial invocation of all-Australia,
followed by minor invocations of each State, and
an appeal to the dead pioneers, with the climax
suitably disposed at the gates of Heaven. Nice
familiar little flowers of phrase, each growing in
its own neat little plot; and the whole trim and
tame, and strictly suburban.
The Sydney writer, Ambrose Pratt’s, third
novel—“ King of the Rocks ” —was published in
London, Oct. 12.
THE BOOKFELLOW.


thousands IN USE I
W. JNO. BAKER’S
Standard Sheffield Razors
Are made by the pick of the Skilled Razor Forgers
and Grinders of SHEFFIELD. Every Razor is lested and Set
Ready for Use by my Gutters before despatch.
THEY RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
Two of my STANDARD Hollow-Ground Razors, with Ivory Handles in
Handsome Silk and Velvet-Lined Case, 21/- per Case, post free.
oc^Wwatsi
inch wide, 5/- each, Post Free.
„ „ 6/- „
„ „ 7/6 „
W- JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter St., Sydney.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co. Ltd,
Selling Agents Mt.it/ -
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE. CARSON & CO. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Clxarge r 3 Per Cent, to tlae Gi-owers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge Id. per lb. to the Buyers.
CB B
/>
£>ls-
-& 0 *
ssoa
KrayL«®
5607
5800
Gu&naofeed ooT io or buro.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
, application. KF’ Thousands Selling: Daily.
r C B B
BRIAR
[hick simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
tar THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE !
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
Bit I
NOM€ OUTFIT
1 Gramophone,
24 Selected Records,
200 Needles
FOR
£lO.
Carriage Free to any Rail Station or Port.
All Talking Machines, Records, &c., on Sale.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G-.P.0.)
IF. i T. N. Oldershaw, Manar/er.
Publications.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET of ßO R o A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Rare Books and . .
Books for the Married
J Extra Special
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
WILL ANDRADE,
'2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FI FI’EEN HUNDRED tit-bitain prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap.
piuess with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 4.58 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
this piper when writing.
TRicoboey
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ It has increased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. 0. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter—
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinary memory as to cure .a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
‘ I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
.PtUARINE.'
Posted (under cover)
;o any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, tOs. 6cl.
SOLE AGENTS :
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680-682 Ceorge-street, Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*C<>
T.T-M-T'rmn.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
21
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager
WOOL SEASON, 1900-1.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES:
COMMISSION S per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be ... ... ... ... ... . 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
“LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
ot f &MtS
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, & 422, George St., Sydney.
«mv nod aivn aoof)
AiiL Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. *lf your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' 4s., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m" For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
£3T For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
C to
hi
4
>*V)\
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL, APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER." The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. (
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
1 0
1 10
2 2
33a <
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
&Ua ihments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERS ALLS.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Newcastle C. Dec. 15.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Plgasg allot mo _ shares
in the above.
Name
Address
Deo. 26.
SUMMER C.
50,000 Subscribers at 5
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
Address
shares in the
CARRINGTON S. Dec. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me__— _ shares in above.
Name
Address
Brighton P.
Jan. 1, 1901.
25,000 Subscribers a.t 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me^
.shares in the above*
Kamo.
Address.
s
Newmarket H. March 2,1901.
1100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care > Geo.) Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, FEABLS
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
Best Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
” il«:<v<vnw
|£fDIW./<\ EN
jpjPlOEjTlo^
AUadaghe
Just a Cough
This is its story :
At first, a slight cough.
At last, a hemorrhage.
At first, easy to cure.
At last, extremely difficult.
A*tr: s
Pectoral
quickly conquers your hack-
ing cough. There is no doubt
about the cure now.
For over half a century
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
been curing colds and coughs
and preventing consumption.
Put up in large and small bottles.
A cure is hastened by plac-
ing over the chest one of
Dr. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral Plasters.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
[dOWKIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door_work our SILK stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post thronyho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
uses;
the Society’s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year s Bonus.
BIRFOTORS Sir T P Abbott K 0.M.G., M.L.0., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Ghermani;
E S E 7q• The Hon B T’j Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O ; B Short, Esq^; J. T. Walker. Esq.
General Manager and Actuary —RlCHAßD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 SYDNEY. ROBERT B. OAMERON, W
HMWUOfV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
it®” Send tor a
Catalogue.
r
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Jjight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIIaI>ISR, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
Paris €xl)ibition, 1900 British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
2he
highest
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
)!!£Td
klßt
REC F
Bp
Appointment
to
ozdlJlm}
tier iKajestp Cbe Queen and b.r.b. the Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
f BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELIC r OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds ,pf Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure ai d wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours :—Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry. Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Kd.SuHacu. Perth, W. A.* 68. King St.,Melbourne
isr.S.’W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf- Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 C'evcland-streot, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 15; 2-Spring Sulkies, 47;-
i-Spring Sulkies, 17 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best, and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
•Os. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
ind every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
o Order. HARNESS and S A POLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
tddress, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
han we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf ar
'.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Toll !
All the roads are free to travel;
Matters not whate’er the goal ;
Grass beneath or spreading gravel,
None is there to ask for toll.
Rags or silk may be our raiment,
Light or leaden-weight our load,
None will bar the way for payment,
Shut the gates across the road.
All the roads are free to travel,
Save the sinuous leagues that roll
Over neither grass nor gravel,
Where alone one payeth toll.
On this rolling road there lieth
Room enough for foe and friend ;
But the worm that never dieth
Sits in banquet at the end.
Air-tossed, like a truant feather,
Go we down these leagues at first,
Rain or sun ; ’tis pleasant weather,
Pleasant is the world at worst.
Soon a shadow closes o’er us,
And our laughter fades away,
And a gate stands closed before us—
What is this that we must pay ?
“Ye must neither cry nor cavil,”
Comes the answer, grim and cold ;
“ All must pay who hither travel,
But they cannot pay with gold.”
Says the Tollman, “Gold is yellow,
Yellow, too, yon golden curl —
Sap-of-youth from you, young fellow,
Red-of-lip from you, young girl.”
“Pay ! ” —’tis paid, the gate uncloses,
And with many thorns to pam,
And, to glad us, many roses,
We go gaily on again.
Then, perchance, a star of heaven
Stoops to fill our lives with charm,
And with one divinely given
We go onward, arm in arm.
So we dream of pleasure ever,
Heart to heart through all the years,
Saying nought shall mar or sever—•
Hark ! a voice is in our ears.
“ Toll! all those who hither travel,”
Says the Tollman, grim and old,
“ Way must pay in spite of cavil,
But they cannot pay in gold.”
Says the Tollman, “ ’Tis my duty;
Wherefore pay!”—and so to him
Pay we toll in youth and beauty,
Light of eye and strength of limb.
Then the gate unbars before us,
And the way grows keen with frost,
And the darkness closes o’er us,
And we sab for something lost.
But the old-time, self-same story
Greets the ears of those who stray
Down that way of gloom or glory,
Till a final toll they pay.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Fair Heretic.
(Song.)
With her voice like the voice of a fay,
And her eyes that might saints control,
She has stolen my heart away—
And I tremble for thee, my soul !
For the creed wherein she was born
Is the falsest of creeds, I know ;
And I hold it in uttermost scorn—
Yet, alas, that it should be so !
To my old Saint, in Heaven no pray’r
I might pray would now have worth :
My new Saint is a Heretic Fair—
And I pray to her here upon earth.
Orange-gold is her haloed head,
And she hires me to ways unwise
With her lips of the Sassenach red,
And her sweet black Protestant eyes.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Gen. French informs N.S.W. Military
Inquiry Commission that he has in stock 4,500,000
cordite rifle cartridges for, say, 1 8000 rifles—a frac
tion over 562 cartridges, per rifle. Now, the
British soldier goes into battle with 150 cartridges
on his person, and there are 150 more close behind
in carts and on mules, ready to be handed to him
during the fight, and likely to be expended the
first day ; so that N.S.W. has not quite cartridges
enough for two days’ fighting. Gen. French says
he can get 10,000 men if he wants them—but
where is the use of men without rifles and cart-
ridges ? “Number,” says Bacon, “ importeth not
much in armies, for the wolf careth not how many
the sheep be.” Also, the General said that—
To keep the stock of cartridges up to 12,000,000 rounds
would cost about £60,000. While the Royal Navy ruled
the waves he did not consider a stock of 12,000,000 rounds
would be required.
But just before that he stated that 2,000,000 cart-
ridges, ordered Dec., ’99, are not shipped yet.
So that the R.N. ruling the waves has not much
to do with the supply of cartridges, even for one
day’s fighting (2,472,000).


THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY
107 PITT ST., SYO3NTBY.
Telephone 3490>
Gold Ghr.nn, 8s 6d.
9Cold :uT Chains, 30s to £4 ; 15c. Gold, £3 10s to £6-
Gold Teapot Charm, Bs.
9c. Gold Heart Locket,
7s 6d.
9c. Gold Albert, £3 12s 6d.
15c. Gold Curb Albert,dE7 2s 6d ; 9c. Gold, £4 7s 6d.
Gold Boot
Charm, ss.
Gold Elephant Oharm,
4s 6d.
15c. Double Curb Albert, £6 15s ; 9c., £3 16s.
15c. Gold Long Link Albert, £5 15s ; 9c., £3 3s.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue,
Gold Emu
Charm, with
Chain and
Pin, 7s 6d.
The Australian Widows’ Fund £ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
r PHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
II- A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman!
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,330,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, STDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X"O P-fcJJ;*Y CO MP£J XITIOKT.
WINES r '" Bat B T h o,dv 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
"A. BOWMAN’S
Wholesale Boot Warehouse
You can have a Single
Pair at Wholesale Price,
14/6
6/6 Less than Retail Price.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
GUINEA
BOOTS
AT
14/6.
Our object is to do a very Large Trade at a very Small
Profit, and give the Public the benefit.
ALL SOUND ENGLISH BOOTS. NO BETTER MADE.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability-
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M ‘Millan, Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0.,
Sydney ; L. A. Jbssop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., O. M. Mon’tefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager tor Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South Wales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply House f
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
(apod Tailoripg
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
STICK TO
SAME©
CIGARETTES
When your friend advises you to build your house of P & B Ruberoid
Roofing, and particularly when he tells you to use wire netting for a
foundation to lay it over, remember this all-important fact and
Be Sure
You Get the Genuine
OUR
TRADE
MARK.
OUR
TRADE
MARK.
A duplicate of this TRADE MARK will be found on each roll of the
GENUINE, and is the only guarantee you have that you are getting a
light, cheap, waterproof roofing that is known to stand the Australian climate.
Write to us for testimonials from the Government Architect of N.S.W.,
the Under-Secretary for Works, and many other men of local repute.
E. RICH & CO. LTD. SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Ojfice, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1085.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1000.
Prick 60.
uau an old. father tf urjihij, T ste
fljaf. of
flip cook af rife liatK
area gait
" find ft 1 percaiVf
In are Kepi' otj
fooroe ;
L3flp rct'lsol7 pnijm
T\ \/e cap state."
Is* fair t.ltji - Jjnij to
OLijtj fijtirfaiijiijeijfs
- 01) rattjer j
\vi beet] i/tri) Ifod
Tpyrftd Seats for fljr Jiwy
(joiJerijor Trial, di/j/jl /
yilljat do you fljiytj! Tonj I) «j
proved To geTnje
fior itjat deb'ciou $ divorce
das? ! " p
fair Ohp - fjau lucky dear,
how I
1 gou! "
:'n) f met, rjitf,
replird Hje Old cof»
CcuLse it)li i( ft))C( oi/wdiie,
find to Scurnllhe hoi/'mlnt Coop'd
M l$ L,
r u ‘
L B n
ln) afraid fy peopl? riill he awfully
disannomfel about' Sham nuimphcel' deche^! .
~Tremm Lijne - (oftnin s oneofflje n.ooo) 'Stuff.
qj/c 'em plenty of This ami we Cun safety lenkty
' drclity fa ffjrir ntjapyahtn.
Sir William Lyne was "staggered" at the re-
port ot the Tender Board relating to the North
Shore bridge, which shows "great incompetence;’
somewhere.
op's Understudy Ijus Ijen
aifwijoftd to depict A|r Igye nj
Itje act of "wjah
would ttjatit Bill Lyne sl&ijfer
fie sat/s, " would make a,
fjtiss leave oats . 1
SYDNEY CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the A ustrallans.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waver! ey, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly . ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald. ■
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
ichether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street A Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
el , with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY. DECEMBER 1, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth: The
Northern Territory.
The Parliament of a State may surrender any part of
the State to the Commonwealth ; and upon such sur-
render, and the acceptance thereof by the Common-
wealth, such part of the State shall become subject to
the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commonwealth.—Com-
monwealth Constitution, clause 111.
The Parliament may admit to the Commonwealth or
establish new States, and may, upon such admission or
establishment, make or impose such terms and conditions,
including the extent of representation in either House
of the Parliament, as it thinks fit. —Commonwealth
Constitution, clause 121.
The Parliament may make laws for the government of
any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted
by the Commonwealth, or Of any territory placed by the
Queen under the authority of. and accepted by the Com-
monwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth,
and may allow the representation of such territory in
either House of The Parliament to the extent and on the
terms which it thinks fit. —Commonwealth Constitution,
clause 122.
NewSouthWales casually dropped the Nort-
hern Territory some 40 years ago, and its status
has been vague and undefined ever since.
South Australia fortunately stepped into the
breach and took over the Lost Province, not
as owner but as administrator, sole unsecured
creditor and benevolent man-in-possession.
If it had not done so, the Territory would
probably, long ere this, have been jobbed
away to another South African Chartered
Co., and the co. would have imported swarms
of cheap, indented nigger laborers or semi-
slaves, and garrisoned State with
an army of adventurers, and established over
one-sixth of Australia a joint-stock military
despotism of the most unspeakable descrip-
tion. Then the Territory would have been
another Rhodesia, and a huge nigger problem
would have been heaped on this country,
which has already more problems than
enough. And there would have been no
United Australia and no prospect of any.
South Australia deserves the gratitude of all
this continent for its services in holding the
fort against the tribe of Rhodes and Vine
and Bottomley and their kind for all these
years, and thereby making an all-Australian
Commonwealth possible.
But S.A. held the fort under enorinouß
difficulties. The Territory could only be
made to pay by the introduction of white
population, and there were only three ways
by which white population was likely to get
there. It might spread round the coast from
North Queensland when that country was
itself populated ; but then that end of North
Queensland is only now beginning to have
an inhabitant or two, and another 20 years
will probably elapse before the Territory
fills up appreciably from that source. It
might fill up by the overflow of population
from Northern Westralia, but it is likely to
be another 50 years before that begins to
seriously happen. And it might fill up from
South Australia itself if the interven-
ing desert was bridged by a railway.
The S.A. Government started building
this stupendous continental line from
both ends—and failed utterly, because it
was beyond the power of S.A.’s handful of
people, and beyond the resources of that
rather poor and barren State, to find the
necessary money. So the situation stands
thus : The Northern Territory contains over
500,000 square miles and about 5000 people.
It has a railway and public works debt of
somewhere between one and two millions ;
this was raised by S A. on its own security.
It owes S.A. nearly another million for un-
paid interest. Its railway, which might be
a profitable affair if it was carried across
Australia to Adelaide, doesn't pay working
expenses as a mere isolated fragment; it
gives access to no market, and opens up
hardly any land, and promotes no settlement
worth mentioning ; hence the constant de-
ficit. The Territory comes into the Com-
monwealth as an appanage of S.A., and it is
understood that S.A. is willing to hand it
over to the Commonwealth to be adminis-
tered as provided in clause 122, if only the
Commonwealth will assume its liabilities.
A province nearly twice the size of N.S.W.,
with many patches of really rich soil, some
good rivers, a respectable average rainfall,
one town and an apology for another, several
good harbors, and millions and millions of
acres of unsold land, is going for a song.
S.A. can’t make it pay because it is unable
to build that essential railway which will
give access to it. The Commonwealth
Government can make the essential railway
and branches, and with them there is every
reason to believe that the Territory will
become a splendidly-profitable asset. And
if it does it will add a seventh State to the
Commonwealth, and open up a new Aus-
tralia for the Commonwealth’s landless
people.
• * * *
The principal reasons why the Common-
wealth should take over the Northern Terri-
tory as a sort of Crown Colony, to be ad-
ministered directly by the Federal Parlia-
ment until it has sufficient population to
support a State Government of its own, are
these :
(1) It is not good to have that great extent of northern
coast-line practically tenantless, undefended, and cut off
from the rest of the continent. It makes a huge weak
spot in Australia’s general scheme of defence.
(2) It is not good to have a comparatively rich province
of over 500,000 square miles lying practically idle and
deserted merely for want of communication over the
intervening desert, when the demand for good land is
almost unlimited.
(3) It is not good to leave S.A. to carry the burden of
the great annual loss—a loss which arises wholly from the
want of communication, S.A. being too poor to supply
the communication. The avoidable loss of one State is
the impoverishment of Australia in general.
(4) It is not good to let the Territory’s debt—already
about £5OO per inhabitant—keep piling up hopelessly per
medium of its annual railway deficit when by finishing
the line the deficit could almost certainly be turned into
a profit. The deficit of one part of Australia is the im-
poverishment of all Australia.
(5) It isn’t good to leave things as they are, for S.A., in
despair of otherwise turning its hopelessly isolated pro-
vince to profit, has already began to job it away in large
areas to absentee English syndicates. And it is not to
Australia’s benefit that huge estates should be owned by
absentee syndicates, which don’t promote settlement, or
improve the country to any extent, or contribute any-
thing. worth mentioning to the revenue.
(6) It is not good for Australia to lose the great revenue
which must accrue in course of time from the Territory,
when it is in the hands of a Government which can find
the money with which to open it up, and which will run
it in the best interests of the Australian people.
(7) And it would be sheer folly for the Federal Govern-
ment to chance of building up a new State on
wise and liberal principles, to be an object-lesson to the
other Australias. The Territory is the last great vacant
area on this continent. It is the last place where a new
State can be built up. In spite of sundry foolishnesses on
the part of the S.A. Government in the way of land-
grants it is still mostly a clean sheet. And there is a
chance, if the Federal Government likes to take hold of
the Lost Province and to rule it wisely and well, to make
it the model State of Australia. It has no convict tradi-
tions, no dismal record of mismanagement under the old
Crown colony system ; practically no past to live down,
and few serious past blunders to undo.
* * * *
Everything depends on whether the first
Federal Ministry consists of the right kind
of men. If they are strong, far-seeing,
enterprising men who love to deal with great
questions, and to make great successes, and
to face great difficulties for the mere sake of
conquering them, they will propose that the
Commonwealth takes over the Lost Province
at once. If they are small, mediocre men
they will either avoid the responsibility, or
enter on the work feebly and do it badly.
The taking over of the Northern Territory
is a mat ter of urgency because every day the
deficit grows, and every day there is a dan-
ger of some spineless S.A. Premier like
Holder, or some unwise Tory like Sudden
Solomon, jobbing away more leagues of
good .land for a song to some Bottomley
syndicate, and thus grievously depreciating
the value of the asset. One of the first acts
of the Federal Government—before even
the Federal Parliament is elected—should
be to exact a promise from the S.A. Govern-
ment that, pending the necessary arrange-
ments for the transfer, not another acre of
the Northern Territory should be granted,
sold, or leased, to anj' absentee person,
company, or syndicate on any terms what-
ever.
When the transfer is effected The Bulletin
desires to offer, with all due respect, these
proposals for the better government of the
new possession :
(1) That it should first of all be furnished with a name
(i one name —not three like New South Wales, nor two like
South Australia or New Guinea). No place can lumber
along to any fair or hopeful destination under the burden
of a fearful cognomen like Northern Territory.
(2) That the Federal Government takes over all the
State assets (railway, wharves, telegraphs, public lands,
&c.) and all the liabilities of the province. The liabilities
are all owing to South Australia. They shouldn't be paid
in cash lest S.A. drinks the money, but a corresponding
amount of the S.A. debt should be assumed by the Com-
monwealth.
(3) The Territory (population about 5000 at present and
a very large proportion of them Chinamen) should be adr
mitted as a State with, say, one member in each House
of the Federal Parliament (as provided for in clauses 121
and 122 of the Constitution), it being understood that its
representation will be increased as its white population
increases, until its white population equals that of Tas-
mania, when it will have full representation.
(4) The whole Chinese and Asiatic population should be
disfranchised.
(5) The Territory should have no elaborate State Govern-
ment until its white population rises to, say 100,000 or
even 150,000. It starts with an incredible debt for such
a very small handful of people—by far the biggest debt
per head on record —and it can’t stand the cost of a State
Government as well until its population lias very greatly
increased, and its affairs are put in some kind of order.
In the meantime, its affairs should be administered by
the Federal Parliament with the aid of a Government
Resident as heretofore, and the best available man should
be Minister for the Territory in the Federal Cabinet.
(6) Its debt should be converted at the earliest oppor-
tunity into alow-priced Federal stock, and other existing
burdens reduced to a minimum.
(7) A very heavy poll-tax should be levied on Chinese
and Asiatics (these at present form about half the popu-
lation), in order to preserve the Territory as a White
Man’s State. This is essential, for Port Darwin is Aus-
tralia’s back door, and Asia is just over the doorstep.
* • • *
(8) The transcontinental line should be completed as
cheaply and expeditiously as possible. This will give
direct communication with Adelaide. There is very little
apparent hope for the Lost Province until it is rescued
from its present isolation. A railway to Adelaide will
give some kind of a value to much land that is at present
valueless, and open the way for settlement. The neces-
sity for connecting the transcontinental line with Queens-
land on the east and Westralia on the west must be con-
sidered later.
(9) Regular and frequent steamboat communication
should be supplied with Westralia and Queensland.
(10) A good mining law, as nearly akin to that of Vic-
toria (probably the best all-round mining law in Austra-
lasia) as circumstances will admit, should be fixed up.
(11) The lands should be disposed of by lease only, and
to residents only. Residence should be a fixed condition.
A State with such financial burdens can’t afford to export
its wealth for the maintenance of absentees—even absen-
tees in other States of the Commonwealth. Agricul-
tural land might be leased in lots varying up to, say,
10,00 p acres according to quality, though in the richer
districts the maximum area should be less. Pastoral
lands, as a matter of necessity, would be subdivided in
much larger areas.
(12) The leases should be for, say, 25 years. If necess.
sary during the first few years they could be free
of rent. After that the rent Should be on a very
humble scale until the 25 years expired, when there
would be a re-appraisement, the tenant in possession
having the right of renewal for another term of years, if
ready to pay the rent demanded. Failing that he
should have a claim on the incoming tenant for the value
of his improvements. The great object would be to
attract population, in order to create customs, excise,
railway and income-tax revenue. Land revenue, for a
number of years, would probably, in such a remote spot,
have to be a secondary consideration.
(13) All new town-sites, especially on the coast and
along the railway, should be reserved as State property,
and let on lease only.
(14) An absentee-tax should be levied for the discour-
agement of existing outside land-holders and syndicates.
Existing absentee-leaseholders and concessionaires should
be compelled to rigidly observe the terms of their agree-
ments as lo improvements ; and labour conditions as
regards the mines of dreadful outsiders like Bottomley
ought to be enforced to the letter, the penalty being
prompt and remorseless forfeiture. A new State, as
already mentioned, needs population and hard work and
vigorous development. It can’t live on looking at the
pegs which mark unused land grants or un worked mining
claims.
* * » *
(15) Every aid that the Federal Government can safely
give in the way of low railway freights, export bounties,
public batteries, artesian bores, &c., should be given in
order to get the youngest brother of the Commonwealth
fairly on his feet.
(16) A careful account should be kept of the Terri-
tory’s finances, and all surplus revenue used in reduc-
tion of the Territory’s liabilities, or for the Territory’s
further development.
(17) And when the Territory has a sufficient population
(say 150,000 white inhabitants) to bear the cost of a State
Government of its own, it should be furnished with the
most democratic State Constitution that the Federal Par-
liament can devise, and turned loose, with the blessing of
Australia in general, to be the full-fledged seventh mem-
ber of the Federal brotherhood.
• * * •
The Northern Territory, as already men-
tioned, has a debt of about £5OO per in-
habitant—the boss debt of the globe. As
far as can be seen, it will have to get
enormously further into debt before it begins
to get out of it. Experience has shown that
there is no visible hope for it until it is
rescued from its present isolation. At pre-
sent, it is weeks of travel from any Aus-
tralian capital, and that is its one chronic
blight. It is in the position of Southern
Siberia before it got railway com-
munication a valuable country that
is worth nothing. It may contain
another Charters Towers and another Kal-
goorlie and another Bendigo—owing to its
isolation it has never been adequately pros-
pected. If, by doubling its debt in order to
provide means of bringing it in touch with the
outer world, its population is raised to even
25,000, and if the transcontinental line just
pays working expenses, and all the interest
on its cost has to be found from other
sources, even then the Territory’s finances
will be more than twice as solvent as they
are now. If no transcontinental line is
built and things are left as they are, the
present very heavy debt will double itself
automatically in not very many years by the
mere accumulation of the annual deficit.
(The shortage is equal to the whole revenue
—in fact, the income, as a rule, doesn’t half
cover outgoings, the deficit of about £70,000
a year being over £l2 per inhabitant—the
same as if N.S.W. had an annual deficit of
sixteen million pounds ) And if the debt is
left to double itself by the mere passage of
time there will be no corresponding increase
of population to carry the burden. The
Territory is not a rich land as the term is
understood in Europe, but there seems every
reason to believe it is quite equal to the
average richness* of Queensland, N.S.W.,
and Victoria, and they are not the sort of
assets that any sane Government would
throw aw’ay. Probably, under good manage-
ment-such management as it has never yet
possessed—the Lost Province will prove the
most valuable asset of the Federal Govern-
ment. Everything depends on what kind of
Federal Government that Federal Govern-
ment is.
The Federal Capital Lie.
Southern Monaro is entitled to first place, and Oanoblas
and Yass may be bracketed as about equally suitable.—
Federal Capital Commissioner’s report, published in
Sydney Telegraph, 10th October, 1900 (page 8).
Here is a thrilling lietem from Sydney Tele-
graph of 23rd November, 1900:
HOW TO BUILD THE CAPITAL.
The London Spectator of November 13 writes
“ The Sydney correspondent of the Daily Mail, tele-
graphing- to that paper of November 10, gives some inte-
resting particulars as to the recommendations made by
the Commissioner appointed by the Government of New
South Wales to report as to the best site for the Common-
wealth capital. His first selection is Orange, and it would
certainly seem as if that town would be hard to beat. It
stands nearly 3000 ft. above the sea, and is, therefore, ex-
tremely healthy.”
Now it is quite possible that the London Spec-
tator and the Daily Mail, being afar off,
might be beguiled by an error in cable-
transmission, or by some unreliable person at
this end, or some other end, into believing that
the N.S.W. Federal Capital Commissioner did
recommend Orange as the best site for the Common-
wealth capital, and were thus innocently drawn
into the Sydney importers’ conspiracy to grab all
the trade for their city, to the detriment of the rest
of N. S. W. But the Sydney Telegraph knows be-
yond question that by printing the above without
explanation or contradiction it is circulating a lie.
The N.S.W. Government appointed what it said
was a thoroughly competent man to examine and
report on suitable sites for a Federal capital. He
chose an area on the Monaro table-land, some-
where about Bombala, as the best, and he
bracketed Orange and Yass as about equal in the
running for second place, with an apparent pre-
ference for Yass. It might almost be said that he
put Orange down as the worst of the three sites.
All the sites he recommended were, as provided
in the Commonwealth Constitution, situated in
N.S.W., and more than 100 miles from Sydney.
Also they were all nearer to Sydney than to any
other capital, though that is not a condition laid
down in the Constitution. As regards them all,
Sydney would have an advantage over every other
Australian capital in the way of annexing the
trade of the capital city—which is to be the pro-
perty of all the States, and towards the building
of which the other five States must supply nearly
two-thirds of the money. Bombala —recom-
mended by N.S.W.’s own Commissioner as
the best site—gives Sydney the smallest
advantage as compared with Melbourne,
but it gives Sydney an advantage all the same.
Orange, which he didn’t recommend as the best
site, gives Sydney the biggest advantage—an
absolutely overwhelming advantage, in fact.
» • * •
| {And thereupon the Sydney importers and
their special newspaper organ have started
the astonishingly cheeky lie that the N.S.W.
Federal Commissioner declared Orange and
the surrounding district to be the best
place whereon to build a Federal city, and
by telling this mean, shabby falsehood over
and over again they have contrived to gain for it
a certain amount of credence. The grab is so
impudent and clumsy and shameless that it may
easily end in a general resolve on the part of the
other States to put the Orange-Canoblas site out
of court altogether. N.S.W. appointed its own
officer to select a Federal centre, and did so on
its own sole responsibility, to begin with, thereby
endeavoring, at the very outset, to jump the pre-
rogative of the Federal Parliament. It didn’t
even ask the other two-thirds, or thereabouts, of
the Australian people to join in appointing a com-
mission to report on a suitable site for their own
capital—the capital of all Australia. The Com-
missioner started by refusing to even look at Nor-
thern N.S.W. at all, which was a gross insult to
Queensland, and therefore a bad mistake as well.
So long as there is a suitable place to be found in
the end of N.S.W. which is adjacent to Brisbane,
and that place has the two legal qualifications of
being in N.S.W. and over 100 miles from Sydney,
Queensland has a right to demand that it shall be
considered just as much as any other place. As
far as central and southern N.S.W. were con-
cerned, however, the strictly N.S.W. Commis-
sioner, as already mentioned, decided that the
best locality of all was in the neighborhood of
Bombala. But though the Bombala location
would give Sydney a slight commercial advan-
tage over Melbourne, and a great advantage
over Brisbane and Adelaide, it is not by
any means so suitable for the Sydney importing
interest as Orange, where Sydney could grab for
itself the entire commerce of the political
centre of all Australia. So the report has been
persistently falsified by the importers and their
press barrackers, and N.S.W. is informed day
after day that Orange was officially and definitely
recommended as the best site. A glance at. the
Commissioner’s report, which can be obtained
very cheaply at the Government Printing Office,
Sydney, would show anyone the grossness of the
falsehood —but then a large section of the public
takes things that it sees in the daily paper for
granted, and never investigates for itself.
* * * *
Last of all the Daily Telegraph, and other
papers which appear to be in the same importers’
conspiracy, urge the people of N.S.W. to claim
for N.S.W. the sole right of selecting the
capital of Australia —the interest of the other
provinces being confined to paying the bulk of the
cost of construction. They have gone so far as to
assure N. S. W. that it can get this sole right if it
only reaches out for it hard enough, and so the
blind leader, in his insensate greed, hustles
the blind follower along the road to disaster. The
2,400,000 people of the other federated States can
outvote N.S.W. hopelessly in the selection of the
Commonwealth’s headquarters. And if N.S.W.
refuses to hand over the site selected by the
Federal Parliamentary majority, that majority
can simply let the Federal Parliament remain in
Melbourne till N.S.W. thinks better of it, even if
N.S.W. takes a century or two to do so. Under
these circumstances, the clumsy, shabby, and
insanely arrogant lie-and-steal of the Sydney im-
porting crowd is practically a challenge to the
Federal majority to reject all N.S.W.’s proposals.
It is a systematic aggravating of the majority to
the point of regarding N.S.W. as the general
enemy, whose proposals must all be viewed with
suspicion, as conceived for the exclusive purpose
of enriching N.S.W. at the expense of its part-
ners, and to the detriment of Australia in general.
If N.S.W. won’t stand by the recommendations
of its own commissioner it certainly can’t
expect the other States to do so. If N.S.W. puts
its own officer’s report in the waste pi par
basket it can’t expect the other States to fish it
out again. The N.S.W. Government, and its
Commissioner, and the Sydney importers and
their clumsy newspaper allies have, among them,
declared war on Queensland by refusing to con-


aider the possibility of any place as suitable where
Queensland can possibly get a share of the Federal
city’s trade. They have declared war specifically
on Victoria and Tasmania by declaring that the
site selected by N.S.W.’s own Commissioner as
the best of all must be disqualified as being too
near these infected spots. And they have declared
war against all the States by advancing the theory
that the other States are quite too degraded to have
any voice in the selection of their own political
centre—though they must pay most of the bill.
If this goes on much further the Federal Parlia-
ment may meet with an overwhelming desire on
the part of the other five States to kick N.S.W.
hard, on general principles, as the common enemy.
As a ridiculous and futile way of accumulating
hatreds the policy of Sydney’s importers and
parochial politicians should be an enormous
success.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lyne’s Excise Bill.
At the present time, when all the States of Aus-
tralia are just about going into partnership, it is
most essential to avoid any appearance of double-
dealing or any obvious and clumsy stacking of the
cards for any one State’s advantage. And the
Excise Bill now being urged through N.S.W.
Parliament by Premier Lyne looks painfully like
a clumsy stacking of the cards. To start at the
beginning, the causes which led up to the Excise
Bill are these :
The duty on locally-manufactured spirits is 9s. 4d. per
gallon in S.A., about 10s. per gallon in Victoria, 12s. per
gallon in Queensland, and 14s. m N.S.W.
The beer excise is 4d. per gallon in Tasmania, 3d. per
gallon in N.S.W., Queensland and Westralia, 2d. and 3d.
in Victoria, 2d. in S.A.
The tobacco excise is Is. to 2s. per lb. in Queensland,
9d. to Is. 6d. in Victoria, Is. 3d. to 2s. 6d. in N.S.W.
After Ist January, 1901, these duties can’t be altered
except by the Federal Parliament, and till there is a
Federal Parliament, and till it has time to attend to the
business of making a uniform customs and excise tariff,
things must remain as they are.
When the uniform Federal tariff is constructed, border
duties will be abolished. Then each State will be able to
send its own beer, tobacco, spirits, &c. into any other
State without hindrance. And the State which has then
on hand a stock of goods, manufactured under a
low excise tariff before the uniform Federal rates
Cime into force, would be able, while that stock lasted,
t > undersell the State whose stock had paid a high excise
rate. Thus Tasmania would come off worst on beer and
N.S.W. on tobacco. N.S.W. would also come off worst on
spirits if it had any distilleries, but it hasn’t.
The grievance, even if things were left alone,
probably wouldn’t matter milch. A few weeks
would exhaust any stocks on hand when the uni-
form tariff come into force—and beer and spirits
at all events are heavy substances on which freight
would about swallow up any profit to be made
out of the small difference in excise rates. At all
events, Tasmania hasn’t yet become scared at the
prospect of being undersold by N.S.W., or Vic-
toria at the prospect of being undersold by S.A.
But the Lyne Government is pushing a Bill
through by which it is empowered, at any time
before Ist January, 1901, to. reduce the N.S.W.
excise duties to any extent it pleases—by mere
proclamation. It refuses, at the same time,
to say what reductions it contemplates. There-
fore it asks for power to reduce the N.S.W.
excise rates practically to nothing, and thereby
' get ahead of the other States ; it doesn’t ask
for power to cut down its excise rates to any
fixed amount, or to the level of the lowest
excise-taxed State, but to cut them down to
any extent. And by reserving the power to
spring the new excise rates on the public on the
last day of the year it provides itself with a chance
to cut under the other States when it is too late
for them to reduce their rates in return. Of
course there is no evidence that anything shady is
intended. The misfortune is that such extra-
ordinary steps are taken to give the Government
power to steal a march on its Federal partne-s
that the thing looks shady.
+
Touching' Battle, Murder, and Suduen
Death.
Melbourne of late is the Stousher’s Paradise. A
mere murderous street assault, if it doesn’t happen
to end in a funeral, passes as a matter for a 10s. or £2
or £5 fine and a mild rebuke from the magistrates
who try the case. “Justice” is administered
with the tenderest possible regard for the liberty
of the “push.” The “ push ” deals it out to stray
citizens in divers dark places on the understand-
ing that these unarmed strangers are either Boers
defying the Flag or British troops walking into
an ambush —it doesn’t matter which. At Yarra
Bend Lunatic Asylum three patients have
been done to death by violence since
June last. In two cases the tragedy was not made
public, nor would ever have come to light but for
the third case, which was such an awful murder
that it got into print—a fortnight after the event.
Presumably, there will be an inquiry into the
cause of this strange silence on the part of the
Asylum people and the police, but meanwhile it
is only fair to suppose that the authorities have
thought of the slaughtered lunatics as war-
casualties, and have mentally committed them to
the oblivion of a nameless grave. The death of
Jane Keast at Melbourne Hospital last week is
an even more startling case in point. Jane was
not a lunatic. She was a' jftaung woman who lived
with a miner as his wife. Two men, it seems,
forced their way into her house on Cup night and
knocked her about. Also she fell over a step and
hurt her head in endeavoring to get away from
her assailants. Two days later she was feeling so
ill that her nominal husband took her to Mel-
bourne Hospital, where she died on the ninth day.
She bore marks of violence on her face and body ;
she told the facts to the hospital people, but it was
not until she died in the institution that the
police got word of her having been assaulted. It
only remains for a coroner’s jury to find that the
fatal stoushing of Jane Keast was a misfortune
of war.
The Benefit of the Act.
W estralia also has a Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion Bill on hand, and on the same day when
the Cornstalk Upper House threw out the N.S.W.
Conciliation measure, the Westralian one was
meeting its Waterloo. The Perth Assembly
passed the Bill and handed it to a shocked
Legislative Council, and the shocked Legislative
Council laid it shudderingly with a pair of tongs
before a Select Committee. And the committee
reports as follows :
(1) That the idea is new, in which respect it resembles
locomotives, steam-boats, telegraphs, Christianity,, the
habit of wearing clothes, stone houses, roads, wharves,
gold-mines, the abolition of torture, Parliamentary
government, &c. They were all new once.
(2) That the Bill as sent tip by the Assembly resembles
the Maoriland Act, and the Committee is so darned
ignorant that it doesn’t know how the Maoriland Act is
working.
(3) That the measure should be limited by making it
apply only to workers whose service can be terminated on
a week’s notice or This shuts out probably half the
working classes to begin with, and the employer can
shut out the rest by a form of agreement specifying that
he (the employer) can sack the worker at any time, but
that the worker can’t legally sack himself on less than a
month’s notice. The agreement needn’t be enforced ;it
would be a very awkward agreement to enforce, and
wouldn’t look well in court. Its mere existence would
put the workman out of court.
(4) That the Arbitration law shouldn’t apply to any
one under the age of 21.
(5) That it should only apply in the case of unions of
at least 25 members.
(6) That it shouldn’t apply to any workmen outside
unions.
(7) That lawyers should be employed in Arbitration
Court proceedings, and that legal costs should be allowed.
This will make arbitration expensive and consequently
unpopular.
(8) That no union should be recognised (and aunionmust
be formally recognised before it can get the benefit of the
Act) unless it keeps £5O or £lOO or £2OO, according to
the number of members, deposited with a public official
as security for any award that, may be given against it.
The employer, though he may be a mere man of straw —a
petty sub-contractor without capital, or something of the
kind —isn’t to give any security.
When the benefit of the Act is restricterl to
workers over 21 years of age whose employers
haven’t put them out of court by engaging them
on the understanding that they must give more
than a week’s notice before leaving, to cases
where there are enough of these rare workmen to
form a union of at least 25 members, and to unions
which are able to deposit £5O or £lOO or more
with the proper official—when all this is done
there won’t be any Arbitration Act worth men-
tioning. And then there is the chance to be
reckoned with that the W.A. Leg. Council will
further restrict the benefit of the Act to men with
red hair, or men who have got indigestion very
badly, or men who drink. Upper Houses are
painfully alike in Australia. Thank Heaven, the
Federal one is going to be an exception.
♦
“Not Guilty.”
The case of Mrs. Fraser, the golden-haired lady
who took a revolver from her pocket, lodged a
bullet in her husband’s brain, bemoaned her hasty
conduct and was ultimately acquitted by a Mel-
bourne jury on the ground that her little gun
“went off” by accident, has been put into the
shade by the case of Mrs. Wright, also of Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Wright’s husband was shot in the
spine by his angry helpmate, and he didn’t live
on, like Dr. Fraser, to be vilified by counsel for
the defence. He died, and told no tale worth
mentioning. His wife told a tale to the effect
that she fired two shots “over the head” of
the old man (he was many years older than
Mrs. W.) with a view to frightening him because
he was dangerous, and one of the shots happened
to penetrate his hack when it was turned towards
her in a threatening attitude. Also counsel
Gaunson told a tale on behalf of the alleged
murderess. “He put it that Wright, when he
found his wife lying on the sofa in a state of in-
toxication, became greatly indignant and began to
rate her. The woman then seized a handy bell
and rang it to drown the noise of his voice. He
snatched the bell from her hands and struck her
with it, he kicked her and called her a vile name.
Then she seized the revolver (which was lying on
a whatnot in the corner) to protect herself
by threatening him. In the ensuing struggle
the weapon went off accidentally, and
the husband was fatally shot,” Then (an-
other part part of the tale, told by someone else):
“Inclining towards the bed of the dying
man that he might the better hear her, Mrs.
Wright added in deliberate tones, ‘I am not sorry
for you ; you have earned it.’ The wounded man’s
only answer was a deep sigh. He was too weak
now for speech, but it could be seen that he was
sorely affected by the callousness of the woman,
for whom he had stQod vindicator in his dying
statement.” Judge Hodges instructed the jury
to find Mrs. Wright guilty of murder, man-
slaughter, or nothing, according as their con-
sciences dictated, and they found her guilty
of nothing, so Mrs. Weight went forth to
claim her late husband’s property which she
inherits by his affectionate will. It is worth
remembering that Mrs. Wright’s accidental firing
of a pistol in self-defence occurred at Carlton, the
place where citizens live in particular terror of
being violently assaulted by local “pushes.” Let
the happy ending of the Wright incident nerve
every timid Carltonite to adopt the safest possible
means of self-protection, and fire away.
A House that Doesn’t Want to Hear from
its Constituents.
Melbourne Argus started shouting, the other
day, before it was out of the wood. The Turner
Govt, is pledged to do its utmost to secure the
passing of a law whereby the Victorian people
will elect a Convention to draft a new State Con-
stitution — whatever kind of Constitution the
popular majority approves of ; said Constitution
to be afterwards accepted or rejected by a popular
vote. When four members of the House of 48
Rich Landlords joined Turner’s Ministry, the
Argus enthusiastically pointed out that this
proved Turner never meant to attempt
his proposed Convention ; the stodgy paper
took it for granted that no member
of the House of Landlords could possibly
join a Ministry which proposed to let the majority
decide what kind of Constitution it would have.
And when it proved that Turner was still solid
on the Convention idea, the Argus grew purple
with rage and denounced the four Upper House
members of Turner’s Government as men who
had shamefully betrayed their constituents. This
is almost the most foolish thing that even the most
foolishly-conducted paper in Australia has said up
to date. The electors of the Vic. Leg. Council
represent more than half the electors in Victoria,
It isn’t for want of a reasonably wide franchise that
the House of 48 Ricli Landlords is the gathering
of fools and bigots that it is, but because the elec-
tors are only allowed to select their representatives
from a handful of great property-owners, and
are almost all disqualified from sitting in their
own special House. Supposing Turner's plan
is adopted the Council electors, if they are satis-
fied with their awful House of Landlords, will
elect members to the Convention who are pledged
not to alter the existing system—the system
whereby the great bulk of Council electors are
declared to be political outcasts unfit to sit in the
House which is said to represent them. When
the popularly-elected Convention has drafted a new
State Constitution the Council electors will reject
it—they are quite strong enough to do so—at the
Referendum if it interferes with their House of
Landlords, and if they don’t want their House of
Landlords interfered with. The treason of the
four M.sL.C. who have joined Turner is that they
have assented to a scheme whereby the Council
electors are to decide whether the Council fairly
and satisfactorily represents them or not. And
the rage and foaming-at-the-mouth of the Argus
is because the Council knows its own electors
utterly loathe and despise it—that they regard it
as mean, imbecile, cowardly, selfish, corrupt and
a disgrace to any intelligent community ; and it
dare not let them say by a straight-out vote
whether they want it amended or not.
Melbourne Argus, moved to tears by the pro-
posal to hold a popular Convention to draft a new
Vic. State Constitution, pleads for_ “ the peaceful
reform of the Constitution from within,” ana the
abandonment of the Convention idea. Well,
there is not the least difficulty. If the Leg.
Council will originate and pass a Bill making
all the existing Council electors eligible for seats
in the House which they create, and which is sup-
Sosed to represent them, and making the whole
ouncil expire like the Assembly every three
years, so that its electors can express their
continued confidence in . it, it is safe to
say that the Convention - will be abandoned.
Everybody wants to peacefully reform the
Constitution from within, if the Council
would allow it. Same Argus says that “the
community is not yet ripe for any change ” and
“no one can say the Leg. Council has received
the shadow of a direction from its constituents to
stand aside . . . and calmly betray the trust the
Constitution has committed to its keeping.” In
other words, so long as the Council’s constituents
elect only Tories there isn’t the shadow of
a direction that they are dissatisfied with the
Tory order of things, and as they are allowed to
return only men who have a very large property
qualification—men who belong to a strictly Tory
class—they naturally do return Tories. And the
dull old mouldered cowards of the House of Land-
lords take every kind of care not to allow their
constituents to say straight out whether they want
to be confined to electing propertied Tories or not.
As for the community not being ripe—will the
Vic. Council allow its constituents to say openly,
by Referendum or otherwise, whether they are
ripe or not ? The Bulletin bets that it dare not.
Even its huge selfishness isn’t a patch on its utter
lack of the manly quality of grit.
Three of the provisos contained in the N.S.W.
Government’s scheme for the resumption of large
estates for closer settlement deserve to be written
up on some conspicuous place in letters of gold,
and two more would have merited the same honor
if they had been in the Bill —but they aren’t there.
The three that are in the Bill are these :
(1) The State is to have power of compulsory resump-
tion. No Closer Settlement Bill is worth much without
this.
(2) Payment for resumed properties may be made in
Government securities instead of in cash, which would
probably be borrowed in England. The more of this
there is the more it tends to make N.S.W. the holder of
its own State securities and its own sole creditor.
(3) All receipts from the sale or lease of resumed land
shall go, after interest and working expenses have been
paid, to pay off the debt incurred in the purchase of the
property.
And the two other provisos which should be there
are these:
(1) Any surplus receipts from sale or lease of land ac-
quired under this Act, after the debt incurred in the
purchase of the land has been wiped off, shall not go into
the Treasury, but shall be used to reduce the public debt
generally.
(2) When the State buys an estate worth (say) £lOO,OOO
from (say) Smith, and gives him £lOO,OOO worth of State
securities in payment, the profits derived from the land
shall not necessarily go to pay off the £lOO,OOO of Govern-
ment securities held by Smith. That is a local liability, and
doesn’t matter so much, as the interest doesn’t go out of
the country. In preference the money shall be used to
pay off £lOO,OOO of the first English loan that falls due, in
order to reduce the country’s foreign liabilities and extin-
guish the absentee creditor.
;♦
The emphatic throwing-out by N.S.W. Leg.
Council of the Industrial Arbitration Bill, which
struck its head against every step of the legislative
stair last week in its sudden exit, is an interesting
reminder that ex-Premier Reid twice “went to
the country ” asking for authority to reform that
body, and got it each time, and left,the blessed
Council just as it was. W hat N.S.W. wants is an
Upper House paid on the same scale as the
Assembly, and elected on the same franchise as
the Assembly, but by tjas-whole State as one con-
stituency—a democratic Council that will repre-
sent all N.S.W. as fully as thedemocraticAssembly
represents the separate parts of N.S.W. And the
N.S.W. Upper House is the easiest incubus in the
world to reform if any Government really wanted
to reform it. It isn’t like the Leg. Councils of
Victoria, Tasmania, S.A., or Westralia —a body
resting on a property franchise, which can’t be
swamped or in any way controlled by the Assem-
bly. All that is necessary is for some strong
Government to pass the Council Reform Bill
through the Assembly, send it upstairs to
be rejected, and then demand from the
Governor next session the appointment of suffi-
cient new Ms.L.C. to carry the measure on its
second appeal ance. It is as simple as falling out
of a public-house at 11 p.m., if any Government
wants to reform the N.S.W. Council. But then,
does any Government really wanUto reform the
N.S.W. Council ?
Writes “ Itan ” to The Bulletin :
Judge Heydox lately told Kempsey (N.S.W.) Council
that “ in future, when over one year’s municipal rates
were sued for, he would insist on proof of all technical
points, otherwise he would nonsuit. Also, that he would
watch such cases as if he were defendant’s ‘ counsel.”
Or, in other words, he would go ou of his way to
defeat justice by running the municipal body into a
corner so that the delinquent ratepayer might elude
his just obligations. But should a Council be so
threatened by a servant of the State v If anything needed
railing against, it is the law and not the Council.
The majority of aldermen composing the various Councils
are traders, and for Councils to keep up the game of suing
every year would mean ths ruination of the members’
respective businesses. It is admitted at once that Coun-
cils are too lax in the matter of gathering in arrears. That
is the fault of the system, however. Judge Heydon’s re-
marks will probably be used by people to try and escape,
their obligations to Councils. What has Parliament to say
concerning this threat, which amounts to intimidation?"
The Sugar Works Guarantee Act, passed some
seven years ago, is landing the Queensland
Treasury in a pretty mess. Originally there was
voted for the purposes of this Act a sum of lialf-ai-
miliion, and some 12 mills were erected therewith.
Every mill is in arrears. One mill Only has paid
off any of the redemption money, and one mill has
paid nothing at all in any way. On -July 31st the
12 mills were in arrears of payment to the tune
of £120,152, or one-fourth of the whole loan. To
make matters worse many of the mills have also
borrowed from the banks, thus increasing their
indebtedness to the tune of about £20,000. The
Philpocracy lias considered the situation carefully
and come to the conclusion that the only thing to
be done under the circumstances is to have
recourse to Bahanaland’s only stratagem in
troublous times, viz., “Borrow more money ! ”
Wherefore Premier Phtlp is to the fore with a
little scheme for advancing another £150,000 to
the distressed institutions and trusting to Provi-
dence to engineer things right somehow.
The judgment of N.S.W. Full Court in Campbell
v. the Railway Commissioners, brought under
notice of N.S.W. Assembly last week by Arthur
Griffith, M.L.A., is to the effect that men who
know they have dangerous billets can’t get the
benefit of the Act. In giving judgment, Mr.
Justice Owen said (S.M. Herald report)
He was of opinion that there was ample evidence of
negligence, and no evidence whatsoever of contributory
negligence on the part of plaintiff ; but there was also
abundant evidence that he voluntarily incurred th -
of the employment with full knowledge of that risk, in
being so, the finding of the jury could not be disturbed
Mr. Justice Cohen said : . . . Here was evidence upon
which they could reasonably find that plaintiff underto
the employment with full knowledge of the risk it
involved. As far as negligence was concerned, he was oi
opinion that the case was one of negligence on the part ot
defendants, or one of their servants, and that there was
no evidence of contributory negligence.
This decision, of course, shuts out the whole of
the running, shunting, and fitting staffs ot the
Railways, besides all the workmen who have
dangerous billets. Practically, until the law is
altered, the Employers Liability Act only givesits
protection to those who don’t want it.
Griffith’s demand that the Act should be
amended right away is one that the Govt, must
not be allowed to ignore.
:
Concerning a fishy-looking N.S.'W. military
matter which appears to demand Parliamentaij
attention :
Ed. Bulletin.— ln the frenzy which marked the depar-
ture of the N.S.W. contingents, volunteers had a public
promise from a member of the Government that no man
would lose his position through enlisting for the war ;
yet, in the 2nd Regt., an interesting situation has
recently eventuated. Lieut. A. C. Muhs,. after 10
years’ commissioned service, has gone to Africa as an
officer of Col. Mack ay’s contingent, and, in his absence,
has had the joyous experience of being “ seconded, ana
of finding supernumerary 2nd Lieut. R. Atkinson Brice,
M.L.A., appointed to the strength in his place. Lieut.
Muhs on his return will find his place filled will find
himself a subordinate of the jawful member for Glouces-
ter. His years of soldiering and months of active service
will go for nothing, he will be junior to his former
subordinate with the political “pull.” This is the
only case in writer’s knowledge in which an officer
of the N.S.W. forces in S. Africa has been se-
conded. These questions suggest themselves
Is it advisable that a commanding officer, who aspires to
Parliament, should have for a very junior subordinate a
Member of the House who, in his political capacity, has
supported his commanding officer’s candidature ? What
might possibly be the effect on discipline if, by the aid of
his junior, the C.O. stepped into Parliament? . It would
be interesting to find out whether the rapidly-rising
warrior who has been appointed in Lieut. Muiis’ place has
passed his qualifying examination ; and if not, why not?
Mind you, I don’t say he hasn’t —I only want to know.
(It is laid down in regulations that an officer must pass
his qualifying examination within 6 months of appoint-
ment to a commission.) In England, an officer entering
the House of Commons has to go on half-pay, and can
exercise no command while he is on half-pay.— Ulladulla.
Now that the idea of appointing the Australian
Chief Justices as Governors of their respective
States has been taken up by London Times, it is
more than probable that the proposal is past the
speculative stage. That the C.J.’s are to have
the position just because they happen to be the
C.J.’s—that Way (S.A.) and perhaps one other
are to have the most coveted and highly-paid
billet under the Constitution which they secretly
and treacherously did their utmost to subvert in
their own interest solely—is enough to make every
fair-minded and clean-fighting Australian curse
the whole thing from stem to stern. But, aside
from this part of the question, what is to be the
length of their tenure of office ? Is the position to
be a life one, and if so is it to be the prerogative
of the Chief Justiceship—he of the time being
to take the post as soon as the then
Governor dies of old age ? It is a good
thing that local Governors should be ap-
pointed ; but why should we suffer the revolting
indignity of seeing a slimy, self-seeking enemy of
the Constitution elevated to the highest place in
his particular State, to greasily patronise the stal-
warts who have honestly fought for an Australia
united under democratic conditions?
Some further recent revelations about the state
of N.S.W. Police Superannuation Fund cast
further darkness on the reasons why Premier
Lyne didn’t include this awful deficit in his recent
cleaning-up. The Police Superannuation Fund
was established 50 years ago. The police are re-
quired to contribute a certain proportion of
their very scanty wage to the fund, and in return
they are promised a pension from it when they
are past further service. But though there was
an understanding that the State would make up
any deficiencies (which, considering the miserable
wage it pays to its police, was not a great thing
to undertake), it failed to do so. Aged and in-
firm and hopelessly dilapidated “cops” who
can’t get the pensions they paid for still toil on the
weary beat, and wrestle feebly with the young
and vigorous drunk. Bobbies too aged to keep on
their feet on the highways are allowed to draw
their salaries, because to put them on the fund as
pensioners would make it absolutely neces-
sary to face the long-shirked difficulty; and
soured and embittered young constables who
should be promoted to their places and their
emoluments, do their work for them without pro-
motion or extra pay, and see their chance of get-
ting on in the service hopelessly blocked by the
derelicts. There was no visible reason save the
N.S.W. political tradition that nothing should
ever be completely finished in one act and the
grand old doctrine of half-measures and loose
ends and compromises, why Premier Lyne
shouldn’t have included this deficit and the Civil
Service Superannuation Fund shortage in his great
cleaning-up, and have put them both on a solvent
basis, and told N.S.W. what its entire deficit
really amounts to. Parliament is now beginning
to ask if a venerable and grandfatherly policeman
who has been done out of the pension he paid for
is the kind of guardian N.S W. has reason to ex-
pect, and the best satisfaction it can get is that
“inquiries are to be made.”
George Reid’s wearisome iteration about how a
legal engagement forced him to Wentworth at a
time when the Lyne Govt, was driving N.S.W. to
ruin, so that he was unable to save it, suggests
that it would be a good thing for a people to pay
its representatives a sufficient salary and demand
their presence in Parliament while Parliament
sits. If Reid’s absence from Parliament be really
the loss to the nation he tries to make it appear,
then his professional engagement is a national
evil, and if he cannot be bought off from such en-
gagements in the future, lie should be rejected
when lie next appeals to the polls. If a Labor-
member, a cooper by trade, lugubriously lamented
that a large order for hooping casks would
keep him away from Parliament through a
critical period, when the country’s and his party’s
interests were at stake, George would be the first
man to cry, “Drop the casks or else throw up
your seat.” Why should a lawyer be considered
any more than a cooper ?
A feature, of Vic. elections was the number of
voters’ certificates used. Victoria now permits
any qualified man to take out a right after a
month’s residence in any electorate, and then up
to a week before an election, to apply to Petty
Sessions for a certificate entitling him to vote
forthwith. Thousands of these were granted and
used. The Argus, realising that most of these
votes were given to Labor and Liberal candidates,
rises to remark that this is an innovation of doubt-
ful benefit, and that it is tampering with the Con-
stitooshun, and is the result of hasty legislation,
and so forth. Fat Man’s organ knows quite well
that most of its supporters are Right-thinking


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now oilers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINit, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
CL Gr. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
HELIDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
HiNiEftAi WATEH
¥-
WA
v/M
THE
Sulphide Corporation
V LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a 0 Copper
Oreo and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought-^
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Teems quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies wider Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
persons and men of Thrift, who have their names
on three or four different ratepayers’ rolls, and
can always vote somewhere ; it is only the disre-
putable person who is always moving about or
getting ejected who has to apply for a certificate
because he shifted across the street some eight or
nine months ago.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Macbeth."
Criterion “The Three Musketeers.”
Theatre Royal Grand Opera Season.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum “ Fun on the Bristol.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Scarlet Feather.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Old Guard.”
Theatre Royal “ The Absent-Minded Beggar.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
The strange story of “ Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde,” written by the hermit of Samoa and
dramatised by Alfred Dampier, is keeping the
pot boiling with a cold sort of boil at Sydney
Criterion this week. Jekyll was the man who got
into the habit of being Hyde, and died of it. He
conceived the idea that as every man is partly
good and partly bad, it would be economy to split
the man into two, and let one of him be wholly
good while the other was wholly bad. Therefore
he established Hyde, who was a short and
grumpy edition of himself with a lame leg and a
bear-like voice. At first Jekyll turned into Hyde
by taking his own Green Pills for Good People,
and turned back into Jekyll by the use of his infal-
lible Brown Beans for Bad Characters. But gradu-
ally Jekyll began to develop a horrible tendency
to turn into Hyde without requiring any medi-
cine, and Hyde only turned back into Jekyll by a
dead lift—a sort of defunct elevation as it might
be called. He was in the position of the patent
wooden chest of drawers which at first developes
into a brass bedstead or a dinner-table or an old
family legend on pressing a spring, but after a
while the spring gets worn, and the article takes to
changing its shape violently without provocation
at all hours of the day, and thereby throws your
best clothes into the middle of next week about a
dozen times every month. Jekyll not only became
unable to go into decent society for fear of turning
into Hyde, but Hyde took to murdering Jekyll’s
friends with Jekyll’s walking-stick. Also his
terrible cursing on Jekyll’s doorstep as he blew
the dust out of Jekyll’s latch-key led to local ill-
feeling. People wondered why the respectable
Dr. Jekyll kept such a man on his premises, and
tried to point Hyde out to Jekyll in order to draw
the latter’s attention to his villainous aspect, but
as Jekyll was Hyde their well-meant efforts to
bring the two men together naturally failed.
They got firm hold of Jekyll by the coat-tail and
tried to hold him till Hyde came round the corner
in order that they might ask the former what sort
of beast the latter was to live in any decent
doctor’s house, but Hyde never came round the
comer. Sometimes, to their great surprise,
Jekyll changed into Hyde while they were
holding him. They mostly set this down to
drink. Then they tried to hold Hyde by the
coat-tail till Jekyll came round the comer, but
Jekyll never came round the corner either. Be-
sides, Hyde was the sort of man who would bite
anybody who held his coat-tail too long.
* * * *
Finally, Hyde murdered the father of
Jekyll’s intended wife on Jekyll’s doorstep, and
had barely time to get upstairs and turn into
Jekyll before the police broke in. Not finding
Hyde, and being sure he hadn’t gone out, they
besieged the house, while upstairs Jekyll set to
work to swallow enough medicine to keep him
Jekyll till he could decide what to do next.
Sometimes, despite all his efforts, he exploded and
became Hyde for a minute or two, and as Hyde
couldn’t avoid cursing at the window he attracted
the attention of the besiegers. And at last the
medicine ran short, and Jekyll, finding he was
going to become permanently Hyde, took poison
and died. Even then he became Hyde in his last
moments and perished that way, and as Jekyll
couldn’t be found the only possible conclusion was
that Hyde had eaten him while the police were
rushing up the stair.
* * • *
There are great possibilities in “ Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” but the Criterion drama
loses most of them. There is little action in it,
and great masses of heavy-going, pious, moral
reflections by Jekyll. Jekyll’s Christian musings
are dismally commonplace. Hyde, who is an
original, breezy, cursing person, makes only four
appearances which don’t cover 15 minutes in all,
while Jekyll preaches something tremendous.
Dampier fills the double character, and his Hyde
is a strong and effective person at times. It is
especially so where Hyde batters in the skull of
Jekyll’s best girl’s father in front of Jekyll’s
house, and then, having nobody else to kill, indig-
nantly throws the deceased’s hat right across the
street. It is the action of a man who wishes the
hat were alive so that he could kill it also. Dam-
pier’s Jekyll, on the other hand, is a woefully dull
individual who never arouses the slightest in-
terest. John Forde, as a cheerful though irrele-
vant policeman, is a bright spot in the drama, and
Miss Lily Dampier does some good work as the
girl who would have married J ekyll if he hadn’t
been Hyde so often. George Buller, who is a
tower of strength to the Dampier co., is con-
valescent after a severe illness, but not sufficiently
so to resume duty, more’s the pity.
** * *
The great prospective theatrical happen-
ing of the week is the arrival of Musgrove’s Grand
Opera Co., which is to open at Sydney Royal on
Saturday in “ Trovatore.” That old favourite is
to be presented with a chorus of 50 voices and an
orchestra of 40 instruments, and will hold the fort
for two consecutive nights. On Tuesday the other
company will appear in “Faust,” but Verdi’s
opera will probably take another turn later on.
“Lohengrin” and “Tannhauser” are also in
stock, likewise those good old stand-bys—“ Car-
men,” “Maritana,” and “Bohemian Girl.”
* * * #
The Bulletin has given another week’s
solid consideration to the Nance O’Neil and
M‘Kee Rankin version of “ Macbeth,” now near-
ing its end at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and its
opinion is even more favorable than it was seven
days ago. If the real Macbeth w r as not like
M‘Kee Rankin, he was probably like Charles
Brown, and, in the absence of any evidence
either way, this paper decides to accept Rankin.
No actor would think of playing Louis XI. as a
tall, straight, handsome, kindly man, with a
sunny smile, because we know he didn’t look like
that. But not knowing how Macbeth looked, and
it being a perfectly fair rectangular toss-up whether
he looked like John F. Sheridan or M‘Kee
Rankin, or Charles Holloway or Harry Rickards,
this paper is willing to give them all a fair trial.
In fact, considering that the shape, voice, elocu-
tion, accent, manner, and even clothes of that
ancient were a mystery, and he might look like
anything, and talk and dress anyhow, this paper
would like to see everybody as Macbeth. Mean-
while, it desires again to express its profound
admiration for the great castle of Inverness, and
the blasted heath, and the three witches who look
into the future by boiling toad-soup thereon, and
for the fittings and get-up of the play generally.
* * * *
John F. Sheridan will give up playing
Johanna Murphy (who is really the Widow
O’Brien) at Sydney Royal after Friday night.
By way of wild novelty, he re-opens on Saturday
night at the Lyceum, where he will play the
Widow O’Brien (who is really Johanna Murphy).
Johanna O’Brien is called the “ Trip to Chicago,”
and the Widow O’Murphy is described as “Fun
on the Bristol,” but otherwise one of them might
be the other, and either of them might be both of
them, and the difference isn’t worth talking about
in any case.
* # * *
The Cineograph and Stereopticon are pro-
gressing together favourably at Sydney Lyceum.
Writer knows not which is which, as only one
arrangement seems to appear, but whether that
arrangement is the Cineograph or the Stereopti-
con, it is the least flickersome thing of its kind up
to date. On the other hand, the pictures show
rather white and vague of outline. Writer and
friend excepted, the small audience was altogether
masculine, some part of it planting its hind feet
on the plush rails of the d.c. while Jeffries was
planting his front ones on Corbett’s pompadour,
or landing "on the various departments of him that
are alluded to in the programme as his kitchen, or
his chops, or other poetical terms. As the pro-
gramme goes on with its description of the rounds
it gets more and more wildly poetic, till Corbett
became the panther of the wilderness, and Jeff,
the bear who, shaking the blood from his eyes,
plants his shaggy but soundless paw on Jim’s ear.
The Corbett-Jeffries fight lasts 23 rounds, during
part of which time the piano plays soft music,
beginning with “ Behold an Honest Coon.” Cor-
bett is a tall, graceful performer, like the hero
who wins the fight in the sensational play, while
Jeffries is the square, large-jawed personage who
invariably loses it; nevertheless, for all Corbett’s
pretty ways, his step-dancing, his seemingly
numerous successful attacks, and his beautiful
back hair, it is he who is finally carted from the
ring looking like a fallen statue out of the Botani-
cal Gardens. The Gin. manager, after giving
Sydney the benefit of this exhibition, intends
taking it on a tour through this great but imper-
fectly-developed country.
* * # *
At Sydney Tivoli an Asiatic-looking in-
dividual, with a brown skin and an engaging
smile, performs some wonderful tricks, his appa-
ratus being principally a globe, a hat, a dagger,
some plates and a lighted lamp. His best feat is
that in which he holds a plate in his teeth, bal-
ances a needle-like piece of metal on the edge of
the plate, balances the dagger-point on the end of
the needle, balances another plate on the dagger,
then balances the lot on another plate and the
whole lot on his front tooth, and makes them re-
volve rapidly. The audience feels dead sure
that the dagger will fall in his eye, but it
doesn’t. This world is full of disappointments.
The “Black Melba” sings a pleasant song about
cows. Lottie Collins is a waning star. “Little
Tich ” has taken the place in the Tivolian heart
erstwhile occupied by the Girl on the Ran-dan.
Lottie is getting old, she is moderately pretty, and
her singing is merely a species of recitation, and it
is only her exuberant vitality, the polished finish to
her work, and the masterly way in which she
handles her skirts that make her what she is.
This scribe noticed that the bald-headed men
enjoy the gyrations of the young Australian,
Jessie Williams, better than those of the expen-
sive importation from London, and the bald-
headed man is the god of such as seek the bubble
reputation by whirling their nether limbs.
* * * *
Much talk in Melbourne and Sydney these
times about Signora Cuttica, Sisco, Signorina
Guidotti, Travaglini, and others whom the Simon-
sens imported here from the land of big top notes.
Lazzarini, the little tenor, stiff-kneed Pimazzoni,
Signora Tagliavia, Buzzi, Signorina Cavalleri—
the warblers of 1886-’B7—they are remembered
with enthusiasm now that Musgrove is running
grand opera, and Williamson promises to put
“the finest voices in Italy” on his track. This
belated appreciation of the Cuttica crowd in par-
ticular is enough to make poor old Martin Simon-
sen turn in his grave. The Signora sang
thrillingly to empty benches as long as
the Simonsen season lasted, and even later,
when Williamson and Garner took up the stony-
broke strangers and produced her in “Faust”
at the Princess’s with bright smart surroundings,
the Melb. public didn’t rise to the occasion.
Signora Cuttica was a fine actress, as well as a
glorious singer, and some of the men of that co.
were giants by comparison with the artists we are
now content to make the best of. Yet the fact re-
mains that Melbourne was mostly ignorant of
their names and capabilities until they resorted
to popular-concert singing at the Exhibition-
building and the Town Hall. To judge from the
history of Italian opera in Melbourne and Sydney
since ’9l one would say that Williamson stood a
poor chance of scoring heavily with the co. he has
instructed Hazon and George Allan to engage.
But the demand for fine voices is more keen than
when the supply was greater. We are waiting to
be delighted, excited and shaken-up by another
roar of Italian melody.
** * *
“ The Old Guard ” revival at Her Majes-
ty’s looks likely to carry Williamson’s opera co.
over a good stretch of the rocky ground that lies
this side of Xmas. Melbourne had seen nothing
of its friend Polydore Poupart for five years pre-
vious to Saturday last, and Polydore is a mayor
whose reputation retains much of its early vigor.
Also, the Fin-de-Siecle Ballet, which helped to
make the fortune of the original “Old Guard”
show, has not yet ceased to be the brightest little
leg-tale that Australia knows of. Besides, the
revival doesn’t severely tax the girl-resources of
Williamson’s co., and the fact that the lady prin-
cipals are somewhat weak is not an important con-
sideration in the present case.
• * * *
George Lauri, as of yore, is much the
same Mayor that Elton created. Perhaps not
quite such a droll little Polydore as Elton was,
but funny enough. His head is of an oblong
character, and his village pub. keeps up an average
trade of 16 barrels a week, apart from a
steady output of mysterious “whatnot” which
lurks in the green bottle at the back
of the bar. His song and dance in the last
act seem none the worse for wear, and, take him
altogether, Polydore partially explains why a nice
girl should want to marry him for the sake of his
business., He’s about the happiest old lunatic in
French comic opera. Miss Lily Everett plays the
damsel aforesaid. Dainty Carrie Moore is the
Marquis’s wrong daughter, whose top-note gets
caught by Lauri; Miss Fyvie Dench, is the right
daughter, who formerly cleaned plates and dishes
with the assistance of the dog, Brownlow
and Kenningham being the two soldiers concerned
in the marriages of those mixed spinsters. Pat
Bathurst makes an imposing envoy from Napo-
leon, and Hugh Ward plays the Marquis for all
that aged parent is worth. Also the ballet,
chorus, orchestra, and fittings are fully up to the
J.C.W. mark.
** * *
On Monday night Melbourne rushed the
Princess Theatre to sample Musgrove’s other
opera co.—the co. that has Nellie Stewart in its
midst. “ The Scarlet Feather,” formerly of Lon-
don, turns out to be a thin, flavorless suggestion
of a story .which was broad and spicy in the
original French. Complications that ought to
bring blushes to this country’s youthful cheek have
been purified of all their joyous wickedness, and
the result is merely a highly respectable triumph
for our Nellie. The plot of “ Scarlet Feather ” re-
minds one of the twelve Melb. curates who swore
an oath of celibacy, and were subsequently convicted
of marriage. Joe Tapley and his fragile baritone
friend, the Prince of Monaco, are supposed to be
the two last members of a once-flourishing bachelor
brotherhood. When they go the way of their
departed comrades, they try to conceal their
matrimonies from one another. The prince’s
bride is compelled to travel as confidential page
to the small potentate, whereas Tapley’s bride
joins the court in the character of wife to the low
comedian, who is a pill-and-plaster merchant of
doubtful antecedents. The prince shows a mild
tendency to go astray, and his wife suffers pangs
of jealousy. At 10.30 p.m. the attenuated joke
terminates in a chorus.
»*■ » *
There are many tall girls, short men,
and smart costumes in “Scarlet Feather,”
the clothes being prettier than the wearers
as a rule. The music, by half -a - dozen
different composers, is catchy in some places,
and peculiarly dull in others. As for the per-
formance, there are only nine names on the bill,
and Nellie Stewart is the one conspicuous success.
Tapley sings with rather more strength than of
old, but his acting is heavy in spirit. Miss Emmie
Owen is a plump little soprano, who will probably
improve on acquaintance, and Mrs. Oalhaem is an
elderly comic lady, very like Widow O’Brien, who
seems unlikely to improve on acquaintance, though
her appearance is a valuable recommendation.
Charles Seguin, the low comedian, has no indivi-
duality and only just enough voice to pull him
through among the minor people. Miss Maud
Thornton is a noticeably pretty ornament of the
show. Nothing too nice can be said of Nellie
Stewart in youthful disguise as the Prince’s page.
She looks charming, and in the spangled skirts of
the Prince’s wife she is a picture. She sings two
ballads with all the old charm. On Monday night
a voice from the amphitheatre yelled “Bravo,
Nellie ! ” during her second ballad, and the yell
of that honest enthusiast was the verdict of the
house.
** * *
Last time The Bulletin visted the Boer
War at Melbourne Royal it found Walter Baker
getting off a horse to bind up his wounds. Walter
had just inflicted an awful defeat on six Boers,
three killed and the others wounded in the rear,
and when he told his tale of British heroism
Miss Ross gave him some whisky, after
which he rescued General Boom from the
enemy with great slaughter. “The Absent-
minded. Beggar ” promises to keep the Flag
flying for another week, anyhow. Nothing un-
usual has happened to Bland Holt’s campaign
since the gee-gees bolted down Little Bourke-
street, but this journal lives in hopes of hearing
Her Gracious Majesty sing a patriotic song to the
troops at Hyde Bark one of these nights. Up to
now the Sovereign has remained in the back-
ground, but the dress-circle would esteem it a
favor if she were to order her royal barouche to
the fore and give them “Rule Britannia” with
variations.
#* * *
Albert Whelan’s imitations of various
other artists, plain and colored, are the most
interesting items on the Bijou bill just now.
Whelan’s versatility, which extends to a double-
whistle—a sweeter whistle than Brown’s, by the
way—is now more remarkable than ever. The
obvious duty of Rickards is to send his Whelan to
Sydney next month with instructions to catch the
true tone of Lord Hopetoun’s nasal twang that he
may be able to reproduce Hopey’s proclamation of
the Australian Commonwealth. Dook o’ York,
likewise, will be a fitting subject for Whelan to
work upon. Clive’s conjuring—Clive promises to
surpass Dante’s neatest legerdemain—is a pleasant
“turn,” and on Wednesday this week the Georgia
Magnet will come along and give a further touch
of novelty to the Bijou show.
** * *
At the Town Hall t’other evening, the
Philharmonic Society treated a large, dowdy
audience to Dvorak’s “ Stabat Mater,” and did it
not too badly. The Phil, chorus suffers from
enthusiastic female numerousness, i.e., a lot of in-
ferior voices ought to be asked to retire from it
for the sake of Art, whereas the orchestra needs
more power, as well as polish. But the discipline
is good, and the combined attack of the sexes on
Dvorak’s heavy work, concluding with a spirited
“Amen ” rally, was a credit to conductor Peake.
After the gloomy first part came some popular
selections from “Judas Maccabasus ” (in honor of
the returning contingents, if you please) which
sent one home in a cheerful mood at 10.15 p.ra.
Why wasn’t Col. Tom Price back from
Africa in time to be a Conquering Hero,
of whom the Israelitish woman saith “In
his acts he was like a lion, and like a
lion’s whelp roaring for his prey?” Col. Tom, in
the organ-loft with a limelight in his war-stained
uniform, would have helped the show consider-
ably. (By the way, the men who returned with
the colonel in the Harlech Castle enthusiastically
boo-hooed him because he was cautious enough
not to let them ashore to be “entertained” at
Albany.)
* « * »
Of the four Philharmonic principals, basso
Barker was admirable, as usual, and Gregor
Wood, whose streaky tenor is slowly recovering
from his trip to England, had some happy
moments in “Sound an Alarm.” Madame Slap-
offski, the star of the evening, looked smart in her
old-rose satin, but didn’t stagger the expectant
Philharmonicians with her warble ; and as for
Miss Fanny Lyndhurst—well, she has a weirdly
genuine contralto, a fair knowledge of singing—
, and that’s all. If she could borrow a new plat-
form appearance and a little of Mr. G. Wood’s
self-satisfaction, poor Miss Fanny might get along
nicely, but alas ! her awkward diffidence grows
worse instead of better. Among the audience,
Rev. Bevan made himself the most conspicuous
personage by arriving very late.
#* # *
The grand opera season in Melbourne owed
a good deal of its success to Marshall Hall and his
idolators who “put up with” the Italian operas
and “ Carmen ” for the sake of the one Wagnerian
E reduction, and were barracking for Madame
lapoffski all the time. But the Wagnerites drew
the line at “Bohemian Girl.” They left that to
the vulgar multitude. The v.m., for whom even
the Italian operas had been almost too advanced,
came in their thousands to hear “ Bohemian Girl,”
and the last two performances of Balfe’s funny old
work—matinee and evening—turned away money
from the pay-boxes.
** * *
Miss Graham, the barmaid, who recently
entered the tiger’s cage at Wirth’s, in Mel-
bourne, and drank a glass of champagne to
“Phil,” while the keeper kept the animals at
bay, is a lady typical of the class—fleshy, fair, and
fascinating. When the advt. of her intention to
enter the cage first appeared she received the fol-
lowing letter from a Semitic wag who hangs on
to the skirts of the legal profession :
“ Cemetery Lane, off Tombstone-st., Kew, 12th Novem-
ber, 1900. Miss Graham, Ballarat Star Hotel.—Madam,
—Referring to enclosed advt. we take the liberty of in-
forming you that we can provide you (if required) with
a first-class funeral —glass hearse, and plumes, and three
mourning coaches —for £7 10s. We are prepared to em-
balm you in the real ancient Egyptian style, including
keeping the body on ice for six days, to be viewed by
friends and relations for £1 125., or can do the modern
cheap style, merely stuffed with straw and guaranteed to
keep fresh for three days if under 90 degrees in the Shade,
for 16s. 6d. Kindly mention this letter to your friends,
as should our services be required of course you will not
be attending to matters of business personally. Should
you be assimilated by one of, the tigers, of course, it will be
difficult to separate you, in that case we will bury the
animal at reduced rates. It is possible that you may
survive the experiment, but in the interests of our trade
we can only hope for the best. —We have the honor to he,
Madam, yours admiringly, W. E. Plantum and Co., Ex-
pert Funeral Directors and Ancient Embalming Artists.
P.S.—Pardon the absence of our professional black-edge
stationery, its use at present would be premature,—W.
E. P. and Co., E.F.D. and A.E.A.”


wir
K
3?4
tyjINKIT
TOR HEALTH,
Andyou Derive
Pl£^sU!^E
DRINK IT
for Pleasure
And you Acquire (
Health
m
LI
ZETZ SPA PR'BPRWETAStY LIMITED
■Sydney.
S sobaeeea
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
MVY AHD WAR OFFICE.
imr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.’ 1
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. & Co., Ltd., Liverpool. Agents; I. Rutty & Co., Sydney.
Mr. F. W. Payne, consulting engineer to the
Kia Ora Gold Dredging Co., Ltd., N.Z., has placed an
order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co., South
Melbourne, for all the dredging and gold saving and
tailings-elevating machinery for a complete bucket gold
dredging plant. This is one of a large number of plants
in course of construction by the Otis Co.*
* * * *
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record of 19th October, 1900, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
Society can justifiably point to the adequacy of its re-
serves, which are of a magnitude and a character to
command the fullest confidence. *
* * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * » «
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * m *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
• * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * #
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, andallsortsofiron-work,*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Paringa Consolidated, Kalgoorlie. “The ver-
tical bore operating from the surface of the lease, close to
the Northern Associated boundary, is 1100 ft., and is to
be withdrawn, nothing of value having been intersected.”
The shares, too, have dropped 25 per cent., and they can
afford to drop another 25 per cent., and then be 25 per
cent, more than they are worth. It is a side-on block in
the vicinity of other side-on blocks, all of which have been
prospected to an extent unwarranted by their position
and more than would have been done in any other part
of Australasia. It was only done out here because the
owners of those side-on blocks had more money than
brains.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shaving's, Crucibles, Caustic Soda, -
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc."
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and RACKAROCK-
Hy. Markwald
178
-Mur.isouitN’E;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 37
Brisb.; and at Christchurch , Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 Sr. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide tf Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto-
The Bulletin Christmas Number will be
as big, well-illustrated, and interesting as usual.
In it will be represented a legion of well-known
writers and artists. It will be published on
December 6th, and a single copy will be posted
from The Bulletin office to any N.S.W. address
for (id. in stamps of any Australian State. To
other States 7d., except Queensland, to which a
copy is Bd. post free. To England, the 17. S., or
the Continent of Europe, 9d.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The old, old story. For the financial year to
30th June, 1900, Treas. Holder of S.A. declared that he
had a surplus of £1541, while the Auditor-General replies
that he really had a deficit of about £36,866, and that his
figures are straight-out fake. He charges Holder with
having reckoned £13,800 of trust funds as revenue and
with ha ving omitted to charge himself with £24,607 of
expenditure. And yet Holder was a parson at one time.
* * * *
Westralia is offering in London a per cent,
loan of £BBO,OOO at par. This is at least many miles more
honest than if it sold another 3 per cent, loan at £92 7s.
net. That was about what the last Westralian loan of
£1,000,000 fetched, so in reality some £76,500 of the in-
terest was paid out of the loan itself and called discount.
Even in the present case it isn’t likely that the loan will
realise quite £97, allowing for floatation expenses, stamp
duty, accrued interest and cost of underwriting, at which
rate the interest will be really about £3 12s. 6d. per cent.
It is quite possible that Westralia would have got the
money rather more cheaply than this in Adelaide, Mel-
bourne, and Sydney, but it seems impossible for Wes-
tralian politicians to get out of their old British rut.
S.A. is even more heavily in debt in proportion to popu-
lation than Westralia, and when Westralia was glad to
sell its 3 per cents, in London for about £92 75., S.A. got
£94 19s. lOd. locally for its 3 per cents. Moreover, Wes-
tralia has already borrowed *£1,000,000 in London this
year, which doesn’t improve the prospects ; and it isn’t
popular there just,now, and, besides, things are so bad
even in London at present that the British Government
has itself been borrowing in New York.
* * • *
It is sincerely to be hoped that, when the Com-
monwealth Parliament makes a uniform Life Assurance
law for all Australia, it will cancel the measure which
Minister Drake is now pushing through Queensland
Parliament (assuming that measure becomes law), and
obliterate all other assurance laws of the same kind.
Drake’s Bill provides that every life assurance concern
doing business in Queensland shall deposit £lO,OOO with
the Treasury as security for its policy-holders. In the
case of even a moderate-sized co. this would only make
it certain that the insurers would get about 3d. in the £
of their claims, and a law which takes care to protect 3d.
in the £ and takes no care or heed of the other 19s.
9d. is so miserably inefficient as to be a mockery.
What is wanted first of all is a legal stan-
dard of solvency ; and when a . co. shows by
its balance-sheet that it has enough assets to be solvent
according to the legal standard, it is also necessary to
have a State audit to make sure that the assets are worth
their alleged value. There are only two companies doing
new assurance business in Australia which are so small
that a £lO,OOO deposit would be appreciable security
to anybody, and they are both growing. Their liabilities
will presently attain to dimensions that will make the
£lO,OOO deposit a mockery in their case also. And while
the £lO,OOO deposit doesn’t in any way prevent the start-
ing of little, dubious proprietary assurance co.’s, which
begin with a paid-up capital out of which they can
provide the £lO,OOO, it absolutely prevents the estab-
lishment of mutual societies, which necessarily start
with no funds at all to deposit. This sort of law
would allow the Provident and Industrial Co., or any
other weak little private enterprise, to start, but
if it had existed throughout Australia 50 years or so ago
there would never have been any A.M.P. Society. It is
not a law to protect insurers : only a law to prevent the
creation of mutual life assurance institutions, and to
reserve the profits of the business solely for private
companies.
Some recent returns of the Bank of New South
Wales up to 30th September, 1900 :
Total Re-
serves at
Profits. Dividends. each date.
Sept., 1897 £1,216,565
March, 1898 £88,128 9p.c. = £87,750 1,216,943
Sept., 1898 88,042 9 „ = 87,750 1,217,235
March, 1899 88,738 9 „ = 87,750 1,218,223
Sept., 1899 89,544 9 „ = 87,750 1,220,017
March, 1900 99,858 h
New share V 9 „ = 90,000 1,276,280
premiums 46,405 )
Sept., 1900 100,463 10 „ = 100,000 1,276,743
The profit is the largest realised in any half-year since
March, 1893, and is at the rate of £6 3s. Bd. per cent, per
annum on the capital of £2,000,000, and reserve fund of
£1,250,000. As compared with last March there is a
decline of £25,339 on note circulation ; a decline of
£285,096 in deposits, and a drop of £1,206,984 in cash and
liquid securities. Yet deposits are close on £21,000,000,
and the reserve of cash and liquid securities (£7,942,942)
is equal to somewhere between 30 and 35 per cent, of all
liabilities to the public. The Bank of New South Wales
easily keeps its place as the boss financial institution of
Australasia, and no rival is yet visible on the far horizon.
* * *
According to the just-issued return of Queens-
land’s Chief Inspector of Stock, there were 15,226,479
cattle in the State at the end of 1899 as against 17,552,608
a year previously—decrease 2,326,129 ; and 5,053,836 sheep
as against 5,571,292 a year previously—decline 517,456.
Tasmanian Permanent Executors and Trustees
Association (Launceston, Tasmania):
Total
Dividend and Reserves
Profits. Dividend Tax. at
each date.
March, 1893 .. £434
Sept., 1893 .. £457 7 per cent. = £363 528
March, 1894 .. 144 6 ~ „ = 311 361
Sept., 1894 .. 265 6 „ „ = 300 326
March, 1895 .. 356 6 „ „ = 300 382
Sept., 1895 .. 297 6 „ „ = 300 379
March, 1896 .. 494 6 „ „ = 300 573
Sept., 1896 .. 117 5 „ „ = 262 428
March, 1897 .. 237 6 „ „ = 262 403
Sept., 1897 .. 264 6 „ „ = 262 405
March, 1898 .. 387 5 „ „ = 262 530
Sept., 1898 .. 405 5 „ „ = 262 673
March, 1899 .. 317 5 „ „ = 263 727
Sept., 1899 .. 376 6 „ „ = 263 840
March, 1900 .. 454 5 „ „ = 262 1,032
Sept., 1900 .. 398 5 „ „ = 263 1,167
In a small and rather gradual way this institution may be
said to have begun to look up. It has now £5OO reserve
fund and £667 undivided profit.
* * * *
The Independent Order of Foresters (Canada)
breaks out in a new place. This is the concern which
professes to have found a specially cheap method of life
assurance, and which, at date of last available issue of the
Insurance Blue Book, had over £32,000,000 of insurances
in force and only about £518,000 assets towards meeting
this liability—the A.M.P. Society, at same date, being
returned as having not quite twice as much insurance in
force and nearly thirty times the funds to pay icith. The
Independent Order of Foresters has been advertising to
this effect in Sydney Telegraph :
(1) The 1.0. F. being a Fraternal Association formed for
the purpose of giving substantial assurance at cost price,
was not called upon to follow the scale of premiums set
down by old-line companies, all of which exist primarily
to make a profit out of insurances.
(2) Assurance will always be cheaper in a fraternal
society than in an old-line company. These companies
must charge higher premiums because of their higher
cost of management.
(3) The elimination of the ordinary bonus which is
directly charged for in advance by an excess payment in
the premium, and the non-collection of other “ loading”
from which to pay a surrender value, are also cheapen-
ing inventions of the 1.0. F.
(4) The surplus is increasing more rapidly to-day than
ever before in our history.
These are four principal points from the latest
1.0. F. advertisement which has come under The Bulle-
tin’s notice, and for the good of the Australian public
this paper points out the following facts in reply :
(1) Such offices as the A.M.P., Maoriland Government
Department, National Mutual, Colonial Mutual, Austra-
lian Widows’ Fund, Mutual Life Association, City Mutual,
and Temperance and General don’t exist to make profit
out of the insurances any more than the 1.0. F. does.
They are mutual institutions where all the profit goes to
the insurers.
(2) All these institutions are just as fraternal as the
1.0. F. They don’t howl so much about their fraternity,
but the principle is all there.
(3) The 1.0.F.’s costs of management in 1898 (balance-
sheet for 1899 isn’t yet to hand), according to balance-
sheet published in the Review for July, page 393, were
£9 12s. per cent, on total income. This includes “ costs
of management” and “contingencies.” Further, the
insured has to pay “ court dues ” in addition to his pre-
mium, and when these are reckoned in with the expenses
it really looks as if the 1.0.F.’s expense rate varied from
£lll2s. per cent, up to £4O per cent., according to the
size of policy and age of member. And it charges en-
trance-fees in addition. The A.M.P.’s expense rate, at
latest advices, was less than £9 10s. per cent. And this
covers everything.
(4) The 1.0. F. claims as one of its virtues “ the elimina-
tion of the ordinary bonus.” Yet the writer has before
him documents in which it claims as one of its virtues
that it hasn’t eliminated the bonus. Yet it certainly
hasn’t paid any bonuses.
(5) The fact, so much bragged about, that it doesn’t
pay surrender values is one of the strongest possible ob-
jections to the 1.0. F. How many thousands of people
have fallen into poverty after maintaining their policies
for many years and been quite unable to keep up their
premiums, and but for the fact that the policies were kept
alive out of the surrender value would not have had a
copper to leave to their widows and orphans after all.
The concern which boasts that its policies have no such
reserve to keep them alive when the insurer falls on evil
days has strange ideas of what constitutes excellence.
(6) And as regards the rapid increase of the 1.0.F.’s
“ surplus,” that office apparently, according to all the
recognised rules of life assurance, has no surplus, but a
stupendous deficit. But it seems to call all its funds sur-
plus—just as the Bank of New South Wales might, if it
pleased, call all its assets surplus, and say nothing of the
millions of deposits owing by it to the public.
* • * *
Some results in the matter of the Intercolonial
Investment Land and Building Co. (Sydney), which closed
its fifteenth year on 31st October, 1900 -
Profits. I Dividends, &c. Reserves at
| ’ Each Date.
1891 .. I £6,287
1892 .. £1,006 7,293
1893 .. 831 Written off .. £5OO 7,624
1894 .. 1,822 Written off .. 1,000 8,446
1895 .. 2,652 Written off .. 3,000 8,098
1896 .. 6,085 10 per cent. = 3,200 10,983
1897 612 o/Written off .. 1,000 \ s ,,
1897 .. 6,123 j 10 p er cen t _ 3,295 / 12 - 811
1898 .. 4,916 8£ per cent. = 2,786 14,941
1899 .. 4,235 7 percent. = 2,325 16,851
1900 .. 4,392 7 per cent. = 2,339 18,904
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £12,500 ; reserve for
equalisation of dividends, £3500; and undivided profit
balance, £2904 ; total, £18,940. Among them they equal
more than half the capital. One of them, the equalisa-
tion of dividends reserve, should be abolished and
lumped in with the general reserve fund. The Inter-
colonial Investment, Land and Building Co. can’t require
to draw on that reserve in order to keep up its present
dividend unless profits drop about one-half, and by that
time it is probable that something so bad will have hap-
pened to the co. that it will be advisable to keep all the
reserves in hand to meet possible losses. The equalisation
of dividends reserve is objectionable in every case, for
this same reason. During the last nine years the Inter-
colonial has provided £SSOC to cover depreciation, and
added £12,617 to reserves ; also, it has £73,763 of assets,
and its liabilities to depositors and all other creditors are
only £17,417, so it trades almost entirely on its own funds,
and occupies a very strong position.
• • * •
N.S.W. Mining Laws : Warnford Lock, formerly
manager of the Wentworth mines, is going to manage a
mine at Johannesburg when the way is clear. He left
N.S.W. with a sour taste in his mouth in re its mining
laws. And no wonder, for they are bad enough.
Lock describes them as a tangled mass of ambiguity
and contradictions, admirably designed to encourage
litigation. The labor conditions he sets down as
the invention of Labor Parliaments to create an artificial
demand for workmen. A N.S.W. mining title, he says, is
a mere legal fiction —a tenancy dependent upon unfore-
seen circumstances, and the goodwill or otherwise of an
official whose ruling is final cannot by any stretch of
fancy be deemed a title. The employer is at the mercy
of his employes as the law doubtless intended 'he should
be. They may quit work at any moment, denounce him
for breach of the Labor Covenants of his lease ‘and lay
claim to the forfeited ground. But this is a somewhat
extravagant view of the position. Most fine flute-players
are fond of “variations.”
* * *
Grassy Gully, N.S.W. : “ The interim report is
satisfactory reading.” All Grassy Gully literature
is, but it doesn’t pay divs. Take the last as a
sample. “ Battery and concentrating plant ran 558
hours, crushing in four weeks 228 tons from the
old dump, producing 59|oz of gold, realising £1 n 135.,
besides 34cwt. concentrates valued at £5O nett.
Total mine-cost for the four weeks, £l5l 10s., giving
a profit of £76 2s. lOd.” Is nothing allowed for mining
the 228 tons ? If the 34cwt. concentrates are worth £5O
nett they should contain lOoz. to the ton, which the writer
doesn’t believe —concentrates from sdwt. rock are not
usually worth lOozs. But that is not all. “ The tailings
average sdwts. 14 grs. fine gold per ton, and the
slimes 16dwts. per ton, containing a total esti-
mated value of £269 16s. Out of the profits com-
plete assay and cyanide plants have been pur-
chased : the latter is to do 100 tons a week. Why, a
plant like that might almost be sent by post. “ Poppet-
heads have been constructed in readiness for a winding
giant, and the cost of these and all other mine works
ave been included in working expenses.” _ The Grassy
Gully mine looks very like a bad failure, but it is wonder-
ful how hard little mining concerns die in N.S.W. They
generally live for some time on newspaper suction alone.
Accepting the return as correct, it confesses that the
gold is only worth £3 per oz. and that the extraction is
much less than 60 per cent.
* * * *
Young Australia and Great Western Mines,
Oobar, N.S.W., have been placed under a working bond
for £30,000 each. Some two years ago the TharsisOo.,
working one of the world’s few great permanent copper
mines (in Spain), set aside a large sum of money
with the object of acquiring a copper property else-
where. So far they have not succeeded in getting
one, but it is nevertheless a compliment to Cobar
that they should have taken a working bond on these
twomines. Some time ago the Tharsis representative exam-
ined the Cobar-Chesney, the price thereof being £200,000
cash with liabilities amounting to £lO,OOO at least. This
was “ tew ” much. The Tharsis Co. has now the oppor-
tunity of securing two mines next to the Cobar-Chesney
on one side, and the Occidental on the other, for much
less than a third of the money asked for one, with an
area of nearly 3000 ft. on the line of reef, and in a gold
and copper camp the like of which doesn’t exist in any
other part of N.S.W. If the continuation of the copper
zone proved in the Chesney is equally established in the
others there is no doubt the option will be exercised and
the chances are altogether in favor of it. With such a
consummation the era of working a gigantic “ mother ”
lode with baby batteries and baby management will be
over.
* * * »
“O.B.” on recent letter to The Bulletin re
wages paid at Robinson and Rice’s mine, Gundagai:
“ Rice (practical miner) manages property and pays wages
according to the ability of miners, viz., Bs., Bs. 4d., and
9s. per day, but some useless men, calling themselves
miners, have offered to work for less, pleading ‘ hard-up,’
&c., and have got round the good-natured Rice to the
extent of getting a couple of weeks’ work to line their
ribs ; these have been paid-off at lower rates than above.
Unless a miner is capable, he is not kept employed by
Rice, who recognises the good man by paying more than
the ruling rate of wages.” By the way, the rich speci-
mens lately found at the R. and R. mine have not yet
been treated, but are still in the bank in Gundagai.
* * * *
The underground movements in the B.H. Junc-
tion reported on Nov. 3 continue ; and one of the two
main shafts has since been thrown out of use. This in-
terferes a good deal with haulage ; but it does not seem
at present as though the move will result in much, if any,
loss of ore. Some time in the future, though, it looks as
if this crippled co. will have to go to the very heavy
expense of sinking another shaft.
* * * »
B.H. Block 10 Co. issues first-rate reports, so
ample and precise that one can sum up Broken Hill pros-
pects better from them than from perhaps any others that
are sent out. The co. has just had one of its best half-
years since the famous kaolin pipe or “ chimney ” was
exhausted. From £5740, made in the March-Sept, half of
1896, when the co. was first thrown wholly on its sulphide
resources, profits have now climbed up to £51,747. The
rise in the value of metals has put thousands into the co.’s
bag. Lead, for instance, has gone from £l2 to £l7 6s. 9d.
(the latter was last half-year’s average—it is a trifle more
now). So, as the mine turns out about 7000 tons of lead
each half-year, the rise in the value of the metal alone
means close upon £37,000 a half-year. The rest of the
increased profit comes from the treatment of more ores ;
the better treatment of the ores has more or less counter-
balanced a decline in the metallic value thereof. In
the first half of ’9B the mill treated 53,866 tons (before
that a good deal of the stuff was sold crude) ; the profit
was £20,546. Last half, 72,246 tons ore was treated for a
profit of £51,747. In the beginning of’9B the profit was
7s. 7d. per ton of ore ; last half it was 14s. 5d per ton.
But whereas the average value of the ore in the beginning
of ’9B was 16'870z. silver, 1973 per cent, lead and 25'53
zinc, in last half-year it was 14'560z. silver, 14'23 percent,
lead and 18'55 per cent. zinc.
* * * *
Block 10 sells most of its products delivered on
the mine, and so it is impossible to tell from the co.’s
figures precisely what a movement of £1 a ton for
lead means to it. As nearly as can be ascertained, though,
about 10 per cent of lead is saved (= three-fourths of the
total quantity i the ore); and at that rate every £1 rise
means a gain of 25., and the £5 rise which has taken place
means 10s. gain per ton of ore. If lead were back at the
figure at which it stood when sulphide treatment began—
say, £l2 a ton—there would still be an average profit of
about ss. per ton of ore ; but that, as shown above, is
about half-a-crawn less than the profit that actually was
made a few years back. It comes, then, to this : That
the improveint-uGS in the process of treatment have not, in
spite of a thousand vague statements to the contrary, fully
counterbalance*! the deterioration in the quality of the ore*.
In other words, the ore has become worse faster than
the treating process has become better ; and for its fat
profits, compared with the lean ones made when sulphide
treatment commenced, Block 10 has to thank the rise
in the price of metals, coupled with an increase of about
50 per cent, in the output of ore. And what is the case
at Block 10 is almost certainly the case all along the lode.
It is a less rosy view of Broken Hill and of the work done
there by the mechanical engineers during the past five
years than is commonly presented ; but it seems to be
the right one.
So long as the prices of metals keep steady,
Broken Hill profits are all right; for, judging by the
value of the ore disclosed at the deep exploring levels, the
quality is not likely to taper off very rapidly during the
next few years. It is quite likely, in fact most likely, that
improvements will fully counterbalance the deteriora-
tion. Everything, in that case, depends on prices. What
they are likely to be the writer doesn’t pretend to
know. But a few things about the problem are know-
able. The first is that the £l2 basis of four or five years
ago (of course it went even lower than that in the
early “ nineties ”) was not a fair basis. American silver
legislation had boomed silver production, lead production
had boomed with it. There wasn’t anything to artificially
prop lead as there was in connection with silver
(though even the silver prop was a poor one), and with a
supply a long way ahead of the demand down of course
the price of lead toppled, and stayed there till stocks were
reduced. It is quite likely, though, that the very low
price artificially stimulated consumption ; and in that
case the chances are that, with the consumption slowly
reduced through the high prices of the last year or two,
these prices will presently weaken a trifle—and of course
the increased production will work in the same direction.
Also, most likely, both silver and lead have participated
in the general temporary war-rise. Butras against this
latter put the fact that freights, coal, coke, stores, &c.,
are also higher from the same cause, considerably in-
cre sing working expenses for the time. It does not
look as though profits were going to be any higher, but
that, on the contrary, a reduction is possible. Of course
when somebody comes along to tell the co.’s how to make
profitable use of the 20 per cent, of zinc lm the ore all tne
conjectures will have to be revised. But that somebody
has not sent in his card yet.
* * * *
The proposal before the N.S.W. Public Works
Committee to build a line from Broken Hill
border to compete with the Silverton Tramway •
been flattened out. All but two of the mining co
fused to say a word in its favor; and the Broken Hill
business people said they were satisfied. Iro ja y J
are; they no doubt pass on the extra expense (the co
pays about 50 per cent, annually on the first cost °t bmldmg
the line) to their customers. In fact, when, aOI F® * f
ago, the co. reduced the freight on certain lines, some ot
the merchants protested that the reduction was t £
to be announced all at once—if it had been spht up,
would have been able to escape sharing it with their cus-
tomers 1 Besides, the mining co’s are tied to the co. t
1904 ; and they supply three-fourths of the business.
* • • *
All work stopped again at Lake George Mines.
So that it apparently doesn’t pay to cyanide the gossan.
But then the L.G.M. is such a liar of a concern.
• * • *
“Moses Moss” (London Truth) : “Were it
not for the weakness of Hannan’s Brownhill shares the
W.A. market would doubtless have displayed greater
strength during the past week. There is 1,0 u , I
reason why the experience of Hannan’s Brownhill should
regulate the prices of other high-class mines, as the for-
mer mine is in quite an exceptional position, and has
nothing in common with the Lake View Consols, Ivan-
hoe, Great Boulder, Perseverance,” etc. And yet only a
few weeks previously this boomster tipped Hannan s
Brownhill shares, which were then over £B, to go to over
£l2 ; and now that they are about half their then value,
instead of apologising for his ignorance or lying, he says
they have nothing in common with the other mines—a
gentle insinuation that the mine is outside of the Golden
Mile.
* * » *
Brownhill: “ The recent collapse of several of
the stopes in this mine has led to the discharge of many
hands. The management has also determined on a policy
of strict economy until the results of the prospecting
work now being carried on in the lower levels are known.
This has induced them to dispense with the services of
nearly all the surface hands and to close down the mill for
some time ” By-the-way, does anybody remember what
the writer said of this mine months ago—not that he cares
much whether they do or not. Nobody else said anything
anyhow.
( Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL GLASSES OF CARMEHTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To ffleasure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
£eorg* 8t Barrack Sts., Sydocy
“ARDATH”
The Highest Class Tobacco,
Has no Equal
• .
m
Quality
and
Aroma.
Will not affect
the Nerves.
mmaßW99
V*.
n
&
*2
ft?
m
am
wei
i VHA
O O Vi
The 'most
Luxurious
Form
of
Smoking.
Free from all
scented matter
In Three Strengths—Mild, Medium and Full.
Name of nearest agent post free on application to IWI. RUTTY & CO.,
Sydney.
SOCIETY
LEROY LIQUEUR
BRANDY
To avoid accidents, whatever mercy is to
be extended by N.S.W. Govt, to prisoners
in celebration of the inauguration of the
Commonwealth, should be doled out when the
festivities are well over. All the spielers and
magsmen of Australia, with a few cargoes from
elsewhere, will be in Sydney early in January for
the great spree; and as Sydney has plenty of
“guns” of her own it would be just as well if in-
stead of convicts being released on an extreme
scale, the police locked up as many “undesirable”
characters as possible.
* * * •
Gov. Tennyson’s prayer for Federated
Australia (wired all over Australia to the daily
press !) is a mere topical production. “We
glorify Thee that Thou hast been pleased in Thy
Providence to unite Australia in the bonds of
brotherly love, and in one Commonwealth under
our Most Gracious Sovereign Lady Queen Vic-
toria ” reads as though the prayer-maker wanted
to share the glorification equally between God and
the lady whose name happens somehow or other
to be associated with Australian unity. Also, it
would have been pretty cheeky for the Governor
to jump the local Bishop’s claim as boss prayer-
maker to his church were it not an accepted fact
that a supplication composed by a real hereditary
lord always finds more favor at the Throne of
Eternal Grace than any petition formulated by a
mere jumped-up prelate.
• * • m
The proposal to land the Governor-General
at Sydney in a state barge has been set aside.
What is to become of that barge ?
* » * *
Absurdity could hardly go much further
than the proposal that the Duke of York, after
practically voyaging to Australia in a liner,
should, upon nearing Sydney, transfer himself to a
war-ship, put on a uniform, assume command of
the accompanying squadron, and dawn upon
dazzled Australian eyes in full naval set-out.
Royalty doubtless exists upon shams, but surely
there would be about such a grotesque arrange-
ment a little too much of the limelight and trap-
door business for even those foolish folk who are
preparing to read something romantic and heroic
between the commonplace lines of poor harmless
little York.
What a Colossal Goat N.S.W. Premier
Lyne will make of himself if he allows the
spludgy aldermanic soul to get its vulgar aspira-
tions embodied in the Commonwealth celebra-
tions ! But, when Botany Alderman Dacey re-
SAVING HIM TROUBLE.
“ Well, I never thought he’d make his mind up to marrh her.”
“He didn’t. She made her mind up to marry him!”
cently proposed that a feature of the big proces-
sion should be a representation of the landing of
Captain Cook at Botany “by means of two lorries
drawn by one team of horses, the back lorry to
carry the boat containing men representing Cap-
tain Cook and his companions, while the front lorry
carried the shore scene of the blacks in an attitude
of hostility ” —even Long Bill was staggered, and
faltered forth the word “burlesque!” Where-
upon Dacey complacently assured him that he
(Dacey) was “altogether opposed to anything of
a grotesque nature.” But, as Dacey and his like
obviously don’t know the grotesque when they
see it, the smaller finger they have in the pie the
less will the celebration proceedings partake of
the “ fantastic tricks before high heaven ” that
constitute the aldermanic notion of what is due to
a great occasion.
* • * •
Sydney society, unfortunately backed up
by prominent politicians who should know
better, is developing the idea that Gov.-General
Hopetoun will hold the rank of Viceroy. The
same class of people frequently tried to persuade
themselves that ordinary Governors were Vice-
roys, and almost persuaded one or two Governors
that they were so. But there is nothing more cer-
tain than that Hopetoun will no more be a Vice-
roy than any of the Governors of the States. He
will have no Sovereign povver. He will not even
represent the Sovereign generally. His power
will be limited by the terms of his commission,
and it will be within the power of the courts to
determine whether an act of power done by him
is within the limits of his authority. Gov.
Denison, and other local Governors, laughed at
Sydney society leaders for persisting in treating
them as Viceroys, but some Governors liked it.
• * • *
The admission by ticket to see Jimmy
Governor tried at Darlinghurst last week proves
that the ghoulish strain still lives. As far back as
records go Sydney courts have been too small to
accommodate the crowds anxious to gaze on
atrocious scoundrels at their last appearance
before Judge and jury. The more atrocious the
scoundrel, the fiercer the crush. Several took a
double lunch with them to Jimmy’s entertain-
ment, thinking it possible the Judge might sit on
into the night, as N.S.W. Judges have done in
murder cases before. John Knatchbull was the
first person tried in the then new court in which
Jimmy Governor appeared the other day, and
Jimmy’s crowd looked something the same as
Knatchbull’s. The females, now munching sweets,
now whispering and nudging comments, were
especially like those that watched the trial of
nobleman Knatchbull, the murderer of Mrs.
Jamieson, in 1844.
“ Been There ” to The Bulletin :
With regard to the drink-cure nostrum now being
somewhat boomed in Melbourne, the hopelessly erroneous
view generally taken of the matter is well exemplified in
the Age’s recent assertion that some of the treated per-
sons have now _ “ not only got over their liking
for drink, but ’ have even acquired a revulsion
for the smell or even the thought of holic liquor.”
Now, in many
of the worst
cases of alco-
holism—so far
from there
being any
“liking” for
alcohol in it-
self there
exists precise-
ly the intense
revulsion re-
ferred to.
Speaking—
unfortunately
—from an ex-
tended per-
sonal experi-
ence, 1 can
say that I
have often
(for the sake
of the nerve
stimulant)
forced alcohol
down in spite
of the most
soul- sicken-
ing systemic
* repu gn ance—
the stomach
at times hav-
ing rejected
several slowly
successive
“ w h i skies ”
before one
would make
good its
ground and I
would begin
to feel like a
human being
aga i n. 11
makes the thousands of similarly-tortured alcoholists
smile pitifully when they hear their weakness referred to
as a “love of liquor,” or even as a “ brutal appetite ”
in itself a brutal misapprehension of the facts.
HIS EXCUSE.
“ Milkman, you’re no less than an hour late this
morning. What’s happened?”
“ Well, mum, I went and got married yesterday.”
N.S.W. State Governor’s official resi-
dence has been appropriately fixed in the Colonial
Secretary’s establishment in Macquarie-street.
That has been practically the official residence of
N.S.W. Premiers for years back. Parkes slept
there most nights of his Premership, Alexander
Stuart was nursed there by Dailey, and Dibbs,
Jennings, and Reid patronised its bedsteads,
Dailey used to allege that the huge bedstead
bought at State expense by the luxurious Parkes
for his room cost £4OO.
• * m *
The council of N.S.W. Public Service
Association has disappointed most of its members
through its lack of success in agitating for large
reforms in the interests of public servants.
At last meeting of the council a long and earnest
discussion was held as to whether it was more
advisable to sweep out the Govt, offices with tea-
leaves or with sawdust. After a close fight the
.sawdust men carried the day, and a communica-
tion is to be respectfully made in the proper
way through the proper channel, requesting that
this important reform be at once instituted.
m * m m
Last Victorian general election brought
out some curious candidates. One big man, stand-
ing for a very important consti-
tuency, paid a newspaper for a big
space in which to set forth his
views, and accordingly a reporter
was sent along to his office for an
interview. After waiting the best
part of an hour, the scribe was
ushered into the presence of the
great man, and made known his
business. “Hum,” said the candi-
date, “you want my views for the
article. Well, I think you had
better see Mr. Blank.” A touch
on a bell-push brought a mild clerk
into the office. “ Mr. Blank,” said
the prospective M.L.A., “ this
gentleman wants my views on
politics—kindly give them to him.
I am too busy just now.”
A married woman giving evidence last
week at a Melbourne police court calmly deposed
that she was a mother before she was 13 —several
years before her proud hubby led her to the altar.
The journal which chronicled the fact devoted
half-a-column to sympathetic flapdoodle about the
Chinese Inland Mission.
Cockburn, the S. A. terminal station on the
Broken Hill line, formed the usual rifle-club a few
months back, and got the usual reply from
Govt, that tne. latter had not got the
weapons for it to play soldiers with.
Thereupon Cockburn snorted
and the new rifle-club
held a meeting.
Somebody pro-
posed that asS.A.
was so desper-
ately hard-up
as to be un-
able to hand
out rifles all
round, poor
old Roberts
in S’Africa
be worried
for a dozen
or two cap-
tured Mau-
sers. An
amendment
thatthe com-
pliments of
Cockburn be
sent to Botha
with the re-
quest for a
dozen cap-
tured British
rifles was
moved and se-
conded, but tl:e
president ruled
it out with
sc i)rn, and
“Bobs” alone
got the commis-
sion. Appar-
ently, too, I<*
has been struck
bv Cockburns
cheek ; for he has
replied that if he
can manage it the
Mausers shall be
sent along.
Dear Bulletin.—l
am employed in a wood-
and-coal-yard in a Syd-
ney suburb and the
following are my work-
" ing hours—s a.m. to 7 a.m.,
7.30 to 12.30, 1 to (5.30, then 3.
'or 4 hours over the books. I
get neither weekly half, nor a v
other, holiday,* and, as I live on 1 h i,
premises, the bo ?s generally contrives
to find me also a few hours’ i ok(n,
Sunday. All for 9s. a week and “found ’
(in food and bed). Now where does the earl.'.-
closing racket come in here? Also what about,
sweating ?—E.C.S.
• * ■ •
Cabled last week that Louis Bp! ha had’
founded a new Boer Republic at Roosenka
within 200 miles of Pretoria, and that a force ( f
1000 Boers under De la Rev were “displaying
activity” 47 miles north of Kimberley. Also that
a British convoy had been attacked at Vryheid,
near Natal frontier. And yet we have people
proposing another Australian Drunk in celebrr-..
tion of Peace in S’Africa.
* * ¥ *
The old fig-tree in the Corso is one of the
charms of Manly. It doesn’t hurt anybody ; yet
some vandals propose to cut it down, although it
would come in handy some of these days to hang
the aldermen on. It would accommodate tl e
lot at once—in fact, to quote Alfred Stephen’s
first father-in-law, quite a large number of male,
factors could die comfortably at the same time ol
that tree.
WOMEN DON’T REASON.
SHE: "There! I toll you you’d yet a cold sit-
ting out on that damp lawn”
HE: "But, mil dear, the cold’s id me ’ ead ."
“THE ETERNAL SMILE.”
This is a woman’s fate, to be for ever smiling,
To hide grief’s cruel sign in that sweet line
Of cheek and lip, so dimpling and beguiling.
Ah. few have learned to hear ’mid silver laughter
The strangled sobs that rise ; when glow bright
eyes.
Few guess the storm of tears that follows after.
But he who knows our heart, its tender mystery,
Sees in its strife the subtlest tragedy of life,
And in a woman’s smile can read her history.
AIRLIE.


J.D.K.Z. GID.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the- world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and 1 -15th. Full strength, I(>‘s tup. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon,
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
SoreTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ **
Sir Morell Mackenzie. M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only *>Jters.
“ Fluid ’’can be purchased of -
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
Your Next Boots
The only way for anyone without experience
in the boot line to find out the weak points
in a boot is by wearing it. If you have not
yet worn our' Boots let th.e.next new pair you
buy be a pair of
Callaghan Boots.
Ladies’ Tan Boots, 15/6, 17/6, 19/6.
Ladies' French Patent Leather Button Boots, 23/6.
Add 9d. for postage.
Gent.’s Tan Lace Boots, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-.
Gent.’s Black Vici Kid Lace Boots, 23/6.
Add 1/- for postage.
If vou do so, you will soon find out t'lre \v«fi
points in the boots you are wearing now.
CALLAGHAN & SON,. 1
395 George St., .Sydney.
‘ ‘ Diogenes ’ to
The Bulletin on
“ tipping ” :—•
In several Sydney
restaur nts, mainly
those where foreign
waiters are employed,
the Eu.o,lean curse of
“ tipping” is gradually
being introduced, The
waiter hovers round
you, sn.iles sweetly,
cansults you with im-
pressive fuss, and
makes believe that he
is conferring a great
favor on you. Then
he gives you a bill and
faw is on you while
you pay— or splits up
half-a-crown into six-
pences —and scowls
wi e i you don’t take
notice of his hints. In
Europe tipping has led
to the most abject
sweating. In London
some waiters get no
wages—they have to
pay considerable sums
per week for the privi-
lege of levying this
blackmail upon the
customer. At Gath’s,
or a iv big London
rest a i rant, or Ditval’S
in Paris, the waiter
will ask you for his tip
if you should forget to
give it. If you don’t
tip there is a com-
plete ostracism by the
servants. They take
your order with punc-
tilious politeness and
then forget to execute
it. You complain to
the manager, but you
get no satisfaction —
and eventually you
cave in. The Paris cab-
man asks for his fare
first and then demands
his “pourboire.” If
you don’t give it there
is a row, and sympathy
is against yo u. In
N.S.W. the railway
porters regularly look
for tips ; also sleeping-
car attendants, guards,
&c Ditto in Victoria.
This will lead eventu-
ally to reduction of
wages—as it has in
Europe—a competition
for places where tips
are given, and pre-
miums afterwards paid
as a matter of course
by servants who want
to put themselves in
the way of tips. Aus-
tralians should sit
down heavily on the
introduction of this
wretched European
custom. A tip is twice
cursed. It curseth
him who gives and
him who receives.
Here, indeed, the re-
ceiver is worse than
the thief. The Rai i way
Commissioners should
instantly dismiss any
man caught taking a
tip; and the “John-
nies ” who show their
travelled ways by
giving tips to railway
men should be fined
heavily. The London
County Council is the
first public body in
Europe that has made a stand against tipping, and has
dismissed employes found accepting tips—or rather, to
give them their true names, “bribes,” “blackmail,”
or “ charity.” Here our Railway Commissioners should
do the same.
* * * •
Three Richmond (Melb.) J’s.P. last week
sent to gaol for six months a young woman,
enceinte, for stealing two pairs of shoes. This is the
same awful bench which fines the push-leader 10s.
and the brutal assaulter 20s. or 3 days. Of course
the sacred rights of Property must be protected,
even at the expense of criminally branding an
unborn baby. All the J’s.P. are councillors and
in business.
* * * *
The Victorian, beak—who habitually lets
off cowardly assaulters and ruffianly wife-beaters
with a nominal fine—evens-up matters by falling
with great tonnage upon occasional delinquents.
A youth, whose love-letters showed his mind to be
temporarily unhinged, was before Ballarat bench
last week for presenting a revolver at his lady-
love’s head, and though a medico deposed that,
while not actually insane, he was a fit subject
for detention and observation, a discerning bench
sentenced him to two years’ hard labor !
* * * *
You mustn’t even whisper “Bonfires” in
S.A. just now. During the Mafeking Drunk,
when day by day the cable-liar was sweeping the
last disorderly remnants of the Boer army off the
earth, and when Barnum Powell was still a hero
and Mafeking no wretched fake, S. A. decided to
have a further great and glorious time on the
Declaration of Peace. It did not strike the hys-
terical State that if it believed in what it
screeched there would be no more need to declare
peace than there is for a cat to declare peace with
the mouse after it has swallowed the last of its little
victim’s tail; nothing, in fact, struck the State
—it was simply in the mood to get drunk on
hop-beer, and bash its neighbor’s hat, and
hug its neighbor’s daughter, and make a hideous
row. For a start, it formed a “national com-
mittee,” upon which the Govt, smiled approvingly,
and built bonfires in the most conspicuous places,
and prepared medals, for a few thousand children,
and laid in large stocks of crackers, and con-
structed numerous effigies of 80-year-old Kruger
to dance round. And now, having for the most
part recovered its sanity, it looks and feels as
foolish as a grown man reasonably might who is
discovered with a cracker-squib in one hand and
A “LIGHTNING SKETCH .
iOl'r Artist (who occasionally does this sort of thing for the benefit of
temperance societies, woman-suffrage brotherhoods, and other good
causes) : “ Ladies and gentlemen, I will now conclude my
(Faint and dauoi evening’s entertainment by one
more portrait, which I am sure
you will all recognise.”
(Faint and doubtful applause.)
But of all men in the world who should come
forward to propose the vote of thanks but the original
of the last sketch ! He, it seems, had, unknown to
the orator of the evening, been among the audience—
having previously shaved off his beard with thalice
aforethought •
the effigy of an old man—old enough to be his
grandfather—in the other. The crackers he can
throw away, and the effigies he can use up in his
garden ; it’s the bonfires that he is at his wits’
ends to know what to do with.
* * * *
Henry Styche, of Christchurch (M.L.)
was found guilty last week and sentenced to
seven years’ gaol, though an appeal is under
way. Styche was the gentleman accused of
persistently offering a doctor £2OO by anony-
mous letter if he would murder Mrs. Styche.
The doctor, if he felt inclined to murder anybody
for £2OO, was to signify by advertising for a dog-
cart, and in order to “string on” the anonymous
one he expressed his craving accordingly. Mrs.
Styche’s name wasn’t mentioned directly in any
of the letters, and Styche didn’t personally offer
to sell a dog-cart to the doctor, and he never
opened any direct communication about the
necessity for taking-off Mrs. Styche. So 1
far as the preliminary investigation went the
Styches seemed to be a happy pair with no other
woman on the horizon. It was a shadowy case all
through, with a crippled type-writing machine as
chief witness, and it was further complicated by
the fact that Mrs. Styche went temporarily mad
after her husband’s arrest. Direct evidence was
nil, and the circumstantial evidence was even
more foggy and circumlocutory than usual—some-
thing like a mental sea-serpent by moonlight, so
to speak.
* * * •
A Bulletin correspondent sends this re-
markable story !
On Sunday morning, 11th instant, a man (whose name
is said to be Deaggan) was shot in the store of a Mrs.
Wardrobe at Picton, N.S.W. The story goes that the
man was taken to be a burglar, and as he would not
come out of the place when challenged by a couple of
constables he was fired at—by some one else—and hit.
Some peculiar features about this bombardment make
still more curious what happened later. About three
days later Deaggan was taken from the gaol hospital,
Parramatta, to the Parramatta District Hospital, and
there his arm was removed in the presence of five or six
doctors. Gangrene had spread upwards to the
shoulder, which had to be cut through ; and the
lower part of the unfortunate man’s arm was alive. The
forearm was being eaten, away, the wound having been
" blown ” ; and for a.couple of inches from the elbow up-
wards the flesh was black ; from there on to the shoulder,
green. Who is responsible for this? Will'the head of
the proper dept, have a report made, and the above state-
ments contradicted (if possible !) ?
The murder of Hugh Lavery at Beulah
(Vio.), presumably by Charles Gluck, promises
to be about the most difficult case met with this
year, unless an off-hand jury gets out of the
scientific difficulty by hanging Gluck in a general
sort of way. Lavery hired Gluck —apparently
almost a stranger—to work on his farm, and 24
hours after the commencement of the engagement
Gluck apparently butchered Lavery in the dead
of night with an axe and a razor —Gluck’s own
axe and razor. The accused gave himself up.
His story is simply that he woke up to find him-
self lying on the floor in Lavery’s room, beside the
bed on which lay Lavery’s dead body, with the
blood-stained axe and razor near him. Presum-
ably he was walking in his sleep when he did the
crime. There was no visible motive and no
attempt at plunder. Nobody can prove that
Gluck wasn’t walking in his sleep when he
killed Lavery—if he did kill Lavery, though
nobody can prove that either, and Gluck’s
confession doesn't cover that point. A drama
could be written about the wholly-unsus-
pected third person —-man or woman who
sneaked into the house, or who lived on the pre-
mises and simply sneaked about the house, and
killed Lavery with Gluck’s property ! Then the
somnambulist, troubled by the noise, wandered
around in his dreams till he settled down to sleep
again on the floor of the other man’s bedroom and
found himself in gruesome company in the morn-
ing ! Gluck is to be tried at Ballarat on 10th
Dec. If some dramatic co. went to Ballarat and
played the “Silver King” persistently before all
the possible jurymen it might save his life ; in
that drama Wilfred Denver also wakes up to find
himself beside a dead body, and reckons that
Geoffrey Ware’s remains are on his head. If
nobody plays “ Silver King ” at Ballarat between
this and the 10th, Gluck’s chances probably don’t
amount to much.
* * * *
The cable-board outside S.M. Herald
office in King-st., Sydney, read as follows on 22nd
Nov.:—
THE WAR.
Legislative Assembly All-Night Sitting.
The Leg. Assembly sat all night, discussing the
Women’s Franchise Bill. The second reading agreed to
by 52 to 20. The Bill passed through committee.
Many a true word printed by mistake.
* * * *
There are now nearly a dozen persons in
Victoria awaiting trial for murder or man-
slaughter, and within the last month over a score
of such have come before the local courts. The
Contingent blood-drunk.
jl m %
Coroner Can-
dler remarked, m
Melbourne t’other
day, that the
police should re-
ceive instructions
in midwifery.
This apropos a
confinement that
took place in the
University Gar-
dens. There were
a married woman,
a constable, and
several men and
boys about, but
nobody seems to
have paid any at-
tention to the
usual outcome of
such an occur-
rence, which pro-
mptly died. If
Melbourne ladies
continue as sud-
den and casual as
heretofore there
will presently be
an accouchement
in the middle of
the Block or on
Parliament House
steps.
At a meeting
of Grafton (N.S.
Wales) branch of
the W.C.T.U., a
Bellinger River
clergyman, in
dealing with the
attitude of the
churches to the
temperance move-
ment, named a
certain ecclesias-
tic who, after the
offertory was re-
ceived at a Sun-
day night service,
came out of the
church, and ad-
dressing a few of
his friends said,
“ Well, boys, let
us go and stoush
this.” And away
they went to a
pub. near by and
liquidated the col-
lection—as an an
tidote, doubtless,
to the dry sermon.
And not content
with giving the
name of the thirs-
ty sky-pilot, the
speaker added his
address —so that
he'ean be called
on and his nose
inspected in
search of corro-
boration.
Ingratitude, thy name is Jingo ! Cabled
that a lot of the Australian “Empire-builders ”
are snorting at the prospect of being sent home
steerage from S’ Africa. Aii'cT 'one Callaghan, of
N 8 W., a man of much language, sends from
Machadodorp to Sydney D.T. a blithering yowl
of disgust over the brutal fact that he and the 300
or 400°other warriors of his particular crowd are
not all to be invited to England for a holiday at
the expense of the British public.
Concerning various suggestions and complaints
as to the treatment of the Australians who volun-
teered for S’Africa, The Bulletin is of opinion
that every Australian warrior who helped to
“save the Empire” should be treated liberally.
As thus :
(1) A free first-class mail-boat passage to England and
back, and have his board-bill paid for at least one year at
the Hotel Cecil or Savoy ; wine-money to be allowed each
man at not over £5 daily, cab-bills not to exceed £2 daily.
Also, tailors’ accounts up to £250 each to be paid by
Government. .
(2) Each man on his return'to Australia to be given the
deeds of 600 acres agricultural land, chosen by himself ;
when any warrior selects land which is already private
property, same to be resumed and paid for by the State.
(3) Every such returned hero to be given for life a
Treasury 'pension of £3OO a year, continuable to his
widow: at death to be given a. public funeral and a
statue.
(4) The city footpaths to be kept for the exclusive usei
of returned swaddles, the rest of the population to walk
in the gutter. . , - .
The above would be about a fair thing, especially
considering that so many of the battlers 1 for J .
Chamberlain, Rhode's, and Co. gave up good posi-
tions at the stern call of Duty. Many of them —
perhaps the best of the real Bushmen —were en-
joying as much as 15s. to 20s. per week, with a bit
of stag mutton, a pinch or two of tea, some black
sugar, and quite a lot of flour thrown in. And
yet they gave it all up to fight for the Empiah at
ss. a day, free tucker, free passages, medals, the
prospects of African police-billets, Boer farms,
glory, loot, and trimmings. Let us be grateful.
In this connection it is interesting to note that
the political Labor brigade is beginning to kick
against the official instructions that returned
soldiers are to have preference over civilians in
applications for Govt. work. And no wonder.
According to a M.L. contingent officer,
who evidently thinks the matter a huge joke, one
of the “ heroes on the field and gentlemen every-
where ” commandeered some goods from an
old Dutch woman who could not read English,
and gave her this receipt:—
Give this old Dutch woman 100 of the best lashes, in
payment for goods received, approved of, and consumed.
(Signed) Beelzebub, Officer Commanding Satan’s Light
Horse.
A conspicuous Melbourne musician and several small literary and artistic
familiars went up into the mountains Once for rest and change, and to coum-
mune with nature, it la Thoreau. On the second night a tremendous storm
struck the ridge , and 'it thundered and lightninged as if all Gehenna had split.
Then the conspicuous musician arose from his bunk, where he had been girosing
rapturously about Wagner, and strode forth into the darkness and the racket of
dismembered Nature, and-when his friends followed they found him standing
out on a jutting rock, dressed in nothing much, with a nimbus round his head,
and a stick in his hand, conducting the thunderstorm !—Recent Bulle-
tin paragraph.


“He’s from the Country.”
-——
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judgres in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing l
Write to
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as if you bought amongst the dally orowds at the counters.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
ONINNAH-
m
O'"
-
5 _ MACHINES
Write lor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
GLOB 6 T 69S have N 0
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, November 27, 1900.
My Dkab Myke.—-
It seems that our Acting-Governoress is one of
the few people who are not going to sell their
immortal souls for seats at the Commonwealth
shows. 111-health is taking Lady Darley, accom-
{lanied by flaxen-haired Miss Kitty, away to Eng-
and on December Ist, in the midst of the festive
preparations, by the India. Janet Lady Clarke
and her three daughters travel with them. Invi-
tations are out for a garden-party at Government
House to-day, Tuesday, by way of farewell to the
feminine part of the Darley household. Miss
Sylvia, you will remember, left with Lady Susan
Gilmour some months ago.
Re the same garden-party. Potts Point begins
to feel itself again, for Lady Darley’s invitations
have gone out in the time-honored old white-and-
gold fashion, with never a suspicion of presenting
anything at any gate whatsoever.
By the way, I am told that our coming
Admiral—Lewis Beaumont—is endowed with a
highly-popular wife. At Vancouver, where the
Beaumonts were lately stationed, they were much
liked. _ Mrs. Beaumont is said to be a particularly
charming woman, young, smart, energetic, and a
favorite with all classes over there in Victoria.
Our last Admiraless was too heavily weighted with
hubby’s Precedence to make any popularity in
Sydney.
Apropos of the celebration, magnified stories
are floating round. A balcony in Macquarie-street
is “ known ”to have fetched £4OO. Personally, I
have not discovered anyone who will own up to
paying more than a guinea per seat. The £4OO
story is evidently a ruse to send up prices.
A Sydney woman, however, is running a highly
successful spec. Even business men are watching
enviously. She bought up a big city corner for
six hundred pounds some tune ago. She erects a
stand, and. sells her seats at a guinea. Already
her outlay is back in her pocket, and the seats are
selling away merrily. I believe she intends to run
a cool-drink booth under the stand, whereat she
reckons to coin money in glittering heaps when the
crush begins to warm-up.
But what a blow to all this gaud and glitter if
our ailing Governor-General has to be carried in
on a shutter, and put to bed before the eyes of the
Four Hundred Thousand, not counting us, our-
selves, if there is any “ us” after Federation.
You can imagine how carefully everyone is
watching the news of poor Hopey’s health. In
fact, already, a dissonant whisper is making itself,
heard that he wouldn’t have taken the appoint-
ment but that his health wanted patching, and
that Australia had once before transformed him
so successfully from a nervous youth, fainting after
one afternoon’s pump handling, into a hardened-
looking bushman.
By the way, the first instalment of the G.-G.
suite arrived in Sydney last week—ls horses, two
ponies, and some tine dogs, including Lady Hope-
toun’s beloved dachshunds. You may, legiti-
mately, think it reads like a riotous waste of good
relics, when I tell you that all those horse-boxes
and dog-fittings were taken way down the harbor
and burned to nothing. Quarantine regulations !
All the same, just think of the inspired jewel-
cases those dog-boxes might have been made into,
and sold to country people yearning for something
to take home and “show” when the great red
burst is over, and life begins to turn into the
average drab material once again.
And now comes news that Lady Hopetoun is
suffering from fever.
Annie Swan’s magazine has an article on Lady
Hopetoun in last issue. It says: “The Hope-
touns were juvenile enough whilst in Victoria to
be always up to pranks, but their pranks were
always innocent ones.” Mark the saving clause,
“ innocent.” If it were not for that, the fiercely-
perceptive British readers of the Woman At
Home would leapfrog to the conclusion that
Hersey and Adrian Louis went round Melbourne
by night playing Cheerful Cherokees, wrenching
off knockers, shifting gate-posts, hiring hansoms
and slipping out unknown to the driver after light-
ing a bundle of straw in the vehicle. Lady Hope-
toun never played even a pranklet in Melbourne.
I doubt if, even as a schoolgirl, she ever slid down
a banister. She was most reserved to the Vic-
torians, and sustained her aloofness to the end of
her term. But Mrs. Over-The-Teacups Swan is
right in saying that her face is very attractive and
her carriage commanding. Lady Hopetoun must
be eight or nine inches over five feet. Her eyes
are fine and dark,. her complexion good, her
features and teeth irregular. I hear she now
knows how to dress. Her taste, or lack of it, in
clothes was the despair of all Victorian suburbia,
that wanted its Governor’s wife to be a finger-post
to fashion.
Painfully enough there was, to quote one of the
papers, “a good house,” peppered with petticoats,
at Jimmy Governor’s trial. As black Jimmy
moistened his lips with a pannikin of water,
various women in Court were cheerfully nibbling
the lunches they had brought with them. One’s
only excuse for this diseased interest is that
women may have been considering Jimmy
Governor in the light of a lady’s man. A too-
enthusiastic husband was the black man. He
began knocking people down for alluding to his
wife as a baggage, married toablackfellow, and, as
civilisation so soon takes that out of the male
animal, the lunch-eaters may be forgiven for tak-
ing such long looks at the sort of hero they under-
stood but rarely, rarely met.
At a Sydney police-court, the other day, accord-
ing to a story told without comment in the daily
press, a young German was charged with the theft
of a watch-chain which his Sydney sweetheart had
—she alleged—only lent to him. The object of
the charge, however, was obviously merely to
press the accused into marrying the prosecutrix ;
and, though there was no evidence of felonious
intent, it was put to the accused, through
the Government interpreter, that he’d have
to choose between the “knot” and the “jug.”
He naturally enough chose the former, and
the pair were duly hitched-up within the precincts
of the court. Now, if the young man was not
guilty, the court lent itself to a conspiracy to bluff
him into a marriage against his will, while, if he
was guilty, the court was simply condoning a
felony. And, in any case, what are the chances
of happiness from such a union ?
Florence Schmidt’s success in London is de-
lighting many Sydney friends, who have been
anxiously anticipating news like this ever since
the warm-haired soprano, with the bright, round
face, went home with the Steffanis two years ago.
Her very successful debut is described by London
critics as “ the most interesting vocal event of the
evening,” although she was singing on a concert
platform alongside Paloi, the Spanish tenor who
drove London wild with delight quite lately. The
songstress was frocked in rose-pink. That’s the
only color anyone with auricomous tresses and an
artist eye can clothe herself in nowadays. She
wore it—the color, not the raiment —at her last
concert in Sydney, and declared her intention of
making a London debut in that shade.
An Australian Art Union worth following is
being run by the Society of Artists. Subscrip-
tions, half-a-guinea. All the prizes are Australian
artists’ work, and include the Presentation Plates
from typically Australian pictures, Longstaff’s
portrait of the Chief Justice, a new picture by
Sid. Long called “ A Frosty Sunrise,” and Lam-
bert’s Gallery success, “Across the Black Soil
Plains, ” a truly Horsetralian picture that ought
to delight hundreds of way-back homes.
Do you notice that artists are working up a
fashion of taking their pictures into other pro-
vinces and holding exhibitions out of sight of too
familiar faces ? Mr. Tom Roberts ran a one-man
show in Melbourne lately. And now Mr. C.
Phillips Fox, a Melbourne artist well-known to us
by his charming portraits of children, has issued
dark-brown cards to a private view in the Society
of Artists’ rooms, beginning next Saturday and
running into three days next week. This will be
the public’s last chance of seeing and acquiring
Mr. Fox’3 work before he leaves for England.
.Another artist who is about to seek fresh fields
is little Alfred Coffey, of the Art Society. A
farewell dinner was given him last week with Mr.
John Hughes, M.L.C., in the chair and members
of every profession round the table to wish him
good luck.
Marie Corelli’s press-abusers are all male, yet
her staunchest admirers are men —many men.
Premier Lyne doesn’t consider her an unmighty
atom, and a few years ago ex-Premier Dibbs said
that he would rather meet Marie than any other
famous woman. He considered her the foremost
living writer. Which only shows you !
A catalogue issued by the Modern Art Jewel-
lery Company, of Pitt-street, has a tinted moon-
light-blue cover, with indigo lettering, and within
the 50 pages you’ll find illustrations of all you
value, from a tiny gold pig-charm or jewelled
collar-stud to Baden-Powell and Roberts highly
decorated. All new things in the way of rings,
bracelets and walking-sticks are here; also, a fine
supply of Shakespearean texts.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“People are wondering whether the new
Government will turn nasty concerning the Shiny
Knight’s refusal to budge from Govt. House.
When the order was given for a gorgeous re-
decoration, &c., of the big barn on the hill the
late Govt, called upon the Crown figurehead (in a
polite whisper) to vacate the premises, whereat
‘ Pa’ let them know he intended to stand on his
rights and remain in possession until Gov.-General
Hopetoun came along. Up to now the Maddens
have refused to retire before the invading white-
washers, despite official protests. They occupy
one portion of the rent-free domicile whilst the
other rooms are being “ done-up,” and they intend,
seemingly, to spread themselves over the re-
furbished part of Pa’s residence when the paint-
pots are dumped down in their present apart-
ments. To Premier M‘Lean’s remonstrances his
Waxellency replied that he couldn’t conveniently
move from the place of vice-regal residence, even
if he hadn’t decided to stop there as long as pos-
sible. He has sold his house at Frankston, and
let his house at tit. Kilda for some months. He
didn’t ask the Govt, to beautify his lawful home
on Yarra bank, but seeing that the workmen have
been put in, he intends to put up with them, and
will accept the smell of varnish as an odour of
sanctity.
“ Lawyer Sam Gillott has started his career as
Mayor of Melbourne without much flourish of
trumpets. Samuel is reserving his cash strength
for the Federal Parliament outbreak, when he will
endeavor to Outshine predecessor M‘Eacharn for
the edification of the Dook o’ York. Meanwhile the
lavish Mac. holds several records in civic extrava-
gances. For one thing there was the £5OO, or so,
expended on menu-cards at the big banquet he
gave to the Federal Conference delegates.
“We now know what a title is considered
to be worth, in actual cash, to a wealthy man.
It was proposed in Melbourne City Council that
Mayor Gillott’s allowance be increased from £l5OO
to £3OOO on account of the exceptional amount of
entertaining he would have to do during the year.
He declined the increase. One of his brother-
councillors thereupon unblushingly blurted out
that Gillott looked upon the honors he expected to
get as sufficient to balance the extra expenditure.
So that a knighthood is worth in the market to-
day £l5OO. Disraeli once laid it down, cynically,
that every man with an established income of
£20,000 a year ought to have a peerage. Every-
one who wants a title ought to have one. If any
man is so childish as to be made happier by
putting ‘ Sir ’ instead of ‘ Mr.’ in front of his name,
why deny him this little happiness ? If one’s dog
would be a happier mongrel for being called Carlo
instead of Mungo, why not call him Carlo ?
“Father Robinson’s explanation of Amy
Castle’s breakaway from Marchesi is decidedly
wanting in detail. He says that ‘some of the
most famous musical experts in London and Paris ’
testified that her voice was a pure dramatic so-
prano, and as Madame Marchesi had decided to
train her as a mezzo ‘ Miss Castles submitted her
voice once more to the judgment of the best critics
in Europe.’ Now, when did Amy, the student at
Madame’s school, go tearing around Europe sub-
mitting her voice to those experts ? And what’s
the name of her new teacher, who, ‘it is said, is a
man of the very highest attainments, and is re-
cognised as one of the most successful voice-
trainers in Europe ? ’
“ The mysterious cable-message that two of the
English committee appointed to choose a successor
to Prof. Marshall Hall in the Ormond Chair of
Music had urged the re-appointment of that dis-
reputable Prof, would suggest that the other three
members of committee at any rate acquiesced in
the arrangement. This was prophesied all along
by many musicians who knew the feeling at the
other side of the world. Having been instructed
to select the best man, the committee has appar-
ently no course open but to choose the wicked
Hall.
“The Grand Opera people were not a scrap
exciting off the boards. Melbourne ‘ naicest ’
tried them in private life, but apparently found
them wanting. Many of them were in the d.c.
at the last ‘ Bohemian Girl ’ matinee. Belvwa,
the Canadian light baritone, who has a part in
the ‘Scarlet Feather,’ is blonde and well-featured,
but he laughs like a pop-gun going off and has a
queer knack of wobbling his cheek-muscles.
By the way, mummers developethe lower face (so
much talking and mouthing, I guess) to the detri-
ment of their bea,uty. This jaw-prominence is
very noticeable in a recently much-discussed
mummeress who looks quite her 40 years. It’s a
barbarism the way ages are dragged but in law-
courts. Youth, real or reputed, is an asset to a
woman, and unless she’s convicted of murder and
thereby done with the World and its goods she
shouldn’t be stripped of her tools.
“At the matinee, Mary Lynne, planted in her
seat and left blooming alone by Baritone Eugene
(fine and large in light tweeds and straw hat), sat
next Belvwa. The sometime Siebel looks a fine
enough figure of a woodeny woman on the boards.
Off, she’s weirdly theatrical, with hot-looking
hair massed on her forehead and huge chenille
spqts on her pink veil. Nellie Stewart’s fair-
haired little daughter, in simple white frock, occu-
pied the manager’s box with another child and a
custodian. She’s not a strikingly pretty youngster,
but bright as a button and unlike her restless little
comrade, followed all the stage business with quiet
unflagging attention. Friends pronounce her too
clever for her years. Already she’s determined
on a stage career, but in the goodness of her heart
and with the most dutiful intentions in life, she
openly announces her purpose of postponing her
professional debut ‘till mother’s dead.’
“ Which recalls the paternal experiences of Dr.
Rentoul, out of friends at present with his clerical
brethren on the Boer question. When the
doughty Divine’s bairns were younger he often
looked out of his study window at Ormond
College to find his family ‘ playing Father’s
funeral.’ The proceedings were decorous and the
mourners dutifully depressed, still
“ The average operatic tenor is a modest daisy,
and Louis Arens, one of Musgroye’s chief
warblers, has been at some expense and trouble to
prove it. Conspicuously placed in a window in
Colhns-street is a large frame containing various
portraits of the gifted tenor, surrounded by
numerous letters from persons, personages, and
admirers, including one in which a business-like
manager tersely requests Mr. Arens to ‘sign
enclosed contract and return,’ and another from a
titled lady, in which the writer expresses the
pleasure she will feel if the melodious Arens will
call at 4.30. There are a dozen other letters, but,
aside from demonstrating the before-mentioned
ingrowing and virulent modesty of tenors, they
have positively no public interest.
Nellie Stewart, or Row, or Towzey, whatever
her name is, or is to be, did not go to court to see
herself divorced. This was a disappointment to
the junior bar, and perhaps also to the Judge.
Mr. Justice Hood adjourned the case at first,
ostensibly to get more evidence, but perhaps,
m reality, in the hope that Ma Mie Row-sette
would herself put in an appearance on the second
occasion. But she didn't. She was wise, for it
must be a great bore even to see oneself divorced.
There were lots of other women in court, and they
contented themselves with looking at ex-husband
Richard Row (trying him on, as it were), and
wondering whether they would have endured him
for more than a week. Richard is not bad-look-
mg as beefy men go. His £l2OO a year would
"lii- ' IITn tolerable; besides, a woman is not
obliged to look at her husband very much—there
are so many other things to look at.
“Last Thursday night Grace Palotta, who
looks a little older than when she sang ‘ If you
can’t af-ford a hansom—takabuss,’ made a first
appearance at Her Majesty’s in the far-side pri-
vate box (there are only two private pens at Her
Maj. s), with no companion save her thoughts.
N obody seemed to remember the snappy Austrian
girl, though she gave the house a fair chance to
caU her to mind by marching the full half-circuit
of the d.c. all on her little ‘alone.’ Once in the
pen she was hidden from the view of nine-tenths
of the congregation, nor did she ever look around
the curtain screen for recognition and applause as
somebody else might have—but then the circum-
stances were different. It must be admitted that
the return of Palotta is not a matter of popular
interest up to now.
“ The transparent skirt is evidently the latest
thing in fashionable Melbourne. Cup day was
not over-warm, yet half-a-dozen of the naicest left
little of their forms to the imagination when they
stood on the terrace with the setting sun behind
them ; and since then various damsels have been
seen—yes, seen— on the Block in costumes strongly
reminiscent of that worn by Tillie Woodlock in
‘ Rose of Persia ’ ballet. The fact that all wearers
of these diaphanous skirts are exceedingly well-
shaped argues that there is nothing accidental
about the fashion.
“A certain engagement, which Lord Dicky
staunchly declared, before he left for Adelaide,
was only an empty rumor, don’t-yer-know, is to be
kept secret till after all the fuss of the York visit
is over.
‘ ‘ A recent magazine-story tells of a little girl
who treated her playmates to a crop at the
barber’s. One, an artist’s daughter, had always
been known as ‘the angel child,’because of her
lovely curls ; and another hard case was that of
twin boys, who, robbed of their pretty hair, were
revealed for the first time in their true colors as
most commonplace urchins. Much the same
thing happened here lately. In Colling wood, tiny
boys not yet detached from mother’s apron-strings
wear , their hair plastered in lovelocks on their
foreheads. T’other day, some of these kiddies
were ‘playing barber,’ and a five-year-old, in-
stalled as the man of shears, deprived all his
friends of their ‘ kiss-curls,’ but spared his own.
When the shorn lambs arrived at their various
homes there was wailing and gnashing of teeth.
One enraged father grabbed a scissors, tracked
the juvenile culprit to the bosom of his family,
and forcibly barbered the barber in the teeth of
an enraged clan. Result, a court-case, and pa
had to pay for his revenge.
“That E.M.C. cycle meeting at St. Kilda
(Nov. 24th) was the hottest function extant.
Think of a stand with roof and back of corrugated
iron and glass ends ! Wheeling doesn’t develops
manly beauty. Its badges of success are beak-
nose and lumpy shoulders, as manifest in poor
‘Plugger Bill,’ who rode round in triumph, grin-
ning and ducking his head in response to applause,
unbeautiful to behold in green-mooned black suit
and red-fringed indigo scarf (the ‘ Stuart scratch
mile ’ ribbon). The sport evidently has lasting
fascination for some people. Cyclist Parsons, for
one, sat on a backless bench in the open all the
sweltering afternoon, while wifie, in her Cup
dress, shaded him with her pale-blue parasol.
Some of the races were paced by motors. Heaven
help us when these debbil-debbil machines catch
on for street use ! The smell and the noise ! At
the sports one, which sounded all the time as if it
meant to explode, was painted scarlet and manned
by riders clothed in red and blue respectively.
Talk about being ‘ caught up in a fiery chariot ’!
“ Another of the Bench brethren launches out
with his family on an extended globe-trot next
week. Judge Hodges has planned, by the light
of his own worldly knowledge and others’ experi-
ence, a comprehensive and charming tour, which
will be shared by his fresh-complexioned, brown-
haired daughters.
“‘Tara,’ the big mansion which old John
O’Shanassy built at Balwyn, Vic., is up for sale.
It was his fond ambition to found a line of wealthy,
ruling men, but his late son, Mat., was not built
that way. Mat. made the money fly. Tara is a
fine place, splendidly furnished. The odds are
that it will pass into the hands of a representative
of tjhe ‘ wealthy lower orders.’
“At South Melbourne Police Court, the other
day, a man was sentenced to three days’gaol for
being caught coming out of somebody’s back-yard.
He pleaded that he had merely been spooning his
girl, and nobody denied his story ; but he ‘ went
up,’ the police inspector declaring he was guilty of
trespass all the same. A new sign for suburban
back yards: ‘Followers will be prosecuted!’
Then Mary Jane will insist upon a right of
approach for her boy, or free access, whatever the
legal term may be.
Yours affectionately,
GOULL-GOULL.
The beauty of face and form with which
the Australian girl graces every public occasion is
largely responsible for the happy expression
which usually illumines the face of the average
Australian male —when he is not suffering from
indigestion and tea. But it is when the match-
less beauty aforesaid is perfected by the artistic
touch of the P D Corset that all Nature rejoices.*
Sundry parsons and others who have been
backing-up the absurd Sydney Sunday-closing
prosecutions imagined they had “ scored ” by dis-
covering that the action taken had not been under
the antiquated 17th century legislation, but under
the Towns Police Act of the present reign. It
turns out, however, that the prosecutions were
really under the Sydney Police Act of 1833,
framed when the brutal convict system was in full
swinp, and therefore as inapplicable to present
conditions as would be the musty statute of the
Second Charles.


Worth Knowing!
That RAFFAN’S
Bronchial Catarrh
Remedy is endorsed by Doctors to be one of
the First and Best Tonic “Pick-me-ups” in Mental
and Physical Breakdown. After a Single Dose you
feel a Sturdiness and Firmness of ..crve, as if some-
thin”-had become suddenly Unbound and given its
Liberty. Hundreds of persons who have been in
search of some such reliable Remedy admit that the
Rapid and happy results following its use are posi-
tively marvellous. Affords immediate relief in Bron-
chitis, Catarrh, and Asthma. The preparation was
made by a London Physician and sold for a Fortune.
It is now being bought by the public for 2/-, or per
post 2/6. R. RAFFAN, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen s
Walk, MELBOURNE.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1890,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income AND
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at
end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies inolude Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices. .
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Beancii Offices :
aYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE— 73 King William Street.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART— 93 Macquarie Street.
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be the burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be Constantly
menaced. Those who are leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Sydney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables in the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during business
hours. The vaults are situated behind Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a*nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSEKCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland's articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
In re Gent One : Indi-Gent One. —Joke
by a Q. C.
Ex-Premier M’Lean was the fourth R.C.
Premier of Victoria—O’Shannasy, Duffy, O’Logh-
len and M'Lean.
Mr. Justice Owen has been on the N.S.W.
Bench since Oct., 1887, yet Jimmy Governor’s is
the first real death-sentence he has pronounced.
A northern N.S.W. paper, eulogising
Henry Parkes : “He kept his finger continually
on the public purse.” The comp, had altered the
word “ pulse.”
David Syme is to be a baronet, sure, as
witness the “Victorian Liberal Party’s” proposal
for preferential trade with Britain under the
Commonwealth.
Governor-general Hopetoun, first Imperial
pro-consul to the Australian Commonwealth, em-
barking in India for Australia was carried aboard
on a litter. Omen ?
Nellie Stewart’s husband was born on the
Ist of April, 1860, said his counsel in the divorce-
court, and Nellie sang her first infantile solo the
same year. But not on the same day.
Boss Syme nominated his solicitor, Sam
Gillott, to represent him in the Turner Cabinet.
When the Federal exodus takes place Sam will
take salaried rank—if the Speakership be not
vacant.
It seems to be a solemn fact that at least
four —Wise, Crick, Wood, and Hassall —if not
five, of the Lyne Ministry, which has passed the
Female Suffrage Bill through N.S.W. Assembly,
are personally opposed to Woman Suffrage.
That enthusiastic clergyman. Rev. Wm.
Floyd, founder of the Church of England at
Levuka, Fiji, in ’72, who is visiting Sydney after
a residence of 28 years in the islands, has long
been looked upon as the future Bishop of Western
Polynesia.
Vic. Chief Secretary Peacock is one of the
few Australians who take no interest in horse-
racing. On the morning after the Cup he was
asked on his way into town “ Well, did you back
Clean Sweep?” “No; I never heard the result
until 11 last night.”
Richard Heales, old-time popular Vic. Pre-
mier, was a shining light among the teetotallers.
When he died in ’63 his friends proposed to erect
a monument in his honor, and the kindly critic of
a Melbourne daily suggested that it should take
the form of a pump.
When at important political junctures
Premier Lyne drops into silence and declines to
be drawn, it is said he is merely waiting for a
meeting of the Sydney Daily Telegraph direc-
tors. After such a meeting, or a communication
with warrior Carey, he promptly regains speech.
Mr. James Milson, father of North Shore,
turned 86 the other day, and has hopes of living
to cross the North Shore bridge. A native of
Parramatta, he has taken part in almost every
industrial and speculative movement that origin-
ated between there and Sydney during the last 60
years.
Bryce Treharne, pianist of Adelaide Con
servatorium, bids fair to out-Marshall Marshall
Hall. When he gets on to the subject of music
in the daily papers readers can only have him for
a sentence or two, then he is off into transcen-
dental unintelligibility. He has not yet burst into
verse, but when he does !
A SYDNEY CITY-ELECTION POSTER.
John Watsford (born at Parramatta Dec.
5, 1820) is the patriarch of the Australian
Wesleyan Church. By a coincidence, he, Ins son
and two grandsons—all of whom are Methodist
clergymen —have their names on the same circuit
plan in one of the Melbourne suburbs. This is
probably an ecclesiastical record.
The Nathalian pastor .Gladstone, of anti-
dancing fame, was preaching at Kangaroo Flat
the other Sunday. A boy looked at his watch.
Gladstone: “What time is it, my little man ?
Bov: “Five minutes past twelve.” Gladstone:
“Well, you know, I have only been preaching
fifteen minutes, and am allowed twenty ! ”
Ex-Judge M‘Farland proposes to woo
Monaro for a seat in the House of Representatives.
The old white hat has no chance. He is now 7b,
and they look to have all been long years. He
published in Dublin 50 years ago a book on Equity
Law, which brought him the reward of a Judge-
ship in Westralia in 1857. Since then
has had the privilege of owning him, and JN.S. W.
for many years the privilege of paying him a
pension of £750 a year.
NEWSPAPER FICTION.
TRAM GUARD : “ What’s the latest lie you’re sell-
ing, sonny?”
NEWSBOY : “ Why, that you ain’t been nickin no
fares.”
That'wealthy old Narrabeen lady over
whose will there are such extensive legal ructions,
was very strict in keeping trespassers off her
property, and one day coming suddenly on two
amateur fishermen she ordered them to leave at
once. One of them, however, knew her fads, and,
assuming a sanctimonious drawl, informed her that
they were not there for sport —they came down
from Sydney because of the peaceful quietude of
the surroundings, so that they might pass a day
of humiliation and prayer undisturbed. then
the old girl graciously gave them permission to
stay and went away perfectly satisfied.
The papers
just now are
full of the gal-
lant S’African
exploits of a
South Austra-
lian named
Finla y s o n,
whose pa be-
longs to the
Adelaide Re-
gister. It is
good to be
brave ; it is
even better to
have a sire re-
presented in
the cable-ring.
And if S’Lang-
don Bonython
were not a
member of the
cable combine,
how the devil
would this
bleeding coun-
try ever get
to hear that
that illustrious
man and Lady
B. had just
booked their
passag es in
London for
Australia !
Frank Stuart, who committed political
suicide by retiring from the Munro Ministry, is a
man of many parts. On Sunday morning he sings
in the choir in the Glenroy Wesleyan Church, and
in the afternoon plavs golf, to the horror of the
Essendon Presbyterians as they make their way
to Sunday-school. The rest of the week he seems
to be busily engaged in not growing any older.
Tysoniana (from evidence lately
given in nnsDane
by Cambooya
Daniels). The
millionaire : “ I
am very lonely. I
have never in-
jured a man
knowingly
in my
life, and 1
am over 70
years of
age, and
haven’t a
friend in the
world. I have
any number of
relations and I
believe they
want to know
when I’ll die
so that they may
get the money.”
Daniels : “ You
may be wronging
them.” Tyson:
“Well, it may be
bo, but I feel that
the only real friend
I have is here (pat-
ting his trousers’
pocket). All the
same when you get
old you feel you
would like someone
to pay you some
slight regard. I get
very lonely at times.
I always have a lot of
these (abstracting
from coat -pocket a
bundle of comic papers)
to divert my thoughts, etc.,
etc.” Poor Tyson ! Not a
friend in the world ! His
real friend in his breeches’-
pocket! And saddest of all—
Tit-Bits and. Scraps his only
solatium !
Maoriland Premier Seddon intends making
a great effort to get the Duke of York to open
next session of Parliament, and if successful will
summon it two months earlier. Phis latter pro-
posal is already being howled at by some of
Seddon’s Faithful, but King Dick will soon settle
their hash when he gets ’is Royal ’ighness’s pro-
mise. That baronetcy looms larger and larger on
the horizon ! Or is it to be a dukedom ?
The speech of John Meagher in N.S.W.
Leg. Council on the Compulsory Arbitration Bill
was a gem of broguey innocence. John is a first-
class boss, if an indifferent legislator. Though a
wine and spirit merchant and resident of a thirsty
land, he has been a strict teetotaller all his life,
and “ does not know the taste of ” any intoxicant.
“ N.’ : : I hear that women officers of the
Salvation Army in Australia have had to subsist
on bran-porridge. They say that when Ballington
Booth was in Melbourne, he had a special barber
call at the office to do his hair at a cost of half-a-
crown. When an officer went -up effusively to
shake hands with him, Ballington exclaimed,
“Thepresumption of you Australians is amazing!”
That important functionary of State,
“Nosey Bob,” began his official career under
N.S.W. Government as executioner of Johnny
M'Grath, an aboriginal, who committed an out-
rage in Bega in 1875. Nosey (who is a civil ser-
vant. and is paid a salary, not fees) hopes to retire,
if he can obtain a pension, at the end of the year,
and he has thus a prospect of winding up as he
began, with a blackfellow at a rope’s end.
E. G. Blackmore, clerk of S.A. Parlia-
ment —who was clerk to the Federal Convention
—is in Sydney on business connected with the
Commonwealth Legislature, of which he hopes to
be appointed clerk. Mr. Blackmore is an acknow-
ledged expert in constitutional law, and has pub-
lished text-books concerning the decisions of all
the House of Commons Speakers for the last few
decades. He fought in the Maori war and wears
a medal for the service.
“Spikey” : Lawson, M.P. (Vic.) is not
the only Australian legislator to join in a
serious game of football. Albert (Jupp) Gardiner,
ex-M.P. for Ashburnham (N.S.W.) can thank the
noble game of bash and blanky for his political ex-
tinction. Jupp is, and has been for some years,
one of the best players in the Orange club; his
love for the game led him to neglect his politics
and constituents’ correspondence. Jupp’s enemies
took advantage of his little weakness at a general
election, and Jupp was politically buried.
Apropos the reoently-deceased Madame
Lacaton, of Melbourne Maison Doree. It was
Marcus Clarke who “discovered” the Maison
Doree, and made it widely known by a character-
istic sketch. When the decadent times fell on
Melbourne, lots of people who had revelled in
champagne and pate de foie gras preferred a ?up
of coffee and a saveloy, and Madame’s estabiisn
ment was removed to Swanston-st., but its old
glories were never revived. Too often are obscurity
of location and humbleness of exterior the very
life of a caravanserai.
“ Yictorian”: Trenwith, in my opinion, is
more to the front just now than a,ny other
Australian Labor member. A Tasmanian, and a
bootmaker, he first whetted his oratorical steel at
Melb. Sunday Evening Free Discussion Society.
His difficulties in effecting an entrance to Parlia-
ment were great, partly through poverty, but he
proved that “ The Will is the Man.” Trenwith-
again in my humble opinion—may take the
leadership of the Australian Labor Party. He is
a real solid man, not only with graphic powers of
expression, but also with a framework of know-
ledge which has placed him ahead of such as Han-
cock, though Hancock was a far better paity
leader, with all the instincts of organisation under
his deceptive, jolly, and careless outside. Party
management is where Trenwith will fail, if any-
where, and this may lead him to tack in politics.
He has trimmed already.
Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald found a
curious mare’s nest the other day, and built from
the sticks a romance which it is almost a pity to
shatter. It identified an ancient known as Major
Pelly, a recently-deceased assistant in W.A.
Geological Dept., with “ Starlight, the notorious
Australianbushrangerof 30 years ago”—who never
existed except in “ Boldrewood’s ” story of
“ Robbery Under Arms.” Corroborative detail
was supplied by another Pelly, a prisoner in
Pentridge, who alleges that it was to “ Major
Pelly ” —known to him as a bushranger
under the name of Frank Gordon or
Pearson that he confided certain family
papers and photographs. The N.S.W. police are
also credited with having supplied an identifica-
tory photograph of “Starlight.” The whole story
seems to be a mixture of fact and nonsense.
“ Pelly ” may have been that Gordon, a
member of Hall’s gang, who was sentenced
to 10 years’ penal servitude by Judge Wise
at Bathurst in 1805 ; and who disappeared
thereafter from bushranging history. But his
identification with “Starlight” is bosh. The
man in “Robbery Under Arms” seems to be a
mixture of Frank Gardiner, Ben Hall’s gang, the
brothers Clarke of Monaro, and the Bowen Downs
cattle-robbery by Redmond; and if “Starlight”
is anybody he is apparently Frank Gardiner.
Some strange Tyson stories are being told
in the Queensland Supreme Court, where the
crows are gathering thickly round the carcase of
the old millionaire’s estate. Travelling by steamer
Tyson used to'sometimes book his passage as
Smith or Walker or Stokes. Everybody knew
him, and his efforts to deny his identity and
assure the public that he was really Smith were
ineffective and confusing. In one of his more
lavish moments he offered to share a bottle of
ginger-ale with the chief engineer, and the shindy
that the rich man made afterwards over the six-
pence was soul-stirring. Yet it is attested that
he gave away very large sums in anonymous
charity ; it was only when he appeared under his
own name tliai he was loud and furious over six-
pences. By the way, the old man was well-known
at The Bulletin office, where, for some reason or
other, he often dropped in during his latter days
to expatiate for an hour or two upon the worth-
lessness of the present generation of Australians,
male and female. He was a quaint, gentle,
friendly old soul, and was probably about the
only h ire who didn’t get shoo’d away in short
order—such is the magic of Wealth. The opinion
The Bulletin formed of Tyson was that he was
a very faddy, very just, very generous, and very
modest man.
The late millionaire Tyson on Women
(curiously enough this first saw print in the papers
announcing that the Woman-Suffrage Bill had
passed N.S.W. Leg. Assembly)
This I will sav respecting the sex generally They are,
as now educated, unreliable ; and if there is any purga-
tory, some of our married friends are up to their necks in
it. When a man marries a woman he marries his master.
The meek little one he dotes on is a tiger in sheepskin,
and, according as I have seen, a man is a slave ever after
that. This is the simple truth. There is no doubt what-
ever ; it is women that are ruling the world at the pre-
sent time. It was women and their luxuries in ancient
times that ruined Rome. It is said that women and
luxury will ruin New York. This thing bids fair to ruin
all places. There is to be a Young Women’s College in
Sydney to educate them, and they will then, I should
presume, get into the Legislature and outvote the men.
Indeed, it is hard to say where their power will end. If
they rule as at present the question arises, what will they
do if they get educated up ? Having said this much, I
am bewildered to comtemplate the conseauences, and I
am, &c. (signed) James Tyson.
This was contained in a letter written to a young
Cornstalk who meditated matrimony. Yet there
were some women whom old man Tyson admired.
They were all of a very domestic order—he
descanted on their “beautifully clean houses,”
their good cooking, and the care with which they
looked after their husbands. The old cattle-man’s
feminine ideal was the woman fitted to be the
mother of children, and he was much chaffed for
having once unguardedly said that he “liked to
see a woman with a good brisket.”


MAGONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FrcSb NcrriogS
Kippered Herrings
HcrriogS >0 Tonjato Satie?
Australian Representatives—
SWIFT & CO., 7 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
« £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
“The Australia” is not a cheap
hotel. But it is the best hotel
in the Southern Hemisphere; and
you cannot obtain the comfort,
attention, table, and general ex-
cellence of “ The Australia” any-
where else for 50 % more money.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
Some time ago an inquest was held in
N.S.W. on a luckless timber-getter, crushed
beneath a falling tree—a commonplace enough
bush inoident. The interest in this case lay in
the fact that the dead tree-feller was a miserably-
clad woman, who, by this arduous form of industry,
had bravely attempted to support a large family,
lhough at tho magisterial inquiry it transpired
that her children were in a deplorable condition,
it seems to have been no one’s business, and they
disappeared into the bush. A stranger from
Sydney happened to come across them a day or
two ago. Ho found them in a shocking plight.
1 heir father was a rheumatic sexagenarian, and
the children (six) are left to look after themselves.
I heir sole means of subsistence is what the elder
daughters can earn. These girls—three of them,
all under 17—enjoy a contract to draw railway-
sleepers, which are shifted by their old
crock of a horse 13 miles; price paid, 4d. per
sleeper. The girls have to trudge to and from
their work, through the terrible heat and
dust of the droughty West. They support their
aged, father and three small brothers on their
earnings, which sometimes come to 15s. per week.
Education and religious training they have none,
and their only form of amusement or recreation is
the society of the timber-getters, mostly single
men. The ultimate fate of these children of the
forest under such conditions can be only too
easily guessed. This state of things exists about
20 miles from the main trunk railway line, some
250 or so miles from Sydney. And we are going
to spend vast sums on champagne for the Com-
monwealth parlor while this state of things exists
m the kitchen !
* » * *
A girl at Kadina (S.A.) has been killed
while riding a bicycle on a level road, by a wom-
bat running across and getting into the spokes of
her front wheel. A wombat! When before, in
all history, was anyone ever killed by a wombat ?
Talk about luck!
* * * *
“ Gorang ” : One of the curses of Australia
is the so-called “ chaffing ” habit. * Take a
shearer’s hut where animalism overpowers all
decency and intellect, and you will inevitably hear
DINNER TIME.
"Say, commissariat, while per doin’ nothink per might run over an borrer
the cocky’s rooster,”
brutal, foul, indecent “chaff.” Go into a navvies’
camp—even a deeper hell—and there you find
that while shearers’ “chaff” is brutish, that of the
navvy is pre-eminently bestial. I remember the
case of a young man who, after being persistently
“chaffed” by a pack of ignorant bush-reared
ruffians, poisoned himself and died within the
hour. I also knew a young shearer out in western
N.S. W. who became so maddened by the “ chaff ”
of his bestial mates over a kicking ewe he was
shearing, that when finished he asked the shed-
boss what he would take for the ewe. Being
told six shillings, he replied, “All right!” ana
ripped the animal’s entrails out on the board.
For this he got 3 months—and hanged himself the
morning he was discharged from gaol. Again, an
elderly ganger on the Blayney-Harden railway-
line became so demoralised by the “chaff ” of the
men under him one pay-night that he deliberately
walked out of the pub. in Mandurama and drowned
himself in the creek. No one tried to save him.
“ If the .can’t take a joke,” said these human
brutes, “Zc«him blanky well drown.” Therefore
I say again that “chaffing” is a worse curse than
bubonic plague, and should be stamped-out as
ruthlessly.
“ Stirrup,” re a friendly blackfellow
Picked up a Queensland nigger in N.S.W. once, and
t°°k “ lm to Q. with us—we were stocking a station
out-back. We called him “Spec,” and he grew very
familiar, calling me “ Dom ” (Tom), and my brother
Bred ’ (Fred). When we got near his “ tauri ” he cleared
J eais afterwards when we were out-back again I
felt the camp one day and rode out, looking for a water-
ho e ,Ti . anserous wor * < ' n those days, for the niggers
would track you down and spear you for a red blanket.
Suddenly over the bank popped up three niggers, stark-
naked, greased, and armed to the teeth. “Cooked!”
thought I, and I could feel my hair growing, when
1 lullo, D°in,” said a voice. It was “ Spec ”in the bosom
of his tribe, and I don’t suppose any man was ever so glad
to meet a nigger before.
* * *
Letter received by a Maoriland J.P. from a
d nizen of the bush :
person or persons ho ever it my bee, has
troubling me this few months time, as follows, 28th of
f P™ } missing 9 sheep 22nd of may been killed 12 fawls
17th Agst early in morning pitwin 3-2 o’clock I missing 3
geese from my place, that is verry pat, and my wife is
still sickness dawn Dunedin too, and then 17th of July
was a strans man in my place pitween 12 and 1 o’clock
mitinte. I put my close on without of light, and takes
m >' gun vich he see and runs away, and I runs too an fires
peninci him, he falls he jumps up again and runs away
away and glears out. I vants know what I can do and
can you help me do it.
* » » *
Peter Brown, who is deaf and dumb, was
recently fishing on forbidden property, when up
rode the holder of the run and angrily demanded
“ How dare you trespass here ? Don’t you know
you are liable to prosecution?” Peter, who
carries a slate and pencil, wrote “not biting yet,”
and the squatter raged furiously against' him.
Then Peter wrote “Do you think they will bite
soon?” Whereupon the other grabbed the slate
and wrote “Do you know who lam ? I am Mr.
,of station.” Peter calmly took the
slate back and wrote “I am Peter Brown, of -.
Very pleased to meet you.” Then the squatter
collapsed and rode off.
“ Tonbur ” : Travelling once from Stan-
thorpe to Warwick (30 miles), I met a man who
told me that in Stanthorpe the police-sergt. had
authority to give rations : loaf, £lb. tea, lib. sugar,
and 2d. for meat. A publican in Stanthorpe had
paid his train-fare to Warwick, and he was
tramping bark for the rations which he said he’d
missed. Fancy, walking 60 miles for 2s. worth n e
tucker!
1’ h 0 choice
condition of some
of those Kyneton
(Vic.) dairies (as
mentioned in Bul-
letin, 8/9/’00) is
chiefly accounted
for by the farcical
nature of the in-
spection. The
Turner Govt, pro-
gosed to appoint
-ovt. inspectors,
but the farmers
protested so
strongly that it
yielded to their
request for muni-
cipal investiga-
tors, and the re-
sult might have
been foreseen.
Said farmer
Argvle, of Kyne-
ton, at the Dairy-
men’s Conference
in Melb. during
Show-week : “A
great many of the
shire councillors
were dairymen
themselve's, and
were, therefore,
afraid to enforce
the inspection of
dairies.” Why,
certainly ! When
a man runs a dairy
—probably a dirty
one—himself, he
dare not report
other people’s
dirty dairies lest
they get mad and
report his own.
And when a man
is elected to the
shire council by
the votes of many
dirty dairymen he
can’t, if he values
his billet, take an
unbiassed view of
the dirtiness of his
own dirty consti-
tuents. The only-
way to make mum-
cipal inspection much good is to enact that the
man who was defeated at the shire council election
shall be dairy inspector for the next three years,
his reward being the satisfaction of prosecuting
the men who voted against him.
• * * *
“ A.lces ” takes a running jump at a
strongly-held and almost universal bush belief
Re the alleged characteristic ory of the mopoke. After
a considerable experience of the bird (Podargus strigoides),
both as a pet and in its natural state, writer can posi-
tively assert that it does not utter the lugubrious moan
ascribed to it, and that the small brown ** boobook ” owl
does. Mr. E. P. Ramsay, late curator of the Australian
Museum, also arrived at the conclusion which I have de-
rived from personal observation. Probably, however,
some riotous naturalist will arise and say that
he discovered it 75 years ago and knew it for 150 before
that; but the vast majority of bush-folk don’t know it.
The mopoke has a good working-vocabulary of his own,
but he is absolutely innocent of the heart-breaking lamen-
tations with which he is credited. If it is desired to get
rid of such noises about a camp do not shoot poor old
Podargus, hut look for a tidily-dressed little brown owl,
and put lead into him.
• * • •
Mr. T. Keys, of Bengalla, Muswellbrook
A SMALL COUNTRY.
THE DRUMMER : “ Yes, my lad, the Manchester ship-canal is 50 miles long, and about 17½ million
yards of earth were dug up and taken away in cutting it.”
VOICE FROM THE BUSH: “Strike me dead, mister, but I didn’t think they could spare the land.”
(N.S.W.), has for years yarded his cattle accord-
ing to color. Black, white, red, and spotted are
graded together in different paddocks. Some
years ago he sent 1000 white bullocks in one mob
to Sydney,
* * * *
“ G.W.M.H.” : Re morepork’s vocal
abilities (8., 8/9/1900). The bird makes three
different sounds—a faint noise, such as is made by
opening the mouth and breathing out sharply ; a
loud screech, much like the buck ’possums, with-
out the “ kurragh-kurragh ” finish ; and, lastly,
the mournful call that so well suits the solitude of
an Australian night. No matter how clear the
weather may be, if the “ mope” screeches instead
of calling, rain is pretty certain within 12 hours—
though before steady rain the bird is not heard.
* * * *
“Xerxes”: Re the supposed marksman-
ship of the Australian kangaroo-hunter. Many
of these “ crack shots ” were after the Governors,
yet out of all the shots fired at the outlaws only
three bullets “ landed,” and those most .probably
by chance; although, according to reports, the
pursuers had many “sitting” shots'at 100 yards,
or less, with everything in their favour. A
“cove” who cannot hit a still man at 100 yards
19 out of 20 shots should give up the rifle and
take to stone-throwing.
* * * * ■
Concerning the killing of Joe Governor,
“ Silly Billy ” writes :
Despite anything “ Itan ” (8., 17/11/’00) may say, I and
many other bush-yokels believe that Joe Governor was
very much less than 300yds. from John Wilkinson when
shot. We are told Wilkinson is 56 years old, and we know
Joe Governor was only 30 odd and a smart man for his
age—of which lam sure, as I saw the jump he did when
Byers and Woods were at him on Forbes River. He
ran up-hill, jumped a high two-rail fence without
touching, his rifle straight overhead.' Now, Byers is a
very active man, and a fair runner, and in the course of
half-a-mile on decent country Joe fired five shots, and got
away over 300 yds. from him and Woods (neither of these
men took cover). That being so I would back him to get
more than 300yds. from any 56-year-older in three-quarters-
of-a-mile, as per Mr. Wilkinson’s evidence ; for, mind you,
Joe was carrying nothing, but merely “getting” us fast
as he could, while Wilkinson had a rifle to impede him,
was shoofing at intervals, and had his boots on. Even if
he were as good a runner as Joe he would have, under
the conditions set out, lost as much ground as 300yds. in
three-quarters of a mile. Again, he says he sighted
300yds. when he shot Joe. How often will you get a
Winchester sporting rifle to throw high at 300yds.—for it
must have thrown high to shoot him in the" top of the
head? Again, let anyone put a target up, measure
100yds., and before each shot run 20yds. only at a good
speed to the 100yds. mark, shoot at once, see if the
target can be hit, and how often in 100 shots.
The target won’t be running away. “ Itan ” says
nothing about Byers and Woods, but these are the men
who actually were the cause of capture, and it was a very
hard-luck shot for Byers which hit Jimmy in the mouth
and didn’t finish him at once. Anyhow, I forone don’t think
the Govt, will give Byers and Woods any reward. I was
for over a month in this chase at the latter end, and I can
safely say that if the police can prevent Byers getting
any reward it will be done. Oh, how the police do love
Byers 1 and what obstacles they did put in hi 3 way 1
Also; how mad they are that both outlaws have been cap
tured by civilians !
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— lf, as M'Cooey says
(8., 13/10/’00), the dingo is indigenous to Austra-
lia, how is it that he never made his way to Tas-
mania, which did not separate from the mainland
till late tertiary times ? No remains of him have
ever been found on the flyspeok, though represen-
tatives of all other Australian mammalia are there
present—-with the addition of the Tasmania
Devil, and Tas. “Tiger,” remains of which, by the
way, have been found on the mainland, from
which they (being solitary ordual-living animals)
have probably been exterminated by the dingo.
Tasmania evidently was not separated widely, if
at all, from the mainland when the first of the
aborigines arrived there, or their migrations
would have been prevented ; and as the dingo did
not cross, can we not fairly conclude that he
arrived in Australia after man ?
• « * *
More on same subject: “ P.H.C.” :
So M'Cooey (B. 13/10/’00) considers me “ absurdly
wrong ”in stating that the dingo was imported 1 Well,
his authority, J. D. Ogilby, is evidently less cocksure
than Mac. is, for he admits that the idea is “ more than
doubtful,” and that “ the greater number of authors
incline to the theory of importation.” Of Prof. M'Coy’s
investigations Ogilby only says that they “ go far towards
proving,” &c. And do not the more recent fossil dis-
coveries in the Warrnambool (Vic.) quarries discount the
value of the aforesaid investigations ? Does M'Cooey
believe in the development theory ? If so, and the dingo
is indigenous, will he state where its progenitors are to be
found among Australasian placental mammals, existing
or extinct ?. Whatever M'Cooey’s claims may be, as an
observer, he can never be credited with the scientific
intellect while he continues to shriek hysterically against
everybody who doesn’t happen to think exactly as he
does.
* * * *
One of the owners of Teryawynia station,
down the river from Wilcannia, told the N.S.W.
Lands Commissioner in Melbourne that, though
£120,000 had been put into the run, they would
be glad to take £35,000 for it now. Still, espe-
cially in sheep losses, Teryawynia has suffered
more even than most far-west squattages.


The Melb. press favors Anarchists with
the information that Detective Christie is to
shadow the Duke of Yoi'k.
Dear Bulletin.—ln the recent Sydney
exhibition of the Society of Artists a picture,
“ The Awaking Soul of Adam,” represents Adam
with an umbilical-cord mark. But Adam was
“built”—not born of a woman !—Gr.S.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in'Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
<SOOP
RINGS
Are valuable as Art Productions first and afterwards for the perfection
of their Gems.
Q
We employ Art King Makers and our Gem Expert selects the diamonds
from our enormous Stock of loose Stones.
We thus save all intermediate profits and so sell at London Prices.
Opals and Diamonds,
£3 3s to £5 ss.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH LONDON PRICES.
FAIRFAX »> ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, *>« Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality .
WHISKY
AND
OKJDER
SCHWEPPE
BRANDY
AND
THE REV. MR. GLADSTONE, of Nathalia
(Vic.) anti-dancing fame.
Cairns Post tells how Willie Ming, Chinese
storekeeper and farmer, on the birth of his son and
heir (pure Chinese) gave a banquet to 520 friends.
There were 57 tables, and among the eatable
appeared 62 English ducks, 35 Muscovy ducks,
50 fowls, 3 pigs, beche-de-iner, Chinese mush-
rooms, shellfish, etc., etc. Numerous and costly
presents were brought by the guests. ... They
never rejoice like this at Cairns when a white
baby is born.
* * * *
“As I came through the desert, thus it
was!” According to Constable Walsh, who
lately travelled from the Birdsville country,
W. Q., the cattle are nearly all dead, the wate;-
holes filled with carcases, and at one place the
stench was so great that his horses would not go
near the dam, and he had to draw the water to
them. Many large stations are deserted, and the
population oi the town of Birdsville has dwindled
down to 10.
Out Wesi, where the bones of ten
million sheep are bleaching, they joke
with difficulty, but they have been
smiling in their own grim way at some
of the city evidence given before the
N.S.W. Pastoral Lands Commission.
The boss humorist, in their judgment,
was the man who complained that there
has been too much centralisation —affairs
have been given over to men who don’t
know what the "West is like. And then
to explain what it is like, he mentioned
that a homestead lease will carry from
3000 to 4000 sheep ! As a matter of
hard fact, the average homestead lease
will not carry 1500 sheep ; and there
are dozens that haven’t averaged 500
sheep all the year round for the last five
years.
* * *
“Boko” : Re fire-making. No
mention has been made, so far, of the
use of a very inflammable fungus which
grows on the bark of gray-gums all along
the coast. When thoroughly dry this
will ignite from the smallest spark,
and is very hard to extinguish. I have
seen blacks when travelling carry, on a
spear-point, a piece about the size of a
man’s hand, which would last for 3 or 4
days, being put out at night and re-lit
next morning. I have also known gins
make fire by holding a piece of this
fungus between the knees and hitting
two pieces of quartz together till a
spark would fall on the fungus and
instantly ignite it.
“ Trotter ” : Between Mareeba
and Port Douglas (N. Q.) I recently met
a mob of Chinese coolies in native Chow
costume, and bare-footed. Only the
man in charge could speak English.
They looked as if they had just landed —
but where and whence? The whole
Cairns district simply swarms with
Chows, and where they come from is a
mystery.
♦ * *
“Lar”: Some bush devices. Have
seen swaggies out-back (although they
had just got tea and sugar at the store)
go down to the creek, gather a handful
of penny-royal and make “ tea” from it
in preference to using the station
“ post-and-rails. ” Have also seen out-
backers use Eno’s fruit salt to “raise”
bread and have known “bushies” to
iron their “fine-linen” either with a
handful of red coals in a pint pot, or
with a heated stirrup-iron,
* * *
“Diff” : Writer was present at a
recent “ball.” Newly “opened-up”
farming district, consequently great
preponderance of men. By 10 p.m.,
however, seven ladies had arrived, and,
three more being expected, feeling ran
high. Hearing a great barking of dogs,
our host (local boundary-rider) rushed
out to see. Guests silent and breathless.
Then suddenly host rushed in again
with—“Oh, ! here’s five more
toms.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
F.L. : The man’s private character has nothing
to do with the character of his discourses. People find
him interesting. And the men who talk on Sundays are
so rarely worth listening t 0... .Kaharoa : Well-written,
but after all only a plain, cheap horror disguised in well-
chosen words... .France: We knew all that long ago.
But the bank, by turning -’s overdraft, formerly
reckoned as an asset, into shares of the same nominal
amount in ’s business, now turned into a limited lia-
bility 00., doesn’t inflate the earnings, or the assets, or
necessarily work any dodge. The obvious object is this :
When ’s co. looks up, if it ever does, it will be easier
to sell the bank’s interest piecemeal in shares than to sell
—— : ’s business in a lump. Of course, if you are prepared
to sayjhat the bank put down the shares at more than
the amount of the overdraft, and thereby inflated its
issets, or that it isn’t writing off the loss out .of its earn-
ings, or that it puts imaginary profits of ’s co. among
its alleged earnings, that is a different thing
Magna est Veritas : Lacks force and originality
Moko : The ordinary Australian policeman gets about 7s.
a day, while the San Francisco policeman gets twice as
much —25 dol. a week. That is a fact 0. W.S. : In this
matter you are all at sea. There are in Sydney two lots
of “ Americans.” One lot consists of real all-wool Yanks,
who parade their stars and stripes and are not ashamed
to walk the street arm-in-arm with Uncle Sam. T’other
lot (rather numerous) are “ snide ” Yanks, who pose as
Canadians on 24th May and yell for Uncle Sam on the
Glorious Fourth... .E.S.P. : Reason no doubt is that you
haven’t been using pure eucalyptus oil. Nine-tenths of
the so-called eucalyptus oil retailed by chemists is
strongly' adulterated —chiefly with turpentine Gabo :
So far as we know, N.S.W. has not offered a competition
prize for the suggested Commonwealth-commemorative
statue on Pinchgut rock, Sydney Harbor. The idea, of
course, is a bald steal from the Bartholdi N.Y. Statue of
Liberty, and the thing, if done at all, should be
turned over to a man of the calibre of Austra-
lian sculptor Mackennal, who will be here shortly....
Meoro : The idea of the Commonwealth Day procession
being made to proceed zig-zagly through King Division
was founded on the fact that it was considered absolutely
necessary for it to go past both the morning newspaper
offices.... 0. Keasc : Then it is a good job for the
Oolesberg niggers that the gentle Capt. Cox only wanted
a bridle. If he had wanted a horse, probably there would
have been holes drilled through the whole darned tribe
Ret: Re Gov.-General’s reception procession—“ one
reads,” &c. Where and w’hen ? Should always send
cutting in such cases B. St. B.A. : They lack force
and interest, though “ Oui Bono ” has stammerings of
ability Nondescript : Good idea, but can do nothin
THAT SUNDAY SHOP-CLOSING.
Terrible effect at Sydney Zoo—no peanuts.
with it in its present form.... .R.A.K. : Not badly con-
ceived, but not finish enough, and too long for interest.
... .Elma V. : You have the “ saving grace of humor,” at
all events. Will consider Ina G. : Prose-verse badly
chopped and stacked St. A M. : Too cheap, too facile.
To draw blood you must spend blood His Mate: Kill
the fable and pass the moral; V Fly high, or don’t fly at
a 11.”.... A.W.E. :No interest. Get a plot to carry your
sketches. Not force enough, unless better handled.
. ...A.P.L. : You can’t fairly say so, as the condemned
man Sleigh is the first whom the Lyne Ministry has left
to the gallows M. : The Victorian militia uni-
form is a copy of that of the Confederates in the
American Civil War Xer: Yes, Burke and Wills
were very poor bushmen, and perished merely
through their own lamentable ignorance
Kosci: Carnivorous-plant subject “0ff”....J. A. Mac :
May trim and use A.M..W. :On the contrary, Dr. Scot-
Skirving practically admits the truth of Burdett-Coutts’
allegations about the British army-hospital bungling, but
pleads that the thing was unavoidable.. .. Jay Way : Too
h0t.... J.J.B. : Acceptable... .Crank : Are you so sure
you have a soul to drown ? Imray : “Trail ” returned.
... .Young Australian : Poetically you’re a poor sample.
A.B.C. : Inferior Schreiner dreams don’t go
P.H.C. : You want Govt, to buy Clovelly, at Watson’s
Bay, for a park ? Why, you have a park almost alongside
—and an ocean. Who wants to 5e11?... .Darmoc : Insig-
nificant Best: We have given it. R.F.C. : That
would settle the drink question, if it could only
get at it! Tyers : Doesn’t interest Macander :
Abvsmally dull; and we didn’t find alleged stamps....
E.P. : Rather attenuated item E.G.P. (Melbourne):
Inefficient spectre shoo’d off the premises M.S. : It’s
good. Considering if we’re game to print it J.L.K. :
“Ecclesiastes” too dull and stale Gunyee : Name
and address, please Malo : We prefer not Mad :
Won’t contradict you Balquhidder : Not yet; but
will be next year W.C. : Not up Piscator : Too
doggerelish...'... Eed Jim: Stick to pars Pan:
“ Diana ” doesn’t interest... .M.H. : Considering “ Pilli.”
L.F.W.: Wants originality and vigor Crem ; All
wrong —Frank Madden being pledged to resign his seat
should his late opponent Kemp beat him in the slander
action... .G.F.B. : Not enough in either A. Shields :
Humour forced, and incident too slight for so long a
lead-up Quiros : “ Admiral of the Yellow ” is merely a
jocular term for a post-captain retired without sufficient
length of service to entitle him to a place on the list of
Bear-Admirals Hydrogen : Can’t start a discussion of
that sort, you know J.H. : Go on with your action,
and don’t write maliciously about the thing Progres-
sive Euchre: It didn’t pass, we turned it down
Irlandaise: Another progressive euchre yarn. Also
turned down 1.T.: Nothing specially good in batch of
sonnets submitted E. Vin.: Not up Felix: No in-
terest C. 5.8.: Ditto —and more so J.H.: Thanks;
it’s not bad, but not quite good enough to reprint. Why
didn’t you send it here first ?... .T.J.: The “ megalo ”is
more pronounced than the “ er0t0.”... .Les. O.: Nothing
in it V.G.P.: “ Brethren ” will consider. Other two
have small merit Will J. : “Sliprails” has dramatic
force and descriptive power, but is too vague and impres-
sionistic. Don’t leave quite so much to the reader’s
imagination Cosmopole : The good not new and
the new not good.. . .Tburla : Well, there is no
reason why the penny shouldn’t be reduced in size
Xerxes : Please don’t write on what is practically blotting-
paper—prevents interlineation... .Morna D. : Don’t re-
in inber seeing it before. Too trifling... .H.M. : Eeads
like real life, but treatment nerveless and flabby. ..
Oscar S. : “Original” as far as you are concerned, no
doubt; but the “ sister ’’-device is very old. And, any-
how, a girl who “stamps her shapely little feet on the
rich carpet” shouldn’t say “I seen him.”.. . .Novelle:
Thanks for fine large libel on Nicholson, Esq E.W.C. :
The Act probably provides for a relaxation of its pro-
visions under an Attorney-General’s permit—which you
say was in this case duly obtained. Will consider any-
thingyou may send.. ..Hopscotch : “ Native-compaiiion ”
is 0ff....J. Eooney : Thanks.... H.F. : May use El-
burg. . . .Not badly done ; but hasn’t enough distinction
for print... G.A.P. : “Bootless Quest” not exactly
booted out, yet hardly good enough... .E. M‘D.: “Christ-
mas ” nicely written, yet conventional and unconvincing.
Verse very feeble and clumsy.... Tyers : The point of
your “Lome” rhyme would not be clear to the unini-
tiated. Try your hand at a subject of large public
interest P. : What are you giving us ? Winston Weir
is all right as an exponent of vocal fireworks, but she
isn’t “the best soprano ever heard in comic opera ” in
Melbourne. Frances Saville, for instance, warbled
delightfully. And there have been others Croker :
All unavailable Stockman : Can see no promise in it.
You lack the primarily-necessary ear for rhythm and
rhyme Yes ; N.S.W. Govt, has offered £5O for a Federa-
tion-ode-competition Alone: “Sphinx” jogs along
merrily. Will consider lota > May use. We don’t try
to “ wither” anything but overblown conceit. Modest
pretensions get a moderate answer every’ time C.
Hilmore : There should be ample space left for inter-
lineation in typed copy. Crowded type-written matter is
as bad as bad MS A.P. : Well, anyhow, Darlinghurst
Courthouse, which is undistinguished by’ most people
from the gaol (with which it is connected by an
underground passage), is to be illuminated, and right over
the front-gate a blazing “Welcome” has been arranged...
Bora Creek: “Adventure” in that connection is good
but rather archaic English. And wasn’t it ruled by a
Victorian court that the term “ adventurer ” was libel-
lous? F.B. : Stop there !... .Gordon H. : Good for
local consumption only W.T. : Thanks; will try
P.H.C. : “ Ancestry ” not interest enough.... G.A.P. (Q.) :
Might make a short par H.F.L. : Too ancient for use.
.... E.N.E. (Q.): Du 11... D.B.G, : “ Tin Loo ” a bit slow.
Alone : “ Sphinx ” excellent.... E.P. : “ Incendiary ”
simple and g00d... .R.T.F.S. : .May sharpen up and use.
... .T.N. : We’ve had that blind horse .yarn before ; and
it isn’t much of a yarn, anyhow... .C.M.E. : The best of
your malapropisms are ancient T.S. : Lacks force,
skill, interest—everything that makes literature... .Itan :
Very prosy. Half-a-column like that would just about
slay a paper Bee : Maori yarn clean stolen from a well-
known U.S. nigge* “ twister.” E.T.F.S. : Too bald for
a story... .Peter M‘Goe : None alluring 23: Nothing
of interest H.E.O. : As you say, anybody’ who sends
money to Monsieur T. at Paris in the expectation of
getting value in portraits for his money is a softy.
TO AETISTIC (AND INAETISTIO) OONTEIBUTOES.
Thurla : One or two may possibly serve as ideas
Hazel W. : Not an illustratable idea Constance D.
(W. A.) : A strong idea Kondar : One may do as a sug-
gestion Unavailable: W. Macbeth, Arthur L. 0., Jos.
A. 8., 11. Dixon, J.E.
A 600-guinea ram, exhibited at Canterbury
(M.L.) Jubilee Show, was beaten for champiom.-
ship honors by one that had only cost 25 guineas.
On 7th Nov., Sydney D.T. published an
alleged portrait of Bryan, the Foreign-trade can-
didate for U.S.A. Presidentship. The same
block figured on 17th as the portrait of I beo.
Rooseveldt, a would-be Vice-President. You
pays your money and you takes your choice .
Henniker Heaton, now on his way to
Sydney—he said, sadly, some years ago, that he
feared he would never again see Sydney—hopes
to win the Commonwealth to the Imperial penny-
post idea. He also hopes the Commonwealth
will second his scheme of Britain owning all the
cables connecting her dependencies all over the
world.
Plucky Dr. Rentoul—Melbourne’s fight-
ing Larry —triumphantly justified his S’A.rican-
war attitude before Vic. Presbyterian Assembly
t’other day, completely routing his antagonist
Rev. Jingo Marshall, of Scots’ Church. Said
Rentoul: “Dr. Marshall says I have done some
harm to the church by speaking openly my
opinion on public affairs. I say back to rum, in
Assembly here, that he has done far more harm to
that church. Think of the scene of him, with one
big red fist projected, in the crowd on Mafeking
Day in Melbourne—in the midst of that riotous,
half-drunken mob of people.” Then the militant
churchman pulled from his pocket a bundle of
letters. “If Dr. Marshall,” said he, “dares to
meet me on a public platform in regard to the
South African question I could make him weep
with these letters —letters from sixteen Presby-
terian clergymen now in prison under martial law
and their theological seminary destroyed, because
their sons and brothers have died for what they
deemed Liberty.”
THE CURLY-LEGGED BROTHER.
THE FROG : “Say, young man, have you beer
trying to catch the greasy pig?”
A Mercer’s Predicament.
Mr. Charles Waugh, of Auburn-street, Goul-
burn, has had the ordinary routine of a mercer
and outfitter’s life rudely interfered with; so he
told a reporter who journeyed from Sydney to
interview him.
“I am thirty-six years of age,” said he, “and
my private address is Victoria-street, Goulburn.
Until a short time ago I attended to my
business, which is an extensive one, without
mishap, but one day I became conscious of a
pain m the small of my back. As time went
on it increased until it became almost unbear-
able, and kept me awake night after night.
My back and the muscles of my loins became
quite stiff, and I had the greatest difficulty in
moving about. A physician said 1 was suffering
from lumbago, but in spite of his treatment my
suffering continued. I was in a predicament what
to try, when a neighbor recommended Dr.
Williams’ pink pills for pale people. I purchased
a supply from Mr. Watt, chemist, of Goulburn,
and one box so improved me that I was encouraged
to continue them ; gradually the pains subsided,
and the affected muscles became pliable. Three
boxes completely cured me. I can now stoop and
move about without difficulty; every trace of
lumbago has disappeared and I feel stronger and
brighter than ever.”
By enriching the blood Dr. Williams’ pink pills
cure lumbago, rheumatism, rheumatic gout,
sciatica, &c. By toning up the nerves they likewise
cure St. Vitus’ dance, neuralgia, nervous exhaus-
tion, &c.; debility, anaemia, paralysis, skin diseases,
and premature decay, invariably yield to their
blood-enriching properties. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box,
six boxes fifteen and three, post free. “ How to
Cure Lumbago,” send for special free instruc-
tions.


CRADLE-SONG OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
Rock-a-bye baby, thy bottle is full,
There’s more in the cupboard, so take a good pull.
We’ve bought up the market —and bother the bill,
If we do not pay it, Posterity will!


• TAiANOULLA-—-A CAS© Of SaoriWe VU
l J* St John’s Church. Newbndge, on some
t h 'B W T K When ths buildS? waa“ur
S/? n °K S y en . tered ’_ an d the oon tents of thejmis-
-8*“" 11 Bto ’ en - The hot. Whioh oontainocwij
floor” Th«" d 7 “" W “ f ? Und bcoke,n upon the
robber“ obta,ned to the perpSLor of the
CasteSton. —For some months there lias been % .
heated oohfcention in the Gieaelg Shire Council «a
to whether the money belonging to one riding*
codld be legally expended in another. The fcoji-
troverey has at length been abandoned.
'L^
x^VU^
-6^o^\ o<
%&&&'
. /^,ii * A S'Wiß.r / J
*'». Cv,
• ACCIDENT TO a BUND MAN.
tea-him £?!£%,? Hiadop
embankment at the bnckyjSJ^™ B ® B a Btee l>
d^'B C? 1 0
-ftje be?<>
Bbndioo.— At a meeting of tke Austral Literary
and Debating Society, Mr. William Honeybone,
town clerk, read an interesting paper on “Chil-
dren, Protect Your Property.” At its conclusion
members discussed the subject, and eventually it
was decided to write to the Minister of Education
suggesting that a synopsis of the paper should be
printed with the monthly school-paper issued by
the department. •
■ 4/JCW <*>4^
fMM,
jpJOB-n if ,v ''^? , ° c£f
4 OHr ° buffer * r Wn'y %° r f a,
%> «Sm 3£j
YiitßAjL—A lad named Kohai£ Doai&nt me*
with a serious accident on Thuraday last at Wait
Alberton. He was feeding some poddy calves,
when some pigs near by endeavored also to obtain
some food. Dissent drove them away, but one or,
them, a large boor, rushed at him. tearing hie legs
severely.
A LUNATIC IN THE BUSH.
BEN ALL A, Sunday.
Recently a German prospector named Carl
Smidt left his hut, about three miles from here,
and visited Benalla, where he purchased certain
necessaries, and then started to return home. Ho
does not appear to have reached his hut, as a man
answering his description has been seen by several
wood-carters in the bush some miles out, going
about like a raving maniac. The man seen was so
-ferocious that thupee who watched his movements
were afraid to gomear him. _ -
Portarlington.—The ravages of the cherry
beetle show no sings of abatement. Mr. A.
i Ebery, greengrocer, has lost all. his grapes. Al-
l though Drysdale is only six miles from Portarling-
A ton, the beetle has not shown itself there in such 4
as hero
I Beetle^
"VovK^
fclls
Dookie. —A branch of the Hibernian-Australian
Benefit Society baa been formed here. Mr Mat-
thew Ryan has been appointed hon. secretary pro
' tem. —Farmers are complaining of the scarcity of
competent harvest hands.
!Z^°^n~^ aoi »or (-_ r
fidbX 0 ' • l *» Ofga? hwrf*
■^^■jßSrSS
Mh ■
v°
444/'
w
/
oj- 'fjoje 2vJ?ricOT<-
‘xHs
rv, •
VICTORIAN COUNTRY NEWS.
(Finding things horribly dull in the metropolis, our Melbourne artist has turned to the rural district for subjects of general interest.)


THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dress ng, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Pa’ace throughout the World.
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
H.R.Hi Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards'
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace, Athens, Greece.
HR.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes: Messrs. Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
H.R.H. The PUKE OF SPARTA
Harlene ” for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal , A tkens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHSNLOHE
of “ Harlene ” for the Hair by return.
Esterhazy Uteza.,3o , Bud a-Pest.
writes: Please send me three bottles
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of GREECE
Canea, Crete.
(.High Commissioner of Crete)
writes : Please"to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
X/.j 2/6, and (3 times a/6 size), 4/6 pet- Bottle, everywhere
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S 1 FRUIT SALT’
*9
For Preventing 1 & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL.—“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
va'ue as a means of health cannot be overestimatedA Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVE ISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. — See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
-
itill
■■■■l
fg
1 i
ml
i
£jl®
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOH:
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
“ • KOKO ’ tor the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.'
Princess HOHENLOHE.
I Recommended and Used by fI.M. The
| Queen lof Greece). Princess Victoria
! (of Schaumburg Rippe), Princess
Hohenlobe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss,
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. Inc.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, lceeps it so't and pliant, imparts
to it the lustre and Ireshness ol youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair Irom jailing, is the most
cleanly ol all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless 6
01,0 PEOPh’R UKC IT
lit for its w onderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entirene \v grov. th when that is possible,
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE UKE IT,
Ilf because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
111 as ft dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress it in what-
JM ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN like IT.
!|J because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
M 1 position desired.
THEY AU LIKE IX.
I because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no po : sonous substances, dve. sugar of
lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
J is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
Is., 3s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depet: Koko-Maricopas Co., lid.,l4,Castlereagh St., Sydney,N.S.W.
CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET OF THE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
SEPTEMBER 30, 1900.
LIABILITIES. £ B. D. £ s. D.
Notes in Circulation .. 890,837 0 0
Deposits and accrued In-
terest 20,987,103 7 2
= 21,877,940 7 2
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at Credit of Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident Fund) ,2,857,549 8 8
Paid-up Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. ..1,250,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 133,928 14 1
3,383,928 14 1
£28,119,418 9 11
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits and Endorsements,
as per contra 235,046 13 4
£28,354,465 3 3
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances
Money at short call in
London
Advances to Governments
British and Colonial
Government Securities
Municipal and other
Securities
Queensland Government
Notes
Notes of other Banks
Due by other Banks
£ B. b. £
5,720,350 5 9
280,000 0 0
435,000 0 0
,122,793 3 8
139,974 7 11
133,679 0 0
12,982 0 0
98,163 7 2
8. D.
: 7,942,942 4 6
Bill Receivable, Bills Discounted, and
Remittances in transit 3,998,330 7 8
Loans and Advances to Customers .. 15,528,145 17 9
Bank Premises 650,000 0 0
£28,119,418 9 11
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
contra 235,046 13 4
£28,354,465 3 3
Dr.
PROFIT LOSS, SEPT. 30
1900.
Cr.
1900.
Sep. 80.
To Rebate (at current rates) on
Bills Discounted not due at
this date 7,185 12 8
~ Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum.. .. 100,000 0 0
~ Balance carried to “ Profit
and Loss,” New Account .. 26,743 1 6
£133,928 14 1
1900:
Mar. 31.
Sep. 30.
30 ». U.
By Amount from last Account .. 26,280 6 8
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits
after providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, reducing
tbe Valuation of Bank Pre-
mises, and including re-
coveries from Debts previ-
ously written off as Bad .. 107,648 7 5
£133,928 14 1
Dr.
RESBEYE
ZFUZKTID, SEPT. 30,
1900.
1900.
Sep. 30.
To Balance
(Of which £600,000 is invested
in British Government Securi-
ties, and the balance is em-
ployed in the business of the
Bank)
£ s. D.
1,260,000 0 0
£1,260,000 0 0
1900.
Mar. 31. By Balance
1900.
Sep. 30. By Balance
£ 8. D.
.. 1,250,000 0 0
£1,250,000 0 0
..£1,250,000 0 0
J. BUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Brave Men Under Ground.
Lemuel Gould is a powerrul man and still com-
paratively young—only thirty-seven. And well
for him that he is both.
"I am employed,” he says, “as a pitsinker in
the Hensall Goal Pits in South Wales. My work
is mostly with the hammer, shovel and drill, 1200
feet or more below the surface.”
Modestly and quitely Lemuel mentioned this,
as if he had merely said, “I am a bank clerk in
the Oity.” Twelve hundred feet or more below the
surface I And working to make that enormous
hole deeper still ! Great Csesar’s ghost! Why,
speaking for myself-, I couldn’t be coaxed or
bought to take on such a job, even if I believed
heaven to lie in that direction—-as it is popularly
supposed not to.
Well, Lemuel Gould is a brave man ; so are all
who do what he does—brave men. I beg respect-
fully to salute them, with a lift of my old hat.
Now he will tell us why the date of March Ist,
1898, is burned into his memory like a picture on
a piece of pottery.
“I went down to work as usual that morning,”
he says, “ and about noon I was seized witli awful-
pinching and griping pains right across my
stomach and back. They fairly doubled me up
and seemed to be tearing me to bits inside. I
was sent up to the top of the pit and went home
to bed. My body burned all over like a ball of
fire.
“ After three days, seeing I got worse instead
of better, the doctor was fetched. But he did me
no good. For over a fortnight the pain and my
breathing were so bad' I hardly got a wink of
sleep. It was worse in my right side, so I couldn’t
bear to lie on that side.
“My face was as yellow as a guinea, and I
coughed and vomited up a lot of thick greenish
matter ; it was bitter as gall and smelt horrible.
This went on for weeks.
“ As the first doctor did me little or no good I
tried two others. They said I had inflammation
of the bowels, kidney trouble and jaundice. Very
slowly I got a trifle better. I had now been away
from work seventeen weeks, and needed money for
my family. Being too weak to go down into the
pit, I got a light job above ground. But I could
only work a day or two now and then.
“ After awhile the light job was done and, live
or die, I had to go back to the pit. We were then
working up to our knees in water, which brought
on my cough, and soon made me as bad as ever.
My mates said, ‘Go home; you are not fit for
work.’ ,
“ But I was obli/jed to work ; I could not let my
children starve. All the same, I had to take
things easy ; any hurry made me gasp for breath,
and my heart jump like a scared bird in a cage.
“For months it was this way with me ; I had no
appetite and took no interest in any thing. What
with the pain, the coughing, and the vomiting and
spitting-up of blood, I thought there was no chance
of my getting well again.
“ Once, down in the pit, as I was striking on a
drill, a heavy sweat broke out on me and I was
taken- violently sick. The smell of the stuff I
threw up was terrible, and my mates sent me out
of the p.t immediately.
“Oil my way home I stopped at my brother’s
house to rest a bit. A friend of mine—Mrs.
Thomas—happened to be there, and seeing how
bad I was, she persuaded me to try Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, saying my trouble ldoked like
inflammatory indigestion and torpid liver. She
had been taking it herself and gave me the half
bottle she had left.
“ So I went ahead with it and before I had used
it up I felt better. Then I got another hottle and
kept right along, and every day I was more and
more of a man. I began to sleep properly of
nights, and what I ate stayed on my stomach and
put strength into me. The yellow paint went
out of my skin, and the cough and the vomiting
let up for good and all.
“ But I wasn’t going to be fooled by the sly old
disease that had laid me on my back so many
times, so I stuck to Mother Seigel’s Syrup until I
had four empty bottles on the shelf. But that
time I was all rig-lit. Since then I have never lost
a day’s work through illness, and I can do as good
a day’s work as any man in the pit.”—Lemuel
Gould, Nantgarw, near Pontypridd, South Wales.
Signed in the presence of John Morgan, Solicitor
and a Commissioner for Oaths, 1 Frederick-street,
Cardiff, February 7th, 1900.
Lemuel Gould is (doubtless without knowing
it) a brave man or he wouldn’t work in the deep
pit; and he is a lucky m an to have run against
Mother Seigel’s Syrup when bravery was of no
more use to him than a toothpick in place of a
drill.
Still more deaths under chloroform ! Thus
“Puyyaka” to The Bulletin :
“ Layman ” (10/11/00) seems to have his doubts about
the superiority of ether to chloroform as a general
anaesthetic, but I can assure him that they would rapidly
disappear were he to become transformed into an
anaesthetist. His arguments are somewhat behind the
times, but they are good, popular theses enough. We
begin with the Melb. Hospital, where chloroform is almost
invariably used. This is not done for any lofty scientific
reasons, but merely because chloroform is cheaper and
because the anaesthetic work of the institution is run on
more or less archaic lines. No definite course of instruc-
tion in the giving of anaesthetics is vouchsafed to students,
and, since the resident surgeons are appointed from the
new graduates standing highest in Melb. University final
honor lists, the majority of them never see ether
administered until they get into outside practice.
The alleged length of time necessary for the induction of
ether anaesthesia is due to faulty administration. With a
Clover’s inhaler the average period before surgical
anaesthesia is from 21 to 3min. In many cases ether is
actually quicker than chloroform if properly used, and,
at any rate, even were it appreciably slower, a few
minutes are of no great importance when the chief con-
sideration is safety. The A.C.E. mixture (alcohol,
chloroform, ether) of which “ Layman ” speaks, is rapidly
passing out of favor owing to the unequal rates of eva-
poration of the three constituents, so that the stimulat-
ing effects of the alcohol and ether are lost ere the
heart-depression of the chloroform passes off. The only
advantages of chloroform lie in its ease of portability and
superior cheapness, but these are outweighed by the
dangers of administration, more especially in minor
operations. Many dentists, made wise by accidents,
refuse to operate under it, and there is scarcely a London
surgeon of note who will employ it- in private cases.
Until the ideal anaesthetic is discovered, which will
abolish feeling but not consciousness (and the Americans
are striving hard after it), ether will probably remain our
safest and best general anaesthetic.
Baker, Holder, Symon, Glynn, Charles-
ton, and other S.A. freetraders who intend to
stand for the Federal Parliament, are most anxious
that the fiscal question shall be kept quiet, and
they are by no means grateful to Reid for trying
to make it a general issue at the elections.
Downer, too, affirms that it is wicked of Reid
after having agreed that Federation was only pos-
sible on the basis of a high tariff against outsiders
to attempt now, for his own purposes, to foment
a useless Freetrade wrangle. “Call it what you
like, whether a low tariff, a revenue tariff, or any-
thing else, they all agree that most of the Federal
income must come from the Customs,” protests
J.D., who has always been a stalwart advocate of
protection to native industries.
“The true inwardness of some of the
F.S.W. Federal electoral districts boundaries is
only appreciated bv those living in them.” writes
a Northern man to The Bulletin. “For in-
stance, it would seem natural, geographically and
otherwise to include the Northern rivers in one
district New Eng i and in ano ther ; but under
the scheme, as outlined, Tentertield is tacked on to
£Snworth'ls'inc'fnd'ed^ith I^ Newlngfa"^’/^ 0
~ Fv t i ds i: tfc i e arrangement John See has a
this U,
Gloucester), and Tommy Ewing holds a strong
hand for nara Had the Richmond and Tweed
JEiivers been included with the Clarence in one
electorate, the contest between See and Ewing
would have been most interesting to everybody
but themselves. The trail of political influence is
over lt; a b
One of the weeklies publishes a photo of
a recent W.C.T.U. conference, and reveal, the
W .O.T.U.’s to be so like wliat they are exacted
to be as to sur P rise everybody. The W.C.T.U.
raemberS) as limned by the pbotographer , are
probably the plainest aggregation of women to be
found south of the line Who was the French
philosopher that said, “Women give themselves
to God when man will not have them ”?


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT.—FIoraI China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very-
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER. —Beautifully Chased and Orna-
mented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, £2lss, £3, £3los, £4.
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
zz>.
Tf
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 265.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.— Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE DISHES.—The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
4 o’clock TEASPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case,
Embossed, 12s 6d. Extra (Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction.
In Pure Solid Silver, 0 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
80s, 355, £2, £2lo*.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, 15s ; larger sizes, 20s, 255, and 30s.
mi
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, 15s 6d
Double Jam, 255.
s
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased sis
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post f ree.
ikssFl3
A
&
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS. —Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
, j
amwatm*!' i
-ps
RRimilOHliUUllftlißllHKirid:
W!
“Just What I Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. SAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A! QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d half-
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALITY is a Seeond Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ;
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen.
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINNER
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
in
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 108.
&
JU
mi
□fTrf
r(r
fr|
m
m
W
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.— First-clasg Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 265.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s. •
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast). — Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.— Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller & Silversmith
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
™ 815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
Estimates Given.
OLD PLATE MADE EQUAL TO KTEW.
Send. Your Address.


The PUREST WHISKEY
In the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Fitt Street, Sydney.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Colfins-st., Melbourne; - 4 Hunter-st., Sydney’
yw\n
&O TO HESLL-
n lOOLANl) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei},
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS.
Mountcastis & Quail's
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastie & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE;
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
drTmagkenzo
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
/' Hr nit are and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auct.on Room-:, 321 Gr9org3 Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro*
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARSV!—-»
Wm.
,y *
a-t-KSvi
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Lyne Govt, would have had plenty of
time for all its Bills had it met the House earlier.
It junketed half the year away, and now is out of
breath.
Of all the defeated candidates a.t the recent
elections for Vic. Assembly it is thought that
Higgins stands the best chance of getting into the
Federal Parliament.
The nepotism of Jackson was the sole
reason for “Bobby” Best’s exclusion from the
new Turner Cabinet, while the Age put the ex-
tinguisher upon Duffy. The others killed them-
selves by their own impracticability.
Hugh Ross, M.L.A. (Labor) at Quirindi :
“ I can tell you not one of the 125 members of
N.S.W. Assembly will vote for a reduction in the
number of members. I’ll not vote for it. ” Excel-
lent frankness. But what say the electors?
Proposed Queensland One Man One Vote
Bill is placed 18th on the Parliamentary business
Ei per, and Premier Philp wonders what the
aborites are growling about. Carefully put
at the bottom of the list every time, it has been a
slaughtered innocent for the last three years.
With cool assurance the Victorian Tories
now dub themselves Constitutionalists, and are
busy forming an organisation to be called the Con-
stitutional Association. The “Constitutional
Ass.” is quite unmindful of its equally misleading
and cheeky assumption, of the designation Na-
tional Ass. a few years ago.
The fact of Postmaster-General Crick
taking charge of the Closer Settlement Bill—the
most important land subject discussed in N.S.W.
Leg Assembly this session—strengthens two fre-
quently-heard surmises. First, Lands Minister
Hassell goes to England as commercial agent;
second, W. P. Crick becomes Minister for Lands.
Cabled that Kitchener is “ preparing to-
deport the bulk of the civilian burghers of thfe
Transvaal.” Nothing less than the expatriation
of the Boer race will end the “war,” it seems.
Britain fought the unequal contest in the name of
INVOLVED !
H IM: “ Why does she hold her skirts up a fine day like
this!”
HER: “ Well, she’s a great horsewoman, and so in the
habit of holding up her habit that when she is out
of the habit she is in the habit of forgetting' that
she is out of it.”
—Liberty ! But if it is Liberty which proposes
to banish a whole people—what more could
Despotism do ?
The election of Victoria’s allegedly Libe-
ral ex-Premier M ‘ Lean as Leader of tlie whole
Opposition, the Gillies Tory section included, is
the roughest thing that has happened to him up
to date. M’Lean may protest his Liberalism,
to any extent, but if the high-dried Tory party
regards him as a fit successor of their beloved
Duncan Gillies
“ The man who should be most studied,”
says Freetrader Dry Dog Reid, “is the man called
Consumer. And all men are consumers.” The
Protectionist doctrine is that the man who should
be most studied is the man called Producer.
Every man who is of value to the country is a
producer of some kind, but there are plenty of
consumer-men who shouldn’t be studied at all.
That Prussian Minister’s excuse for
German brutality in China —that it was a revenge
for the invasion of Deutschland by the Huns—
recalls the familiar story of the Gentile who rushed
up to an unoffending Jew and smote him in the
face. “What’s that for?” inquired a bystander.
“Because the rascal’s people killed Christ.”
“But that was 1900 years ago!” “Never heard
of it until just now.”
Melb. Argus talk about the solidity of
M‘Lean Opposition party is amusing to those
“in the know.” When the Mao - Shiels
party was in power two leading members of the
present “ solid ” Opposition—two Scotchmen, by
the way—approached Peacock with a proposal to
cross the floor and support Turner if he would
give them the promise of portfolios in his next
Ministry. But Turner was not taking any
treachery on those terms.
There apparently is an Adelaide intrigue
—backed up by 8. A. Register— to push Holder
into the first Federal Ministry at the expense of
Kingston, one excuse being that the Cabinet
should not be formed on party lines, but should
give freetraders and protectionists “equal oppor-
tunities.” The Argus is in the same conspiracy,
urging that, as Liberalism has got all it wants in
the Federal Constitution, it should give Toryism
a chance in the Administration.
Freetrade and Protection will develop
some strenuous struggles in the ensuing Federal
campaign; but for tooth-and-nail fighting the
N.S.W. Socialists and labelled Labor party will
carry the palm. The Socialists will nominate six
candidates for the Senate, not with the hope of'
getting any in, but with tlie object, first, of adver-
tising the cause, and, second, of smashing the
chances of the Laborites. Most of these latter
professed militant Socialism at one time, but
dropped it. For this they are to be roasted.
The recent failure of the cordhe ammuni-
tion at Queenscliffe (Vic.) fort merely emphasises
the contention that Australia should make her
own ammunition, and thus be independent of
’Ome manufacturers. In war-time the latter
would have enough to do to keep local customers
going, so that Australia would have Buckley’s
chance of obtaining consignments, to say nothing
of the risk of their being captured even if shipped.
British makers also will supply all and sundry.
Present scribe travelled 18 months ago with one
of Kynoch’s representatives, who made a great
boast about his having just traded off 14 million
rounds of Mauser ammunition to the then
President Oom Paul.
The cry of a Victorian Con-
gregational parson named Jones (daily
paper report):—
To-night the Rev. E. H. Jones, the
newly-elected president of the union, de-
livered his inaugural address, dealing with
religious, social and political matters. He
declared for freedom, and expressed the
hope that the memories of Cobden and
Bright might live long. “ Listen, ye pro-
tectionists,” he continued, “if there are
any such creatures among Congi egational-
ists. The prosperity of the working-man
of England is represented in her savings
banks by the huge sum of £150,000,000.
Precisely. And the prosperity of the
working-man of Protectionist coun-
tries is represented by the £165,000,000
deposits in the savings banks of
France, £178,000,000 in Austria,
.£212,000,000 in Germany, and
£446,000,000 in the United States.
In 1840, before Britain gave up
Protection, she had £23,400,000 in her
savings banks, while France, Ger-
many and Austria had only £14,600,000
among them. They have all left
Britain hopelessly behind in this
matter since she took to Freetrade.
Poor Jones evidently never dreamt
of in vestigatii g for himself ; he merely
took George Reid’s figures and started
to call people who do think for them-
selves “creatures.”
Wonderful how strong a hold
the benevolent little Dr. Maloney
has got on West Melbourne elector-
ate. As a Parliamentarian he is
hopelessly unpractical, and many of
his constituents must know that his
“ views ” are seldom taken seriously
in the House. But they have reason
to believe that he means them ser-
iously, and so the “Little Doctor”
gets sent back to his seat every time.
West Melbourne wisely hangs on to
the belief that sincere democrats are
scarce.
Maoriland’s empire or confed-
eration now spreads over 3000 miles
from north to south —from Penrhyn
Island up towards the equator, to the
Auckland and other isles, near where
the icebergs are. In between is
mostly water ; still, it is a very long confedera-
tion. What weighs on the country’s mind is that
narrow spot between Auckland and Onehunga
where an active man can walk across the empire
in an hour or two.
Westralia having resolved to pay Ms.P.,
the six States now stand thus : N.S.W., Queens-
land, and Vic. pay Assembly members £3OO, and
Council members nil; Westralia and S.A. pay
members of both Houses £2OO each ; and Tas-
mania pays members of both Houses £lOO each.
SHE WOULDN'T BE BEATEN.
LITTLE ELSIE (boastingly): “We’ve 17 rooms in
our house; and we’ve a parlor-maid, a house-
maid, a kitchen-maid, and —and”
WEE MARY : “ We’ve only got four rooms ; but
we’ve got a parlor made, a bedroom made,
and a dining-room made, and a kitchen
made, and a wash-house and a bath-room
nearly finished.”
It may be noted that where the Assemblies are
paid highest the Councils are not paid at all, and
where the Councils are paid the payment is the
same as for members of the Assemblies.
Some Vic. certainties for Federal House
of Representatives—Deakin (Ballarat), M‘Lean
(Gippsland), Turner (Balaclava), Dr. Quick (Ben-
digo), M‘Cay (Corinella), Beazley (Yarra), Mauger
(Melbourne Ports), and Isaacs (Indi). There will
be a big fight between Higgins and Watt for
Melbourne North ; but when the numbers are up
the Equity barrister will be on top. Little Dr.
Maloney will give S’Malcolm M‘Eacharn and his
money “ all they know ” for Melbourne.
Australia’s contribution to the British
navy is £126,000 a year, characterised by the
London press as downright paltry, and there is a
claim for us to foot up something like two millions.
Chamberlain tried to insinuate this to Reid and
Turner when they were in London for the Jubilee
but found them hard of hearing on that side.
Most people have forgotten how Chamberlain
fetched it up at a banquet, when Reid promptly
rose and said Britain was not going to get
another copper.
N.S.W. Upper House had hardly rejected
the Industrial Arbitration Bill before ex-Minister
Hogue was inquiring in tlie Assembly whether
Premier Lyne was going to reform the Council.
And the only Ministry Hogue ever belonged to
promised Council reform for four years, and fought
two elections over it, and got two separate man-
dates to do it—and did nothing. Hogue’s anxiety
lest Lyne wastes four minutes before starting the
measure which his crowd didn’t attempt in four
years is pathetic.
Kingston is repeatedly reminding S.A.
democrats that the Federal elections will give
them an opportunity of making Tory candidates
squirm. S.A. has 150,000 electors who possess
votes for both Federal Houses, and yet two-thirds
of them have been persistently denied votes for S.A.
Ley. Council! In a month or two the Tories —
who will make a bold bid for the Senate—will
have to appeal to this disfranchised majority—re-
cently described by Chaffey Baker’s organ, the
S.A. Register, as “loafers and wantons,” for
their votes. And Kingston proposes that every
Federal candidate shall be asked “Will you give
the franchise for the Leg. Council to every voter
for the Federal Parliament ? ” “If the answer is
No,” says Kingston, “no self-respecting man or
woman amongst the Outlanders will record a vote
for, or do aught but work for the defeat of, the can-
didate.” An indication that the Tory crowd realises
the position is the fact that many prominent Ass.
men in S.A. Assembly are going for Franchise
reform.
Queensland goes back to the old
expensive policy of buying population.
The immigration vote this year is
£50,000. Queensland has 480,000
people and it has bought 163,000 of
them with free passages and other
bribes. N.S.W. has bought 212,000
people in the same fashion, and Vic-
toria 140,000. But Victoria paid cash
for its immigrants; N.S.W. paid
mostly cash ; while Queensland bor-
rowed nearly £3,000,000 to buy popula-
tion with, and the money mounts up
beautifully at compound interest.
When Queensland hangs one of its
oldest assisted immigrants now three
is a horrible sense of loss. It is a
case of strangling about £5O, includ-
ing the interest.
Brisbane Courier proposes a
new kind of Parliamentary gag— -a
standing order requiring that, when
a Bill is in committee, so many
clauses must go through in a certain
time. Supposing it was a case of
three clauses an hour, and 58
minutes were occupied with debate
on the first clause. The natural
result would be that clauses 11. and
111. must be voted on without a word
of debate. Therefore if the big
swindle was in clause 111. it is obvious
that the Ministerial party would talk
about clauses I. and 11. till there was
no time for anyone to say anything
about the fraud in clause 111. There are
many possibilities in this idea.
Cabled that a British co. claims the
sole right to navigate certain Venezuelan
rivers, and demands that all vessels save
its own shall be warned off, and that the
British Govt, backs up the claim. Freetrade—
or what ?
Queensland Premier Philp has notified
Parliament that, in view of the fall in revenue
and the great increase in expenditure (largely
owing to the war), it may be necessary to knock
as much as 15 per cent, off all civil service salaries.
-1 he fat and Jingo gentlemen who bellowed so-
deafeniugly about their longing to “make sacri-
fices for the empire ” in the matter of the Trans-
vaal war won’t sacrifice a cent, so the ill-paid
public servant must stand the shock of the other
fellow’s loyalty. Of course, a lot of the civil
servants yelled during the blood-drunk that they
were willing to make all sorts of sacrifices for the
Empiah. It is to be hoped that the sacrifice now
proposed will agree with them.
The Lyne Ministry has another worthy
idea on hand ; it has introduced a Bill authorising '
the repurchase of large estates for closer settle-
ment. But there is this huge bee in the ointment:
Many N.S.W. big estates were built up by the
absorption of multitudes of small holdings, and
when they are repurchased and cutup there is
nothing to prevent them drifting together into big
estates again. In S.A. and Maoriland the gra-
duated land-tax makes it so much more profitable
to hold land in small sub-divisions that the big
estates tend to break up. Either a graduated
land-tax should be established in N.S.W., or else
the resumed estates should be leased—not sold.
Nothing else will prevent the huge landed pro-
perties crawling together again.
Concerning the present S.A. Premier :
Premier Holder’s fiscal beliefs are chameleonic. He
entered Parliament in ’B7 as a Freetrader and Land
Nationalist. In ’BB he took office in the Cockburn Cabinet
which was strongly protectionist. Since then every
Ministry with which he has been associated has been-
definitely Protectionist, and in his capacity as Treasurer-
he has opposed every attempt- to abolish or diminish
duties. He is stiff vice-president of the Freetrade Associ-
tion. He declares he will stand for the Federal Parlia-
ment as a Freetrader, and yet he thinks that the Federal
tariff ought to raise at least £7,000,000. On a par with
these facts are those in relation to the drink question
Holder is president of the S.A. Temperance Alliance, and'
yet he is particularly anxious to foster the wine trade of
the province both locally and in Europe. Holder is in-
deed “ all things to all men.” But he is very clever, very
cunning and very mobile, and always remembers that
self-preservation is the first law of nature and politics.
Premier Seddon’s action in adding £4O a
year on to the salaries of Maoriland members-
may have been clumsily done, but it was the right
thing to do. I hese States should have fewer-
members and with at least twice the salary. Also,
they should at least treble the salaries of their
Ministers. If the country wants to get good men
it must pay them. When a first-class financier
can get £2OOO a year for life to manage a bank he
isn’t likely to give it up to be Treasurer at £lOOO
or £l2OO a year, with three times the work, and
more expenses, and a billet which may last a
month and which it is 100 to 1 won’t last five
years. A man may be unselfish for himself, but
he doesn’t want to die penniless and leave his
daughters to scramble for a precarious living by
being governesses, or waitresses in somebody’s
restaurant.
Maoriland House of Representatives has
decided to impose its Absentee Tax in future
on property holders who are absent from the
province for one consecutive year. And it would
do well if it made the Absentee Tax an addition
of 100 per cent, on the ordinary Land Tax ; the
existing 20 per cent, is quite inadequate. The
usual protest against the Absentee Tax is that the
absentee isn’t a criminal and shouldn’t be treated
as such. Certainly he isn’t a criminal ; he is
often indeed a far more estimable man than a,
resident citizen. But he is a disaster; he is a
worse misfortune than the plague ; and he has to
be put down. An Australian who owns £1,000,000
worth of property can, by simply settling in
Europe, load this country with £1,000,000 of debt
at probably 6 per cent, interest, and no country
can afford too much of that kind of thing.
PERHAPS.
What is the story hidden of days that are to come,
When through our land re-echoes the rolling of the
drum ?
What flag will be the People’s, as bondmen or as free,
To flaunt above the city, to rock upon the sea?
The glory of old England, bought with blood and women’s
tears !
Ripe fruits of hatred heavy with the waiting of the
years !
Shall we reap the Dead Sea harvest of wrongs we have not
sown ?
Shall we pay the price demanded for power we have not
known ?
N.S.W.
J.J.B.


LIFE HAS NO CKAHMS
TO THOSE IN BAD HEALTH.
TAKE WEBBER’S
VITADATIO
INDIGESTION.
Abbotshill, Abbotsford, Dunedin,
July 19, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—l may say that I have been suffering very
severely from Indigestion for a great number of years,
and have tried all kinds of medicines, but without any
benefit. lam now using your VITADATIO and find it
the best of all. —I remain, Sir, vours truly
(Signed) M. A. THOMSON.
ECZEMA AND INDIGESTION CURED.
FRESH TESTIMONIALS DAILY.
177 St. John-st., Launceston,
Mr. W. WEBBER. October, 1895.
Dear Sir,—Having been a great suffererfrom Eczema and
Indigestion for the last seven or eight years, and having
tried a number of different kinds of medicines without
any lasting benefit, I was induced to try your new herbal
remedy, “ Vitadatio,” and am very thankful to say it has
done me a great deal of good. It is a splendid tonic,
and as poverty of blood causes these two complaints, I
can only say I am perfectly astonished at the difference.
The Eczema has disappeared, and the skin is quite soft,
without any scars whatever. I have recommended
“ Vitadatio ” to a great many friends, both in this island
and in the other colonies.
I remain, yours truly
H. E. CARSON.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, Ss6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s (id.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office; 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Soie Proprietor.
*arASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
■
LEA
and
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
m w
LEA
and
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Agents —VIKGOE, SON Si CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
OYER
6,000
SHOPKEEPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES
200,000
ALL OVER THE WORLD
USE
DITIH CUSH KEISTERS
HEAD
AUSTRALASIAN
OFFICE :
335 PITT STREET,
—SYDNEY,
W. A. LINGHAM,
GENERAL MANAGER.
n)
§
WORTH
NOTICING
£2O
for a NAME
for the Second-Grade Dunlop Tyre
we intend placing on the market to
meet the existing demand for a
Good Wearing Tyre at a Low Figure.
CONDITIONS of COMPETITION.
The Name to be concise and appropriate.
The Competition is open to all.
Competitors may send in as many selections as they like,
provided that they are sent in separately, with the selected
name on one side of a sheet of paper and the senders name and
address on the other.
Should more than one Competitor select the winning Name,
the award will be made by priority. All letters will be num-
bered and filed as received, so that it is advisable for Competitors
to send in their selections as soon as possible.
Letters to be addressed to **A.” care of any of our Austra-
lasian Depots.
The Competition will close on December 31st, and our
award advertised early in January.
The Dunfop Tyre Co. to be sole judge of the winning Name,
which will be the property of the Coy.
A cheque fcr £2O will be forwarded to the successful Com-
petitor as soon as our award is made.
B IS WARK OB IVII I ATIONS.
DUNI9PTYR£S
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co, of Aus. Ltd,,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
At Williamstown, Yic., a man was re-
cently fined £2 and costs for speaking of a con-
stable who entered a hotel disguised as a fisher-
man as a mongrel policeman. Contempt of
policeman!
From a S. Australian “ Imperial Bush-
man ”:—
I have joined the police for three months. I reckon
the war will last that long, and then we can rejoin. It’s
better pay and easier work—when you’ve done a day’s
graft you’re finished. Besides, it was getting too damp
for camping out. But you needn’t worry about us stay-
ing here ; we’ve simply taken this job as an easy way out
of the other, of which there isn’t one of us that is not
full up.
Cabled flummery :
Victoria’s action in allowing the naval contingent to
remain in China during the winter is highly appreciated
by her Majesty the Queen.
Which is about on a par with the daily-newspaper
statement that Count Waldersee pronounced the
Australian naval contingent to be “the finest
men he had seen.” Waldersee, of course, has
never seen the Prussian guards. How much
“taffy ” are we prepared to swallow?
Two democratic politicians of Yic. Assem-
bly, answering an official invitation to the Hope-
toun guzzle in Sydney, intimated that they will
not accept free eating and drinking at N.S.W.
taxpayers’ expense, and will only attend, a ban-
quet if allowed to pay for the usual ticket.
In a divorce-case heard the other day in
Sydney, according to the wife’s evidence, the hus-
band, when he brought his unmarried partner
home, told his married partner that she could still
stay in the house if she kept to the kitchen and
made herself useful by attending on the new bride
and was.respectful in her behaviour. It was con-
siderate of him, but she got her divorce all the
same.
“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
For ill-treating three little children, a
man and his wife were fined at Parramatta Police-
Court last week in an aggregate of nearly £24.
One of their methods of inculcating obedience
into the children was to make them clasp hot coals
in their little fists. The exemplary fines imposed
came as a surprise. Had the case been one of
wife-beating the sentence would probably have
been ss. or “ the rising.” The ill-treated children
were wards of State, and boarded out under the
regulations of the State Dept.
Rich man Terry (who is to be one of the
stock jokes of the Commonwealth elections),
speaking for Woman Suffrage :
Women possessed a quality which men did not, namely,
that intuition which enabled them to discriminate
between the earnest men and the frauds. Their entrance
into public affairs would purify public life.
Alas, poor Woman ! When she has to deal with
her own sex she knows a hawk from a handsaw
well enough, but it’s exactly over the mascu-
line fraud she has kept “ falling-in ” since the
world was young. If the “earnest man” isn’t
also either a masterful brute or “such a nice
fellow ! ” he can stop right out in the cold all the
time. Woman has no use for the man who is per-
sonally ineffective !
When an obscure man carries the same
name as a man of note the least he can do is; to
treat that name tenderly, and keep it out of places
where it will look ridiculous. Recently, at St.
James’, near Benalla (Vic.), one Duncan Gillies
went for a swim, apparently went mad in the
water, and coming out hurriedly trotted into town
with no covering save a glister of moisture on his
skin. Highly respectable Tories were horrified
to hear that their venerable Parliamentary leader
was running through the town in his natural state,
with the police after him; and even when they
learned, later on, that it wasn’t the same Gillies
it took them some time to get over the shock.
Probably it was only a touch of the sun, but when
Duncan Gillies recovers he should be re-named
John Smith before he is turned loose, to avoid
future painful misunderstandings.
Sydney Australian Star perpetrated a
neat piece of unconscious humor in its news-bill
t’other day. Thus it announced “Kim’s” son’s
marriage:—
A DUKE’S RUN-AWAY MATCH.
GALLANT EXPLOIT 111
The Bulletin’s series of articles—“A
Policy for the Commonwealth ” —will be published
in pamphlet form, with an appendix, about the
end of the year. The object of this series is to
suggest a progressive, democratic, and financially
solf-reliant policy for the Commonwealth, and an
effort has been made to deal with all the more
urgent questions that will Confront the Federal
Ministry. The pamphlet will contain about 80
pages, and can be procured retail, price sixpence,
from The Bulletin office, 214 George-street,
Sydney, or wholesale from Messrs. Edwards,
Dunlop, and Co., Sydney and Brisbane.
Two esteemed BuLLETiN-men, signing
“ E.” and “ F.”, lately raged furiously in these
columns concerning the heathen Ibsen ; and came
to contradictions over the date of publication of
“A Doll’s House.” Whereupon “F.” boldly
wagered £5 (B. Nov. 10, p. 22) in terms follow-
ing:—
Let Ibsen get all due credit, however, for having been
early in the field with his “ Nora, or a Doll’s House,” pub-
lished in 1851. “ E.” tells you that the story of “ Nora ”
dates from 1879. These are gambling times when one
loses money by wagering on horse races. If “ E.”
wants to lose some money let him accept my wager of £5
that “ Nora” was published 20 years previous to 1879.
And “ E.” quoted as authority “ Cassell’s Store-
house of General Information, 1893,” thus: —
“Ibsen was educated for the medical profession, but
soon took to literature, his first effort being a drama,
Catiline (1850), which was not successful. Next year,
whilst a student in the University of Christiania, he
started a paper in which he wrote his earliest social and
satire il play, Nora, or a Doll’s House. He was appointed
manager of the theatre at Bergen in 1852.”
and “staked his fiver on that.” “ E.”
quoted about all the other available authorities
from Jaeger’s “Life of Ibsen” to Archer’s bio-
graphical introduction to “A Doll’s House ;” and
the wager was referred to The Bulletin for adju-
dication. This paper finds that the evidence is
conclusive that “Nora” was published in 1879,
and not 20 years previously; and the money staked
has been forwarded to “ E.” Ibsen was mentally
incapable of writing “ Nora” in 1851; and Cassell’s
“ Storehouse ” has apparently confused that play
with a musical tragedy called “ Norma, or a Poli-
tician’s Love,” which has nothing to do with
“Nora,” but was published in 1851.


“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty and
the Obese. Apply to chemists for “ Regimen for the
Obese ” Card.
Published by the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
Extract from published letter of M.L.
contingenter:
I can tell you they don’t get me for a soldier again, or
any of our boys either that I have spoken to. They are
all full up of it. We were war mad and now we are'mad
to get away again.
The Benevolent Societies’ Fete—one of the
features of the approaching Commonwealth festivities—
should command the ready support of all. The object is
good, the price of tickets, Is., is reasonable, and the enter-
tainments to be provided—three concerts in Sydney Town
Hall and a monster sports meeting at the Agricultural
grounds—will appeal to all classes. Further particulars
from Mr. W. Moffitt Burns, hon. sec., 35 Castlereagh-st.*
SYDNEY .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
• . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
JT. A. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Public Companies.
United losaraW co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Row.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Hollow Ground
jpi” Ruo*
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES.
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & GO.. LONDON V.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
MARKS AMERICA 4 ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.
■p
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <fcc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
R Opt (ire
COr^d-^
we say “RUPTURE CURED”
” we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET Ho. 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.;or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
ORDER NOW—->
Don’t wait until December to order your
XMAS REQUIREMENTS.
ORDER NOW.
HORDER'i'S IN PITT STREET are always
prepared for a rush, they cater for the multi-
tudes ; still, we advise you to give immediate
attention to your Xmas wants.
OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE-LISTS will assist
you splendidly in choosing, and OUR PRICES
will decide you to buy all you require FROM US.
Complete Outfits Ready for Immediate Wear
at Most Reasonable Prices.
OIIDHU NOW.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
PRlCE— Single Razor, 10/6 ; or with Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair Razors in Double Leather Case, 21/-; or with Ivory
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7 6 each. This
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never requires
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
9
Si,
C'
tP
OLD
RMS
sunbu
ING
HIDS.
Ks c.. &. C
HA
«5?
'V
vf
r/v £ Y n>
rti
p *o
Pff, ETORS .
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.-
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LO N DON.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN & IMPORTED WINES.
Unlimited Supplies in Cellars, 241 Pitt-street, Sydney, and in Bond.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS RBMIBIDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Coufdi DiffirnlHr tt t, •
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable § as it P fWt« a n Hoarseness, Pain or
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither alio is a Cough^th^
KSSXTA “ 8 " PCOP y S medl ° me - NO h ° UBe Sh ° UM be With ° Ut il ' as ' tak “ at the * feeTsgiZ^,Efficient!
BEiWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria
Braixcli Denot :
BrancL Depot : ,
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel 3562
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not- obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Food? are rejected—
It is invaluable.”
London- Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER'S FOOD is said in Tins by Chemists, 6 c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by -
its excellence, established a
reputation ol its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
( AND
the aged.
The bitterest opponent of 9. A. Leg. Council
reform is the local Tory organ, the Register. It
is interesting to find, therefore, that the Register
was one of the chief opponents of the restrictive
property qualification provided by the framers of
v 6 ° ons^l^u^ion in 1855, and which still exists on
the Statute book. Said the Register of 21st Aug.
1851 e
“The representation is in our own choice for both
Houses and we can have the same qualification both
for electors and elected. Everyman that votes for the
Lower Home should he eligible to vote for the Upper
In respect of voters the only difference should he that for
trie Upper House the whole Colony should form one con-
stituency. By this means we should get an Upper Cham-
her as popular as the Lower one, whilst the check it
would supply is the only check that ought to be supplied
viz., that of general against local interests.
Unfortunately the Bakers and Angas’s of that
time won the day, and the Register and its ally
George Kingston, were defeated. Now, nearly
5) years later, Charles Cameron Kingston is
fighting for the abolition of this property qualifi-
cation, but the same Register howls dismally at
the very prospect of conferring the franchise upon
‘ loafers and wantons ! ” And G. H. Reid
recently congratulated the Register upon its
Liberalism !
♦
The booklet recently issued by that eminent
physician, Dr. Sydney Jones, of Sydney, on the
disease of consumption and its open-air treatment,
is a valuable contribution to the literature of the
subject mainly because it is based on facts noted
during travel in Europe. Yet much more would
have to be done by the Legislatures than to
establish the required sanatoria, Milk and meat,
it has been proved conclusively, are prime
sources of the alarming spread of consumption.
Yet the supervision of the sale of these articles
of food is so lax as to be almost • useless. All
dairy herds should be subjected to the tuberculin-
test (it having been proved that 60 per cent, of
dairy-cattle are diseased) ; and the Pasteurisation
process should be made compulsory. The
slaughtering of all food-animals should be re-
stricted to public abattoirs where practicable ;
and all foods should, in any case, be liable to close
scientific inspection. The responsibility in this
respect which our legislators persistently shirk is
a terrible one, considering that the” N.S.W.
victims to phthisis number alone about 4000 per
annum.
The Queensland Government bases its
outrageous claim to levy death duties on all
Tyson’s estate, including that part of it which lies
in N.S.W. and Victoria, and which pays death
duties in both these provinces, on the theory that
Tyson was domiciled in Queensland, one proof of
domicile being his membership of Queensland
Upper House. Apparently if some far-seeing
N.S.W. Government had got there first, and
made Tyson an M.L.C. of N.S.W., and fixed him
there by giving him some harmless portfolio, such
as Minister for Grass, N.S.W. could have claimed
his “domicile” and levied death duties on the
great Queensland estate. About £200,000 lost, all
for want of a little foresight!
The Reid Grovt. suspended a N.S.W. Act of Par-
liament from month to month and year to year at
the dictation of coal-mine owners, when it post-
poned applying the penalties of the Act to those
owners who broke the weighing provisions. The
Ltne G-ovt. can follow Reid along his special line
and actually beat him in results. When the
Sydney ferry-boat proprietors kicked against a
Parliament-made law Premier Ltne, without
consulting Parliament, promptly hung the measure
up. This is the Ltne who tells the Sunday shop-
keepers that the law they growl at must be obeyed
to the letter till Parliament alters it. The Navi-
gation Act lays it down that ships using steam
power must have certificated engineers. The
colossal Sugar Refining Co. runs some dozen
launches along the coast, and the Act has been
declared operative upon these; but representations
of one sort or another have taken place, and, con-
trary to the spirit and wording of the Act, the big
co. has been allowed to manage its launches with
uncertificated men this season. “Obey the law
until it is altered,” cry both Reid and Ltne, and
then, with tongue in cheek, they add, “unless
you have influence at your back.”
“F.” : Apropos George Gordon M'Crae’s
old-time Melbourne memory (8., 3/11/’00). The
old gaol alluded to was a red-brick building on the
northern side of Bourke-st. W., between King
and Spencer streets. It was standing in ’57, and, I
think, was demolished about ’59 or ’6O. The first
fire-station was on the site. The criminals going
for execution were, no doubt, Charley Ellis, aged
18, a native of Surrey; Daniel Jepps, aged 27, a
native of Boston, U.S., and Martin Fogarty, aged
18 years, native of Tipperary. They were sen-
tenced by Justice John Walpole Willis, then
Resident Judge at Port Phillip, for shooting with
intent to murder, and were hanged 28 June, ’42.
There was no other triple execution in Melb. until
3rd Ock, ’53, when Wilson, Melville, and Atkins
were hanged for the M‘lvor escort robbery.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc,
ALFALINE
Nerve Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfalinc Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFAUNE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured, and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. \ . and ...
in Plain Cover.
#
a
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeiL
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RuSSmUSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
AifaHna Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples atid
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment —Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
fJLfaline Electric Suspender Bandage This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Bassmussen'si Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BBISBA NE ; 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBO ÜBNE : 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel),
N.Z., WELLINGTON : 01 Lambton Quay.
PERTH: Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE \ Henry-street.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre-s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the akin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your ease is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send atonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and TILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Levs
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores’
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/l}d. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, l’arringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
FRINGES,
Natural Curt;, from S/Oeaalt
FLA ITS and TAII.S,
NHn. long, ft/6, oil leal hala,
CUTTINGS & COM BUM!
eorlted up, V 0 per 02.
\V« ar« the eheappstin
(•alia far all Uair Work.
Send Color of Uair.
W. H."wig£«ll,
JlO Wtu.iAM Stiiri r,
earner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prcjppt atteßtiongivcri to Country Orient
Medical,
CALVERTS
GARBOLIG DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- -especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. G. CALVERT & GO., Manchester,
Dr. BoxwelTs
FAMOUS
SO~
SILENT PILLS.
N ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. fSP''’ Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
DEAF
V!EAR>
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing- and relieve sink-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free., Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
Medical.
DR. J. COWS BROWNE'S
rmoRQpyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROUOHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel 1
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A TELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .-STEP HEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Ed., London, fcLE.
Those suffering: from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
.SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
*gy ray invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering £UCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBBRTS. M.D.
MP
ms
3*3
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor of Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
dsb Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. iAd. and 2s. ad. each of all Druer
Stores. _ * 5
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPOBT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
THESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deletenous drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. (id. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
DEAF
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS._^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
J. Ross Anderson, decorator of the Tivoli
Theatre, informs The Bulletin that he was a ten-
derer for the decoration of Sydney Town Hall
vestibule ; that his tender was recommended for
acceptance by the City Architect ; and that the
aldermanic building committee ignored the recom-
mendation, and gave the work to another man at
:a higher price.
Even grovel may lead to good results at
times. Richmond (Vie.) council, whose domain
lies on the Yarra above Melbourne, has been
•cheerfully issuing noxious-trade licenses, so that
the strange flavour and drainage of its bone-mills
may float down the river past the great city, and
make Melbourne’s hair stand up with horror in
its sleep. And Melbourne took it reasonably
well till it knew that York was coming, and that
York would smell its river and go away dis-
gusted. Therefore a large and enthusiastic de-
putation called on the Government, and implored
it to shut down on the Richmond bone-mill busi-
ness and clean up the Yarra ere York arrives ;
and the Government promised that it would up-
set the Constitution if need be, rather than let
the flavour and bouquet of old sheepskins strike
the coming duke in the eye.
An Australian warrior, writing from South
Africa, describes the British Army Service Corps
administration as one mass of corruption. Ihe
statements were possibly not intended for publica-
tion, but, since they have seen the light in Sydney
Daily Telegraph/there ought, if one tithe of the
allegations are true, to be a prompt and pretty
rumpus at the War Office :
In this department the British Government is being
robbed right and left. . . Some quartermasters and
quartermaster-sergeants and men employed on the stores
are it is notorious, making small fortunes. . . Men
have themselves told me of various large sums they have
made—£2so, £350, and £soo—by selling Government
stores; and one man, representing a firm of meat con-
tractors, told me that merely by claiming commandeered
cattle (with the connivance of officers), and charging the
War Office so much per head, he had cleared as his own
share—apart from the company’s contracts—over £2OOO.


EVER HAD PILES?
THREE YEARS’ AGONY.—PILES CAUSED IT.—DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE.
“I write to inform you I suffered for a long
time with piles—say three years off and on,”
writes Mr. F. Thompson, Maria-street, Newtown.
“ I could not get anything to rid me of them. I
was advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Not having much faith in patent medicines I
hesitated for some time, but at last resolved to
give them a trial. lam pleased to state
that after taking two bottles the piles dis-
appeared, and up to this date there has not
been any sign of their return.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills positively cure biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, dyspepsia, headaches,
liver and kidney complaints, piles, pimples, and
blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
price Is. l|d. per bottle or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.*
Next Saturday
The Austral Wheel Race will be contested.
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
Have been Victorious in the last Two Australs.
A proof of their speed and easy-going qualities.
Their durability as Touring Machines is demonstrated by the fact that—
In Every Colony Experienced Tourists ride Massey-Harris Bicycles.
Easy Terms Arranged. Second-hand Bicycles taken in part payment.
Sydney Depot-385 GEORGE STREET. Branches all Colonies.
BRANCHES
IN ALL COLONIES.
RED BIRDS
Are the Best British Bicycles built.
THE GOOJLD BICYCLE CO.,
64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISHT
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Punters not in the know had a treat at Moore-
field (Sydney) on Saturday. Two rank outsiders scored
and made Mo. beam benignly on all and sundry during
the afternoon. One “skinner” will usually more than
clear him ; two means a harvest. Besides, there were few
triers. In one race several good performers started, but
the ultimate winner only was labelled “on the job.” A
hot favorite in another event got home despite the zig-
zag course ridden by his jock. Rumor had it that public
money made the thing “ first pick ” —the “ stable” wasn’t
on to the extent of a “ bob.” A happening that puzzled
the writer was when the stewards singled one out of at
least six glaring “ stiffs ” and cautioned his rider. Others
were allowed to go on their ways rejoicing. Those who
want to get a bit back to-day (Saturday) would do well to
go out with their minds a blank re last Saturday’s run-
ning, otherwise they’ll contribute more to Ikey’s fat bank-
ing account.
* • • •
Scobie’s “luck” for sometime past has probably
been due more to the training than to the horses. Scobie
has had all of them in good health and condition at the right
times. Other people’s horses were, in many cases, either
short of work or getting stale, or not quite well on the
day. Judging from his success with Malster, not to men-
tion Clean Sweep, Paul Pry and La Carabine, the Ballarat
trainer has mastered the art of keeping even the Bill of
Portland horses up to the mark for months at a stretch.
Malster’s first race as a 2-year-old was the only event
thusfar in which he didn’t get placed, and it will be in-
teresting to see whether the colt maintains his character
for consistency.
* • • *
Sydney equine-dentist Miller extracted several
teeth from Clean Sweep only a week before his Cup
victory.
* * • »
A Victorian constable, to get a conviction
against a street-wagering Ikey t’other day, admitted in
Court that he ordered his son, of 14, to entrap the bookie
by a false statement, and gave him the money to make
the wager. Does Chief Sec. Peacock approve of this sort
of thing ?
• • * •
An informing constable, laying snares to catch
street bettors just before Melb. Cup, actually backed
Clean Sweep with an Ikey on Bourke-street pavement.
As such wagering is illegal, and the bookie was subse-
quently fined, the “ trap ” is wearing himself to a shadow
worrying over that wager. He can’t raise courage to go
and collect because he himself was acting illegally, and
yet as an authorised agent it is his duty to annex the
boodle on behalf of his principal—himself.
* * • •
A Melb. City Court witness, t’other day, in ex-
pressing his fine contempt for the cross-examining lawyer,
remarked that he had seen, on Cup Day, solicitors and
barristers on the Flat laying threepenny doubles. True
bill, too.
* • * •
Alix is still consistent. On Saturday she added
another place (third in V.A.T 0. Armadale Handicap) to
her already long list. Distance lm. 3f. Fleet Admiral
won with ex-Sydney galloway Goodman second. No
other nag in one season ever ran placed so often in so
many important events without winning once.
“Rednefed” (Defender backwards), winner of
a race at Newcastle (N.S.W.) last week, is the latest thing
in turf nomenclature raucous-voiced Mo is called upon 10
wrestle with. Redavni (Invader) and Ruenalf (Flaneur)
were bad enough, but Rednefed and Snablats (St. Al-
bans) 1 Rot!
* * • •
Re Kelso’s Golden Ring, lately mentioned as a
probable good ’un. Her existence is due more to luck
than aught else. G.R.’s dam died a week after foaling,
and Mr. Hooke had much trouble in bringing the young-
ster along on cow’s milk. “Andy” Loder’sOrphan and
Fernando were (report states) reared similarly, the
nourishment being administered per medium of a tea-pot.
• •+ * *
“Bill” Long’s one-time mighty prad Hop-
scotch has reach bedrock. He ran in a selling race
t’other day (to be sold for a tenner), and finished last.
Saturday he was in Rosstown Plate at Caulfield (7.7 up),
but did no good.
* • • *
T’other day at Maffra Show circus nag New-
haven cleared 6.6 in the high jump struggle and beat
champion Mahonga.
* ♦ * ♦
One of the best-known of way-back horsemen,
J. 0. M'Mahon, who knows the hardy breeds of the in-
lands as well as any man, is the latest Australian to go
India-wards to open up a trade in horses.
» * » •
Q. T. C. Spring meet showed a surplus of £BOO
mainly owing to the tote. Returns for the three days
constitute a record for Q. Spring gathering.
* » * *
A record of £69,943 was “ toted ” at Canterbury
(M.L.) J.C. meeting during four days, besides £22,605 at
four days’ trots. Trotting isn’t a poor man’s sport now
in M.L. ; its gradual purification has attracted the best
sportsmen, and the horses have so much improved that it
takes a well-bred and well-trained neddy to win.
• • • •
J. A. Buckland’s trotter, The Heir, own brother
to champion Fritz, won the Dash Handicap at M.L.
Metrop. T.C. meeting by 40yds. from the 16sec. mark in
2.32 for the mile. It was a harness race. Same day Jessie
Palm (scr.) mowed down a field of eight in the Prince of
Wales Handicap, and won by 20yds. in 4.43 2-s—a new
two-mile M.L. saddle record.
• • » •
A couple of red-hot favourites were sent out for
a big hack-race at Waverley (M.L.) recently, and were
backed for pounds and shillings. But “ there were
others.” The foxy owner of an unknown prad named
Full Cry (by Reynard) decided on spinning also, and when
the moke won and paid £5O div. the paddock looked very
gloomy.
* * * *
Some Sydney boxing-promoters have long been
playing the game low down. The climax was nearly
reached last week, and, if writer is a judge, a lot of people
went within a hair’s breadth of having to face a charge of
manslaughter. Negro “ Ike ” Stewart was billed to fight
the “ champion of the South Coast ” (one Rolfe) at Golden
Gate A.C. Few, if any, had ever heard of Rolfe as a
bruiser, and no one knew, till then, that a “ South Coast
champion ” existed. Rolfe couldn’t have shaped worse
had he been accidentally dropped out of a balloon into
the ring for the first time. Two minutes after operations
began the black banged his right heavily on to t’other
man’s point, flattening him out with a thud. Rolfe’s
head was split open by the fall, and, when the blood
showed and his legs quivered, it seemed all over, but for-
tunately he survived. Rolfe didn’t look as if he had ever
got inside the ropes before. The match was evidently
arranged on the off-chance of Rolfe making a good show-
ing, and because it didn’t cost much. Bulletin par.
(17/11/’00) tipped the likelihood of someone being killed
ere long, and had a remarkably close shave of scoring on
this occasion.
* • * *
“Snowy” Sturgeon and erstwhile Captain’s
Flat miner Dan O’Connell meet at Sydney Gaiety A.O.
Mondaynight. Neither willbe very much under 12st. Stur-
geon looks far better than when he met Cribb, and, being
at his natural weight, should shape more effectively.
Writer thinks “Snowy” much too clever for Dan, who,
though game as they make ’em and strong as a bullock,
is slow and awkward. If the ex-digger survives the first
four or five rounds there’ll be a great struggle, but before-
hand the match seems a fair thing for Sturgeon bar
flukes, as his clever left is sure to get home often and
hard.
* * * *
“S.S.”: Disagree with your par. 24th Nov. re
the complete fairness, of the referee’s decision in the
Hegarty - M’Gowun battle for the lightweight champion-
ship, at Melb. Demo. Hall. Never saw a clearer draw
fought in my life, and when a referee has been per-
sistently overlooking fouling on both sides throughout a
fight, it is a bit off, all things considered, to declare a
finish on a mechanical, quite venomless hit when break-
ing in the last minute of the last round.
• » * *
“ Old-Timer ” : Re distress of old cricketer Geo.
Gilbert. Said that he is a cousin of the great VV.G.’s, but
18 years older. Geo. was born at Cheltenham (Eng.) 71
years since. In ’5l he was with the Gentlemen against
the Players of England. Coming to Sydney, Gilbert
([with late “ Dick ” Driver and W. Tunks) fixed up the
initial match between Vic. and N.S.W.—played on Melb.
Cricket Ground 44 years ago. George skippered mother
province side, which won. He played his last inter-
state match in Sydney in ’75. Gilbert was contempor-
ary with Alfred Mynn, Felix, old Lilywhite, old Clarke,
Fuller, Pilch, and other top-notchers of the period
“ down under ”; and, later, with Charlie Bannerman,
Spofforth, Evans, Nat Thompson, Cosstick and co. in
Australia.
• • • •
Cabled that whilom top-notch Australian
bowler, J. J. Ferris, has died suddenly at Durban
(S’Africa). “Jack ” had only seen 33 summers, and was
born and reared in Sydney. He and Turner were con-
temporary, and figured in the same matches, playing sad
havoc with wickets for years. Ferris’s first “ inter-
state,” in ’B6, saw him get six in the first and four in
the second innings, and at the second time of asking he
showed still better, taking nine at an average of five for
each. With the ’BB Australian team in England he
accounted for 220 wickets. Turner (315) is the only man
who ever exceeded these figures, and he did it during
same tour. Two years further on Turner and Ferris were
each credited with the same number (215). Later
Ferris elected to stay ’Ome, and played for Gloucester for
four years. In ’92 Ferris, with the Gentlemen of England
against the Players, went in first and survived the whole
innings, notching 62. The full total was 170. As a left-
hand bowler Ferris had few, if any, equals. Certainly
Australia never owned a better one. In ’BB Wisdkn
bracketed him with Turner, Briggs, Lohmann, Peel, and
S. M. J. Woods as one of the six great bowlers or the year.
The deceased’s retrogression as a bowler seems to have
dated from the time he visited the Cape as one of an
English team. Twelve months since Ferris was in
Sydney and had been there some time, but a little later
he went to S’Africa and joined the Imperial Horse.
Writer doesn’t remember another fore-front left-hand
bowler in the Mother-State bar Coates, and he is dead too.
* * * *
Clem Hill’s score of 70 against Victoria in the
recent inter-State match came opportunely as indicating
that he is still in some sort of form, for he has failed to
make double figures in any club match this season.
• ¥ * *
Jack Lyons, after repeated failures this and last
season, banged up 60 not out in a club match, Nov. 17,
including a splendid fiver, almost out of Adelaide Oval;
certainly the biggest hit made on the ground.
* ¥ * ¥
Ernest Jones has been re-engaged by S.A.C.A.
as ground bowler on Adelaide Oval for a year, at a re-
duced salary. Also, S.A.C.A. has power to cancel the
engagement whenever “Jonah” gets so much out of
form as to be discarded from S.A. Eleven. There is not
much in being a fast bowler.
• - * * *
Cricket match, Saturday last, wherein Peter-
sham Veterans met Cintras, was remarkable for an extra-
ordinary bowling feat by W. E. Forsyth, hon. sec. Peter-
sham C.O. He clean bowled ten of the Cintras for 15
only. Word of another uncommon performance comes
from Bathurst (N.S.W.). J. J. Dowd (St. Stanislaus
College), playing against St. Barnabas, secured seven
wickets with consecutive balls. His deliveries totalled 1 .
12, and not a single run was notched off any. Dowd
comes from Wellington (N.S.W.) and is yet in his teens.
* ¥ * *
Re Bulletin par (10/11/’00) anent third-grade
cricket match—Petersham v. ’Varsity. Mr. G. E. Tee, as
captain of the ’Varsity, writes that he didn’t suggest the
discontinuance of play.
* • » *
“ Nulla ” : Marsh, no-balled in First Eleven v.
Colts’ match at Sydney (10/11/’00), and who - fterwards;
used splints to prove that his action wasn’t throwing, is
the well-known erstwhile crack aboriginal sprinter.
The straitened circumstances of that old N.S.W.
cricketer, George Gilbert, should appeal to the hearts of
sporting people. He lived in a tent on Fish River, near
Bathurst (N.S.W.), for three years, and subsisted by
rabbiting and gold-digging. Recently a storm swept
away all he owned. The old chap travelled through miles
of snow and had a bad time trying to escape with his life.
Subsequently he worked for surveyors at Forbes, but
rheumatism gripped him and he had to lie up. “No
funds,” responded N.S.W. Cricket Assn, to a request for
assistance. Said that if old George could get the where-
withal for another outfit he could make a good living on
Fish River again. Why not an Old Cricketers’ Fund—
especially as cricket is the “ National game.”
* ¥ ¥ ¥
Home-coming of Freddy Lane and Jack Hel-
lings will, this season, give swimming a bigger fillip than
ever. Vic. Lindberg, the M.L. handicap performer, and!
Marks (champion of Sussex, Eng.) also reached Sydney
by same boat. Jack has altered from a thin, wiry little:
chap to a stout nugget, with face and style of his dead
brother George. Lane says he has put on over a stone 1
while away, but doesn’t look it. English winters nearly
settled both, and Jack, though only 23, now gets badl
rheumatic twinges. He says that, after Jarvis and Derby-
shire, English swimmers are inferior to Australians.
Theyve got two distinct “kicks” at’Ome, one (the
“South Countrv ”) like ours and t’other (the “North
Country”), a sort of double kick resembling that of ex-
Australian champion “ Paddy ” Gormiy, only it doesn’t
break the surface. Jack has brought back a lot of
pointers on water-polo, together with the information
that we have no notion of the game here.
* * * *
“Trudge”: Writer predicts that Dick Cavill r
Bob Craig, “ Mud” Bishop and co. will give the returned!
champs.—Hellings and Lane—a great shaking ere the
season is over, i.e. if Hellings and Lane compete, which is
not absolutely sure, as neither is too well. Mention|of
Craig brings to mind that ’twas this powerful young
swimmer who passed the rope round the suffocated diver
in 20ft. of water at Mort’s Dock (Sydney) t’other day,,
despite the fact that he (Craig) bled from nose and ears ini
the effort. ’Tis asserted, too, that had Craig been allowed
through the door instead of having to go round the head
of the dock the diver would possibly have been alive now..
* ¥ ¥ ¥
London Sportsman, after the departure of
swimmers Lane, Hellings and Lindberg : “ Australia has
never sent us three better sportsmen, and their departure:
is regretted by all here interested in swimming. . . . All
were brilliant swimmers, yet none of them suffered from
4 swelled head ’ 1 ”
»¥¥ . ¥
British scribes aver that world’s champion,
sprinter, Derbyshire, is in such marvellous form now that
if anyone could push him he’d break the minute for
100yds. He easily got away with the premiership at that
distance last month in 61sec.—leaving a margin of syds.
between himself and the nearest man, Austrian Ruberl.
Last year, when Australian Lane swam second, Derby-
shire covered the course in 60 2-6sec.—l-6 outside the
world’s record (his own), done at Manchester in '9B.
•** * 1
Vio. four-oared championship on Saturday
proved a fiasco. Stamper, rowing bow for Albert Park,
collapsed through sunstroke about a mile from home.
Only the A.P. and the Mercantile started, and despite
the fact that Stamper showed signs of weakness within
half-a-mile of the start, the former went to the front and
led by two lengths at one period. The other three men
practically pulled the boat along until they saw there .was
no chance. With decent luck Albert Park must have
romped home.
# • • *
Cabled that Mr. C. C. Skarratt —one of the
original Mount Morgan syndicate, wherein he was gilded
well, and once “mine host” of the Royal, Sydney—died
in England last Friday, aged 77. Those who remember
the dapper little sportsman will sincerely regret this
news. He was once a crack pigeon-shot, and did much
for coursing when the game boomed in N.S.W. Mr.
Skarratt's interest in the longtails and the pigeons was
probably born of the fact that the late Mr. Gardiner (of
Messrs. Arthur and Co., Glasgow), a crack shot and the
real father of coursing in this country, always put up at
the Royal.
♦ * * *
There was great shooting at the 40th prize-
meeting of the Vic. Rifle Association, the other day.
Competitors were shooting second turn for the Queen’s
Prize, and Private Gargett, of St. Arnaud, proved himself
a top-notcher by easily beating world’s records at the
distances, 10 shots at 500yds., and 15 at 600yds. In the
first round, three men landed their 10 shots in the bull’s-
eye, and Gargett made 49 out of a possible 50. But at
600yds. the St. Arnaud man, out of his 15, potted 12
bull’s-eyes and three inners, scoring 121 points for the
two distances, the world’s next best being 116 points.
* * • •
Plugger Bilmartin was a veritable “surprise-
party ” at E. Melb. bike club annual meet, Saturday.
After practically doing nothing Worth mentioning for
mouths he got away with three out of five events, viz. :
Stuart Mile (2.10 3-5), Motor-paced Tournament, three
miles (Dunlop 6.13, and 10-Mile International Scratch
Race. The big “ Murkan ” showed all his old dash, col-
lapsed after last effort, and had to be carried away. Yan-
kees Chapman, Lawson and Vaughan and Britisher Green
figured in some events, but did no good. Accidents were
common ; that in the International 10-Miles, where-
in 25 men figured, was very serious indeed. In the
third mile there was a crash, caused by, Body says,
one rider easing off. Then a heap of legs, arms and
heads to .which seven men contributed, was seen on the
track. Parsons, Green (Eng.), Carpenter, Body (M.L.),
Walne (Q.), Barker, and Gordon were the unfortunates.
Parsons suffered most with a compound fracture of both
hones of the left forearm, the broken ends showing
through the skin; his legs were badly cut too. Green
carried away a forearm fracture, and was covered with
cuts and bruises. Gordon’s flesh was torn badly through
his body being dragged over the asphalt. Carpenter,
Walne, and Barker were hacked about but not seriously
affected. The shock to all will take a lot of shaking off.
* * * •
The popularity of the Massey-Harris bicycle is
due to the fact that this mount has always given perfect
satisfaction as a touring and long-distance riding
machine.*
* * * *
Victorian pedaller Gooch, on his “Red Bird”
racer, won the East Melbourne Bicycle Club’s annual two
miles wheel-race in 4m. 30s. at St. Hilda last Saturday.
At Poverty Point.
Florence Schmidt writes to Signor Steffani that
Robert Newman, proprietor of the Queen’s Hall, Lang-
ham Place, London, has engaged her for three years at
£l5 a week for the first year, £2O for the second, and a
corresponding rise for the third —a very fair start for a
comparatively unknown vocalist. Her work will be on the
concert platform only, and she will not be required to sing
more than twice a week. She has already made a suc-
cessful essay at the Queen’s Hall, at Newman’s Promen-
ade Concerts, singing the recit., “ Care Compagne,” and
aria, “ Come per me sereno,” from “ Sonnambula.” Of
her singing the Standard said: “ The success of Miss
Florence Schmidt was never for a moment in doubt.”
Florence was therefore wise to resume her own name.
Such an appearance in London means—bar accidents—a
successful career.
Emily Soldene—writing in Sydney Evening News of
Florence Schmidt’s first London appearance—is apprecia-
tive, if not enthusiastic. “No debutante,” she sums up,
however, “ could have had a more favorable reception.”
Sims Reeves—since dead, by the way—was present,
“ iron-grey, but not looking his 76 years.” Then—remin-
iscing over Mrs. Beerbohm Tree’s reciting of “ The Charge
of the Light Brigade ’’—the ripe and rusie Emily flies off
the handle like the greenest of school misses. She remem-
bers, years ago, seeing Lord Lucan at the opera. “ What
a delightful person to gaze upon—slender, aristocratic,
melancholy, with blue, blue eyes—the bluest you ever
saw ! I was always a soldier-worshipper—am just the
same still—and this was a great night for me/’ Sweet,
frisky little Emily 1
“ Miss Florence Soprano Schmidt,” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “ has scored a great big 1
for Australia at a first attempt, and simply spilt the critics
into the printers’ ink. Whoever had her’ in hand ran the
show well, for she got those appetising preliminary notices
which are of so much value to a vocalistic d6bfttante.
But she certainly deserved all. that was said of her, for
she sang beautifully, and was as placid as an eight-day
clock.
Deceased Arthur Sullivan’s solitary grand opera
“ Ivanhoe ”is never heard of nowadays. Here is a chance
for Musgrove. Writer was present at the first night of it
in Feb. 1891, and retains an impression of a very fine piece
of work. True, it did not succeed, but the failure was
not Sullivan’s. The causes of non-success were the ex-
pensiveness of the theatre, setting, etc. “ Ivanhoe ”
contains Sullivan’s best serious work in music. Pity it
has not been revived. Writer ventures to predict that
when it is again heard people will ask why the English of
Sullivan’s generation kept him tinkling at comic opera
tunes ? Charles Kenningham (now with Williamson) was
in the caste on the occasion of its production. He played
Maurice de Bracy.
While old-man Dick Stewart sides with his daughter’s
husband, her mother and half-sisters take her part.
The history of the Stewart family. About 41 years ago
Mr. R. Stewart married Mrs. Guerin, an esteemed actress,
widow of the conductor at the Victoria Theatre. She
had two little daughters (Theodosia and Margaret Guerin),
afterwards known as the Misses Docy and Maggie Stewart.
Mr. and Mrs. R. Stewart became the parents of Miss
Nellie and Mr. R. Stewart, jun. Docy married first Mr.
Collins, and then Mr. Harwood. Mr. R. Stewart, jun.,
married Miss Constance Deorwyn.
Remarkable discovery made by the lawyer in the Syd-
ney Criterion version of “ Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde ” :
“ The handwriting in both these letters is exactly alike.”
If only one of them had been precisely similar it evi-
dently wouldn’t have troubled him so much, but when he
found that the second letter presented the same resem-
blance to the first that the first did to the second, it broke
him up. Probably he was related to the gentleman who
stopped the duel on the ground that the two duellists
weren’t the same distance apart.
“ Zero ” is the title of J. C. Williamson’s pantomime
this year. It is a spectacular production of the “ Matsa ”
and “ Djin Djin ” order. Edith Howley, Geo. Robey, (Mr.
Hilda Spong), both from England, and Fred. Sinclair’
late of Sheridan’s co., are to play leading characters.
Pastor Sugden, head of the Wesleyan Clergy Training
Mill, is being gruelled for his devotion to Musgrove’s
opera. “He comeg reeking from the playhouse ! ” saysone.
The unhappy parson must always go to the dress-circle.
When he knocks down £1 for his family in this way,
people ask : Are there no poor ?
A well-known Melb. vocalist has her first chance of dis-
playing perfect form as one of the “ Lohengrin ” pages.
Some of Marshall-Hall’s Oonservatorium girls are said to
be in the “ Scarlet Feather” chorus.
Mr. Goldsbrough Row, introducing his wife to his rela-
tives, recalls Lord Gumboil and Miss Fortescue, as taken
off by Pinero in “ Trelawney of the Wells.”
The “ Georgia Magnet ” has created a sensation at
Rickards’ Tivoli in Adelaide, with newspaper controversy
to follow. Was it the same lady, or another, who did the
same things in the same house, under the same name, a
few years back?
Pollock and Hudson have taken over Adelaide Royal
from Wybert Reeve at an inauspicious time. The veteran
has departed for England, and his successors are realising
what summer business means. Patey’s new juvenile
opera co., their first venture, was received with a strictly
moderated enthusiasm, but it contains some clever
youngsters, of whom more will be heard.
“ D.” : Saw a “ half-blind ” stranger step over the ropes
at Fitzgerald’s Circus and dip his hand into the cage con-
taining the raging lioness, who is understood to be dan-
gerous. The man with the beer punched the animal in
the ribs, and the women near backed away, squealing.
But the lioness only rolled luxuriously on her back, and
invited further attention.
While the Marie Narelle Concert co. was at Armidale
(N.S.W.) the bellman, making his street announcements,
added : “ Last, but not least, is Mr. Lemon, the champion
fruiterer of the world ! ” Flautist Lemmone was meant.
The amphitheatre at Melb. Princess’s enjoyed a good
roar, t’other night, in the “ Bohemian Girl.” Sal vi, rush-
ing off excitedly, knocked over the Austrian Emperor’s
marble statue 10ft. high.
The Grand Opera Co. returns to Melbourne about
Easter, when “ Cavalleria Rusticana” and “ Pagliacci ”
will be put on. Quite a number of highly-trained
musical girls have secured places in the chorus of the Co.
Probably no better chorus has ever been heard in
Melbourne.
Marion Medway, widow of poor George Melville, hopes
to get back to England, where there is generally a billet
to spare for a competent “ old-woman ” actress. Marion
Medway came out to Australia in the 70’s as a leading
lady for George Coppin. He gave her a three-years’ en-
gagement.
One of the four pages in “ Lohengrin ” attracted atten-
tion by her beautiful soprano voice during the Melb.
season of Musgrove’s co. Judging from the order of
names on the programme, the voice in question
belongs either to Miss Dora D’Amele or Miss Lilian
Boanas, probably the former. Miss Boanas has a capital
voice, but when she sang in a “Cloches de Corneville ”
co., some 12 months back, it didn’t sound like that
of the “ Lohengrin ” page who sings so noticeably. All
the same, the fair Boanas may be instanced as a parti-
cularly sweet plum in the Musgrove cake. J. C. William-
son would have done well to capture her for “ The Rose
of Persia.”
Prof. Schulze, of the Konigliche High School for Music
at Berlin, reported recently on the young German-Aus-
tralian genius : —“ Since Easter of this-year Fritz Muller
has been under my care, and has resided in my house.
His talents are undoubtedly of a rare order, he is indus-
trious, and his great vivacity is very attractive. Joachim,
Rudorff, and, in short, all of us naturally feel the greatest
interest in him, and it seems to be a reasonable expecta-
tion that Fritz will become a distinguished musician.”
A Melbourne barmaid undertook to enter the tiger’s
cage at Wirth’s circus recently. There was a large
audience in attendance, but the tiger exhibited no signs
of intimidation. He should now be tried with a mother-
in-law.
Advertisements in Sydney press notify
that marriages may be solemnised at 15s. each,
and Justice G. B. Simpson observed, the other
day, that in his court, by going a certain way
about it, a divorce may be obtained for 15s.- These
figures should not only suit the times, but the
growing view of the value of both services.
Thousands Have Files.
THEY ARE EASY TO CURE.
Perhaps there is no disease more irritating and
annoying than Piles. It is the result of imperfect
circulation of the blood. The venous blood settles
in the veins of the rectum, and expanding these
veins produces the nodules known as Piles. This
is sometimes produced by an inactive liver, which
does not permit the blood to return freely to the
heart; sometimes it is the result of a weak action
of the heart itself, and often it is due to large
masses of faeces lodging in the bowels and pressing
upon the veins, so that the blood cannot return to
heart and lungs. The disease is not only most
painful, but also very dangerous, as the inflamed
nodules are very apt to take on malignant action,
and cancer of the rectum is produced. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, in their action on the
liver, heart and bowels, strike at all these causes
of Piles and remove them.
ADVISED TO BE OPERATED ON FOR PILES—DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURED HER
TROUBLE.
Mrs. Ricketts, of University-street, Camper-
down writes “ I write to inform you that I was
a sufferer from piles for eight or ten years; during
that time I found nothing that would cure them,
and was repeatedly told that I would have to
undergo an operation to have them cut out.
However, I was advised to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. I took the lady’s advice, and found
they did me good, and am now free from them,
and have been for over twelve months, and con-
sider I am perfectly cured.”


“Surprising Results”
HAVE BEEN OBTAINED WITH
DERBY
TOBACCO
It has the largest sale
of any
Tobacco imported
into Australasia
WHY?
BECAUSE it is
Pure in Quality, . ♦
Perfect in Flavor, and
Faithful in Manufacture
J7sk for 7)erby.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY GO.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. telephone 34.90.
aod NEW Y€AR GIFTS.
Hall-marked
Silver Cherub Pattern Hair Brush, price 30s.
Hall-marked Silver Cherub Pattern Cloth Brush,
17s 6d.
Hall-marked Chased Silver Hair Brush, price 25a.
Hall-marked Chased Silver Hat Rim Brush, 13s 6d.
Hall-marked Chased Silver Hair Brush, price 22s 6d.
Hall-marked Silver Military Brush, 20s.
■[Ezil-oon'vaL'vo cccaiaL'V'ailX.S-CLrrmx 'acOtn; cejscchis
DO
YOU
WANT
Tour Eyes Preserved?
Our Mr. A A. Roberts (a member of the British
Optical Association) has done nothing for many years
but test the vision.
Fairfax & Roberts ,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-street, BYDNEY.
Sight-testing Free.
Glasses at London Cash Prices.
ITIOTt the person who is not a millionaire, there is
1 ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El is’ King-street Ooffee Palace,"
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Bicycles ?! Bicycle Supplies.
OIL LAUNCHES and
“SINTZ” Marine and Stationary Engines
(1-h.p. to 60-h.p.)
COMPLETED LAUNCHES A SPECIALITY.
American Component Sets to build Bicycles
complete—Latest 1900 Models.
BICYCLE SUPPLIES and LATEST NOVELTIES at
Factory Prices. fW" Factory Agents in Australia for
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles. Good Agents wanted where not
already represented.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Mill-hand” to The Bulletin re W.A.
timber: —
Our magnificent forests are being rapidly exterminated,
and the timber disposed of at prices so low that the
State derives little advantage from one of its most valuable
assets. One cause of this condition of things is the
vexatious and oppressive policy of the largest timber-
co., which has so far persistently refused, except under
almost prohibitive conditions, to join any combination
having for its object the raising of the prices of our
karri and jarrah timbers. This co. some time
since admitted the desirability of concerted action, but
coolly stipulated that 60 per cent, of the orders should
be assigned to it, thus making evident its desire to wipe
out of existence all competitors, and establish a mono-
poly, which would enable it to dictate the con-
ditions under which the saw-mill hands would
have to work. On the other hand, the pioneers
of the timber-trade over here —the men who
under very adverse conditions in the early days ex-
pended much energy and capital in opening up foreign
markets (notably the M. C. Davies Go. of Karridale) have
done their best to maintain prices at a remunerative
level, but they have been at a great disadvantage through
the tactics of the other co. referred to. Better prices
would mean increased employment and remuneration for
the workers, and we should not be as now, practically
making a present of our timber to foreign co.’s well able
and perfectly willing to pay a reasonable price for it. The
concessions were granted under the most liberal condi-
tions, but Government never intended that the forests
should be denuded of their most valuable trees, and the
timber disposed of at fully 30 per cent, below value.
Legislation, prompt and drastic, is what is wanted ; and,
meantime, we may take comfort from the fact thatagreedy
co. which refuses to combine for the purpose of benefiting
its own shareholders and the State to which it is so
greatly indebted, has within itself the elements of its
destruction. This is only a question of time—measured
by the skill of the manager and the amount of premium
which the concern indirectly offers to less grasping com-
petitors.
* • • •
Chaffers, W.A. : Mr. Fred Cape, the new
manager, has already taken over the property. Writer
sympathises with Gape, who is worthy of a better mine.
As a consequence of the recent suspension of development
work, the lower levels became flooded with water. Pumps
are now hard at work taking it out. It always pays to
lift water at Kalgoorlie. In any other part of Australia
it would be left alone—especially in a mine like Chaffers,
which has had a market value of £350,000 without gold,
and with only a hope of ever finding any.
Ivanhoe South Extended : Pushing main shaft
down another 100 ft. “ Although the country is good the
size of the three-compartment shaft —15ft. by 6ft.— pre-
cludes fast sinking. The co. financially is very strong.”
Imagine the folly of sinking such a cavern on such a
“ cat 1 ” It is not the Ivanhoe South Extended, it is
west of the Ivanhoe. Has no hope of getting the Ivan-
hoe lode, except at a depth it will probably never live to
reach. Shares a big price because of a pool and lying
yabber about amalgamation with the Ivanhoe. It is a
cat, pure and simple.
• • • •
Golden Pike (W.A.) “ continues to plough its
way through lode stuff of average poor grade value. The
lode has so far been proved a width of over 50ft.” The
newspaper hummer might have added that poor grade
value meant under 4dwts. It is outside of the Marvellous
Mile, just outside, but it might as well be 100 miles off.
If it were 100 miles away it would have shut up years
ago and thereby saved many thousand pounds. Besides,
if it were to strike a very rich run of gold in telluride, or
in any other form, the shock would mean the sudden
death of the manager, Dan Meagher ; all whose friends,
the writer included, would be sorry, for he is a good man
controlling several very bad mines, of which the Golden
Pike is the best. So it can be imagined how bad the
others must be. •
* » * •
Boulder Main Reef : Sinking and rising on the
rich telluride find, made two months ago. It is not very
long, but should it go up and down an} 7 distance, and
maintain its richness, a lot of gold will be got out of it.
As usual, too much was made of it when found. Tall
talk sent the shares to 555. ; they are back to 42s.—a
reasonable valuation, considering the comparatively small
capital of the co., the equipment of the mine, and the
excellent sulphide extraction it is making. The ore-
channel is about 250 ft. long. “Added to this, there is
between 600 ft. and 700 ft. of ground on the strike of the
reef to the south that is practically untouched, not even
prospected.” A specimen of not being able to leave well
alone. The ground referred to has been prospected
enough to warrant the belief that the ore does not extend
through it. If it did, the mine would be of much greater
value. Concealment of palpable unpalatable truth is, in
Westralian mining, a distinguishing characteristic.
* * * *
Ivanhoe : The dispute between the two factions
of shareholders has been compromised by the retirement
from the board of Col. Viliiers, and the election of two
representatives of the Kaufmann crowd. This was fol-
lowed by the appointment of Hewitson as consulting
engineer. Six months ago he was fired off the mine at a
moment’s notice for something that has never been satis-
factorily explained, and his going back to fill this position
while remaining general manager of the Associated adds
to the reputation of Hewitson and to the degradation of
the remaining members of the Ivanhoe board, who should
resign.
* * * *
Associated Northern: “Parcel of 251 tons
oxidised ore put through Lake View South Battery for
183 oz. gold. It may be mentioned that there is a con-
siderable discrepancy between the original assays and the
actual mill return.” This is either an. insult to the null
or a condemnation of the sampling and assaying.' The
mill is oftener blamed than at fault. True, a stamp-mill
can’t lie—nor can it kick back. “ What are you going to
crush with this battery ? ” asked th : s writer of the “ boss ”
after he had looked over the mine and gazed at a magni-
ficent many-headed Westralian stamp-mill. “ The share-
holders,” he replied. And he succeeded.
This scribe last week got a letter from a leading
London stockbroker, who says the Westralian market is
“ rotten,” that the Associated and L.V. Consols swindles
have completely killed the Westralian goose for many a
long day, and that “ all the surplus money is going into
Kaffir scrip.”
* * * •
Mt. Lyell : The last half-year’s report. Output,
144,301 tons. Copper contents, 2.48 per cent. ; silver,
1.950 z. ; gold, 0.074. Blister copper, 4768 tons, averaging
69.560 z. silver, and gold 2.4950 z. Since commencement:
copper, 25,066 tons ; silver, 2,300,2390 z. ; gold, 91,8430 z.
Of the tonnage, 17,750 tons came from workings under-
ground, the balance from open cuts, and the smelters
treated 22,920 tons of purchased ores, chiefly from N.
Lyell and Tharsis mines. The bulk of the richer under-
ground ore broken during the half-year was obtained be-
tween No’s 5 and 6 levels from the silicious formation
characterising the southern end of the pyritic
body. Twelve coke ovens are being added to the
co.’s plant at Port Kembla, making the total 62. With
the early completion of the Emu Bay line from Burnie to
Zeehan, through traffic will soon be established from
Burnie to Queenstown. It is proposed to carry portion of
the co.’s coal and coke supply along this overland route.
Regret is expressed at the resignation of Lindsay U.
Clark, the engineer in charge of the mine, and he is
credited with having laid out the system of open cutting.
W. T. Bachelor takes his place. Cost of producing blister
copper: mining, 3s. sd. ; removal of overburden, 2s. ;
smelting operations, 14s. ll‘B9d. ; converting operations,
2s. o'29d. ; total, £1 2s. s’lBd. per ton of ore, being a
reduction of 7‘sBd. per . ton of ore as compared
with previous six months, and 2s. o'73d. as compared
with the half-year ending Sept.,’99. The nett profit for
the half-year, £113,745. Divs. £137,500. That on 2nd
April was paid out of profits earned during the previous
half-year. The reduced distribution in Oct. due to the
purchase of the South Tharsis mine and to the continued
lower grade of ore treated. With full provision for out-
standing liabilities, liquid assets are put down at £119,146.
“ During the half-year the market price for copper has
been maintained at a satisfactory level, and so far as can
he ascertained, the outlook is favorable for a continu-
ance of the present price, _ while silver has
shown an improved price during the latter part
of the six months. . . . That may he taken as the
keystone of the report which does not' clearly show what
the average product from a ton of ore is. It gives average
assay values in copper, silver and- gold, and of course the
return must be somewhat lower than that.
* * * •
One time the writer suggested that Mt. Lyell’s
evening prayer should be, “ God bless Bowes Kelly.” It
might be now changed to “ Heaven keep the copper-
market up.*’ That the mine could not stand much of a
fall is evident; doubtful if it could profitably work its own
ore at £6O per ton for copper. While it omits giving any
detail of profits from its own ore, it neither gives cost*
contents, or profits of the thousands of tons of purchased
ores treated every month, but says : “ Negotiations are
at present pending for the treatment of ores from
other mines.” It may be taken for granted that,
while it is making Very little on a ton of its
own ore, it is making a good deal on every ton of
the other man’s. This business is likely to increase
despite the charges. The copper market seems to he
sound for some years to come, though you never can tell;
the ore body is unlimited, and with the improvements m
the lower levels no further fall in copper contents is
likely, in fact they will probably go up when more ore is
worked from underground, and while cost of mining will
be greater, hauling and smelting will remain the same.
It is too soon for the directors to say what effect the pur-
chase of the South Tharsis is going to have, but no doubt
that too will show an improvement. People who have
faith in the copper market may still regard Mt. Lyells as
a safe investment under £7 per share, but those who have
none might do well by leaving them alone.
» * • *
The majority of the witnesses examined by the
N.S.W. Western Lands Commission recommend that
rent shall be paid on the number of stock actually
carried—not upon the estimated carrying capacity as at
present. It will not make very much difference one way
or the other ; the gravest objection to it is that it rather
unfairly taxes the skilful manager who handles his stock
well and the enterprising owner who improves his pro-
perty well. In any case, tho’, the rent per head will
have' to vary with the distance from railway, water carri-
age, or market, and with the character of the country.
* * » *
“ After three to four years absence,” writes a
Bulletin correspondent, “ I found an amazing difference
in Gulf Creek, N.S.W. Now, 200 men are employed.
The ore is treated by open-heap calcination, reduced to
regulus by blast furnace and further treated at Newcastle ;
hut the erection of refining works on the ground is far
advanced. When they are finished ingot copper will be
sent away. At present 300 tons of ore are sent away
weekly with an average of 14 per cent., but the lode
(averaging quite 25ft. in face) has been opened for 350 ft
and is still in ore at both ends. An output of 1000 tons
weekly for a very long period could be made and 10 per
cent, is fairly anticipated. This lode is quite a discovery,
the old Cornish lode bought by the present Co. being
only 3ft Bin wide. The works going up are paid for out
of earnings; the working capital has never been called up ;
20,000 tons of ore are at surface awaiting treatment ; the
mine is not on the market. W. H. Trewenack is managing
director and a big owner and is supposed to know a good
thing when he has it. F. W. Matthews is mine manager,
a good road is being formed to the mine and a railway to
Barraba seems inevitable. At Crow Mountain, Barraba
district, A. B. Hyde in the old “Dodger” has struck a
new shoot hitherto missed. It starts from surface to east
of old one, and dipping east, runs clear of all old workings.
Saw some beautiful stone there. M'Kenzie, with
‘ Nottingham Maid ’ is also said to have struck good
stone. One or two old hands still stick to the ‘ Crow,’
one, Jno. Guy, has been there 21 years. How pathetic
this faith that sometimes ma’ es big fortunes—for others 1
But the ‘ Crow ’ is patchiest of the patchies and one can
not forget geologist Clarke’s opinion given many years
ago: “ ‘ Only rich patches without deep sinking— then
perhaps another Gym pie.’ ”
To a Sydney boy of 13 years who lost a
leg per electric tram, a jury has awarded £2OOO
damages. At this rate the Juggernaut business
will prove very costly to the railway-commis-
sioners.
After assuring N.S.W. Leg. Assembly
some months back that the idea of nominating his
son, together with young See, as lieutenants in the
Sydney Lancers had been abandoned, Premier
Lyne has allowed his son to take the appointment.
The young man appeared last week as “super-
numerary lieutenant,” i.e., he holds his rank as
lieutenant until he qualifies by exam, as a second-
lieutenant. It was apparently intended to
delay the appointment (as well as several
others created by the Lyne Government,
and which are still dangling before expectant
candidates) until Parliament was in recess,
but in this case it was necessary, if the budding
warrior wished to cut any sort of a figure in the
Commonwealth show, that he should obtain some
little knowledge of his duties.
Last. Monday Sydney was struck with the
staggering intelligence that the board appointed
to consider the designs sent in for the North
Shore bridge had peremptorily rejected the whole
lot, and that, if the board has its way, things are
again just about where they were 40 years ago.
Now the country wants to know whether the data
supplied to competitors was so deficient that they
couldn’t furnish proper designs, or whether
the terms offered were so poor that good
men didn’t compete, or whether the world has run
out of competent bridge-builders, or whether the
board that sat on the plans sent in doesn’t know
a good design when it sees one. At all events,
as the board recognised so promptly that none of
the designs sent in was the right one it presum-
ably knows what the right design is. Therefore
the most reasonable idea seems to be that the
board now takes off its joint and several coat,
and produces the right design itself with all
possible speed.
Hawke’s Bay (M.L.) Herald publishes
the S’African war-notions of trooper Pat Fitz-
herbert, son of barrister Fitzherbert, of Palmer-
ston North. The enterprising Patrick was re-
jected from the first M.L. contingent on account
of his youth, but journeyed to S’Africa on his
own, and was enlisted in Roberts’ Horse. He
would prefer to say nothing about some of the
M.L. officers with whom he came in contact,
but he speaks highly of others. Pat’s
criticisms of the various invading forces are in-
teresting. “He returns from the war with a poor
opinion of British officers in general, who, he-
asserts, are brave enough, but treat their subor-
dinates like dogs. . . The Canadian Frontiers-
men were, he alleges, out-and-out the best men in
the war, the Maorilanders coming next. The
Australians, he thinks, are not in it with the
Maorilanders,”
From a Yic. paper : “ On 7th inst. Mrs.
William Waters of a son. Mother doing well,
father happy. Child weighs 161 b. 2|ozs.”
He the proposal—in connection with the
Commonwealth celebrations —that four triumphal
arches at a cost of £4BOO shall be erected in Syd-
ney, and that Govt. House gates shall be decorated
to the tune of £5OO. If the screw is not soon put
on North Head will have to be decorated with the
legend—“ In Liquidation ! ”
The eternal fitness of things. From
news-column of N.Z. Times (Wellington, M.L.)
15th November:
The master butchers and employees will meet at
Richards’s Rooms, Cuba-street, this evening-, to form a
committee and make arrangements for welcoming their
comrades returning from South Africa.
Of the Norddeutscher Lloyd’s steamers,
damaged in the Hoboken Pier fire at New York,
the Bremen and Main are to be repaired, but the
Saale is to be sold. The engines and boilers of
the first-named two steamers were found to be in-
tact. The Bremen is to be repaired in Germany,
but the Main will be dealt with at Newport, U. 9.
The Bremen is well-known in these waters, and
the Main, launched at the beginning of 1900, is
also to be put on the Australian service of the
N.L. Co.
It was a touching and beautiful sight to
see several of the Jumna’s female immigrants,
drunk as ladies, parading the city of Brisbane in
the company of some half-dozen Lascars, whom
they hugged and cursed in turn. Strange stories
of high jinks on the voyage out are coming to the
public ear, and it really seems as if following the
recommendation of “squire and parson” in the
old country is not altogether the best way of
getting suitable colonists.
Again the crookedness of the casual
maiden. A fortnight ago the Brisbane public was
horrified to hear that a young girl had been found
senseless in a.paddock where she had passed the
night after being stunned and criminally assaulted
by a ruffian. Description of the criminal was
given—build and clothes, and so forth. He was
dressed in grey tweed, had blue eyes, &c ; , &c.
The assault took place on a very 'dark night—
whence the police deduced that complainant must
have been mistaken about the grey pants and the
blue eyes and other particulars. Then the trouble
narrowed down to common assault; then it
dropped the assault altogether and finally ended
in a matter of simple hysteria. Nobody hanged
this time, thank God !
Love-letter written by a Ballarat youth
now awaiting trial for presenting a revolver at his
sweetheart’s head. The note was written to a
Salvarmy officer whom the infatuated youth
imagined stood in his way to the lady’s affections:
Dear Captain,—You must have been surprised to see
me. Ah ! I wanted to see little Maud. I drank in her
face. It was to be a last look at her. ... Ah ! A wounded
spirit—who can bear it ? I thought she despised me. I
would have stabbed her for a certainty. Why didn’t she
speak to me! ... lam not fooling you. I am going to
throw up my joh and take to the road, with a blanket on
my hack over it. . . . This is written in haste. My dar-
ling Maud, you may laugh. I would burn you and cut
you to pieces if you trampled on my soul. Farewell,
Maud, with your lovely hair. Maud, Maud, you have
made me commit a crime. Maud, farewell ! — Edward
Smith.
Mad, mad, you say. Maud, I would like to stab you,
stab, stab you. Maud, give me one kiss —Maud, kiss me
Tears prevent me writing. Maud, only one kiss.
Usefulness.
The duty which no one can disclaim, the test
which all can apply, and the praise which no one
will despise, are all included in the one word,
“useful.”
A man may be brilliant, and capable, and
eloquent, and yet the world may not be much the
better for him, possibly worse. Just so with a
remedy. A medicine may look bright and clear,
be cheap, taste temptingly nice, and be elegantly
wrapped, but when you are ill, when kidney dis-
ease steps in and causes puffiness under the eyes,
a swelling of the ankles, or limbs, or body ; when
the strength and flesh are rapidly wasting, and
the shortness of breath is increasing, and your
doctor shakes his head solemnly, or perhaps
plainly intimates that there is no hope—then
you realise that something must be done promptly.
You do not waste time in experiments on
cheap, untried medicines, but you naturally
begin to use Warner’s Safe Cure. This
medicine has been recognised all over the
world as a specific for kidney diseases for
twenty-five years. Your chances are better in
trying what cured others. You are wise to read
about the cures of those who suffered as you do
and now enjoy good health. For instance, Mrs.
Mary J. Field, late of Claremont, Queensland,
writing from 34 Carrington Street, Sydney, on
31st July, 1900, says : “Some time ago I was
suffering from severe pains in my back and
kidneys, and being tired of medical treatment,
which did me no good, X, on the recommendation
of a friend, tried Warner’s Safe Cure. Three
bottles and a half cured me, and I have never
been troubled since.” Mrs. Field’s experience is
but that of thousands of others who have been
restored to health by Warner’s Safe Cure.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
- Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
C 5&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
180-.5.-W.
Plont deplete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberai and Pro~ressive Life
Office in Australia.
ESTABi ishfd 1879.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Established 1379.
United Justralian fUntual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 415 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Wf.bsteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
'-Til 15^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability:
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,368.325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —enuitably distributed.
Head Office : '
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A.. General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jlishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IMfcW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEy - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wvong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The Bank of [|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
CITYMUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ueui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. ■ • - • - • • • £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Shipping'.
The HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL J
y
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 1, 1 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 8,1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Dec. 18, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong-, Tues., Dec. 18, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 1, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Dec. 4, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 8, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 1, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 8, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT i
GERALDTON l
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Oarg-o
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ Trustees, €*ec<itorS,
AND
AgQOCy Cqrqpaqy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 187 S.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORUOVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERSon MONDAY, 14th JANUARY, 1911, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at 31 per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market ; street, Melbourne.
THE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
■ HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO. on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALf YEARLY.
' GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting gompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper-Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN. Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon!
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.";
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Hangar, Esq.; B. W. Levy, Esq.; lion. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Auencies throughout the world.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
' » FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle
TH* C*MM*NW**LTH *ND PR*SP*R*TY
W*LL C*M* T*C*TH*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you ii you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. E. Highman, of West Broken Hill, writes on 7th
May, 1900 : “ I am happy to inform you that the lady’s
watch you sent my wife about 18 months ago is a little
gem, and has kept splendid time ever since. . . . My wife
would not part with it for a fiver.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY GOY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 27th January.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, RUNIC, SUEVIC and A FLIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
I
(INGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & . Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every THREE WEEKS as under:—
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
SIERRA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
3158 Dec.
3158 Dec.
6000 Jan.
Leave
Auckland,
Arrive at
San
Francisco^
4 Dec.
26 Deo.
15 Jan.
8 December 24
30|January 15
19 February 4
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide hooks showing
all other information, apply UNION STEAMSHIP CO.
OF N.Z., LTD., Equitable Buildings, George-street, next
G.P.0., Sydney: corner Collins and William Streets,
Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie-street, Adelaide :
8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
3XT. 33. £!
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of" a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3} million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
VUVIV.WIVI.I C'CIJ OIA WCCAa.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street,
Sydney.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING-, INSUKANOE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be t
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&OO.
PROPRIETARY limited,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 4?s. is
marvellous value: made from
all-wool '1 weeds. Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class . f material. £:» 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns 12s. fid.
Press Suits, to measure. £»•
Clerical Suits, to measure. U 5,
Kiding Breaches, 255.
Riding Habits. &c,
< We supply ready made. Men’s
I capital i weed Suits 2ls. & 255.
9 Fam< us Ballarat Serge Suits,
’ Ind igo dye,2;>s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette ~uits.3«is.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss. lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s fid.
Men s Grass Cloth Rummer
Suits, 19s. fid. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. fid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s fid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs.
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers 3s. »d., 4s. 9d., ss. fid.
Travelling Trunks, Bays and
Rugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. fid.
White Mat e Shirts collar and
pocket. 3s. fid.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors
Hard Hats. 4*. fid. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
1«.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents* splendid Balmoral Boots.
6». 9d.. 9s. <;d.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for anv
information. Our book, “The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaitk.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
TOUT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
November 30.
S.S. Wollowra (from Meib.)
Tuesday, December 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. liockton, Friday.
November 30.
*J ieSt !!" <l Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
first °w n * tickets are interchangeable after the
mst Fort between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. (J S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
, ela,de and W.A. all tickets are inter-
ditlons M L Wlth th^. A -U-S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
aitions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
—— BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POI’ULA it I’ASSHNH Kit LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE —Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, RockHbmpton, Mackay,’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS - Weekly
™ and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Itria
ba ' le > Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
svnww’ NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. *
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly. ’
Vassentjer A econimodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
' aid f.?.- S - Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
y,? Ad d«de and VV. Australia all*tickets are inter-
ch angeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co., only.
c ,.yC R y S ’ PHILP and CO', Ltd., Agents, lo Bridge-
at all Australasian Ports.'
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
'Sydney,
Noon
Steamer.
Commander.
DJOIA ... 7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R. Dec.
AUSTRALIA ..[6901 I. Reeves Dec 15
VICTORIA 6527 E. Crewe . . rw,
ROME .. 5545 J. Cowie, R.N.R. Jan 1;
HIMALAYA ... 6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R.. ... Jan. "6
. TheCorapany’s steamersTfow call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B fOs to £77
_ t BiUo Return £7l Vis to 121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial por.s
are available for Return by Orient and Messagerics Mari-
tunes 151eamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Au.s-
Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract ith the
f r A e T n ° b G ?™™ ent ’ callir 'Jf at MELBOURNE, ADE-
L UT I K E h^ LBANV ’ COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
Ade-
laide,
-1 p. in.
Dec. 2
1901
Jan. 2
Feb. 2
_ uuuiveu to jDoniDav, tnuia,- China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines. .
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
arrival at Marseilles English, interpreters nmefc
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through t-he Customs,
et 2:;™?^ also acconi P an y them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient'steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
FRASIER 1)E THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker $ Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cmrert Rates.
“E. ANP a.” line.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and J.APAN.
opt-ciari.y iiuik ioi rue t,asceri
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilhourn’s Patent Refri
Iterator. Surgeon and Stewardess carrier.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, Unitet
States of America and Europe at special rates in con
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
- 37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
nriluiraith, (t)‘EacharnS go.
PROP. LTD ,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and I reight Quota! ions, apply
M ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. P' oprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ ~ ~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


Publications.
SACRED SONGS -
FAVORITE SONGS.
Every Singer and Every Player should
have Every Number
*
.. OP ..
Allan’s
Australian
MCiSic
Books.
No. 25.—Sacred Songs.
Only Tired White
The Landing of the Pilgrim
Fathers Hemans
Pass Under the Rod
Ruth (Sacred Song) Davis
Remember Now Thy
Creator Topliff
The Better Land Davis
Sun of My Soul (Sacred
Song)
Vital Spark
As Pants the Hart Spohr
Lord, Remember David
Handel
But Thou Didst Not Leave
Handel
With Verdure Clad Haydn
Be Thou Faithful
Mendelssohn
Let the Bright Seraphim
Handel
Oujus Animam Rossini
It Is Enough Mendelssohn
Te Deum (in F) Jackson
No. 26.—Favorite Songs.
Sweet Marie Moore
When Sorrow Sleepeth
Land
The Blind Girl to Her Harp
Glover
The Land o’ the Leal
The Ballad Singer Linley
Chime Again, Beautiful
Bells Bishop
Why Do the Summer Roses
Fade Barker
The Cows are in the Corn
The Bonnie Banks o’ Loch
Lomon
Truth in Absence Harper
Marguerite White
The Old Rustic Bridge by
the Mill
When You and I Were
Young, Maggie
Butterfield
Price 1/- each ; or Posted, 1/2.
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
RARE
BOOKS
English.
French.
German.
Large catal. 2/-, with photo.
Miniat. Parisian ladies.
APPY & CO., 65 R. Pigalle, PARIS.
Books. Bo o Its. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for tl. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£-3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sydney.
Books on Mining, Assaying, Engineering, &c.
PARK’S Cyanide Process, 6s 6d ; Beringer’s Assaying,
11s 6d ; Johnson’s Getting Gold, 4s ; Cox’s Prospect-
ing Minerals, 5s 6d ; Lock’s Miner’s Pocket Book, 14s ;
Eissler’s Metallurgy Gold, 17s ; Innes’ Centrifugal Pumps,
ss; Trautwine’s Civil Engineer’s Pocket Book, 235;
Haeder’s Steam Engine Handbook, 9s; Molesworth’s
Engineer’s Pocket Book, 6s 6d ; Wannan’s Engineer’s
Guide, 5s 6d ; Danas’ Mineralogy, 18s 6d ; Trail’s Boilers,
13s ; Wellington’s Railway Location, 265. Posted to any
Address. Catalogues Gratis. J. DONNIE & SON,
Booksellers, 346 Little Collins St., Melbourne
CONJURING
Apparatus!
Magical
Illusions!
ALL KINDS.
Illustrated Price List Post
Free anywhere.
WILL AKrDPI-A.DE,
MAGIO & BOOK ARCADE,
201 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Tub Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d.—Post Free.
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co., Ltd.
The Annual Dividend of 8 per cent, for Financial Year
ending 30th September, 1900, is now payable at the Office ot
the Company.
N.S.W. Branch :
78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
S. HAGUE SMITH,
Secretary.
QUICKSILVER.
CYANIDE 98-1007.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY j and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Christina scoring
MOST GENTLEMEN like to appear
at iheir best during the Christmas
season. Handsome, well-fitting
clothes are essential to that end. C. •
Hatte, of Newtown (Sydney), invites at-
tention to his To-Order Tailoring Depart-
ment, which has obtained a reputation
the envy of competitors. He can supply
you with a nice soft Serge Suit, indigo
dye, for 555. ; a first-class suit in Serge,
Sergerette, or Tweed for 635. ; or a suit
of Apperley and Curtiss’ renowned West
of England Serge for 755. His Two
Guinea Suits (with extra pair of trousers)
of Serges, Sergerettes, and Tweeds are
still the marvel of modern tailoring.
Hatte’s has the largest selection of the
newest and choicest materials, he em-
ploys one of the smartest cutters in the
colony, guaranteeing a perfect fit; whilst
the workmanship is of the best. If you
cannot pay a personal visit, write tor
patterns and self-measurement forms,
and your orders will be satisfactorily and
promptly executed. Hatte also keeps
one of the largest stocks of ready-made
clothing—everything the latest and best,
his prices being at least 30 per cent, under
ordinary city houses. He is now making
to measure a special line of Linen Crash
Trousers for 7s. 11d. White beige
Cricketing Trousers, well-made and
thoroughly shrunk, for 9s. 11 d. Men s
Striped Khaki Shirts, collars and
pockets, 2s. 11jd. The Baden-Powell
Khaki Shirt, collar and two pockets,
3s> 11d. A splendid line of Gent, s Silk
Shirts (the best value in the trade),
7s. 6d. Place your orders with Hatte
for everything you want. You will find
he will treat you well, and you will re-
main a constant customer.
HHHHHH HHHHHHHHHHH H H H HHHHH
Missing Friends.
JAMES GALWAY,
SON of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR-
GARET RILEY, who was Lorn while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
OHN WILSON, native of “ Kilmaurs,”
Ayrshire, Scotland, left Glasgow about 26
years ago for Melbourne, and then went to Syd-
ney ; any information regarding him will be
thankfully received by his sister, Mrs. A.
Mitchell, 50 Chapel-street, Rutherglen, near
Glasgow, or to W. Wvllie, Baker, Beaudesert,
Queensland.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Registered under the “Companies
Act 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORDER” FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 5% Vic. and o 9 \ ic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. F. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Soc ety in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the X.O.F. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
C AGE ... 18 20 25 30 35 40 45
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. Gd. 4s. 4d.
50
Gs. Id.
Policies for <£loo, .£2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office foe Soctii Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. MCNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George Si.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates, tfec., on Application.
(Lalte
Illawarra), near SYUKTEIT.
DA.FTO
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
!
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF--
SOFT LEAD.
Purcnams of all ol«„™ of GOLD, SIEVER. HAD and COFFEE OB.ES, CrANIEE JE WELEEKS' SWEEI-
- PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETILEMENI ON AChEEMEJN lot ASSAYS.
HI&HE ation re(farding Rates , etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
or Martin Place, SYDNEY.


Missing Friends.
I BERT TIMSON. SAM is coming out.
-■-* Send me your address for him. J. R.
Rowland, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Public - Notices.
RE SALE of
CARBIDE of CALCIUM.
Notwithstanding the Claims put forward by
certain persons to the exclusive control of the
Carbide Business, we hereby notify the Public
of New South Wales that we shall continue as
heretofore to execute all Orders for Carbide of
Calcium, whether in large or small lots. We shall
also adopt every legal means to defend ourselves
and our Customers against any claim (which we
repudiate) to the exclusive right of Sale or use of
Carbide of Calcium.
OSCAR HELSTROM,
Consul for Sweden and Norway.
HENRY MARKWALD.
JAMES MARTIN AND COMPANY.
MORGAN and SMITH.
N.S.W. ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY.
F. A. PETERS.
JOHN L. ROSENBAUM.
WRIGHT, SONS, AND CO.
(Representing Read, Halliday).
ACETYLENE CO., Huddersfield, England.
ELECTORS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
YOU will shortly be called upon to elect six Represen-
tatives to the Senate of the Commonwealth Par-
liament.
There are many considerations which will operate to
render the services of the best known political men in
the colony unavailable. Some will be wanted for the
House of Representatives, others cannot be spared from
the State Parliament, and many cannot afford the time
away from their various callings (six months or so of the
year) while the Parliament sits in Melbourne.
It is now, therefore, for you to carefully weigh the
merits and capabilities of the Candidates who come
before you, and to determine what are the qualifications
you will require in the men who aspire to fill the distin-
guished and responsible positions of Senators.
I consider that a Candidate should be a man with plenty
of time at his disposal, and thoroughly familiar with
every part of New South Wales.
He should have large experience in Commercial and
Industrial life, and in pastoral, mineral, and agricultural
pursuits ; also, it would be an advantage if he had the
enlarged views acquired by travel in the United Kingdom,
Europe, &c. -
I claim that during my residence in New South Wales
of over twenty years I have largely fulfilled all these
conditions, and I can devote the time necessary to faith-
fully perform the duties of a Senator.
At the present moment, questions have hot arisen which
call for an expression of political views, but I shall be pre-
pared to state my opinions when I personally address
you. Six Representatives are to be elected, and each
elector has six votes, and I ask each of you to reserve one
vote for me, as I can conscientiously promise to devote
my time and such abilities as I have to your service.
C. J. ROYLE,
Royle's Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY. |
Brandt’s Butter Cooler
KEEPS BUTTER, MEAT, MILK, &c., COOL BY
CAPILLARY ACTION OF WATER.
Showing
Interior.
NO ICE WANTED,
JUST WHAT YOU WANT.
Price 3s. f 55., Bs., and 20s. each. Send for Catalogue.
BBAITDT BROS.,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
LfER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
Enthusiastic Reception of the Return of the
the OLD GITAtID.
including the Sensational Fin-De-Siecle Ballet.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS of Shakespeare’s Famous Tragedy,
M A. CBET H.
NANCE O’NEIL as LADY MACBETH.
Plan. Nicholson’s. IST" PRICES— Ss., 35., 25., and la.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager Alfred Dampihr.
ALFRED DA MPI ER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
SATURDAY, DEO. 1, and EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Dampier’s version of
“ The Three Musketeers.”
T H E A T R E, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
as
W 1330 W O’BRIBKT
in
“Fun on the Bristol.”
m- POPULAR PRICES.
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success. Enthusiastic Reception of
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS,
Gigantic Success of the Great English Prima Donna,
MISS ADA WINSTON WEIR.
TOD CALLAWAY, FANNY POWERS, Mr. HARRY
GRAY, SUSIE ANDERSON, SAM LA MERT,
HOWARD CHAMBERS, E. SULLIVAN, FLORRIE and
STELLA RANGER! and all our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importation,
MR. GEORGE D’ALBERT.
Splendid Reception of ALBERT WHELAN and WILL
WHITBURN. Re-appearance of FERRY, THE FROG
and Eva Lee.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of THE THREE
HAYTORS (Frank, Edie and Arthur), and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
DRINCESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
EVERY EVENING,
THE SCARLET FEATHER.
Re-Appearance of Miss Nellie Stewart in conjunction
with Mr. Joseph Tapley, Miss Eunice Owen and celebrities
from the English Theatres.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 25.; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
THE BLAND HOLT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING.
FOURTH WEEK, AND UNABATED INTEREST IN
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Theatrical Troupes, Concert Com-
panies and Others.
T'ENDERS are invited by the Committee of the
Berrigan (N.S.W.) School of Arts, for renting the
large hall (seats 300 easily) during Show Week, early
in March, 1901. Highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. Tenders returnable by Monday, 3rd Decem-
ber next.
F. N. HAWKINS, Hon Sec.
The FREEMAN * WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute.
The Two Eminent Specialists who have the Largest Practice in Australia.
SPECIALTIES:
Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, etc., etc.
NINE DIPLOMAS
and Certificates of Qualihcation and Registration by the Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
Great Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
It is an acknowledged fact the world-wide over
that no single individual or combination of men
can be absolute masters of every phase and branch
of art, science, medicine, or other professed avoca-
tion of a limitless sphere of operation and magni-
tude. At best the greatest scientists of the day—
men like Lord. Kelvin and Edison, for instance,
whose fame is universally known—class them-
Yours truly . . .
HOWARD FREEMAN.
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
selves as infants in scientific invention and re-
search, and modestly tell us that they have but a
smattering of knowledge of the possibilities, ex-
tent, and development of electricity, and only a
fringe of imagination of the untold stores of
strength and wealth wrapt up in this phenomenal
power.
Therefore, it requires no argument to convince
the most pronounced of optimists that the field
:
■
in any one of the great and honored professions of
the day is far too vast for the thorough compre-
hension of the most perfectly brain-endowed man,
or body of naturally-gifted men. Yet, in respect
of the most delicate and difficult of all professions
: —that of prescribing for the ills and diseases of
mankind —we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute,
and searching examination and diagnosis—with-
out any knowledge of the past lives of patients—
flippantly dashing off prescriptions for every class
of complaint, as if a cure was as simple as falling
over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture,
and education, people are getting to know that
modern medical men who are worth consulting
confine their practice to a certain class of cases.
Realising the utter hopelessness of mastering and
curing everything under the sun, and finding that
“ gullibles ” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine
devote themselves to one or other class of cases,
and work out the remedies for them to the best of
their skill and ability.
What better and more striking illustration of
the success of Specialists in Skin .Diseases, Heart,
Kidney, Liver Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica,
Nervous Diseases, could the people of this manifi-
cent continent, Australia, have than the enormous
practice of the famous practitioners of the Electro-
Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments, posi-
tion, and renowned reputation stamp them as the
undoubted masters of the classes of diseases and
complaints which have been the study of their
professional lives. When we speak of electricity
we think of Edison. Why ? Because he dwarfs
other men in this branch of science. In the same
way, when we talk of specialists, we at once asso-
ciate the names of the Freeman and Wallace In-
stitute. So it is in every branch of scientific
medicine; some one <>r two men stand head and
shoulders above their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain
doctors to be pre-eminent in some defined class of
disease, rather than to tinker with a host of com-
plaints about which they can have but a hazy
notion, and superficial knowledge. To use a
hackneyed but expressive phrase, they are “Jacks
of all trades and masters of none.” Never since
the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and success-
ful a practice as that conducted by the Freeman
Wallace Electro Modical and Surgical Institute.
We have only to look at the fine buildings that
occupy the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst
streets to gain some idea of the extent
and importance of their professional work.
But to have the privilege of being shown
through the building by the Specialists
themselves, and to see and learn something of the
real character of their wide practice, is a treat
that only comes the way of a fortunate individual
like the writer.
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of par-
ticular curiosity. Laymen always have a pen-
cha,nt for eyeing and examining the polished steel
articles with which so many extraordinary acts
are performed upon the human body. The collec-
tion in this room is in every way up-to-date.
Whenever a new instrument comes to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is
added to this rare assortment. Another room full
of absorbing interest is that devoted to the gal-
vanic batteries, of which there are several magni-
ficent kinds. The noted Gaiffe batteries, the
finest French makes, are here in perfection irre-
spective of their high cost. If any article or
mechanical and electric contrivance is found neces-
sary in maintaining the fame of this institution,
the price is never allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable
eye-opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s
admission, but a full view of the work going on is
had through the glass doors. Half-a-dozen typists
are seen driving their machine-writers at electric
speed. To the principles only is known the names
of the persons throughout Australia who are being
treated as skilfully in their homes about the
metropolis, and away in the interior, as if they
were present in personal consultation at the insti-
tution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from
curious and prying glances, and the work of one
department is a mystery to the others. No better
system for holding secret the nature of sufferers’
troubles, for safeguarding their interests, and
giving due heed to the feelings and sensitiveness
of patients, could be imagined. Packages are not
plastered with advertising labels ; they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses
are in view.
What a practice is here revealed, and what a
consolation must it be to these eminent specialists
to know that they are permanently curing and
restoring to health and happiness thousands of
people whose lives were a burden to them. The
young, the middle-aged, and the healthy are
treated with the same amount of success. The
prodigious nature of the work accomplished by
these specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped
morning and evening two hours’ consultation
ticket, but their constant attention at the institu-
tion from early morning till late into the night.
&
«
IH
mm
nil
§Pm
Yours truly . . .
RICHARD WALLACE.
M.D., L.It.C.P., L.F.P.S.
Late Medical Staff, British Army ; late Consulting Staff,
Homoepathic Hospital, Melbourne.
“I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace, “ we don’t
put in these long hours because we are fonder of
hard work than any other medical men ; we do it
in the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep
them waiting longer than we can help, and we
suffer many inconveniences for our patients’
sakes.”
Noble sentiments thought the writer, as the
time came for his departure, and the Specialists
returning to their consulting-room. How many
doctors in our midst can we bracket in this cate-
gory? Dinners and drives and conversaziones are
more frequently uppermost in the minds of top-
loftical medicos than the speedy treatment of sad
and suffering patients.
nriS' S ™ ith . manager of the Australia
Hotel, desires to contradict the rumour that he is
ti nie g of g th« tlonate ra< i e ? to visitors during the
time o f the Commonwealth celebrations. There
hotel a 7 6r y & reat upon the
,nimodatlo n. and intending visitors
tiiev lish n f l n 1 | ln ' Cate f ° nee . with th e manager if
ey wish to be sure of securing rooms.
_ TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
c ± Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
fche real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
S.A. democrats have been trying for seven
years to secure legislation enabling municipal
bodies to assess on the unimproved value of land
and it was not until last week that the measure
became law. Time and again beaten by the
bat-man Council majority, the Assembly
majority persevered until success has come
at last. Last year, the Bill was only re-
jected by one vote in the Tory House. This
year it suffered exactly the same fate, but an
election came along, and Vardon, a supporter of
’'h® reform, being elected, the Bill was restored,
and the second reading carried by one vote ! The
btomach Party, although it has fought so
hard against this reform, is heartily sick of the
Bui, • and even its conscience was touched
when nearly every municipal body in S.A. peti-
tioned in favor of the principle contained in the
measure. It was a matter of great satisfaction to
Kingston, by the way, that he was elected to the
Council just in time to help pass the measure,
which was always made a prominent feature in
ms policy.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Forrest (W.A.) Government perpe-
trated a very weak and weird anti-Federal dodge
the other day. Under the Commonwealth Bill,
which Westralia has adopted, the granting of
bounties is reserved to the Federal Grovernment
exclusively. Notwithstanding which the W.A.
Lands Minister introduced a measure by
which the Government was to have power to
subsidise any and every new industry to the
extent of guaranteeing 5 per cent, interest for
20 years on the capital invested. At least he
didn’t actually introduce this stupendous Bill ; he
put it on the notice-paper for a certain night, and
when the night came he rose with his enormous
money-spending device in his hand, and told the
Assembly that he couldn’t really bring it in be-
cause the Federal constitution stood in the way,
but that it was the sort of Bill he would have
brought in if Westralia hadn’t been so unlucky as
to enter the Commonwealth. And some of the
members looked as if they actually believed him
—though Westralia is “stony” enough already,
without going in for guaranteeing 5 per cent, in-
terest for 20 years on the capital of people in
general.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Ltd., reports that the first instalments of the new
crop have begun to dribble in from the earlier districts.
Up till now consignments have not been sufficiently bulky
or representative to warrant any definite remarks as to
the quality of the impending harvest. One or two lots
from the west are rather pinched, while others are full-
grained and quite up to F.A.Q. standard. The local
market is even more idle than before, shippers being quite
dormant, while some millers are resting the machinery.
Quotations are : prime old, *2s. 7d. ; prime new, 2s. 6id.
per bushel; other descriptions proportionately.
Skilled masseur (Swedish-trained) desires
work as attendant to invalid in country, or travel-
ling. Moderate remuneration. Young man ;
testimonials and references on application to
“Masseur,” Bulletin Office.— Advt.
Evidence of the disorganisation of the
pollc , e s ystem, and the antipathy exist-
between the Criminal Investigation branch
““ the uniformed police, was afforded by the
nt trial, in Melb., of a criminal-lunatic for a
™ er at , Yar ™ Bend Asylum. Not only had
an( * public been kept in ignorance
ot the occurrence for over a fortnight, but
the Detective Chief and Undersecretary
f ° pp J tn L ew nothing of the matter, and were
astounded when they saw accused’s name on the
monthly cnminal calendar against a charge of


“My Face of a Deathly Pallor.'
Lips a* White as Paper.
i
Climbs the Ladder to Health.
The Case of
Mrs. MINNIE HENRI.
One of the most picturesque spots in the
vicinity of Brisbane is Petries Terrace.
Here are situated the military barracks, also
the Headquarters of the Defence Forces of
Queensland. The pedestrian, or he who in-
dulges in the more facile progression
afforded to him by the comtoiedious
electric trams which traverse the locality,
cannot but be struck with the neat-
ness and general air of comfort which
characterises the villas and cottages with
which the Terrace is studded. So thought
our reporter when walking a few yards
down Clifton-street, off Petries Terrace ;
and within a stone’s throw of the tr|m line
he knocked at Mr. Henri’s pretty cdttage.
Mrs. Henri answered the knock-r-a ta}l,
handsome lady, and evidently in possession
of the most redundant health and spirits.
“JLhave called,” said the pressman, “ to
ask a few questions about your recovery from
what your neighbours term «, strange
illness.”
“ You *re welcome to all the information
I can give,” replied Mrs. Henri, asking the
journalist to be seated. “And you are
quite right—it was indeed a strange illness.
No less than twenty doctors tried their
hands at curing me, but all in vain.”
/ r TT • a ))
“ xou surprise me ? -r** 1
“ Yes, I was an invalid at the age of
seven years, and as I grew older the
symptoms of my disease became more pro-
nounced.”
“ Please describe them ! ”
“My face was of a deathly pallor. My
hands Were so bloodless that when held up
to the light, instead of a rosy tinge, as is
usual in healthy people, a sickly white
transparency was alone visible. My gums
and lips, too, were awful to look at —alffiost
as white as paper, and if my eyelids were
stretched back the same peculiar bloodless-
ness was to be observed. I was nothing but
skin and bone, and the skin all over my
body was of a waxy, unhealthy texture,
lomething like parchment.”
“ How did you keep up your strength ? ”
“ I ate the most nourishing foods procur-
able ; that is, I tried to eat them, but I
could never muster up a real appetite, and
much of what I managed to get down was
returned.” - „
“ The doctors said ?” "Vv-
“Oh, they said lots of things, but ih<iy
never cured me. One of my medical men
declared that one of the valves of my heart
would not work properly, and he advised
me to exercise the greatest caution. He
ordered me to take a dark, strong wine-«-
Frontiac, by name—three times a day, and
once a day with eggs beaten up in it. He
also ordered me quantities ®f new milk, but
all this was to no purpose, I continued to
get worse. I slept so little that I was
always dead tired out. When I did dropoff
I often woke suddenly from some terrible
dream of falling down a precipice or some
such horror. On these occasions I should
startle the house with my screaming, and
find myself covered all over with a profuse
and clammy perspiration. At last I was
forced to take morphia lozenges to procure
any sleep at all. You know what that
means—a last resort.”
“ Was there anything really wrong with
your heart ? ”
“ There might have been then, though I
am sure there is nothing the matter with it
now,” replied Mrs. Henri, with a smile.
“When I was at my worst, if I was to walk
a few steps anyone by my side could dis-
tinctly hear my heart thumping, and some-
times, without any reason that I could
trace, I should commence trembling all oyer
in a most remarkable manMrr Whilst
walking— when I could walk—F was fofqsd
to atop every few yards to get my breOTn.
Other peopl <0 ould hear my heart, as 1
have said, but to me it was like the blows
of a steam hammer. Oh, how I envied
people who were well and stronc ! *
“ Did you suffer much pain ?
“ Indeed I did—in the back and legs.
The pain in the back was always with me.
In fact, I thought it would stop with me as
It was so acute, and some-
times made me scream out, it was so
excruciating. The headaches from which I
continually suffered made me feel life was
hardly worth living. At that time
when I wasn’t laid up in bed I should be
found moping in a chair, where I remained
all day, feeling I didn’t care what became
of me, and not caring to so much as to speak
to anyone. I was terribly low-spirited, and
nothing in the wide world could interest or
amuse me.”
“You managed to get through it? ” sug-
gested the reporter, cheerfully.
“ Happily I did,” responded Mrs. Henri;
“ but at the time of which I speak no one
expected me to reach my 21st year. ‘ That
girl will die before long,’ the neighbours
Said; and indeed the prophecies seemed very
likely to be justified.”
“ How did you cheat them all ? ” queried
the pressman.
“It was all through a lady who had
visited me during my illness, and informed
me of a remedy which she thought
cure my wasting disease. She said she had
known many cured who were drooping avs ay
for death like me she said. The remedy
was Clements Tonic. Well, you know what
it is. After having tried dozens of medicines
as I had, and finding them all useless, one is
hardly tempted to try more. But I did
try it, luckily. Six large bottles were
obtained for me, as it was thought in my
case that a thorough trial should be given
to the remedy We looked to that remedy
as a sort of last hope.”
“ Were you disappointed ? ”
“ I should think not. Clements Tonic not
only djid fi&r me what none of the doctors
could do, ljn tit did it quickly. Before one
of the bottles was finished I felt considerably
better —a most distinct ohange, which was
noticeable even by casual acquaintances who
called to see me. As I kept on taking
Clements Tonic that sickly, waxy pallor
began to give way to a healthier colour.
Day by day the people around me could see
the blood slowly coming back to my pallid
and shrunken lips and gums. Once more I
had the blessing of deep, sweet sleep, qpd
what a blessing that is none may know teiit
those who have been deprived of it. A real
zest for food came ovtr me, and I almost
alarmed my friends by my great appetite.
I thought it glorious, for I felt that every
bit ©f f§pd I ate was doing me good. After
that Clements Tonic pulled me up the ladder
of health from the despairing depths below—
hand over hand, so to speak. I was anxious
to go out and breathe deep of the fresh air of
heaven. Life appeared before me all of a
rosy hue. I was in splendid spirits, and in
a few weeks, except being a bit thin, I was
in perfect health. Soon I began to grow
stout, and could walk or work down all my
friends who used to pity me in my wasted
condition. I have not been ill since, and
look at me apd you may guess what I owe
to Clements Tonic.”
Our reporter looked at Mrs. Henri, who
was as blooming as a rose, and closed his note
book, after asking permission to publish Mrs.
Henfj’s statements.
“You are perfectly welcome to publish in
any way you choose,” replied that lady
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Minnie Henri, of Clifton-street, off Petries Terrace,
Bris l 'ane, in the Colony of Queensland, do hereby
solenaqjy and sincerely dec’are that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of four folios
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my fu 1 permission to publish the same in
any way ; and that Ido pot reoeive any payment for
the same ; and I make this solemn declaration volun-
tarily, conscientiously believing the same to be true,
apd by Virtue of the provisions of “ The Oaths Act,
1897.
Declared at Brisbane, this 23rd day of August, ono
thousand nine hundred, before me,
'V. J. TROUTON. J.P.
Business Announcements.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
A
Soda Water, Id. per do*.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per do*.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs. —The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. —Geo. NiciiOlls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says.:—“ It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
th Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says Machine great
SU E C< Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.” .
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -| /
Nasal Ointment, only 1 w / Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Hypnotism
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE.
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fascinating •
I teach you to become a Hypnotist.
You can perf. rm astonishing feats, and
produce fun by the hour. Gratifies
every ambition, and brings health,
happiness and success in life. Cures
disease and bad habits. I send my large
elegantly illustrated lesson and full
particulars FREE TO ALL on receipt
of 2 stamps to cover postage. If you
desire this precious knowledge write at
once. Address—
Prof. R. H. Barraden,
79 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizus, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
1 i
Is a Neoessity in Every Home.
BUY a
QUAKER
Bath Cabinet
(Best A merican Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/—, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when not in use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
j. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Business Announcements
On Your Holidays
you will see many interesing per-
sons and places. To secuie pleas-
ing mementoes of these
TAKE A
KODAK
WITH YOU.
Kodak Photography may be mas-
tered by anyone in a few minutes.
No dark room is required for
changing the films.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 15s.
Send for Illustrated Price TAst, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
281 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienna, S’.
Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
Tliese invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, ns one
of the results-of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
s>
Wa
USE
SPOONERS
3”; [ lli
jmmM
' SPOONER'S
V 7®
It^INT^LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED SiD&M
M?
g~»|Hl
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning’ and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK GIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Up to 1840 the Govt, paid for the cleaning
of Sydney. Gov. Gipps remonstrated with the
Leg. Council and declared it a shame that the
, • , „ , , ■ , , , , i ,
cleaning of Sydney’s streets and slums should be
charged to the whole country. The Governor
changed the system, but several members of the
Council said the change would sooner or later
b«ed Now, to get rid of plague, the
country will again have to pay for the cleaning of
Sydney.
The corpse or alleged corpse who leaves
Lis last message in the lining of his hat is spread-
ing. A week or two ago a hat was found floating
in the Yarra with the owner’s last words on a
piece of paper inside the lining. The body was
not discovered till a day or two later, but the find-
ing of the hat and the lugubrious communication
was promptly reported in the morning papers,
Inside a few hours an affluent retired farmer,
who had probably gone to mental rust for
want of occupation, had written his last
message inside his hat, and thrown himself and
the hat into the same river at almost the same
P lace ; he was fished out the newspaoer
report of the other hat-episode was found in his
po^ ket . Now the Sydney police are also troubled
about a hat. It was found on the shore, and in
it was a statement that the owner, Mark
Maroon, after camping out and starving for a
h %J“d & .hX££
Up to time of wr iting no body could be found, and
nobody knew of any outcast camping by Kero-
sene Bay. Moreover, the name of Mark Maroon
reads like a glaring steal from a cheap book about a
b °y who ran away to sea, and Mark departed from
ie traditions of the business by leaving Ins hat
on. the shore m his over-anxiety that his little
©pisode should get into the papers with all possible
speed. In view of the possible spread of this
disease, and the large amount of profit less dre' g-
in& follow, it would be a fair thing iO
put up a police intimation on each wharf: JSo
Notice taken of Dry Hats.


CHRISTMAS and NEW YEAR PRESENTS
The Question is not whether you can afford to buy, but whether you can afford not
to buy from us. Our Prices help you to Economise.
No. E 9309.
Gold and Pearl
Scarf Pin,
No. E 7058. —16ot. Gold and Pearl Set Heart and Spray
Bracelet, £3 16s.
No. Ess99.—Saw Pierced and Silver-plated Belt Olasp, 6s.
1
No. E 9040.
Gold and Fine
Pearl Scarf Pin,
£1 7s 6d.
No. E 8349. —9c. Gold, Extra Strong
Brooch, Safety Catch, 10a 6d.
No. E64lB.—Silver-plated Glass-
Lined Mustard Pot, with Spoon,
10s 6d.
No. E 9305.
Gold and
Turquoise Scarf
Pin, £1 Is.
No. EBslo.—9ct. Gold “Lucky Pig” Expanding
Bracelet, 11s 6d.
No. E 2359. —Pretty Silver-platpd Sugar and Cream on
Tray, £1 7s 6d.
No. EB7BB.
Gold Pearl and
liuoy Scarf Pm,
£1 2s 6d.
No. E7551. —9ct. Gold Bell Brooch, with Hexagon
Out Ame.hyst Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 200 A.—Set Links,
9c. Gold, 18s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £1 15s.
Silver, 5s 6d.
No. E 5721. —16c. Gold, Elegant; Bird Brooch>
Whole Pearl, £llsa.
No. 201 A.—Set Links,
9c. Gold, £1 Is ; 15c. Gold, £2.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 115 A Design 9c. Gold Brooch,
set Two Fine Amethysts.
Grand value, £X 6s.
No. E9422.—Cut
Glass and Silver-
Mounted Salts Bottle
No. E 9425.
Silver-plated Glass Lined Salt
Cellar with Spoon, 6s 6d.
No. E7o72.—Solid Silver 6-Bell Child’s Rattle, Ivory
Handle and Ring, 12s 6d.
No. 353.
Silver-plated Candlestick,
8s 6d.
No. E 6534.
Solid Silver Manicure Scissors, Curved
Steel Points, 7s 6d.
No. E 9424.
Cut Glass and
Silver
Mounted Salts
Bottle, 3s.
No. 118.—15 c. Gold Brooch, set Sapphires and
Rubies, £1 l*2s 6d.
l?c. Gold, 5 Fine
White Diamonds,
£5 os,; 2 Diamonds, 3
Sapphires or Rubies,
£3 10s.
Stud, 9c.
Gold, 4s;
15c., 5s 6d.
Silver, Is.
No. E3005.—9c. Gold Bar Brooch, 6a 6d.
Plain Solid Silver Bar Brooch, 2s.
No. 165.
15c. Gold, Diamond
and Ruby Ring,
£1 ss.
No. Oil.—Real New Zealand Greenstone and
9c. Gold Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. 170.—18 c. Gold,
5 Fine White Dia-
monds, £8 10s : 2 Dia-
monds, 3 Sapphires; or
Rubies, £6 10s.
1
m
No. llP.—Ladies’ Sterling Silver Card Case,
u; erb \ Engraved, Gill Inside.
■ a Morocco Case, r»s.
Gentleman’s size, £1 11s 6d.
No. 269 A.—Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments ; Scissors.
Cuticle Knife, Nail File, and Polisher, in case, £l los.
3 Pieces in case, Special Value, 14s 6d.
No. E97ol—Solid Silver Cigarette Case, Match Box
and Amber Cigarette Tube in Morocco Case.
£llss.
'
No. 302 A.—-Pair Gent’s Military Brushes,
Solid Silver, in Case, £3 3s.
Pair of Lady’s Brushes, and Comb, Silver-
backed, in Case, £i.
No. 141A.—9c. Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubies and
Pearls, £2 10s.
No. 184A.—18C.
Engraved Keeper
Ring, £1 7a 6d.
Lighter, £1 Is.
No. 149A—15c. Gold Band Bracelet, Set Fine White Diamond, £5
9c. Gold Plain Band Bracelets, no stone, £1 ss, £llos, £llss. £2.
No. 178.—18 c.
Wedding Ring, £1 la.
Heavier, £1 sa, £llos,
£llsa.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £4 7s 6d.
w
1
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box,
10s 6d ; Plain, 8s 6rl; 9c. Gold, £2 10s.
Others in Silver, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d. Gold-mounted, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 13s 6d.
No. 259 A.—Solid Silver Cigarette Case, Elegantly
Ei ;t ved, £1 7s 6d ; plain, £1 ss. Size 3Jin. long,
-*i '• wide. Undoubtedly the best value we have
ever been in a position to place before our cus-
tomers. Plain Solid Gold Cigarette Case, £ll 10s.
Engraved Solid Silver, Gold-mounted, £1 6s,
£1 12s 6d, £2.
No. F4l4.—Handsomely-Embossed Best Quality Silver-
plated Salad or Prize Bowl, 7J inches high, £5 6s.
No. E 3234.
Serviette Olip. A
most useful little
invention. Silver,
3s 6d ; plated, Is.
We have a nice lot of Pretty Silver-plated Ash
or Pin Trays, 8s 6d each.
All Goods Sent Free on Receipt of Remittance. Write for Catalogue.
STEWART DAWSON AND CO.
London, Melbourne,
Auckland, Perth.
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Removes HEADACHE by Remedying CONSTIPATION
EXACOPIZE
OfeIHJEBOJJtI
I i I
M
VC.
t
y^v
KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
u\
H
fA
m
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap; ) \
ft
r £
97/
rA
LP
Iffy
4 London:'
41, FARRINGDON ROAO, E.C.*'
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACT SIZE
OF THE BOTTLE
The noxious matters which Constipation causes to
accumulate in the Brain and Nerves are removed by
Kutnow’s Powder, and the entire system is purified
and strengthened.
There are few ailments that cause more suffering and are more conducive to mental and physical prostra-
tion than Sick Headache.
Its attacks occur so frequently, and at times with such severity, as to make life a burden to the sufferer.
Sick Headache is generally due to the derangement of the system known as constipation.
As a result of this derangement, the waste matters that should be removed from the system remain in
the body and get into the blood, whence they are carried to the brain and nerves, which they naturally poison
and irritate.
It will thus be apparent that headache cannot be cured by treating it as a brain trouble, and that the
so-called headache powders and other preparations that are supposed to act directly on the brain and nerves are
of little use, and in some cases positively harmful.
The only remedy for the various forms of headache is in restoring the system to a healthy, active condi-
tion. For this purpose nothing will be found more effective than Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad
Powder, which strengthens and gives renewed activity to the stomach, liver, bowels, and kidneys, and cleanses
the system of the noxious matters which, as a result of the sluggishness of these organs, have accumulated in it.
The brain, nerves, and blood are thus relieved of the impurities with which they are loaded; and the
various forms of headache, and the nervousness, insomnia, low spirits, &c., which accompany the headache are
dispelled.
Kutnow’s Powder acts naturally, quickly, and effectively on all the digestive, assimilative, and other
organs of the body, cleansing and stimulating the liver, and restoring the stomach, intestines, and kidneys to
healthy activity. The result is that the digestion is improved, the nutrition is increased, the action of the
system rendered more perfect, the blood purified, the nerve strengthened, the appetite made sharper, and
headache, languor, depression, and insomnia banished.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all reliable Chemists and Medicine Vendors ,
See that the Registered Trade Mark, (i Hirschensprung” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “S.
K UTJS OW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness . Insist on i( KUTNOW’S,”
and firmly refuse any substitutes ; they may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS—
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A.
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
A Big-Swamp Man in Town.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Din Laffey was the son and heir of old
Din. “Din’s Din” he was called, to distinguish
him from Pat Laffey’s Din, and Larry Laffey’s
Din.
A duller, softer or more taciturn youth would
be beyond the conception of those who know not
the young “ cockatoo ” in his rawest state. How-
ever, he was to fall-in for the Big Swamp on the
death of his father.
His sole occupation was tailing a few head of
cattle to keep them from boxing with neighbour-
ing herds, and his only excitement in life was to
watch them fatten upon twigs and scrub.
The time arrived when he was about to pay his
first visit to Sydney, so he picked all the leeches
off himself and set out for the capital. The huge
city frightened him at first, but, on learning some
of the ropes, he settled down to a right good time.
It is a marvellous thing regarding the country
visitor that, though he may have been breaking-in
horses all the year up-country, as soon as he
reaches the city he makes for a horse-bazaar, and
stops there till his excursion return-ticket expires.
If he is a barber from Balgalal, he is always at a
shaving emporium ; and who ever heard of a coun-
try billiard-marker, on a visit to Sydney, going to
see the Waxworks while the billiard-saloons were
open?
Now, Din Laffey’s life, as before stated, was
spent entirely among cattle, and here is his pro-
gramme of wonder-seeing:
Forenoon—Perched on a fence at the Flemington cattle-
yards, or kicking about the abattoirs.
Afternoon—Round about the greenhide-stores.
From infancy Din had possessed the greenhide
habit, which is not, like the grog-habit, to be
shaken-off by an effort. He was proof against the
“confidence-men,” because the spielers couldn’t
drive the idea of their trick into his head.
One morning there arrived at the hotel where
Din was staying one Mat. Gallagher, an old
friend and neighbour of his father, and owner of
Slate Ridge, which adjoined the Big Swamp.
With him was his daughter, Mary Ellen, a long,
flat, ungainly gawk of a girl, whose features were
distributed about her head in great disorder.
* * * *
“ Din, my boy,” said Mat next day, “ I’m going
up the Hawkesbury to buy some stud stock, an’
I’m leavin’ Mary Ellen behind. Would you mind
showin’ her some of the sights of the city till I
return to-night ? ”
Din and Mary Ellen had always disliked each
other as much as was possible for such character-
less individuals. Nevertheless, in his good-
natured docility, Din complied.
“Will you come down and see Bilger’s hide-
store ? ” _ Din asked Mary Ellen that afternoon.
With disguised reluctance she assented, only on
account of instructions from her father.
* • * *
They spent a considerable time in silence,
mounted on tallow-casks at Bilger’s stores, and as
the afternoon wore-on strayed aimlessly up-town.
Suddenly a brilliant idea struck Din. “ What do
you say if we go for a ride in one of them there
’busses ?” he drawled. She didn’t mind.
At that moment the Black Maria came bowling
along, and Din furiously brandished his gingham
to stop it. The policeman on the box merely
looked down as he swept past, and smiled super-
ciliously at Din, who blushed like a sunset on a
dusty evening. But he braced up his courage and
hailed a huge furniture-van. It didn’t stop either.
Fancying that his conduct had attracted much
derisive attention from the crowd, he hadn’t the
courage to stick up one of the many real ’busses
that followed.
He had begun speculating as to how he could
lose Mary Ellen without offending her father,
when, sauntering along, they suddenly got a back
view of an empty carcase-waggon standing in
front of a butcher’s shop. One of the half-doors
of the vehicle was open.
“ Ah, here’s a ’bus pulled-up,” Din reflected.
They got in and calmly seated themselves on
the ledge.
A lot of time elapsed, and the ’bus still remained
stationary.
Mary Ellen hazarded a question.
“ What’s she stoppin’ for ? ”
“Oh, waitin’ for the mail-bags to come in from
somewhere else, I suppose,” snapped Din, pitying
the stupidity that could not naturally account for
a little thing like that.
After a while the driver skipped out from the
. shop, slammed the door tight, dropped a heavy
iron bar across it, mounted his seat, and started
off for Glebe Island. Arrived there, he unhar-
nessed his horses, and went home for the night.
* * m *
Mat Gallagher paced his room far into the hours
of morning. He had always had implicit confi-
dence in his daughter’s conduct. To look at her
would be sufficient to quell any father’s fears ; but
here it was 3 a.m., and Din and Mary Ellen were
both missing. He reflected that Din had been in
the big city four or five days—and had probably
become a reckless and dissipated rake, like Vol-
taire or Henry IV, and this conclusion made sleep
impossible. From every device on the wall-paper
the finger of scorn was pointing at him—at him,
Mat Gallagher, of Slate Ridge.
* * * *
“ Liars !” roared Mat, as the two poor wan-
derers confronted him next morning with their
simple story. ‘ ‘ There’s only one way out of this—
you two must marry. And to think, Mary Ellen,
that I intended you for Con Lannigan’s Mike ! ”
But both parties strongly demurred, and per-
sisted that the adventure was a harmless one.
“ Mary Ellen, go to your room at once ! ”
She flew.
“ Now to deal with you ! ” and Mat approached
Dennis Laffey, otherwise Din’s Din Din
changed his hotel that very day, chiefly because
every time Mat dropped across him he gave him
a fresh whaling with his coat-strap.
* * » *
A few days after, when Din was just recovering
from the unpalatable excitement of the whole
affair—when his relish for the flavor of green
hides was returning; and the abattoirs once more
whispered to his soul —he received a fresh shock
in this letter from his father :
Dinnis,
I yam after hearin’ quare things about your goins on;
and listen here to me now, if you don’t marry the gerril
at wanst, let me tell you, as the father that raired you,
that I kasts you off from me buzzom, and the divil a
haporth av the Big Swamp ’ll ever be the property av
you. Settle down now, for the rollin’ stone ketches the
worrums.
Your father (I’m sorry to say)
Dinnis Gallagher.
The howls of scandal which arose around Big
Swamp and Slate Ridge were subdued to murmurs
by the following announcement in the papers a
few days later:
Marriage.
January 20, at , church by the Rev. ; Dennis,
only son of Dennis Laffey of Big Swamp, to Mary Ellen,
second daughter of Matthew Gallagher of Slate Ridge.
NARRANGHI BOORL.
An evil consequence of incalculable mag-
nitude likely to follow the Sleath Select Com-
mittee inquiry into N.S.W. military affairs will
be that applications of M’s.L.A. not only for posts
or promotions in the Army, but for posts and
promotions everywhere, will be granted by many
through fear of subsequent harrying and exposure.
Sleath, a rejected applicant for military employ-
ment, has been able to summon before a committee
all and sundry suspected (or not suspected) of
rejecting him, and has been empowered, because
of his Parliamentary position, to rake their pro-
fessional armour for a flaw or a stain. If Sleath;
can do this, so can other M’s.L.A. The inference
therefore is that officials in the public service, un-
less they are unusually strong, will grant an'
M.L.A. whatever he asks, to escape possible
trouble.
“ An Australian Surgeon ” to The Bulletin :
Re Ashmead Bartlett’s Parliamentary indictment of
the Army Medical Service in S’Africa. It would be small
wonder if the A.M.S. really were useless, since for years
it had to struggle against the active enmity of Lord
Wolseley, as Commander-in-Chief. This advertising
literary warrior chose to assert that the army surgeon
was a mere civilian who adorned his recreant form with
unmerited gauds, and until some confounded M.P.
knocked over the yarn by pointing out that the A.M.S.
contains a larger proportion of V.O.’s than the regular
so-called combatant officers, the service had a very bad
time. As a matter of fact, the medical administration of
the British forces in S’Africa has received the highest
praise from the leading military surgeons of the
world. The peculiar effect of the Mauser bullet was
understood from the beginning, and as Frederick Treves
has shown, the chance of survival from wounds alone is
at least 200 per cent, better than it was 20 years ago.
The proportion of amputations in this war was less than
one-fourth of those in the Franco-Prussian campaign,
and conservative surgery has come to stay in army work.
By comparing the rules laid down in quite recent text-
books of military surgery, with actual results noted
among returned Australians, the writer feels convinced
that the w'ork in the Transvaal was of the highest order.
For instance, it was laid down as a principle by surgical
authorities that a bullet-wound of the knee opening up
the joint required immediate amputation. One man the
writer examined reached here with a mere stiff leg from
such a wound. Wounds of the abdomen were supposed
to be invariably fatal, but writer recently met a man who
had been shot through liver and intestines six months
before, and who is now as well as ever. Even
the shattering effects of soft-nosed Mauser, Lee-Enfield
or Lee-Metford bullets, have resulted in cures diametri-
cally opposed to all the principles of surgery as laid down
in reputable modern text-hooks. Of course, the mantled
bullet is now recognised as having less smashing power at
long ranges than the older model, but this has only come
about from the work of the English army surgeons. The
Americans in Cuba stuck to the set rules, and often did
not attempt to save limbs which might have been con-
served So much for unnecessary amputations. The
A.M.S. has been blamed for the high proportion of deaths
from enteric fever, but a little thought will show that in
the difficulties incident upon hospital transport under
active-service conditions, the necessary quiet is well-nigh
impossible except in a base-depot. Putting together the
results observed in returned Australians, and the reports
and papers from such men as Treves and Esmarch and
others, which have appeared in the medical journals,
writer is convinced that the English Army Medical
Service has shown results which cannot be equalled in
history.
“ Smiler ” Hales on Chamberlain, in
London Daily News
I have seen so many of the greatest of our men who,
out on the African veldt, have been writing history with
their bayonets, that naturally I longed to see and hear
the man whose brain had held the threads before the guns
began to speak.
I wanted to see this man, to catch him off his guard, to
watch his face when stirred by the hot lust of political
war, to weigh him in the balance To me the
“ man ” was nothing ; the statesman all. I saw him pass
amidst a seething mass of men and women, I heard the
cheers of friends, the groans of foes, and marked each
line of thought that flashed across his face, and knew 1
stood close to one who was a fighting-man, one of
those men who will not own defeat, but when hard hit
brace up against the ropes, and hit whilst the lust of
living lasts. He could not be a craven, Nature built him
out of stuff too stern for that; and as he walked the plat-
form, then turned and faced the mob, there was that
about him, in his face and in his pose, which made me
think of Sayers in Farnborough field so long ago. The
cruel mouth, with downward-curving corners, instinct
with savage sarcasm, indexed a mind which neither
asked nor offered quarter. The well-turned chin,
the shapely forehead, the quivering nostril, the
hard-set eyes,' the defiant poise of head, the
nervous hand, clenching and unclenching as his
passions swayed him, the deep lines on face and brow
which marked the passage of long stormy years as rents
and rippling gashes mark the passage of the storm-tossed
waters and the avalanche down mountain sides—all had
one tale to tell. He is no common man ; such men as he
leap from the womb of Fate for good or ill.
They make a nation or they break it; they lift a country’s
flag where all may see and honor it, or they trail it in the
dust; they never leave it as they found it. Whatever
his faults may be, he is a “ man’s son,” this Birmingham
politician. Had he been born Australian he would have
carried his way to power amongst the rough-rider forces
that the young land owns, and no weakling wins his way
beneath the Southern Cross. Had he been a soldier, Britons
would have known his name as they do Kitchener’s.
Had he been a lawyer, our courts would have been en-
riched by his presence, for he was born to make history.
Some men are born to follow precedents, others are
born to make them. Mr. Chamberlain is no man’s fol-
lower. He is no orator. I could name ten better public
speakers who move amid the stir and bustle of public life
in Australasia. He lacks fire, poetry, imagination, but
he is nevertheless a good public speaker, more at home in
debate than as a stirrer of the hearts of men. If he had
been a barrister he would have been more in his element
appealing to the cold intellect of a judge than to the hot
hearts of a jury. At times he can be persuasive, smooth
as a smile on the lips of beauty ; at other moments he is
absolutely venomous in his sarcasms. His temper is
always very near the surface, and he chafes under
interruption like a spoilt girl at a garden-party. He
seemed to me to hold the crowd in check more
by the magnetic gameness of his personality than
by any gift of speech. I have noticed the same
trait in many lands, and among many birds and animals.
There is a peculiar affinity between the head of a well-
bred racehorse, a game-cock, an eagle, and that class of
human. It is the “ stay there to the end” quality, and I
know of few better gifts amongst the many qualities
which go to the making of a man. One peculiar contra-
diction in Mr. Chamberlain’s speech struck me very
forcibly. All his very soul seems honestly bent upon the
enlargement of the British Empire, and what he con-
siders the firm establishment of its glory in lands beyond
the sea. Yet he does not scruple to show his con-
tempt for everything Irish, forgetful of the fact that
great numbers of the population in all our colonies spring
from Irish stock. He holds out one hand in welcome to
the Colonies, crying, “Come and join our mighty union ;
be part and parcel of the grandest confederacy the world
has ever known,” and with the other hand he strikes the
Irish section of our Colonial kindred in the mouth, taunt-
ing them with unworthy lineage. Obviously .he is a
remarkably able politician, but is he a great statesman?


/
k
%
VI
That’s
fhe Spot.
Know the spot ?
Right in the “ small ” of the back,
Just above the hips.
Bad place for pain,
But it always comes there
When the kidneys are sick.
Comes in many forms,
Sharp, quick twinges,
Slow, exhaustive aches,
Always starts in the one spot
But it don’t stop there —
The ache goes on,
Goes on up the back —
Follows the nerve centres.
You call it all backache ;
Ought to call it kidney ache,
Because it comes from the kidneys.
There’s a lurking danger in it all.
Never neglect backache.
Never neglect the kidneys’ cry for help.
Serious trouble is sure to follow,
Urinary difficulties set in.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for
kidneys only.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure
backache ;
Cure excessive urinary discharges,
Cure retention of the urine,
Core every kidney ill.
BOll’S SICKICIE HUE! PULS
Endorsed by Sydney People.
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. Spear, 32 G-oodsell-street, St. Peters,
this city, says : “ For a good while 1 was in
a pretty bad state with my back. This was
a dull, constant ache about the kidneys.
Sometimes it was much worse than others,
when I moved the pains becoming very bad
indeed, more particularly when I stooped.
It was a most distressing complaint, and I
did not like the thought occurring to me that
this sort of thing often lasts a lifetime, yet
such is the case. Almost a year ago I heard
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and re-
solved to try them for my ailment, so pro-
cured some at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street. lam very pleased indeed to inform
you that they cured me. I’ve never had the
pains return since I used them. I gave some
of these pills to a relation who has derived
as much benefit through taking them as I
have. lam very glad to be able to state
these simple facts since it may lead to others
getting benefit from Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills.”
A Sydney Man,
Mr. William Carroll, an ex-railway guard,
of 749 Harris-street, Ultimo, this city,
writes : “I strained myself in pushing some
heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect in
the small of my back. For three solid
months I was unable to do any work, I
was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a
dull pain though the loins and kidneys, and
the secretions became unnatural and irregu-
lar. My physician advised Turkish baths.
I took them and received some small'benefit,
but not sufficient to enable me to work
properly. I procured some of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills and used them ; I found
wonderful relief, so much so that I am now
able to do heavy work as of old in a thorough
manner. I might mention that it is a year
ago since I took these pills and I have not
been troubled with my back or kidneys since,
which firmly convinces me that Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy,
and 1 never fail to recommend them among
my friends.”
But be sure you get DOAN’S—the kind your neighbours endorse.
Don’t accept a substitute. All Chemists rnd Storekeepers sell
them at 2s. 9d. per Box—Six Boxes, 15s. 3d. If you cannot
obtain them locally, they will be posted on receipt of price by
the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in
this quarter. Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure
every form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding,
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have been
saved by using this cheap and effective remedy
right at the start, because at such times a single
pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-seated,
chronic cases, several pots are sometim is necessary
before a cure is effected. Here is a case in point
Mr. William G-ulliver, of the well-known firm of
Gulliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is Ayoca,
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Feb. 14th, 1899.
Dear Sirs,—ln justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your ()i it merit
advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use more
than one-half of it, now six months ago —and I am
perfectly cured. You may use this as you wish.—
Yours gratefully, WILLIAM GULLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will Cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this ; ask or write Mr. Gulliver.
He knows, for it cured him, and he lives at Banks-
town, a suburb 12 miles from Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof? Could there be
better?
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Eoster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
The Morning Gallop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dews upon the grasses lie
In drops of silver sheen,
The gray dawn wraps the Eastern sky
With crimson bars between ;
We ride against the morning wind
Our royal trip to take—
Twice round the track on Rosalind
Before the world’s awake.
Rich men may keep their beds of down,
And kings their thrones of ease,
A mile beyond the sleeping town
We have no thoughts for these ;
We hold the wealth no rich men find.
The gems no kings are worth ;
Our throne —the racing Rosalind !
Our realm —the waking earth !
The hot hoofs thunder round the track,
The tugging bit-rings strain,
Three-quarter-pace along the back,
Full-speed and round again ;
So all the sins we’ve ever sinned,
And all good deeds we’ve done,
Whirl round the track on Rosalind
To meet the rising sun !
The dark may fall for bitter tears,
The day may work us woe,
But when the rosy dawn appears
Our hearts reflect her glow;
Here is the joy no griefs rescind,
The thrill no time can take—
Twice round the track on Rosalind
Before the world’s awake !
The white foam on her shoulder creams
Below her breastplate-gear,
We bend above in hopeful dreams,
Outpacing foes we fear ;
And not for all the wealth of Ind,
For all the Yukon’s gold,
We’d miss that ride on Rosalind
Before the day grows old !
She may not win when all is said—
There’s risk ’tween cup and lip ;
And she may roll when spurs are red,
And fail beneath the whip ;
But whether on our breast be pinned
The victor’s badge or nay,
Twice round the track on Rosalind
Makes glad the breaking day !
N.S.W.
WILL OGILVIE.
The Least of Three.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had been travelling only a few months
less than a year she imagined—though her only
method of judging time was by comparing the re-
lative joys of what she knew to be a short span
with the relative horrors of what seemed to be a
long one. She was tired, so tired, of drudging
for a cocky father and mother. The eldest of nine
little cookies, and such a poor little wizen eldest
too. She had such a serious, careworn, hopeless
face for an 18-year-old bush girl. She was tired
of running-up scarecrow cows at daybreak, and of
futile efforts to drag from them milk which they
hadn’t got; tired of being stared at by hateful,
sad-faced, hungry sheep, whose very look re-
proached one for living in such a desert; tired of
minding Billy, and Tommy, and Mary Ann, and
all the rest, and of sewing, and mending, and
baking, and scrubbing, and hoeing, and digging.
She was weary to death of perpetual nagging and
grumbling, with never a word of praise or thanks,
though she never lacked for a kick, metaphorical
or real, and had never heard of, much less experi-
enced, the feeblest caress. She was destitute of
hope; but she craved for change. What wonder
if she seized her first and only opportunity?
What wonder if she calmly, • and as a matter of
course, went away with Jim without a word of
good-bye!
“It can’t be worse,” she said ; “it might be
better. And Jim ain’t so bad either O’ course,
he swears—so do father. 0’ course, he boozes—
so do father. O’ course, he jaws sometimes —so do
father and mother always. And Jim ’as a bit o’
money occasional —that ain’t like father. And
he’s free with it, too, while it lasts —that ain’t like
father. Why, father, ’e never ’ad any. Every -
think’s took out in groceries, or dresses, or ’ats and
boots. But Jim ’as his team o’ 20 bullocks, and
’e gets ’ard cash too when he lands ’is load. Why,
you can ’ear the money go chink, chink, in ’is
pocket, an’ ’e says : ‘ Ere’s a ’arf-sov., old girl, go
and buy yourself somethink’ —that ain’t like
father. Call this a ’ard life? No fear. We’re
always on the move, and always seein’ somethink.
Jim and I’ve been traveilin’now for eight months.
And only this mornin’ Jim says :
“ ‘Why, Jane, you can yoke up them blanky
bullocks better’n the best blanky man I ever
struck ’ —that ain’t like father; and not long since
he says, ‘S’elp me, Jane, that’s the best dashed
damper I ever ate ’ —that ain’t like mother.
“Oh, Jim’s all right, and he says as ’ow we’ll go
to Sydney some o’ these days and see the theatre,
and see the girls dancin’ with nothink on them
’cept only mosquito curtains, and the band playin’,
and the soldiers marchin’, and the guns firin’.
My word, that’ll be something to see ! ”
And so Jim and Jane passed on and on through
a weary stretch of sandy, almost desert-like
country, dotted here and there with coarse tufts
which were all that could be called herbage.
Blod, plod, went the cloven hoofs, the creaking
yokes and strained necks telling of a heavy pull,
the heads bent sideways and earthwards, and
the frequent sniffs speaking plainly of hungry
stomachs. On, and on, and on. Each response
to the seldom silent thong seemed to drag the
very hearts from the played-out beasts. On again
and down through the stony entrance to a half-
dry, shamefaced gully with just enough dirty
fluid to go round. One more effort; up again,
and out into the open. That apology for a water-
course, for reasons unknown, is the arbitrary
boundary between barren land and an open
stretch of forest country.
“Woh ! woh back ! woh, Bailey ! woh, Spot!
steady there, yer cock-eyed, blanky crawler—woh
now ! woh back ! woh ! ”
“ There yer are, Jane—no more to-night. We’ll
get them loafers out now, quick, for it looks pre-
cious like a storm, and we’ll need to settle down
afore it comes.”
Then the big sun-burnt arms were raised
toward the loading, and seizing a little bundle
with as much ease as he would a 501 b. sack of
sugar, Jim landed it gently on the ground. A
sudden thought seemed to strike him. He took a
hurried look on each side, then, spying a shady
cotton-bush near by, he once again lifted the
little bundle, laid it beneath the shade on some
soft grass, and, facing it, said :
“Yer ain’t equal to no work to-night, Jane.
I’ll make everything snug for camp, and we’ll get
an early start in the morning. Why, it’s only
another ten-mile stage to Bunboree, and then
we’ll get old Mother Garn to nurse you up a bit
while I push on with the loading.”
She looked at him in a sort of dazed surprise,
the great round brown eyes speaking of unex-
pressed gratitude, and stretching out an arm
seized his rough hand and kissed it.
“ Good old Jim ! ” she said.
He gave the dishevelled head a clumsy pat, and
turned to go.
“Jim,” she cried, “ yer won’t be long with the
loading, will yer ? ”
“ Long ! ten days at the outside.”
“ And you’ll come back, Jim — really you’ll come
back ? ”
“ Come back ? Well, of all the little
Come back ? You and me are spliced for keeps,
Jane.”
* * * *
How the wind howled through the tent that
night! The lightning circled the horizon with its
lurid blue, while the thunder seemed to crash over
the very centre of the little canvas cover.
The restlessness of the tired man indicated that
something very unusual was happening outside.
Time and again he rose from his blankets with a
muttered curse, now tethering down more securely
a corner of the tent, now peering out furtively
through the entrance, looking for a lull. At last
he settled down into heavy slumber. And btside
him lay a small figure with wide-open brown eyes
—the figure of Jane, shuddering now and again as
a crash came, counting her beads, and praying in
her own crude little way.
At last there was a short lull; and then with
redoubled fury came the screeching wind; the
lightning seemed more vivid ; and suddenly Jane
clutched the sinewy arm beside her. Such a
blinding glare ! a simultaneous crash ; and imme-
diately Jane knew a tree had fallen near the tent;
then her heart stopped, and she lapsed into un-
consciousness.
• • *
A great limb of a tree bulged through the old
canvas, giving entrance to the crisp morning air
and the light of early dawn ; that was the first
evidence to half-opened eyes of the past night’s
terror.
Jane raised herself on weak elbows and peered
about in the semi-darkness.
Jim slept. Jim was tired. Jim worked so
card. She would not disturb him.
Silently she crept outside, looking round the
waggon-corner only to see two big brindle bullocks
stretched out in unnatural repose, with something
unfamiliar in their glassy eyes.
Hurriedly she ran back to the tent, full of fear
of what Jim might say when he knew. She looked
inside. He was still sleeping. “ It’d be too cruel
to wake him,” she thought. “We’ve only ten
more miles to go to Bunboree, and eighteen bul-
locks can easily do that.” Then out of very sym-
pathy with Jim she cast herself down beside the
tent and cried ever so little.
The twittering of small birds in the bushes, the
familiar “Caw, caw, caw,” of the crows, the
red glow in the east, all reminded her that time
was on the wing. She was up again with a start.
“ I might wake him now,” she said.
“Jim?”
A little streak of early sunlight shot across nis
face, showing a tiny blue mark across Jim’s
temple. Then she knew the kind of sleep he
slept.
“Jim ! oh Jim !”
It wasn’t a wail. It wasn’t a cry. It was not
anything that might be expected to come from a
girl or a woman. It was simply an appeal—a vain
appeal—to the only strong thing she knew, and
she so weak, so very, very weak.
“ ‘Only another ten mile stage to Bunboree,’he
said.”
Tearless, she dragged him outside. Only herself
knew how. She rigged a couple of handy saplings
against the tilt of the waggon, and with a strength
born of despair rolled him over and over just as
she had seen him do when loading other inani-
mate things. Quietly she yoked the remaining
oxen, turned their heads towards Bunboree,
mounted the waggon, and let them wander. . . .
* * *
A little wheezy, petulant cry, and then a
silence.
A jackass, seeing the indolent swagger of the
bullocks, laughed ironically and flew away to tell
its mate that bullocks worked without a whip
sometimes.
Another cry—perhaps a little louder, and
stronger, and more impatient.
A big, bold crow, perched on the waggon,
flopped away disappointed when he heard that
strange noise.
Only another two miles, and then Bunboree
quite close. The bullocks sniffed. They seemed
to smell Mother Cam’s in the distance. Another
half mile and they stepped out quite briskly.
Another few hundred yards and they pulled up
with a sudden jerk—the force of habit. They
knew where Jim stopped.
An idle crowd around Mother Cam’s watched
the approach of eighteen yoked bullocks and a
load wandering about driverless. A dissipated,
inquisitive crowd it was which gathered round
the waggon looking for reasons. And not reasons
only, they found, for in the midst of death there
was a little life, and though it lay there so
perfectlv helpless it seemed still to triumph over
death.
Q.
C. A. BERNAYS.
The absurd leniency long shown to push-
assaulters and robbers in Melbourne has culmin-
ated, as might have been foreseen, in the death of
a victim —one James Vance —who was kicked to
death on Cup-eve, in the yard of his city board-
ing-house, whilst defending his possessions—a few
pounds. Five youths are now under arrest on
suspicion—and the Beak still fines the assaulter
the customary 10s. or so. There will probably be
a hanging if the case is sheeted-home, and yet the
Vance murder is just the ordinary Melbourne 10s.
brutal assault with a kick delivered in the wrong
place by accident. It is often written that Mbl-
bourne suburban J’s.P. are afraid to inflict ade-
quate sentences on larrikins, being in fear of their
own lives at the hands of the pushes, but there is
no good reason for crediting the larrikins with
ufficient public spirit to kill a J.P.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time.
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
*sar
w&r'Z.
i
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
“I took quantities of medicine, but constantly grew worse all the time.
Finally, I tried'Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and X know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine. ”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism ; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER’S PILLS—A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
&
Mk
Sun-Sen &
|FARRINGDONAVENUe\
IONEOK.
INVALUABLE 10
{ SIMS £ SPEAKERS
fit
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SiEMTStE:.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning inar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of thi? great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only Vs. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts i eady-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is fid Dost
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d. F
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus
Is ; post Is 3d.
Realty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One s Self, Is fid posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate. Dreamer’s
Sure Guide : price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Maqic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Bojing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, lg post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life-Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), lsGd post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse's Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs.
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, ‘2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
J-low to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOIE. SIRROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING- AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by lnm are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books -most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
01168 mqm»« goxes sold gems.
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE as ABC.
B€€cham’s Pills
Have been Tried for Over 50 Years.
—— —— ■>— —
There is a reason for everything, and the reason for
the popularity of Beecham’s Pills is, that they fill all the
requirements of a general antidote in a more satisfactory
manner than any proprietary medicine ever placed before
the public. “ You may lead a horse to the water , but you
cannot make it drink” Beecham’s Pills are brought before
your notice, and, whether you require them or not—if not
to-day, you may to-morrow —when the necessity arises,
you should, in your own interest, take them. The reason
for their need is often best known to yourself, but be that
as it may, you will show good reason by taking them in
reasonable doses, and doing so is as simple as A B C.
"STEELE RUDD’S" BOOK
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
MAORI LIMP : ai?d Otfyer Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shilling’s (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER 00., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
mM
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections. S >
Th<p Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Goht and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
dinnefordSl
MAGNESIA,
Sold Throughout the World.
N»B«—ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
r °*’»
IRISH MOSS
egs -The besf remedy-
FOR "" INFLUENZA, ~
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou qet it
COLDS
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


HOSE.
HOSE.
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perclriau s s
Ferdn'au’s
fin. x 3 PLY RUBBER.
C GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS, for 20s.
B DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS, for
455.
SUP. DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS,
for 50s.
fin. Cotton Covered.
MEDIUM EUREKA, 50 FEET COILS,
for 20s.
SUPERIOR EUREKA, 50 FEET
COILS, for 22s 6d.
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 George St.,
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
and . ,
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
88 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
....IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND,
Sole Australasian Representatives s
SIMPSON BROTHERS.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TANGYES’
DUPLEX
PUMPS
Are the Latest and Best.
Sole Representatives in Australia
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED
Bennie, Teares Co.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers.
STOCKS CARRIED IN^
sypN€y
MELBOURNE
PERTH
COOL6ARPIC.
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- G- ZEXj-DZROIIDG-ZE] &C GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK ST It Ur. i\ SYDNRY
lOpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post trum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
a
eorge
an
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PP S’S
GRATEFUL. COMFORTING.
COC O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ONE THOUSAND PEOPLE ....
died from Consumption in Sydney last year, and this dire disease is spreading day by day. And no wonder. If citizens are so careless about their supply of Milk, the wonder is that there
are not more deaths. There will be ! ! *
SBRZl’8 A. SHORT STORY.
A milk supplier to Sydney had three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was afraid his healthy cattle would become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another
supplier who sent his milk to the same distributors. The seller now feels annoyed to think that the Sydney purchaser had been paying for all the milk from the diseased n.nimalH for some
months past. THIS MILK IS BEING SOLD IN SYDNEY TO-DAY ! This is no fairy tale, but an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an individual case;
there are many, alas ! too many of a similar nature.
IiarSPEOTIOar OR ID-A-IlFtllEiS A2l.2WX> cattle
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every cow in every dairy thoroughly inspected, as well as the premises and utensils used. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
arriving under standard quality is condemned. They laugh at local inspection. They lose suppliers because of their strict methods of inspection.
The Company sells milk in bulk or in bottle that is PASTEURISED. If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a premature death. Use only the milk supplied by the
F.F. & I. Coy., and they will get healthy and strong. Strohg robust people will grow the stronger. If, after this NOTE OF WARNING, you continue to use 'milk from cows suffering
from Tuberculosis—or, in plain words, Consumption—you deserve to die, for the fault rests with yourself.
the only Company who has an Inspector in its regular employ. If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with us ; but if you want to rear
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE COY., Ltd,
The F.F. and I. Coy., Ltd., if
weaklings, or be weak, then Don’t.
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
H. JPateson,
w Manager.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
si
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Bock Prills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania
B-eturn Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris
Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Bock Breakers,
Boger Bolls, Gates’ Bock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery,
and Mine and Mill Supplies.
achinerg
. . BEST IN THE WORLD . .
Grand Prix Exposition Universelle.
PARIS, 1900.
MACHINES IN STOCK
AND TO ARRIVE
For every purpose known to the
Woodworking Trades.
Estimates given for Complete Outfit for Saw Mills, Planing Mills,
Carriage Building Shops, etc.
AGENTS : H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
General IVHachinery Merchants,
Representative in Queensland:
C. P. CAMP3£L'L, 12 Creek-streat,
Brisbane.
SYDNEY and MELEttUItNE.
S. FREEMAN .*» SONS I^IMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
:
u
"DO
?sO
w
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SENT) FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
AND LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Ili.w»trated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROEIUftiFELDT.
