

The Bulletin
Voi -21.—N0. 10(33
[Saturday, June 30, 1900
Pesnstcrecl at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newananor.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid s London Dra
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
107 Kent
Sydney,
Minina;' and
Street,
—FOR—
Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS
Mining 1
Requisites,
AVAILABLE.
m
: :
Over 2100 *iyitro-iuxtract ars Sold and at work
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMi-or.K’S GEORGE HOT EL, opposite St
Kilcia Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, us. per Day, or 2 Guineasper Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-’« mt street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
lhestj machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S Established 1831.
A 1 WHISHT.
SANBEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND GROCERS.
HOBART.
— m*—
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
D.S.MAIR
°p
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
"DEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. £'S r ' Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
cM,
CO
*
800,1X2 Bottles Sold in One Month— THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
belting!
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICf Bc SON, LTD.,
117 Y ork Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
IMPORTANT TRIAL
... In the Matter op
“Wealth of Nations” Dark Tobacco,
VERDICT : IT IS THE BEST.
Dark Tobacco Smokers,
see that you obtain
THIS BRAND
“Wealth of nations
f*
GAINING CAILY IN POPULAR FAVOR.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINE^>
AUSTRALIA.
£3T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENTSTREE-T, SYDNEY.


THE RED PAGE.
NORTURNE.
White, white I remember her—
White from her forehead to her feet.
The moonlight falling through the pane
Was not so white, was not so sweet.
She was a pool of moonlight there
Between the window and the wall,
And the slow minutes bathed in her
And went away beyond recall.
1898.
Richard, Hovey.
The Sin of Witchcraft.
+ In nomine Patris, et Filii , et SpiritHs Sa/ncti,
Amen.
Record op the Proceedings at the Trial op
one G. W. L. Marshall-Hall, accused on
SUSPICION THAT HE IS A WIZARD AND IN LEAGUE
with Beelzebub the Prince of Devils, held
BEFORE THE UNIVERSITY COUNCIL OF MEL-
BOURNE ON THE TWENTY-FIFTH DAY OF JUNE, IN
THE YEAR OF OUR LORD ONE THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED.* ' ' " • ' •
fYIHERE were in waiting several renowned
I witch-smellers, peculiarly gifted by the
1. favour of Heaven in the detection of
wizardry and witchcraft. These alleged
that it was a matter of common repute
that the accused person was a wizard,
that they themselves had no doubt
concerning" his sin, and the greater number of
them asked that he should be declared guilty
forthwith, and put to death. But some said that
lie should be permitted to purge himself, if it
were possible, by being cast with his hands and
feet tied into the Yarra, to see whether he would
sink or swim. This course was vehemently
opposed by the others, who said that Diabolus est
Dei siraia, the devil seeks to imitate divine
miracles. And, as it hath been shown by the
Reverend Increase Mather, of Salem in Massa-
chusetts, where were many witches formerly
found, we read in ecclesiastical story that some of
the martyrs, when they were by persecutors
ordered to be drowned, proved to be immersible.
This miracle would the devil imitate in causing
the accused wizard, who is his martyr, not to sink
when lie is east into the waters. For this reason
it was said that the wizard should be pressed to
death without further delay. Or if he were com-
mitted to the ordeal by water, they prayed that it
should not be in the waters of the Yarra, seeing
that these are of a thicker nature than ordinary,
whi(sh would aid the devil in sustaining the
wizard above the surface. If therefore the said
wizard were tried by the water, they urged that
it should be in a tank.
The court having said that it would hear the
evidence, a witch-smeller of great power declared
that it had long been known to him that the said
G. W. L. Marshall-Hall was a wizard. He walked
like a wizard, placing one foot before the other ;
and his hair he dressed in a fashion peculiar to
wizards. The accused having here declared that
neither he nor any other was a wizard, the witness
proved by Scripture that some have been con-
victed and executed for wizards. “Saul . . . hath
cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the
wizards, out of the land.” —I Sam. xxviii, 9.
A second witch-smeller testified that he was a
minister of Holy Church, and had on several
occasions discovered wizardry. After prayer and
eating there floated specks before his eyes, and
when he met a wizard these specks arranged them-
selves into the form of a cross, while if he met a
witch they took the shape of a circle. It had been
given to him to understand that these signs
meant that the wizard should be crucified, while
for the witch a round grave should be dug in
which she could be buried alive. He saw dis-
. tinctly this cross floating before the accused
wizard.
Questioned by the accused how many meals and
prayers he had made that day, the witness
answered that it being then but eleven o’clock he
had made but three meals and one prayer.
A third witness testified that he had read a
certain book written by the accused wizard, and
called Hymns , Ancient and Modern. That the
said book did not contain hymns, but instead
shocking and unnatural blasphemies, which only a
wizard could invent, such as this directed against
a respected and pious citizen—
Forgive thy Saints, Lord, for their lewd ideas,
Me for my songs—and Blank for his long ears.
The witness showed that this must have been
directly inspired by the devil, because the rhyme
of “ideas” and “ears” was a crooked rhyme in
accordance with the crooked nature of the devil.
Questioned by the accused, the witness said it
was true that the said book had been suppressed
and was no longer published, but he preserved a
copy in his library which he read when he desired
for the good of his soul to understand the depth of
the iniquities of Satan and his worshippers.
Other witch-smellers having given testimony
to the like effect, there came a number of persons
over whom the wizard had cast his spells, urging
, that he was no wizard, but an honest man of great
skill in the playing and concerting of divers kinds
of musick. Further, these said that since he had
fallen under the condemnation of Holy Church,
some time previously, he had lived a godly and re-
putable life, and had abstained from committing
any of the offences alleged against him.
Questioned by the court as to the nature of the
said musick, the witch-smellers with one accord
declared that it did not consist of psalms which
are profitable to godliness, but was profane and
. devilish, and that while it was being played the
wizard danced and gesticulated in a manner which
of itself made clear to them that he was possessed
by the devil.
The accused wizard was thereupon heard in his
own defence. He said that he was no wizard, but
a simple musician and a lover of beauty, which
consisted in the voluptuous delight of self-contem-
plation when merged in the supremest moment of
passion the ego became absorbed in the entire
universe to await the touch of the enchanter
Death for resolution into those primary elements
of whose manifold combinations it is one in a
peculiar capacity which is the distinction of
genius and a beautiful and splendid allegory of
the mutual caresses of lovers as the physical ex-
pression of the deepest intellectual truth. The
accused wizard also said many other things which
were similarly unintelligible, and which showed
clearly that he was speaking with the tongue of
the devil his master, who was betraying him to
his ruin.
The court having then debated upon the evi-
dence, it was resolved- —+
Von Kotze reflects :
Phil May’s “ open ” drawing seems to me a proof that
the sublimation of art is simplicity. What chiefly dis-
tinguishes the portrait from the photo, is the emphasis
on characteristic points and the elimination of irrele-
rancies. There is a line, a wrinkle, a droop in the lids
which represents the important germ of life in a study.
But the untrained, uninspired eye cannot find the tiny key.
I remember once mistaking a red-haired girl, with blue
eyes and a squint, for a very distinguished raven-locked
and dark-eyed beauty, and getting into particularly
hot water thereby. Nobody, myself included, could ex-
plain my mistake. But I have discovered the reason
since. They are as different as night and morning, but
they both have exactly the same strange little twitch in
the right corner of the lips when they are laughing. And
that was all I remembered them by.
The first sentence seems based on a memory of
Whitman’s “The art of art, the glory of expres-
sion and the sunshine of the light of letters, is sim-
plicity ” (Pref. to “Leaves of Grass”) —which is a
dogma as good as other dogmas for definition and
debate. The reflective Yon K. may be taken to
imply that May’s “simple,” “open” drawing is
the sublimation of art. If he does not mean that,
he expresses himself ill; if he means that, he is
.wrong. Pen-line.jllustration is only ope phase of
art, and not the most important. And without de-
tracting a whit from May’s talent, one can point
out that the Australian appreciation of it, due to
May’s Australian residence, is disproportionately
high, There are a dozen contemporary illus-
trators, his equals or superiors, comparatively un-
known in Australia. All art is more-or-less founded
on convention—the agreement to take imitations
for realities. Pen-drawing is especially dependent
on convention, since it endeavours to represent, by
mere lines and spaces, solids of varying texture,
color, and contour. And'Phil May has invented
an effective; convention, easily comprehended—a
kind of shorthand draughtsmanship—which sug-
gests as much as possible and states as little as
possible, iris theory is logical enough. It may
be argued that, the more lines your draw in order
to create the impression of a face or figure, the
more you will fail, since black-and-white and life
are so radically dissimilar that every line helps to
destroy one’s imagination of the fact. On that
theory, the less you encumber the imagination
with visible drawing (your suggestion once
achieved) the better you will interpret life. A
contrary theory holds that since you must set down
some lines —must state something, even in order
to suggest—the statement may as well be carried
past the point at which, for example, this symbol
.[•'?] stands for the human eye. Since there must
be some convention, why not carry it to the last
point attainable? As black-and-white art and
life are in different worlds, why not have the
courage of the difference, and make the imitative
world correspond as nearly as possible with the,
actual ? The human eye is not a dot-and-dash.
It has shape, and colour, and expression ; and all
these things can be imitated by delicate draughts-
manship. Then why not ? Which all amounts
to saying that Phil May employs one style of
drawing; and Steinlen, and Gibson, and Menzel,
and others, employ many other styles of drawing.
You prefer which you please. May’s “open”
work is “simple” from one point of view; and
“barren” from another. It certainly is not “a
proof that the sublimation of art is simplicity.”
The Fates did ill to kill Richard Hovey at rathe
36 ; for though a poet he was only a little one, and
a lazy one who wrote no more than he could help.
His friend, Bliss Carman, who collaborated with
him in “Songs from Vagabondia” and “More
Songs from Vagabondia,” says his best work was in
the fourth of his Arthurian dramas ; and unfor-
tunately I have only the first three, which amount
to little. But it is likely that Carman over-
praises Hovey, as a friend can. The two poems
printed on this page are taken from “ Along the
Trail,” and measure the man sufficiently—a plea-
sant, sympathetic, cultured verse-maker, lacking the
finest force. Hovey was Maeterlinck’s apostle in
America, apd translated oddments of Mallarme, and
shook seductive curls at you as Mallarme’s mag-
nificently-bleating lambs will. A Picturesque
Poet to look at—and O, and O, like Olivette’s
whale, the ladie 5 loved him so !
The newspapers report Melb. Uni. students as
giving “ cheers for Prof. Marshall-Hall, and groans
and ‘tigers’ for nis opponents.” If ’twas so,
it was a reversal of the time-honoured “ tiger ”
practice. Tradition and custom hold that
the ‘ ‘ tiger ” is a howl which accentuates
the cheers and intensifies the applause. The
best of several “origins” tells how, early in
this century, an American politician, S. S. Pren-
tiss, was stumping the country, and came to a
town where there was a small menagerie on exhi-
bition. This he hired for a day and threw it open
'to all-comers, availing himself of the occasion to
make a political speech. The orator, holding a
10ft. pole, stood ’on the tiger’s cage, in the roof
of whieh there was a hole, and whenever the mul-
titude applauded one of his “ points ” with three
cheers, Prentiss poked the tiger, who uttered a
harsh roar. From this three cheers and a tiger
spread over the country.
Interesting parallel between Beira and politi ,
by a N.S. Wales M.P. :
Trooper Kelvedon Gulson writes from Beira, April 8. :
Every white man [elector] appears to have about a hun-
dred blacks [members of Parliament] under him. The
whites [electors], as far as I can see, do nothing but swear
at and hammer the blacks [members], A black laborer
[politician] gets i-lb. of rice per day [£6 per week], and
a promise of some brass wire [a seat on the Works Com-
mittee] at the end of the year. I watched ten of them
putting an ordinary post in its hole [passing an ordinary
Decoration for Cover of “ More Songs from
Vagabondia.”
By T. B. Metcyard.
T. B. Meteyard, Bliss Carman, Richard Hovey.
Act]. There was an awful jabbering for over an hour
[over a month] over it, then it was done very badly. . . ,
Apiece of brass wire to them [seat on the P.W.C.] is a
glimpse of heaven—they would agree to build a railroad
[sell their souls] for it. . . . The Beira railway [politician’s
soul] is what you would expect a Chow to make into his
garden. It is run on very light rails, about 2ft. apart,
which are about as level as a new-chum’s fence. They are
not even kept the same distance apart. But the wheels
[political principles] are so wide they allow a few inches
[miles] grace. The record speed is six miles an hour [a
century], so if we are cramped we can' get out and walk
ahead [but we are too lazy].-
Yet perhaps Beira is better taken literally.
“ Half-a-pound of rice per day, and a promise of
some brass wire at the end of a year”—the
Politician’s Reward.
“ The Truth about God ” is a book written by
the Russian priest, “Father John.” This is the
Truth which lives eternally at the bottom of a
hell.
In 1894 the newspaper-files in the British
Museum library occupied 2| miles of shelves, and
each year’s output now requires another 137 yards.
The Museum authorities seek to .circumvent the
printer’s devil by making districts and colonies
and dependencies mind their own p’s and q’s
much more than at present, while they content
themselves with culling for the Future. Herodo-
tus was a lucky fellow. About 450 b.c. facts
were so scarce that you had to fill up with lies to
make a history. Nowadays a historian cannot
overtake a millionth part of the facts racing away
from him down the course of the centuries, and he
never has time or space for picturesque little
stories like that about the priestess of Athena at
Pedasus, who sprouted a beard whenever trouble
threatened her city. Really, it would not be a
bad idea to burn all the world’s books and jour-
nals, and begin accumulation anew. Fancy the
Literature-Phoenix making in Australia an inex-
pensive nest of J. C. Neild’s poems (bookstall
price, 3d.) singing a dying-swagman dirge, flap-
Cher leaves to set fire to the pile, burning
alf to ashes, and coming up fresh and lively
for another 500-year cycle !
“ An Irishman confessed one day that he had
once done a good action. He was out rowing
with a Jew when the latter unaccountably fell
overboard. ‘ Save me ! ’ said the Jew as he came
up, and the Irishman took him by the hair of the
head. ‘Do you believe in all the Saint§?’ he
asked. ‘No,’spluttered the Jew. ‘ Then down
you go,’said the Irishman, and dropped him. A
second time the Hebrew rose to the surface, and
‘No,’ he answered more feebly to the same
question. ‘For the last time,’ said Pat, when
the Hebrew rose for the third time, ‘do you be-
lieve in all the Saints?’ ‘Yes,’ said th 6 Jew,
beaten at last. ' ‘ Then,’said the Irishman, as he
let go again, ‘ die in the faith !’ ”
T. Parker: Thanks for reference, thus ex-
panded To a recent querist. The prologue
attributed to George pickpocket Barrington was
written for the opening performance at the first
Sydney theatre (Jan. 16, 1796). The main idea of
the first lines—
•
From distant climes, o’er widespread seas we come,
Though not with not much iclat , or beat of drum ;
True patriots, all, for be it understood,
We left our country for our country’s good ;
No private views disgrac’d onr generous zeal,
What urg’d our travels, was our country’s weal;
And none will doubt, but that our emigration
Has proved most useful to the British nation—
was doubtless taken from George Farquhar’s play,
Beaux’ Stratagem,” produced in 1707,
Gibbet, a highwayman, in answer to AimweU’g
question, “ You have served abroad, sir?” aay«
“Yes, sir, in the plantations ;• ’t was my lot to be
se (,N into the worst of service. I would have quit-
ted it, indeed ; but a man of honour, you know—
Besides, ’t was for the good of my country that I
should be abroad. Anything for the good of one’s
country; I’m a Roman for that.” (Farquhar’s “The
Recruiting Officer” had been played by convicts
June 4, 1789 ; and it is printed with “ The Beaux’
Stratagem m the two-volume edition of Farqu-
har s works (1718-36), to which Barrington pro-
bably had access). W. S. Walsh (“ Literary Cu-
riosities, 194) notes that, in a complimentary
sense, a similar phrase was applied to Francis
Drake by Charles Fitzgeoffry, circa 1596-
Leaving his country for his country’s sake.
Barrington’s Prologue is printed for handy refer-
ence m Heaton’s “Australian Dictionary of
Dates, which may be bought for 2s. 6d., and is
becoming more useful every year.
Some correspondents—
L.O. ; More florid than forcible... .W.S. (Tas.): That
applies to the strangled Orange Free State, not to the
Transvaal X.Y. : “Be ‘Rosa and the Commonwealth
Constitution s grammar.* There is only one first year,
therefore there cannot be ‘five first years’; or if “ the
five first years,’ why not, as a parallelism, ‘ the five
second years ’ ?—which is bosh. Or, this way : taking ten
years as the unit, ‘ the first decade ’ is correct, and, by
substitution, ‘ the first ten years’ must be correct also."
On the other hand, O Grosbeak 11, when you reckon by de-
cades, you-reckon by decades, i.e., imply at least a second
decade to follow the first. If there be no second decade,
then the first decade ”is bosh ; since a decade can only
be “first” by comparison with one or more. If you,
Gentle Grosbeak, are the first child of your father,
it is because there is, or may be, a second Gros-
beak in the family. If there is not, and will not be,
a second child, then 30U are simply “ the child.” Or if,
in a class of one, one can be “ first,” why, as a parallelism!
cannot that one be “ last ? Because, Grosbeak, it is bosh.
Similarly, when the Constitution speaks of “ the first five
years,” and does not contemplate any second five years—
for the reason that there is only one set of five years in
question—then the Constitution is a Grosbeak, and you
are a Grosbeak, and on this 20me Brumaire, year 0 of the
Commonwealth None and Divided, you are both of you
denounced to Incorruptible Robespierre Rosa, the See-
Green Grammarian, as illogical aristocrats.'"??,.; s
THE BOOKFELLOW.
BOHEMIANS!
Slaves —of the Lamp of Chance 1
Lords —of your own Free Will •
Let’s all a bumper fill,
Drink to the bold free-lance 1
Fettered to circumstance,
Held by a heavy chain,
Yet, while the gay Hours dance,
Master of broad domain.
You whom no times can tie,
You who the jest applaud,
Fortune your cold ally,
Careless of rank or gaud,
Seek ye your argosy !
Craft of the fleet of dream l
Till eyes too dim to see
Strain o’er a sluggish stream.
Princes ! for such are ye,
Thought and the Word are wide.
Humour and Hope abide, —
These are the magic key !
Cerise.
THE SYMBOLIST.
dome ! let; us rail at Cyrus Brown,
The poet pale of Sydney Town ;
His form is frail, his curls hang down,
His hat suggests a martyr’s crown,
He must not fail to win renown—
As a Symbolist!
He writes of a “ rose,” but it means—in brief—
Sweet scents for his nose, and thorns for his grief ;
Red sunsets—and glows—and blood—and beef.
One phrase (in his hand) will expand to a sheaf,
And a forest he grows from a single leaf,
Does this wrinkling Symbolist!
His mind is sure—his purpose planned,
To purge and purify the land
Of poetry we understand.
“ For the world is curled in a grain of sand,
And poetical homeopathy’s grand,”
Sings the tinkling Cymbalist,
D.
HERODIAS.
(From the Trench of Mallarmi.)
Hbuomas
Ay, for myself, myself I flower forlorn 1
You amethystine gardens buried deep
In wise abysses dim and bottomless,
You understand ; and you, neglected gold,
Keeping your ancient glory unprofaned
Under the dark sleep of primeval earth ;
You, stones wherefrom mine eyes, like limpid gems,
Borrow their blaze melodious ; and you,
Metals that give the tresses of my youth
A deadly splendor in their hu&aive fall !
As for thee, woman born in centuries
Malign for the iniquities that lurk
In caverns Sibylline,—thou who darest to speak
One one for whom, a mortal, shall from the cup
Of my slipped robes, aroma savage-sweet,
Rise the white shudder of my nakedness—
Foretell that if the warm blue summer sky
That woman natively unveils before,
See me in my star-shivering shamefastness,
I.die !
The horror of virginity
Delights me ; I would live, amid the fright
The touch of mine own hair can make me know,
To feel, at eve, within my couch withdrawn,
Inviolate reptile, in the useless flesh
Cold scintillation of thy pallid light,
Thou dying, thou consumed with chastity,
White night of icicles arid cruel snow !
And thy lone sister, O my sister aye,
My dream shall rise to thee ; even now so clear,
So wondrous clear the heart that dreamed it so,
I seem alone in my lone native land,
With all about me in idolatry,
Before a glass whose sleeping calm reflects
Herodias, with clear look of diamond . . .
Oh, last charm . . . yes ... I feel it, I am alone.
Nubsb
You will die, lady ?
HBROMAS
No, good graudam, no.
Be calm and leave me ; pardon this hard heart.
First close the shutters, if you will. The sky
Smiles like a seraph in the pane’s profound,
And I detest the beautiful sky.
The waves
Cradle themselves, and, yonder, know you not
A country where the inauspicious heaven
Shows Venus’ hated aspects, who to-night
Burns in the leafage ? Thither will I go.
Light again—call it child’s play if you will—
Those tapers where the wax at the light flame
Weeps in the idle gold an alien tear,
And . . .
Nwaas
Now?
Hjkodia*
Farewell. [Exit Burse.
You lie, O naked flower
Of my lips!
I await a thing unknown !
Heedless, perhaps, of the mystery and your cries,
Though you fling out the supreme murdered sobs
Of maidenhood that feels amid its dreams
Its chill gems part at last.
Trans. Richard Hooey.
* Unluckily this fragment is prophetically written, and
the prophet does not tell what was the issue of the trial,
f Here the fragment ends abruptly.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT <\nd
LUNGS'.
(REGISTERED).
5$
VS.Q
INS
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singer*
and Public Speaker*.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q-
/ SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and V QUEEN’S PLACE.
They e<ase a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.


W, JNO. BAKER, CU I^
3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
W. JNO. BAKER’S
PRESENTATION
Cases of Carvers.
Artistic Design, fitted in Elegant,
Silh <md Velvet-lined Cases.
Containing Carver, Fork and Steel @ 21s, 255, 27s 6d,
355, and 37s 6d per case, post free.
Containing Meat Carver and Fork, Poultry
Carver, Fork and Steel @ 425, 47s 6d, 67s 6d,
and (as illustrated) 72s 6d per case post free.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SY3DKTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SY3DKTBY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
I IK New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution fef the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal 10 join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION
| per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Gd. per lb.,
the charge will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and undor ... ... ... Is. Gd. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
lie quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
1 lie COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Saleß of Maraupial Skins Held Weekly.
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2 : Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note.- These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
, MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket. Sydney.
imiulhhiniiff]
M
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
BLACK BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
Bsk for fI.C.E.
n
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE
~ GRAIN BROKERS^^
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Obtain Best Prices for WOOL and PRODUCE, and
Safeguard PROCEEDS by their Special TRUST
A/c SYSTEM .
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES t CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
V w-
e
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
Thf Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most frentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
■sgi.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
mm
mm
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
i mv hoj: hivh aooo
&
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—Bs., 45., 6s. Postage, 9d. extra
HOLLANDS PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING IIAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul &Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E.
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAI
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
SOP
uscm
n m
SPARKUMGj
# ''//A
G
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 Ceorgo Street, Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
fOU is’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-LM-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
A Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by BULLETIN Writers. Pap.-r
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.
TORONTO*
CANADA.
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CrIAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
HtGH-GRApE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND
MACHINERY.
K€MPS Patent Sl)€€P'Brai)dii)g LiqOid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go.
MELBOURNE.
Agents- Ei rich & GO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black;, Red, Etnd Blue. 3b 6d per gall, in Melb. a,nd Sydney; 3a 9ci per gall, in. Brisbane.
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION Ltd
WOOL & PRODUCE ft SELLIIMGr BROKERS.


TATTERSALL’S.
.Address: Care geo.
ADAMS, Hotoart.
Grand National H. July 7
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
shares in the above.
Address
Silver City C. (special).
drawn morning op the race.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address.
.shares in the above.
Spring H. August 11 .
50,000 Satjacribers at S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
November 6
Melbourne 0.
100,000 Subscribers at 20r
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address
<£ i -
July 25.
Silver City C.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name,
£
Address
t
Adelaide 6.N.H. August 11.
25,000 Subsorlbera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me,
shares in the above.
Name
s
Address
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares ia the above.
Name
Address
£ s :
Melbourne C.
November 6.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
milling machinery.
\
\
\
-\ \
BAND SAW MILIiS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engi: es. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery ere: ted by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
to ti^ eICS ’
i’S
bRA^ C
. „vaV^ a c^ eS
atv& ro \ds-
caU°^ B a nd CoV
HV®
"Man’s
Strength
and
Woman’s
Beauty.”
Before and since
the days of Samson
this is what has
been said of every
luxuriant growth
of hair.
HATUftn
GIFTS
Aven
HMr
visor
preserves and
beautifies the
hair, giving
it length,
strength, and
luster.
It restores
the natural
color to the
hair in every
instance.
It cleanses the scalp from dandruff
and thus removes one great cause of
baldness.
It makes a better circulation in the
scalp and thus checks the hair from
falling out.
If your blood is poor and thin and
filled with impurities, the Hair Vigor
cannot do its best. You should take a
thorough course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla at the same time
you are using the Hair Vigor. This
will cleanse your blood, invigorate your
nerves, and improve your health in
every way.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
CG. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• N.S.W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hatte'ssuitsof Indigoserge,
all-wool tweeds,and sergerettesfwith extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas. West of England, Scotch and
Blarnev tweeds, at 57/6. and 65/- ; the great value offei ed.
Ha‘te makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
On Our Selection: ..
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd ). Cloth
extra, illustrated, 6s.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song of the Sleeper-in.
Ye who rise at early morning,
All the sweet seduction scorning,
Of fair Slumber’s gentle pleading for just forty
seconds more,
Will you tell a lazv rhymer—
An invet’rate behind-timer—
Firstly, how on earth you do it, and then why
you slam each door ?
Why you always slam each door ?
Often-times I’ve wondered greatly
Why a man who moves sedately—
Moves sedately and decorous in the sunny after-
noon—
Will, on rising early, whistle,
Tramp around and bang and bustle,
And sing all the latest ballads out of time and out
of tune,
Ah, so sadly out of tune !
And a woman, meek and loving,
Straightway will proceed to shoving
Household furniture about in such a rough, un-
gentle way ;
Scraping fires out with the poker,
Till you feel inclined to choke her,
Though you’ve sworn to love her always to your
very dying day—
Sworn to cherish her, not slay.
Why is rising early thought so
Highly virtuous when ’tis not so ?
(For the folks who rise up early very seldom sit
up late.)
Why is sleep at the beginning
Of the day considered sinning,
While to slumber in the evening is a virtue ?
Please to state —
Oh, ye wise ones, please to state l
Why is it, when snugly lying
In that sweet, soul-satisfying,
Semi-slumb’rous state when dreams are hovering
on the verge of day,
When fair visions seem’s if they might
Flutter out into the daylight,
Some infernal human donkey scares the whole
bright throng away ? ,
Frights and scares them all away ?
Ah, I’m weary of much thinking
On these subjects, and I’m sinking,
Slowly, slowly downward sinking in the languid
lap of sleep;
How her clinging arms enchain me !
Ever eager to detain me—
When a rough hand shakes me rudely, and a cry
comes gruff and deep :
“Jack ! get up, you lazy sweep ! ”
GLENGARIFF.
The Entrepreneur.
If you have coin to fill a van,
And if you have a spirit free,
I happen just to know the man
Who wants a man like you to see.
He has a wide and varied range
Of interest, yet time to spare.
He comes and goes, in orbit strange,
From God knows whence to God knows where.
He talks in free-and-easy style
Of what he’s seen in many lands—
Ho has a captivating smile,
And hearty way of shaking hands.
His supple tongue mig't woo and win
A statue—you should hear him speak !
He has a most determined chin,
And yet a more determined cheek.
That splendid cheek is shaven clean,
That firm fine chin is bare and blue ;
111 turns of Fortune he has seen,
But he has always worried through.
You want to start a show to be
For its success and fame renowned ?
He has the very company
At call to suit you to the ground.
The Drama ? At the lowest rates
He’ll hire for you the finest Star,
For Bernhardt at the corner waits
And Irving’s in the Marble Bar.
The Opera? He is your man.
Melba is on his books again,
Patti’s in Paddington, and Jean
De Res/.ke’s resting in Balmain.
If you have coin to fill a van,
And if you have a spirit free,
My friend, the Agent, is the man
Who wants a.man like you to see.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
The Days when I Didn’t Live.
Whenever Life’s song gets out of rhyme,
And Fate and my plans don’t thrive,
I love to muse on that glorious time—
The time when I wasn’t alive.
Those good old days—how they haunt me yet
With dreams of Content and Bliss!
When there wasn’t a hurt I could possibly get
Or a joy I could mar or miss.
They can prate of the glorious things that are
Which Existence alone can give,
But I know that my happiest days by far
Were the days when I didn’t live.
I don’t care a rap how Fortune blows
On the folk that I know and see ;
The chaps I envy the most are those
Who have never commenced to be.
V.
OWL.
Australia!) Provident Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS oombined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£ST Send for Price List. TSJi
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent> Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
important: notice to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Woiks: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SDRAILE OF
ROYALTESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
OKO
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
Gjid (XsVt C
Ha ii<jb.
YT&ft-o l^lJ 2' /w
Ifal -&JlnJc OLrULAA***- Q 9
c l>C C U\JL ~&J2jX&L ,|
< a vuvVvv^ O/U *n*y&*-f Vo
W-Ovv &\ *4JJU~JC
0
KOKO
4**
yCC
4*
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimonials prove it to be undoubtedly the Best aratlon for the I^alr.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, & Invigorating, i-,26 A 4 6 * ,z ;*« °f **
Stores Ac THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO !Tr*.. I*. R-v- 1 o-’no
1
A
FOR
THE
A
a
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and restorer.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARUENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling
Off or Turning Crey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
*-
1
1
For Preierving. Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf, Dandruff, Ac. also for
RRSTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
"HARLENE" PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVICORATEB CHILDREN'S HAIR.
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size; A/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
"HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
LVr.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf Company,
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
'.Vhen in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a (close to Redfern Railway Station).
• ULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
;ADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
vill save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Sprmg Sulkies, £7;
;-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
Os. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
md every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
-o Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUR SPKCIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Dellrered at any WTiarf er
N.B.W. Railway*, Station
£lO 10/-


THE
PLUM
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding, t f’E
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CH.A.IQ- &: A.XTBZEIV, 680 GEORGE ST., wvmvm'y
The Australian Widows' Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
'T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALI
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Don. Sir ARTHUR. RENWIGK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman!
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 G-EOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
FEDERAL»HOTEL.
MELBOURNE,
ROOMS AND ACCOMMODATION —ALL
PRICES— Ss. to 12s. PEB E AY -
30s to £3 10s PER WEEK, OR ROOMS
AND MEALS CAN BE PAID FOR
SEPARATELY.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE.
H. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOOLGROWERS! you
30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence.
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
We ask you to honor us
by supporting us, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in New South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
to,
&
O
<6
=s
B
d
uJ
CJ3
K
BB
LJ
lU
zc
cr
■ ■
*
m
m
Z 3
O
CD
isre
co
o
o
Greatest Demand
Cameo Ci^arettfe
Because the Best
PUBLIC WORKS
Public Works Department,
Govt. Architect’s Branch,
Sydney, sth June, 1900.
Dear Sirs.
The recent removal of the temporary Railway Booking and Parcels Office in Martin Place
has afforded an opportunity of careful examination of the two-ply “ Ruberiod" Roofing,
supplied by you, and with which the roofs were covered in August, 1897. I have examined
a portion of the “ Rube-raid” removed, and, so far as lam able to judge, it does not show any
signs of deterioration, and is practically as good as new.
1 attach samples as you might possibly wish to keep them.
Faithfully yours,
Messrs. E. Rich <t Co., Ltd.,
2A O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
(Signed) TK L. VERNOR,
Government Architect.
E. RICH & COMPANY, LIMITED,
MAY
WE
TROUBLE you
TO READ THE FOLLOWING
IMPORTANT FACTS.
P & B Rubcroid Roofing
Has for a foundation very strong felt, which is thoroughly saturated with a permanently
soft solution of P& B water and acid-proof compound. Before finishing a harder coat-
ing of similar composition is applied, which protects the interior and makes it impossible
to dry out or be affected by atmospheric changes.
P & B Rubcroid Roofing:
Is made in four thicknesses or piles —}, 1,2, and 3 (the heaviest). 2or 3 ply are recom-
mended for permanent roofs, i or 1 ply being used for buildings of less staple character.
The approximate weights (crated) ami prices are as follows
i ply ( 70 lbs.) l*/6 per roll, 3 ft. wide, 72 ft. long.
1 ply ( 85 lbs.) 21/0 ~ ~ ~
2 ply (105 lbs.) 29/- „ ~ ~
3 ply (135 lbs.) 30/- ~ ~ ~
Three ply Ruberoid (the heaviest) is about an eighth of an inch thick.
P & B Ruberoid Roofing:
May be laid. First, over a foundation of close boarding ; Second, over a Galvanised Wire
Netting36in. wide, Sin. mesh, and 16 guage ; Third, over 1 in. by 3in. battens spaced
3 in. apart. Laid over Netting being the least expensive method, and much cheaper
than iron. The saving varies (according to the district supplied and the thickness used)
from 6/- to 20/- per 200 square feet.
P & B Ruberoid Roofing:
Is strong, durable, cool, light, safe, and waterproof; water is not injured by flowing over
it and may be used for all domestic purposes. It is about the colour of new slate. In
laying P & B Ruberoid the edges are lapped two inches, and Ruberine (Liquid Cement)
is applied between with a brush cold. After fixing with the nails, spaced 2 in. between
points, a final coat of Ruberine should be applied over the seam, which will prevent nails
rusting. We supply (free of charge) sufficient Ruberine (Cement) to secure the 2 in.
seams, also nails and washers for fixing each roll, which should be unrolled and left out
in the open for a day or two before fixing. Contact with moisture or rain before fixing
is of great advantage.
Four Years’ Use
Of this material in Australia has demonstrated that its endurance in this climate is quite
equal with its known life in America. We, therefore, recommend it with confidence.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE, AGENTS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.— N0. 1063.
SATURDAY, JUNG 30, 1000.
Paid 6d.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published hy William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE -A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 01% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiif, Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added, where required—
which you may pay hy Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright hy the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration , or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, SOOO words, are, specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be, regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all Unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wah, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the, office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Cordon and Ootch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<Se Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2h6 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 2% Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the, imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 id. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage. — l\d,. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
ZTiZ^BuZZe&n,
SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1900.
The Appeal Clause and the Pat Man’s
Stupidity.
Now that the full text of Joseph Chamber-
lain’s proposed amendment on the Appeal
Clause of the Commonwealth Bill has come
to hand, the situation of the Australian Tory
looks a trifle ridiculous. That person made
a grievous ass of himself in the first place by
assuming that the Appeal Clause, as drafted
hy the Federal Convention, was a devastating
and fire-breathing monster, which proposed
to obliterate the Privy Council in one act.
Therefore he talked tremendously about the
inherent right of every British subject to
carry his case to the Foot of the Throne,
which (seeing that it is only in rare
circumstances even now that a British
subject is allowed to take his appeal
to the Foot of the Throne, and even that
rare specimen never gets near the Throne, and
the Throne has no more connection with the
case than the Public-house has) was rather
absurd to begin with. Then, when news
came that Chamberlain proposed to amend
the Appeal Clause, it was assumed that
he wanted to amend it in order to preserve
the right (which it was assumed the original
clause laid waste with fire and sword) of
every private subject to carry his appeal to
the Foot of the Throne. Therefore tho
Australian Tory wildly cheered Joseph C.,
under the erroneous impression that Joseph
was striving to undo what he (the said Tory)
erroneously supposed the original Bill had
done in the way of obliterating the sacred
birthright that never really existed. And
as a matter of fact, the alteration which
Chamberlain is striving for is not and never
has been of a penn’orth of real advantage to
the Australian Fat Man, and that person
has been barking ridiculously up a wrong
tree.
• * * *
To begin at the beginning, this is the
Appeal Clause (No. 74) of the Common-
wealth Bill as drafted by the Federal Con-
vention :
No appeal shall be permitted to the Queen in Council in
any matter involving the interpretation of this Constitu-
tion or of the Constitution of a State, unless the public
interests of some part of her Majesty's dominions, other
than the Commonwealth or a State, are involved.
Except as provided in this section, this Constitution
shall not impair any right, which the Queen may be
pleased to exercise, by virtue of her Royal prerogative, to
grant special leave of appeal from the High Court to her
Majesty-in-Council. But the Parliament may make laws
limiting the matters in which suob leave may be asked.
Then caine Joseph Chamberlain’s first pro-
posed amendment ; he suggested abolishing
Clause 74 and inserting this in its stead :
No question, howsoever arising, as to the limits inter se
of the Constitutional, powers of the Commonwealth and
those of any State or States, or as to the limits inter se of
the Constitution or of any two or more States, shall be
capable of final decision except by the Federal Court of
Appeal, and no appeal shall be permitted to Her Majesty-
m-Council from any decision of the Federal Court of
Appeal on any such question unless by the consent of the
Executive Government or Governments concerned to be
signified in writing by the Governor-General in the case of
the Commonwealth and by the Governor in the case of
any State.
Except as provided in this section, this Constitution
shall not impair any right which the Queen may be pleased
to exercise by virtue of her Royal prerogative to grant
special leave of appeal from the High Court to her
Majesty-in-Council. But the Parliament may make laws
limiting the matters in which such leave may be asked.
All such laws shall be reserved by the Governor-General
for her Majesty’s pleasure.
Later on, Joseph Chamberlain had another idea,
and the Appeal Clause which he has finally
decided upon is this: —
No appeal shall be permitted to the Queen-in-Coun-
cil from a decision of the High Court upon any ques-
tion, however arising, as to the limits, inter se, of the
Constitutional powers of the Commonwealth and those of
any State or States, or as to the limits, inter se, of the
Constitutional powers of any two or more States unless
the High Court shall certify that the question is one
which ought to be determined by the Queen-in-Council.
The High Court may so certify if satisfied that for any
special reason the certificate should be granted, and
thereupon an appeal shall lie to the Queen-in-Council
without further leave.
Except as provided in this section, this Constitu-
tion shall not impair any right which the Queen
may be pleased to exercise, by virtue of Her Royal
Prerogative to grant special leave of appeal from the High
Court to the Queen-in-Council. The Parliament may
make laws limiting the matters in which such leave may
be asked. But proposed laws containing such limitation
shall be reserved by the Governor-General for Her
Majesty’s pleasure.
• • * •
All through the controversy the Austra-
lian Tories, the fat men, the bankers, the
syndicators, the representatives of foreign
capital, the absentees, the big landholders,
and tho men of property generally have
been raging about the sinfulness of the
Federal Convention in depriving the Indi-
vidual of his right to appeal to the Privy
Council, and there get the purest variety of
justice. And he has been heaving up his
hat, regardless of whether it ever came
down again or not, in applause of Chamber-
lain because it was supposed that he was
trying to save for the Individual that right
of appeal which the Bill was supposed to
take away. And the solemn fact remains
that the Bill left the Individual’s right of
appeal just where it was, and both of
Joseph Chamberlain’s amendments leave
the Individual’s right of appeal just where
it was, and just where the Bill left it.
* * • *
As matters now stand the Australian Par-
liaments can make laws limiting the in-
dividual litigant’s right of appeal to tho
Privy Council, and if the British Govern-
ment, which represents the Queen in legis-
lative matters, is willing to accept them and
assent to them the limitations will hold good.
The Commonwealth Bill provides that the
Commonwealth Parliament may make laws
limiting the individual litigant’s power of
appeal, and they will hold good if the British
Government accepts them. Both of Ciiam-
bfrlain’s amended clauses say exactly the
same thing, with the addition that any such
laws shall not be sanctioned by the Governor-
General, but reserved for the Queen’s direct
assent or direct veto. The addition means
absolutely nothing. There was no earthly
reason for putting it in the Constitution.
It leaves the situation exactly as the
Convention Bill left it. Every Governor
reserves for the Queen’s direct con-
sideration all laws of a kind which
his instructions from the British Govern-
ment direct him to reserve, and when
the Governor-General’s instructions are
drawn up it is only necessary to add to the
list of Bills to be thus reserved all laws
limiting the right of appeal to the Privy
Council. The power of reserving new laws
for the Sovereign’s consideration exists
whether specified or not; if the British
Government likes to so draft the Governor-
General’s instructions it can order that all
Bills shall be reserved for the Queen’s per-
sonal assent or veto. In this matter Cham-
berlain’s superfluous tag makes no difference
whatsoever.
Therefore the original clause left the indi-
vidual’s right (or wrong) of appeal to the
Privy Council just where it was, merely speci-
fiying, what everybody knew, that it might be
altered in the future if the Queen didn’t block
the road. And Chamberlain also leaves
things that way. The change made by the
Con vention Bill doesn’t lie in clause 74 at all.
It lies in the fact that the present Parlia-
ments, with their nominee or property-
elected Upper Houses, are content with
things as they are, while the Commonwealth
Parliament, with both Houses elected by
one-man-one-vote, isn’t likely to be. All
the immediate difference is that the Conven-
tion Bill created an all-Australian Court of
Appeal (though this latter did not in any
way interfere with the individual litigant's
final appeal to the Privy Council), and that
it obviously contemplated a time when the
Federal Court would become the final court
of appeal. And both Chamberlain’s pro-
posed amendments leave it still contemplating
that. They can’t do otherwise. Contempla-
tion can’t be prohibited. The immediate
trouble is as to which court shall finally
decide abstruse points about the meaning of
the Federal Constitution, and settle quarrels
between States, or between State Govern-
ments and Federal Government. It is a
question as to who shall be the final
authority upon dry-as-dust shindies as
to where the powers of the £'4oo
Federal politician end and where those
of the £2OO State ditto begin, and resolve
dreary problems about the inner workings of
the political machine. The Convention de-
manded, reasonably enough, that where no
person or interest outside Australia was con-
cerned, Australia should decide what it
meant by its own Constitution. And Cham-
berlain said No, but finally compromises In-
agreeing that the Federal High Court shall
settle such disputes if it likes, and, if it
doesn’t like, it can refer them to the Privy
Council.
* * * *
This latest amendment leaves things
within a hair’s-breadih of where they weie
at first. The only alteration now is that,
whereas, under the Convention scheme, con-
stitutional questions had to be decided by
the Federal High Court, .Joseph Chamber-
lain’s newest clause provides that the High
Court may decide such questions or m .y
remit them to the Privy Council, according
to its weariness. There is no other differ-
ence whatsoever, and if Australia makes it
its business to get a High Court that won’t
be too tired to attend to its own affairs,
even this little alteration will be a dead
letter. Joseph Chamberlain has chosen to
put the Australian Parliaments to a vast
amount of trouble in dealing with the Bill
all over again for the sake of an alteration
that proves at last to be almost imper-
ceptible, and gains practically nothing by
all this woe and annoyance save the chance
to needlessly exhibit a disagreeable screw-
maker’s arrogance and fussiness and ob-
trusive meddling. In that respect his con-
duct is objectionable, but otherwise the
change, as things now stand, matters very
little.
* • • •
But one class of persons has fallen in
badly. When the news first arrived that
Joseph objected to the famous Appeal Clause
the aggregate Fat Man assumed, without
even reading the clause, that it sum-
marily abolished his present power
to drag his fellow-litigant all the way
to England to get final justice, and
his approval of Joseph’s interference was
deafening. He babbled interminably about
the shock to Capital if the abolition of the
Privy Council appeal was allowed to stand.
He rose in his capacity as bank-director to
say that the iniquitous abolition of the right
of appeal would prevent English share-
holders having “confidence.” He went on,
in short, in an awful manner about the terrible
results that would ensue if the privilege of the
Australian capitalist to carry his grievance
to the Foot of the Throne was interfered
with, and never noticed that the Common-
wealth Bill hadn't interfered with it.
Also, he applauded Joseph Chamber-
lain for refusing to sanction this iniquity,
whereas Joseph didn’t refuse to sanction it,
for it wasn’t there. And after he had
cheered Joseph to the echo for looking so
carefully to his (the Fat Man’s) interest, it
turns out that Joseph never thought of him.
It was the great and blastiferous abstract dig-
nity of the Empire that Joseph was troubled
about. There isn’t a penn’orth more Privy
Council appeal for the individual Fat Man
under Chamberlain’s clauses than under
the original scheme of the Convention, and
there was just as much appeal under the
original scheme of the Convention as there
has been all along—though there are grati-
fying signs in the Bill that there will be a
great deal less by-and-bye. So the Fat Man
who has not yet realised the situation is still
throwing up a misguided hat and cheering,
and the rest of the Fat Man is disappointed
in Chamberlain. The fact that Chamber-
lain didn’t take out of the Bill the thing
that wasn’t in it aggravates the Fat Man
exceedingly, and Hobart Mercury, in
particular, becomes quite insulting, not to
say disloyal, in its remarks on the subject.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gertrude’s Story.
A cask recently heard at Albury (N.S.W.) is
another reflection, whichever way the truth lies,
on the unreliability of the Australian woman
witness. The beginning of the story goes back a
year or so. Here is the ydiole tale condensed :
(1) Coleman’s horse was shot. Gertrude Coleman
and her step-mother swore it was done hy the Mul-
laveys (adjacent land-owners between whom and the
Colemans there was a bitter feud). The Mullaveys were
tried and acquitted, so Gertrude’s yarn was at a discount.
(2) Gertrude Coleman, having now grown bigger and
being better able to herself against her step-
mother, swears that the latter shot the horse herself in
order to lay a false charge against the Mullaveys, and
terrorised step-daughter Gertrude into falsely swearing
against the Mullaveys. Gertrude now swears that the
Mullaveys were not even carrying a gun that day, so
they couldn’t have shot the horse unless they did it with
a olod of earth or a fence-rail. The Mullaveys also swear
they had no gun. Two other witnesses swear that the
Mullaveys were carrying a gun and otherwise corro-
borate Mrs. Coleman’s (and step-daughter Ger-
trude’s) original story, which the original jury dis-
believed when it acquitted the Mullaveys. Charge of
perjury against Mrs. Coleman promptly dismissed.
Therefore her story, which was formerly held to be false,
is now held to be at least partly true ; and her daugV.er
Gertrude’s second yam is at as bad a discount as her first
one.
(3) The next thing is obviously to try Gertrude Cole-
man for false swearing against her step-mother, and
acquit her. |
(4) After that it will be best to try the Mullaveys for
perjury in saying they hadn’t a gun, and the two wit-
nesses for perjury in saying the Mullaveys had a gun,
and acquit the lot—thus deciding that the Mullaveys
both had and didn’t have a gun at the same moment.
(5) And then the only thing left is to prove that there
was no horse, and that he shot himself; and after that
some rich and romantic individual should marry step-
d mghter Gertrude because he saw her name in the
papers.
It is rough on Gertrude, anyhow. That young
lady has sworn on both sides of the case, and been
disbelieved each time.
The Dignity of the Bench.
Tins Bulletin receives this from a well-known
Sydney citizen :
If there be such a thing- as judicial ulmig-htiness which
prevents a Judg-e doing; what an ordinary, fair-minded
mortal does when tie makes an error and abuses the
wrong; man withdraw his remarks and apologise—then
would it not be well that their Honors were specially
careful in the remarks they make when summing up to a
jury? For a Judge may work irreparable injury on an
innocent person, and the latter have absolutely no remedy
whatever. A case in point. Some 18 months ago the
manager of a local co. was defendant in a suit for slander
and libel. An agent of the co. was some £25 short in his
accounts, and as he did not, or would not, give a
satisfactory explanation of the deficiency, the co.’s
manager accused him of misappropriation. The hooks and
accounts had not been thoroughly investigated to show
how said deficiency arose. Such investigation would have
cost between £5O and £6O, and as there was but faint hope
of recovering the £25, the co’s directors thought it best
to write the amount off as lost, and did so. The agent,
however, sued the manager for damages. At the trial
defendant pleaded that he had acted without malice and
under legal advice, hut the Judge mode a hot summing-
up to the jury, putting the words in their mouths that
defendant made these charges, “ knowing them to be
absolutely untrue.” Of course the jury found for plaintiff.
The sequel to the trial was that the books were thoroughly
audited hy a firm of professional accountants and a
shortage larger than the £25 discovered. The agent in
question having since left N.S.W., the solution of the
matter is indefinitely postponed. But the result of the
investigation clearly and unmistakably rebutted the
charge made by the Judge that the manaver had made
wilfully-untrue statements in this matter. Failing the
opportunity of an open rebuttal of what he considered a
judicial slander defendant wrote a very respectful letter
to the presiding Judge, pointing out the great wrong that
had been done him, informed His Honor of the result of
the enquiry that had been held, gave the name of a lead-
ing Q C. who could corroborate his statements, and finally
asked His Honor to make him some slight reparation for
the serious injury inflicted. He got the following reply :
“ Sir, I am directed by His Honor to return you the
enclosed letter. Your obedient servant, Associate.”
Only that and nothing more I
L. »
The Dead and Gone Maoriland Blackleg 1 .
In some recent cases brought before Maoriland
Arbitration Court the decision was to the effect
that as long as unionists were available no em-
ployer could legally engage non-unionists, and in
consequence the blackleg species is rapidly becom-
ing extinct. One Christchurch firm complained
bitterly about the infringement of the liberty of
the subject, and used the term, “ultra vires,” and
said it must be against the Constitooshun, and
finally applied to the Supreme Court to grant a
writ preventing the Arbitration Court awarding
such a preference to unionists. Justice Dennis-
TON, who presided, shook his head, and the injured
champions of unlimited competition took their
grievance on to the Court of Appeal. The
Court of Appeal heard with a stately gravity
and then smote the firm with an adverse
verdict, and finally abolished the blackleg
and declared that he no longer legally existed
Years ago the large-waisted gentlemen who
gambled on the green table of commerce and
finance and industry viewed with alarm the growth
of the unions. In '92 and ‘93 they started to smash
them by free-labor unions. They en-
rolled huge bodies of men who were pledged not
to subscribe to any union but the employers’ one.
The free-labor men paid no entrance-fee, paid
nothing in fact, but they were guaranteed
a preference over all unionists, and this
writer knows where a free-laborer was brought
all the way from Dunedin to Napier to
replace a man whose only crime was that lie was
a staunch unionist. The capitalistic boycott was
all-powerful, and it ground the unions to powder.
They were simply starved out, and many of their
leaders had to leave the districts where they had
their homes and begin life again elsewhere under
assumed names. It was a perfect example of the
ruthless boycott carried to its uttermost. The
unionists retorted by capturing the*Legislature,
and to-day the monopolist, or some of him, howls
about the right of every man to work, and protests
against the tyranny that disallows him to take ad-
vantage of the worker's helplessness. But the re-
flective unionist only takes his pipe from hi mouth
and reminds him of the great capitalists’
boycott of ’92 and ’93. Yet the law which
compels a preference for unio lists isn’t
revenge but necessity. They don’t have
strikes in Maoriland now—the Compulsory
Arbitration Court decides disputes, and the party
which refuses to pay is liable to fine and costs.
The fine and costs can generally be collected from
the employer, who mostly has somethinft. But it
would be another thing when judgment, went
against the men, to collect the amount in, perhaps
100 instalments from 100 separate workers, so
there must be unions whose funds can
Said Bullion unto Bull.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Bullion unto brother Bull: “ Behold a dire
calamity—
The Dutchman sits upon my gold and takes his
little due;
He’s rather rough and dirty, Bull, and, by our
ancient amity,
I think he pulls a monkey-face and makes a mock
of you ! ”
Said Bullion unto Bull again: “The skies are
getting thunderful,
The Dutchman’s been a-grinning long and lo ! he’s
grinning yet;
So rouse your men and limber-up and pack your
lyddite wonderful,
And blight the erring foreigner and pay your little
debt.”
So Bull—he got his fighting-men, his biggest guns
and galleons,
And when he’d battered all his foes he wrote a
note (in blood) :
“ I’ve tied my head and took to bed along with
my battalions,
And fain would see my brother B. do what a
brother should.”
Said Bullion unto Bull again : “ I’m sick of your
insanity
You’re always on the Preachify or else you’re on
the Prey !
You musn’t mind the blows you get in fighting for
Humanity
When Bullion pipes the music ’tis the part of Bull
to pay ! ”
PHILANDER FLAM.


be made responsible when the vprdict
be manfJ t y,P workers If the men were dis
fSeSlteeß ft' Arbltratioa Co.rfs ta*
would hold goo 1 against the employer but
SCprSX and void against the
cm-dove. The enforced preference to unionists is
really for the employer’s benefit, and Labor as
been more just to him than he, m his palmy days,
ever was to Labor.
Lost in London.
News has arrived N.S W.’s Federal
delegate, is financially stranded m London. I he
£lOOO originally handed over for his expenses has
been used up owing to the unexpectedly bitter
Sd protracted character of the struggle with
Chamberlain. Barton wants another £ooo, and
Premier Lyne hadn’t the moral courage to send
the cash at once, but hung the matter up pending
the decision of Parliament. The case was one in
which a judicious display of moral courage was
much called for. Barton was sent without Par-
liamentary sanction because, at a time when 1 ar-
liament wasn’t sitting, Chamberlain requested
that delegates should be sent. Also because it
became known that some one was urgently
needed in England to bold a brief for the people s
Bill and show cause why it shouldn t be
mangled totally out of shape. It being neces-
sary for Lyne to send Barton without Par-
liamentary authority, it is quite as necessary
for Lyne to see that Barton gets back, without
Parliamentary authority or with it. Barton
wasn’t responsible for the long delay which used
up the original £lOOO. That was Chamberlain s
doing. London is a fearfully and wonderfully
expensive place for visitors who have to dwell at
the West End (the East End is cheap enough, but
the Australian delegates couldn’t hang out in a
sailors’ boarding-house on the East India Dock
Road)—a place where 10s. goes comfortably in
payment for a none-too-gorgeous dinner for one,
and where most other things are in proportion.
The delegates have given excellent value for then-
money, having practically saved the Bill and
reduced the dozen or two proposed alterations to
one, and that a very small one. Barton has
done his share of the work for mere board
and victuals; he gets no payment for his
time and labor, or compensation for loss of
legal practice while he is away. Then at last
Premier Lyne was called on to decide whether
even the full expenses would be paid or whether
N.H. W. would leave its delegate stranded in Lon-
don to work his way back in the stoke-hole, or to
apply to the Queensland Agent-General for a pas-
sage as an assisted agricultural immigrant. And
Lyne hadn’t the courage to send the money at
once. Yet it was obvious from the beginning that
it must he sent with or without Parliament’s con-
sent, so why wait for the consent? N.S.W.
couldn’t leave its delegate, the most notable Aus-
tralian Federalist, the man who topped the
Federal poll and led the Federal forlorn-hope, lost
in London where he was sent on its busi-
ness, and reduce him to borrow his return
fare from Joe Chamberlain. If Parliament
refused the money Lyne would have to send it all
the same, even ii he pawned his own and See’s
belongings with the Mont de Piete ; or else, as tne
man who pers mally despatched Barton, that
gentleman would have good grounds for personally
kicking Lyne on his return. And if he had sent
the money and Parliament refused to pass the
amount, Lyne would simply have to pawn his and
See’s goods and chattels in like manner to refund
it.
+
The Victorian Sweater.
The same old sweat! Victoria’s new Factories
Act (in operation since May 1) already begins to
show flaws, mostly due to the veiled hostility of
Fatman in Parliament. The Act provides that
all carriers or carters employed at a factory or
shop and who work, for wages must not be worked
more than GO hours per week and must have a
half-holiday once a week, but through this pro-
vision the'sweater is already trying to drive his
vans. When it was proposed in the Assembly to
make the “carrier” sections apply all over the
province, whether the men were working for
wages or on their “own,” the hide-h >und Tories
arose in great haste and lamented tli •, injustice
that would be done to the “ little man starting for
himself.” Also they drew a moving picture of
the hardships that would result to market-
gardeners and the Bendigo and Ballarat carriers,
who would have to pull up the moment the
60 hours expired, and camp in the middle
of the road. The country-carrier excuse was
pure bunkum, and as for the market-gardeners
—Mildura and elsewhere (where the workers
do eight hours, and knock oT at D) have
shown that it is as easy to apply the Act to
the man on the land as to his brother in the
factory. But the Tories aforesaid carried their
point, and the Act, as regards carriers, was
restricted to wage-earning factory-carriers in the
metropolitan district. These are already beginning
to discover that the employer, though he can t set
aside the 60-hours’ a-week regulation, has made the
half-holiday of no account by fixing it mostly for
Monday morning, so that the carrier has to turn
up at 2 p.m. to rush a day’s work through in six
or seven hours. The employes recently sought
to arrange with their bosses for a simultaneous
afternoon off throughout the trade, and
the said employers kindly offered to fit
on a universal Saturday afternoon half-holi-
day, provided the employes would petition the
Governor-in-Council to frame a regulation extend-
ing the hours to 70 per week ! (i.e., 13 hours per
day with 5 on Saturday.) Further legislation is
badly needed, and the Act should be extended to
reach the market-gardener’s helot and the wood-
and-coal slave. Also, the big coal-importing
firms, the wood-merchants and the brick com-
panies drive their drudges rather more than 80
hours a week (5 or 6 a.m. to 7 or 8 p.m.). And
after tiine-regulation must come further wage-
regulation, to block the employers’ present practice
—when prevented from sweating in the one direc-
tion—of getting back on the employes in the other.
*
A Learned and Unprejudiced Tribunal.
Gov. Beauchamp’s latest effort, at Grafton
(N.S.W.), shows what a happy knack he possesses
of falling into any hole that is handy. The
Governor said that “the right of appeal to a
learned and unprejudiced tribunal such as the
Privy Council could not, under any circumstances,
be a hardship.” In a sense, of course. His Excel-
lency is correct. The right to appeal isn’t a hard-
ship to the appealer, for he can do it or not, as he
pleases. But the right to be appealed against,
even to the most learned and unprejudiced
tribunal on earth, may be not only a hardship,
but an outrage and an iniquity. For instance,
here is the record of one Australian case of some
time ago:—
Plaintiff, with little money and no rich friends, got ver-
dict against a rich man for about £6OO or £/00 from a
learned and unprejudiced local tribunal. (Costs, about
£200.) . _. , , ,
Appeal to another learned and unprejudiced tribunal
on side issue (several months’ delay, and about £4O more
costs)
Re-hearing before learned and unprejudiced tribunal
(three months’ more delay, £l7O costs, original verdict
upheld).
Further appeal, on a technical point, to learned and
unprejudiced tribunal (five weeks’ more delay, and about
£35 more costs).
Application for another new trial (about three months’
delay and £3O costs). ' New trial granted on various
grounds by learned and unprejudiced tribunal.
Further hearing by learned and unprejudiced tribunal
(about six months’ delay, £134 costs, original judgment
upheld, Hht- certain abstruse points reserved for Full
Court).
Full Court, a tremendously learned and unprejudiced
tribunal, considers deep points (several more months’
delay, amount of costs unknown but considerable, appeal
dismissed).
Application, after considerable interval, to learned and
unprejudiced tribunal for permission to appeal to Privy
Council, Permission granted. All this time plaintiff
can’t get a penny of verdict.
Appeal (after about seven more months) heard by that
most intensely-learned and unprejudiced tribunal, the
Privy Council. Appeal dismissed.
So in the end the plaintiff got his verdict, but
after years of delay, and his share of the costs (for,
though a verdict nominally carries costs, that
doesn’t mean all the costs —often it doesn’t mean
half of them) swallowed it all up except a few
pounds. Most of the small balance that remained
after the real case was finished went in appeals to
a learned and unprejudiced tribunal over the taxa-
tion of the costs. And the moral is that the
appeal to learned and unprejudiced tribunals may
be the most monstrous engine of tyranny imagin-
able, especially if a number of people have a good
case for damages against a rich man or corpora-
tion, for then it is worth his while to utterly
beggar the first plaintiff in costs by dragging him
on appeal from one learned and unprejudiced
tribunal to another, just to prove to the rest that
it is cheaper to abandon their j ust claims altogether.
The silly people who claim that the appeal is no
hardship always talk of it from the viewpoint of
the person who appeals, and to him, of course, it
isn’t a hardship. The equally numerous person
who is appealed against is never mentioned.
A Jingo View of “British Justice.”
A really beautiful letter, signed by a Wyalong
(N.S.W.) mine-owner or mine-manager named
Tyler, appears in Wyalong Star. Tyler was
accused of attempting to suppress British freedom
of speech and opinion by sacking miners who
didn’t think as he did about the African war, and
he rushed into print to state proudly that the
charge was quite true :
In your edition of the Bth inst. was a letter signed by
“ T. Keegan’’and also a paragraph signed by “H.N.T."
The former was to certify that miners have lost their
billets for voting for Mr. Holman at his local meetings,
and states that one large employer has done what he could
in this matter to show his animosity. As T. Keegan was
working in a mine in which I am largely interested, and
was discharged by my instructions, 1 naturally conclude
that I am the employer referred to, and I may say that no
secret was made of the reason for his discharge, which he
states quite correctly. . . . No man respects more than I
do the right of each individual miner to his own opinion
on the labor question or any other subject in the world,
but anything approaching disloyalty I will never counten-
ance nor keep a pro-Boer employed knowingly while a
Britisher is looking on. If this is going back to the “ dark
ages ” the sooner we get there the better. This is my
s use of “ British Justice.”
What a beautiful combination : “No man respects
more than 1 do the right of each individual miner
to his own opinion ... on any subject in the
world ’’—but if I find him having any opinion on
my particular subject (Jingoism) except my opinion
I will do my best to crush him. The Spanish In-
quisition was built exactly the same way. It said,
“ No one respects the right of individual opinion
more than we do, only if we find anyone holding
any opinion on our special subject (religion) ex-
cept our opinion we wdl do our best to crush
him.” Nearly every mean persecutor and paltry
bigot in history has been built just like Mr. Tyler,
of Wyalong. The motto of each one has been :
“ I am a large-hearted and liberal man. I believe
in absolute freedom of conscience. Every one
should be allowed to think exactly as he pleases
on the subjects that I don’t care about. But on
the subjects that I do particularly care about,
everybody is to think as 1 think, or else suffer all
the damage I can do him.” And a really remark-
able point is that this poor little bigot and perse-
cutor actually professes to think—possibly
does think—that every one else is as mean as
himself. While he deprives of their employ-
ment men whose only offence is that they don’t
hold the same political views as himself,
he claims that he has quite as much respect for
freedom of opinion as anybody else. In other
words, he holds that everybody else is on his own
level. On that point, anyhow, his information is
as warped as his sense of jui f i-e. The great bulk
of employers of all shades of opinion scorn the
degrading idea that because an employer’s princi-
pal belief and principal fetish is Jingoism or
Judaism or Republicanism or Protestantism or
Roman Catholicism or Freetradeor anything else,
therefore he should try to coerce the democrat or
Gentile or Imperialist or Catholic or Protestant
by trying to deprive him of his means of livelihood,
or should interfere with his freedom of opinion in
any way. Every bigot holds that his particular
fetish is such a particularly good fetish that the
riglit of every man to have his own opinion
shouldn’t apply where it is concerned. His idea
of liberty is—“So long as every man believes
in my little tin god he is at liberty to think
as he likes about everybody else’s tin god.”
But that isn’t liberty, nor is it British
justice. And if Mr.' Tyler, of Wyalong,
found bimself sacked for not being a Protection-
ist, or Calvinist, or bi-metallist by some boss just
as narrow-minded as himself, but whose tin god
was not the J ingo doctrine, but the Calvinist, or
Protectionist, or bi-metallic theory, Mr. Tyler
would probably be quite shocked at the brutish
tyranny of the proceeding, and would be utterly
unable to understand that he had simply struck
another man like himself. The Tyleii theory is :
A man may think as he likes about Gor>. God
doesn’t matter. But if he thinks as he likes about
John Bull he goes out. John Bull does matter.
“Volunteer,” to The Bllet n :
Lieut. Burns, commanding N.S.W. Lancers, has not yet
accepted the resignations of Messrs. Lyne. Jun., and See,
Jun., because, among other things, he says “ there is no
just cause why they should be intimidated or led to be-
lieve that because their fathers occupy high political posi-
tions they should be penalised and prohibited from en-
joying any privilege which is open to any other citizen.
If a supernumerary officer qualifies himself, passes the
examinations, and generally speaking at his own expense
fits himself for the position, then he may in time obtain a
substantive commission.”
The Lieut.-Colonel here ingeniously mis-states his ease.
The privileges alluded to are not “ enjoyed by any other
citizen.” It is only the supernumerary officers who are
allowed to sit for the stiff exams., and the supernumerary
officers are nominated by the Officer Commanding the
regiment, nominated in this instance for the simple
reason that they are the sons of temporary political
chiefs. No one has ever attempted to prove that either
of these youngsters has any special aptitude or ability for
commission in the Lancers, and presumably, if hereafter
they are proved to be unfitted for the positions, fresh
nominations will be made by the Officer Commanding, and
the malcontents in the regiment have no reason to suppose
that these latter will be any better than the officers now
proposed. That Messrs. Lyne and See imagine themselves
practically appointed permanently is proved by the fact,
that they both went to the expense of providing uniforms,
swords, &c., to the amount of £lOO each, which they
would hardly have done had they dreamt that a “stiff
examination ” really stood between them and their com-
missions. There are in the Lancers several men
of ability and enthusiasm for the work who are only too
eager to be tested for a right to hold commissions in their
regiment, and keenly resent being officered by younger
men (whom they have to teach how to do it) not
appointed in the interests of the regiment but in the
interests of people who wish to kow-tow to the Govern-
ment in office. Should Lieut-Col. Burns (who, by the way
is only a Lieut.-Colonel in his spare time —primarily he is
a keen business man) insist on the young men retaining
their commissions he will place these two Ministers in an
awkward place. As the individuals concerned are their
own sons, they can hardly afford to back the Colonel up
at the risk of alienating the support of the whole volun-
teer movement, especially at a time when rampant
Jingoism stalks abroad. Their honor is also involved.
During the debate on the censure motion Premier
Lyne disarmed hostile criticism, and practically
closed the incident by publicly announcing that his son
had resigned. By tacitly allowing the appointment to
stand he would rightly lay himself open to a charge of
dishonesty. Further, Lieut.-Col. Burns, in his statement
to the press in defence of the recommendations, remarks :
“ The first chance (of commissions) is given to those who
have shown ability.” The public would like to learn
what special ability, beyond being Cabinet Ministers’
sons, Messrs. Lyne and See had shown to the
officer commanding the Lancers They have had
absolutely no opportunity of proving themselves.
The Premier announced in the Assembly that
Lieut.-Col. Burns asked him (the Premier) if his son
would like a commission in the Lancers. He replied, “I
don’t know ; ask him.” Presumably he did ask him, and
the youth acquiesced, with the result that the regiment
practically revolted.
If the officer commanding has the .interests of his regi-
ment sincerely at heart he will not force on these appoint-
ments his men so much object to, and also will not further
entangle the Ministry in a situation that at present they
have extricated themselves from fairly well.
A decision recently given in Gympie (Q.) Petty
Debts Court discloses a genuine grievance. There
is no law in Queensland by which a man who
buys shares in a company can be compelled to
register himself as the owner thereof. Tnis opens
up curious possibilities. In the case alluded to,
Charles Stewart sold shares in a Gympie mine
rather over three years ago, and handed over the
scrip and transfer, but the buyer didn’t register
the transfer in the co.’s books. It was a call-mak-
ing mine—not a dividend-paying one —and
Stewart remained on the books as the person
liable for the calls. He had to stay- there until
the buyer chose to take him off the books by regis-
tering the transfer, and as the buyer didn’t so
choose, Stewart has just been summoned
for £8 10s. lOd. calls on the shares which he
sold three years ago, and has been ordered
to pay. It is a hard case, and a foolish law, and a
moan little swindle. The buyer of shares, as the
Q. law now stands, can play a game of “ heads I
win, tails you don’t.” He can pay calls in the
previous holder’s name until he finds out whether
the mine is going to turn out well or not. [f he
finds there is no hope he can stop paying calls, and
the man he bought from is liable. If dividends
begin he can register himself promptly and collect
them. So the seller may be left liable to pay calls
but not at all liable to get dividends. The law
should certainly make it obligatory on every buyer
of shares to register within a short time under a
heavy penalty. By the present system a man who
has dealt largely in shares may be left responsible
for thousands of pounds which are really owing by
persons he never saw nor heard of.
♦
The Vio. “ great dailies ” recognise sadly that in
their extreme anxiety to encourage and excuse the
British monopoly in S’Africa they have over-
reached themselves. There is now something like
a panic in the editorial columns, and Australians
are being assured with leaden emotion that Africa
is no place for them. It has dawned on somebody
that the assurances that the Transvaal will be a
small Heaven under British rule are likely,
as soon as British rule is established, to start
an exodus which may be as heavy a drain on
population as was the Westralian boom, when
circulations fell with a dull thud and advts.
became cheap and infrequent; and so the assur-
ances that England desired to conquer the country
merely to convert it into a Paradise for the Work-
ing Man are all being taken back in deep contri-
tion. The flighty Victorian is piteously besought
not to run for a country where he will place him-
self in competition with the prolific, indigenous
nigger who works for next to nothing and enjoys
floggings for overtime. Under stress of the
threatened danger of a great drain on the daily
penny in Melbourne, the verdant veldt has
become a rocky wilderness again, and the patriotic
Rritish-Hebrew no longer craves to employ the
British workman at fifteen times the price of the
black* and the amazing stimulus to trade in
the Cape, Rhodesia and the Transvaal that was to
follow on the heels of a British success is an
abandoned illusion. The country, in the grabbing
whereof all the blood has been spilt, is now a
waste and desert place where Money Grub
flourishes and waxes fat, but where the other
white man is really a ragged and haggard waster
and a great hollowness in the prevailing desolation.
♦
The law of the “tied” public-house in N.S.
Wales was taken one step further by an important
Supreme Court decision on June 22. The parties
were Tooth & Co., brewers, and the licensee
(Paukes) of the Stepney Hotel, Sydney. Tooth
& Co. had advanced the purchase-money of the
hotel to a previous licensee, getting a mortgage on
the property and a separate bond to purchase
all liquors from them. That licensee died;
and Tooth & Co., although tendered the
money owing, refused to give Parkes the
deeds. The Court decided by a majority (Darley,
C.J., and Cohen, J.) that Parkes was entitle ! to
his deeds and premises, though he had broken a
mortgage-covenant of the same effect as the
separate bond ; but he must continue to buy his
liquors from Tooth and Co. under the bond.
Judge Owen thought that the “ tie ” in the mort-
gage held good without the bond ; and de-
clared that defendant could not free the
property merely by paying off the mortgage.
The effect of the decision is to legalise “ tied-
houses,” if the “ tie” be put in a separate bond.
Then, though the mortgage-consideration be paid
a dozen times over, the licensee can never release
his house. He must go on buying liquors from
the mortgagee, and in no possible way can
he extinguish the mortgagee’s claim. From
this it results that one firm may legally
monopolise every publican’ -sliceuse in N.S.W.
This is against the intention of the law, which
provides that a man may not hold more than one
license. It is against the public interest, which is
opposed to the monopoly of a licensed and privi-
leged trade by any single individual or firm—
partly because the public want some choice of
liquors and a healthy competition among liquor-
vendors. The Bulletin therefore commends the
matter to Attorney-General Wise as one to be set
right this session ; and it will watch with interest
to see what brewers’ representatives in Parliament
oppose the straightening of the law.
Sydney Telegraph inquired quite seriously (in
its issue of 11/6/’OO) whether the money spent
recently in cleaning the insanitary parts of the
N.S.W. capital should be charged to loans :
It has been said that the expense incurred in pulling
down dirty buildings and in cleaning back-yards should
not be a charge against loans, because, chiefly, such a
course would be in violation of the principle which is held
to govern the conduct of loan accounts. Others say it
might fairly enough be charged under this head, because
the work accomplished is as much for the ultimate advan-
tage of the people as for their present security. Which-
ever way the matter is regarded, it is seen to present
extraordinary difficulties, and many members of Parlia-
ment, as well as people outside the House, say the result
will be very much the same, whether one course or the
other is taken.
This big city paper doesn’t even kick at the
astonishingly fraudulent proposal that the clean-
ing up of Sydney’s filthy back-yards should be
called a “permanent and reproductive public
work,” and paid for with borrowed money. It
regards the proposed swindle as something to be
seriously considered and mildly argued over. Is
there, after all, any wild-cat South American
republic which has lost its sense of public honesty
much worse than loan-cursed N.S.W. ?
♦
Reported that Premier Lyne has been consider-
ing the best means of putting down the Sydney
“pushes.” The Bulletin offers three sugges-
tions, none of which have yet been tried:
(1) Double the police-force and pay it better, so as to
attract a better class of men. Then there will be a fair
chance of a “ cop ” being about when the push is raging.
(2) Put on heavy minimum fines for drunkenness,
loitering, disorderly conduct, assault, riot, bad language
(including “ blanky ”), etc. This will help to pay for the
extra police, as well as being a valuable discouragement
to crime. The classes who make police necessary should
pay for them. The common 6s. fine is a mockery.
(3) Arm the police with power to move on all loiterers,
and to run them in (not merely take their names and
addresses, which are mostly wrong names and ad-
dresses) if they won’t move. The push accumulates
at corners to go on its career of curse and stoush.
Therefore, move it on before it can accumulate.
It doesn’t like work, therefore wear it out with
pedestrian exercise. Before the first fragment of it has
moved two blocks it will probably be driven to curse on
account of the exercise. Then run it in and fine it £6 for
cursing. When the rest of it turns up to join the van-
guard, move it on. It can’t meet without a meeting-
plaice, and if every member, as soon as he arrives and does
nis first spit, is moved on it will never meet with its old
success. Keep moving it on, and be sure you have
enough police to do the moving. With a proper system
the push which usually meets in Market-street, Sydney,
woidd be moved on as each larrikin appeared,
and moved on, and still moved on, till by 10 p.m.
one lone fragment would be trudging through Newtown,
and another solitary pushite would be walking and
cursing at the far end of Bondi, and the rest would be
tramping singly all round the outskirts of the city, and
suffering agonies in their high-heeled boots. There is
much virtue in moving on.
♦
The action of the solicitor for the defence in the
Ballarat (Vic.) Blomkley alleged “parricide”
case in charging in his bill of costs for endeavor-
ing to find out whether any of the jurors in the
jury - panel had expressed opinions about the
case, has been adversely commented upon by
Justioe Hodges, who went so far as to disallow the
costs. In the course of his judgment, the Judge
said: “A juryman, once he is summoned, ought
not to be approached by his friends or by the
solicitors, nor ought the surroundings of the jury-
man to be sifted in this kind of way.” While it
is highly advisable that Judges should take strong
measures to stop anything like “ jury-squaring,”
it is pretty clear that Judge Hodges has gone so
far in this case as to endanger the rights of
accused persons to fair trials by impartial juries.
The solicitor in the case appears to have acted en-
tirely within his rights—nay, to have done that
which, with two lives hanging in the balance, it
was his imperative duty to do. Besides, the
Juries Act, by enabling any person to get a copy
of the jury-panel a certain time before trial, im-
plicitly gives the right to inquire ; while the
right to challenge “for cause,” which every
accused person has, also implies that there is a
right to ascertain whether there is a “ cause ” for
challenge. Again, even the most ancient law-
books fail to reveal any instance where such an
action on the part of a solicitor was the subject of
animadversion by the courts. In very many cases,
where feeling runs high, the accused’s only
chance lies in his securing an unbiassed jury,
and the most important service his solicitor can
give him in such a case is to secure the elimina-
tion of all those who, he has ascertained by in-
quiry, are prejudiced persons. In the case of the
murder of President Garfield extraordinary
efforts were made in this direction by Guiteau’s
advisers, and however much they were criticised ,
in other ways, no one dreamt of going to Judge
Hodges’s absurd and unjust length.
♦
This appeared in Q. Minister Drake’s paper,
Progress, on 11th Nov., 1899 :
Our ports are open to the men of all civilised nations i
who like to pay their passages and arrive in a reasonably
wholesome condition. In fact, it is not even necessary to
pay their own passages—Mr. Dickson will oblige them
even that far. If the Russian wants to get a whack of
our gold he has simply to do the same as Bill Higgins
from Bow Bells —buy a swag and take out a miner’s right;
if there is any agitated Frenchman who thinks that the
grasping Britisher has too much land on this side of the
globe, he can come here and demand as much as Sandy
Macpiierson from Glasgow ; in short, Australia, with all
its mineral and other wealth, is open to all civilised
white men on equal terms. If the Germans become
strong enough they can fill up our Parliament, benches
of justice and juries, and run the show by virtue
of their numerical strength. And there is nothing
to hinder the Czar from practically Russianising
this province by steadily pouring in his super-
fluous millions. Is is, therefore, apparent that no
foreign Power can have any grievance against Australia.
We offer our country to the whole civilised world and are
prepared to even assist them to come and take it. In
view of our security—based upon the freedom of our laws
—can any intelligent Jingo rise and inform me what need
there is for a “ military spirit ” in Australia ? And can
anyone tell what direct or indirect benefit this Continent
is to derive from the expenditure of men and money in
South Africa? It is time enough to thirst for military
glory when we have exhausted all the means of peaceful
expansion and enterprise. At present, it is clearly our
duty to be mere spectators of the European drama, and
to discourage as far as possible the new Imperial-Tory
policy of colonisation by the sword.
The crafty Premier Philp spoilt the making of a
fine healthy Australian Nationalist when he
bought over J. G. Drake and his one-time spirited
and creditable paper.
Melb. Age, giving its blessing to the very latest
appeal clause compromise, rejoices that under it
the judicial tribunals will not be “ placed at the
mercy of a handful of irresponsible politicians.”
Chamberlain had proposed to give the Executive
the right to say whether a Constitutional question
should be decided by the Federal High Court or
by the Privy Council; and the Age whoops
because that right has been taken away from the
Executive and given to the Judges themselves.
The Executive is the nearest approach we
have to a committee of the whole
people. Anyway, it has the support of the
majority of the representatives of the popular
House. ~ Therefore, the Daily Syme, being a great
democratic organ, the Executive is “ a handful
of irresponsible politicians,” and it is a great de-
mocratic gain to take power from them and give


it to a smaller handful of Judges, who are about
the most irresponsible people in the whole world,
and who, moreover, are mainly drawn from the
section most completely out of touch with the
majority of the people. By the way, if the Daily
Syme is so shocked at the idea of
“ placing judicial tribunals at the mercy
of a handful of irresponsible politicians,” it
might very well give a little more help to the
movement to have courts of criminal appeal estab-
lished ; for at present these irresponsible poli-
ticians have to review all capital sentences as a
part of their routine duty, and all other sentences
are practically reviewed, not by the whole hand-
ful, but by perhaps the rattiest of the bunch
sitting in secret conclave.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Old Guard.”
Royal “ Woman and Wine.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ Term of His Natural Life."
Palace Sheldon’s War Lectures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Last Nights Arnold’s Season.
Her Majesty’s “ School for Scandal.”
Theatre Royal “ Two Little Drummer Boys."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Athenaeum Hall Charles Clark.
Town Hall Scherek's Orchestra (Saturday
afternoon)
Donald Macdonald—Victorian Tour.
Not a single, new show rose on Sydney’s
theatrical horizon last Saturday. The nearest
approach to one was the fact that Williamson has
turned on some different pictures at Her Majesty’s
—notably a series which gives the whole panto-
mime pi “Cinderella” in ten minutes. The
result is so distinct and convincing and such a
marvel of compression that it suggests a new field
for the Biograph. There is no visible reason why
Compressed Drama and Corned Farce shouldn’t go
as well as compressed meat. The idea seems to
lie in Kinematographing, say, “ Silver King ” as
it drags its deliberate length along through 3j
hours, and then putting the pictures through with
a rush that will show the whole action in 15
minutes. It might seem a trifle hurried ; Denver
would return to his old home in his top-boots at a
gallop and
for 2| seconds out-
side the door, and
the whole period
of his absence in
Colorado would be
three minutes. In
Compressed
Drama a hero
could have a long
struggle with ad-
versity, and then
gradually rise to
great affluence, in
three minutes. It
might seem a trifle
rapid till the pub-
lic grew accus-
tomed to it, bub
the facts would be
there anyhow. For
business people
who always have
urgent appoint-
ments to swindle
their fellow-crea-
tures, Compressed
Drama should fill
a great want —
especially com-
Eressed “East
iynne,” where
little Willie would
be born, and grow
up, and fade, and
finally die of slow
consumption all in
one minute —or in
58 seconds when
the machine had
been newly oiled.
* •
The “Old
Guard ” succeeds
*• Pirates of Pen-
zance ” on Satur-
day. It is a great
difference still
“ Old Guard ” is a very fine sample of the
kind of comic opera which is unavoidably written
by people who aren’t Gilbert. When it appears
this publication will make another effort to size
up the new leading lady. As Mabel, she left the
distressing impression that she was wooden in an
acting sense, and hadn’t been properly introduced
to her own feet, and was always surprised to find
that she had her hands still joined on to her —in
short, that she was an excellent singer, and abso-
lutely nothing more. Possibly Miss Winston-
Weir will dissipate this idea on Saturday.
#* * *
“Briton and Boer” raves unhistorically
at Sydney Criterion up to and including this
(Thursday) night. After that date Kruger’s des-
perate and depraved whiskers will disappear
round the far end of the corridor of Time, and on
Friday there will be one refreshing night of
“ Merchant of Venice,” which, it is pleasing to
know, will be left in its natural condition and not
brought up to date. Shylock will not be a Boer
spy, nor will Bassanio retreat into a laager when
he finds his promissory-note falling into disrepute,
and remain there on snort rations until an Austra-
lian contingent arrives and sticks its bayonet th rough
the bond. Miss Lily Dampier is to be Portia,
and as she will probably be the plumpest Portia
Sydney has yet seen, the public is cordially in-
vited to attend. Portia does not die repentant
and worn to a shadow by consumption like Lady
RabeL, so this time there will be no need to chalk
the thin outline of the dying woman on Miss
Lily’s pleasing figure, and explain that it is only
the part inside the chalk-line that is supposed to
be bowed down with woe. On Saturday “ His
Natural Life” is to be revived at the Criterion,
and Gabbett, a person of unpleasant habits and
lacking in the finer instincts of a gentleman, will
digest his badly-cooked fellow-man as of old.
** * *
The finding of Miss Harris Ireland’s
cold, yet lovely, remains in the basket is pro-
ducing such good cash results at Sydney Royal
that nothing is said of a possible change of pro-
gramme so far. “Women and Wine” may not
be much of a drama, but a good company, and
lavish scenery, and illimitable props, and, above
all, Bland Holt’s management, would cast some
kind of glamor over even a wooden monkey on a
stick in four acts. So the Royal fills to the door
regularly, and Manager Simonsen is worn to a
shadow with carrying the proceeds to the bank.
** * *
A certain Mr. Johnstone Sheldon, formerly
of a Johannesburg paper, and afterwards a war-
correspondent who saw some stormy times and
episodes, is to commence a series of lectures on the
tired and threadbare war at Sydney Palace on
Saturday. On the same evening, Chevalier
Wiegand, the great musician whose playing made
a sausage-alderman “ feel sick,” gives a farewell
concert at the Town Hall.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli the Animatographe still
continues to flick the unwary beholder in the
optic. The two best pictures this week are ILM.S.
Powerful, and Jeddah winning his Derby; the
rest of the views dance about too much and the
eye has to puff and perspire to catch them. The
Martinettis are in their last week, and their pre-
sent play about how four people were led to
matrimony, and a beautiful and terrible dude
utterly done for, all through looking through a
keyhole, is the best of their little list.
** * *
“ Hans the Boatman,” just now revived at
Melb. Princess’s, appears to be a song-spangled
picnic with a Purpose. It warns society summer
girls against gotting married to a jubilant imita-
tion corsair who pulls pleasure-boats at two
“Smiler” Hales, now London Daily News war correspondent in S’Africa,
whose picturesque letters from the front are attracting so much atten-
tion in England. Mr. Hales is the man on the right, with the gun,
and the picture is that of a Westralian prospecting-party.
shillings an hour. But it doesn’t discourage the
infatuation of a high-toned young man for a
violent gal named Jeffy, what time she is empty-
ing the dust-pan under the hearth-rug, and as the
approaching marriage of Jeff and her johnnie is
supposed to be a fair set-off against the other mis-
guided romance, the narrative proves nothing,
except that dutiful children ought not to
secrete tins of gunpowder in the fireplace.
“ Hans the Boatman ” being chiefly an en-
tertainment for kiddies, this gunpowder plot
seems to teach an excellent moral lesson. No
right-thinking boy can fail to observe the danger
of planting explosives in the grate. On the other
hand, the firework display that bangs Hans senior
between the eyes is such a gay, sparkling catas-
trophe that it may tend to turn the infant mind to
thoughts of dynamite. Given a lyddite shell to
play with on his return from a “Hans” matinee
any average offspring would probably hide the
shell in the cold oven and await results.
* * • •
Hans Arnold has played the boatman
3000 times, more or less, and his way of handling
the stagey character and managing the kiddies is
just about as clever as can be. For the rest, there
have been some stronger people in previous casts,
also some weaker people, and, take them alto-
f ether, the present supports, including the new
ig dog, which compares unfavourably with the
original big dog, give no grave cause for complaint.
“ Hans the Boatman ” is pretty much a picnic, as
aforestated. The evil-minded Vincent, who
comes along to lure Gladys from a home where
the butcher has refused any more credit, is only a
mock villain at the worst, whereas the youngsters
frisking round the premises are genuine suggestions
of a home beyond the skies, and a green hill far
away in the Kingdom which is like unto a little
nipper. “ Hans ” will run this week and take
another matinee on Saturday. Next week there
will be three nights of “ Captain Fritz ” and two
last nights of “What Happened to Jones,” and
then Arnold rushes off to Adelaide.
** * *
At the Royal the last defeat of the Der-
vishes in the present five-act horror is to happen
on Friday. On Saturday (30th) “Two Little
Drummer Boys ” will be staged oil a large scale,
and the forces under manager Anderson will pre-
sumably hoist the British Flag in a new spot.
The Flag is having a great time at the Royal.
* * * tie
Queen Nance O’Neil is described in the
advt. as “ A ll actress bom to the imperial purple
of the Stage,” and the Age is booming ner
at Her Majesty’s with quite an Amy Castles
boom. “Elizabeth” doesn’t really knock the
multitude, except when Kingston cheeks the
leading lady, but the multitude partly believe
that they are knocked, and faith in Miss
O’Neil’s “fineness” remains pretty firm. All the
same, the death of Queen Elizabeth is generally
admitted to be a dismal failure. Nobody can give
a historical reason why the last court scene should
open in darkness, and get darker when the alleged
old lady takes the floor. Her entrance is a signal
for the light to go lower than ever, and after she
has sat down with her face buried in a robe so
heavy that only a strong woman’s arm could raise
it as a screen for her countenance Elizabetli
talks long and unconvincingly of many things.
Sometimes she affects a weak, croaky voice and
sometimes she elocutes in full, youthful tones,
and sometimes she shouts with Nance-like vigor,
but at no time does her voice have the ring of
truth in it. The death of Elizabeth in the dark is
the sickest attempt at a decease by a “star”
actress that the present writer ever saw or heard
of. After sampling it three times the p.w. stands
amazed at the strange influence which a 15-stone
personality can exercise on the mind of the daily
press. The daily press calls massive Miss Nunce
a tragedienne. Death is the supreme tragedy,
and when the actress in this case is given a chance
to enact it with terrible effect she turns the light
out. Ou Saturday “School for Scandal.”
** * *
At Melbourne Athenaeum the dear, fami*
liar voice of Rev. Charles Clark, assisted by the
unfamiliar voice of Mrs. llowie, started a short
season of lecture and warble this week. Also
Scherek’s Orchestra resumed the broken course of
matinee concerts at the Town llall last Saturday
afternoon, when Miss Una Bourne, who is only
one year older than she was 12 months ago, re-
peated her performance in Schumann’s concerto
with remarkable success.
** m *
Paul Martinetti and his pantomime co., '
are to start their dumb show at Melb. Bijou on
Saturday, so the llaytors who are also panto-
mi mists, but not dumb, will retire before the in-
vading army. The llaytors’ latest uproar was
designed by Mark Melford, (the “Turned Up”
author), and it shows the thin male H. in a per-
sistent endeavour to capture the other fellows’
trousers dead or alive. Melbourne will mourn
the loss of this exciting struggle. The turns that
will go on as before are Harry Cray, the Jordans,
Schrader, the dainty young Sisters Williams,
Whitburn, and “ others too numerous to mention.”
The last-named item has been going on for years.
Potts and Slurk.
The alleged exodus now starting towards South
Africa roused the two Sydney Freetrade morning
papers to get up on the same day last week and
hold forth about the decay of Victoria, and its
failure to increase in population as fast as N.S.W.
does, and about how the Horrors of Protection
were thereby demonstrated. And they pointed
out how the alleged exodus to South Africa was
another drain on Victoria, and another evidence
of the horrors, &c. The creed of the Herald
and Telegraph when they get on the well-worn
theme of Foreign-trade, is something as follows :
(1) There is only one Protectionist province—Victoria.
In fact, there are only two places in the world. N.S.W.
is one of them, and Victoria is the other.
(2) If Victoria, which is only about a quarter the size of
N.S.W., doesn’t hold as many people as N.S.W. that
shows Protection is a failure.
(3) If Victoria, with 13 persons to every square mile,
and consequently with little land to offer to new-
comers, doesn’t increase as fast as N.S.W. with four per-
sons per square mile and an enormous amount of land to
offer, Protection is a failure.
(4) If Victoria, which has only spent £4,700,000 of bor-
rowed money and derived about £3,000,000 from land
revenue in the last eight years, hasn’t attracted as
much population as N.S.W., which spent £17,500,000 of
loan-funds in artificially supplying work for its people,
and had about £16,000,000 land revenue, Protection is a
failure.
(5) Though the fact that the Protectionist province of
Victoria isn’t increasing so fast in population as N.S.W.
proves that Protection is a failure, the fact that the Pro-
tectionist provinces of Queensland, Maoriland, Tasmania,
and Westralia show a larger increase per cent, than N.S.W.
doesn’t prove that Protection is a success. These places
don't exist. There are only two places in the world—
N.S.W. and Victoria.
Meanwhile Melbourne Age comes forth to point
out with its office club that the alleged Victorian
exodus to South Africa includes 402 N.S.W.
troops and 201 from other provinces who called
al Melbourne en route; that out of one recent
shipload of 278 steerage passengers which lelt
Melbourne for the Cape 150 came on wrth the
vessel from Sydney ; and that, apart from the des-
patch of contingents Victoria has been really gam-
mg population from South Africa. And it cordially
reminds the N.S.W. Freetrade press that it was
going on just like this the year before last census,
and then the census knocked N.S.M .’s population
estimates kite-high. So the dreary old quarrel ot
Potts and Slurk scrambles along, and Doirs
remains about where he was, and Sllrk makes no
visible progress.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £‘58,373,185
Increase in Assets during 1899 ... .. ... ... 4,546,248
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 12,711,975
Increase in Surplus during 1899 ... ... ... ... 793,123
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 219,670,088
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899 ... ... 14,012,322
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims);
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq,, M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY Mu,tT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F, NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
General Manager f or Australasia, C, CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Clyde Engineering Coy. [td.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
ENGINES
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.f. to 1000-h.p.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralia’s imports (including coin and bullion)
for 1899 were £4,473,532, and exports (coin and bullion in-
cluded) were £6,985,642. The difference (£2,512,110) is
interest in one shape or another on the foreign capital
which came in to make the boom of glorious and im-
mortal memory. It is a heavy load—a net tribute of
about £l5 a year per inhabitant, or £OO a year (£1 3s. per
week) for every family of four. And it is Perpetual. The
boom lasted in all its glory for about five years. The in-
terest bill will probably be going on as gailv 500 years
hence as it is to-day. A century hence it will probably
be decided that it would have been better if every penny
of absentee’s capital had been shut out, even if it had
taken 25 years to build the goldfields railways out of
revenue, and the Golden Mile had been slowly opened up
with the primitive pick, and the gold extracted with a
10-head battery until enough metal was got out to pay
for something better. The question always boils down to
this : Is it better to open up the country very slowly with
your own money and get the proceeds yourself, or to let
the foreigner open it up rapidly with his money and get
the proceeds himself for doing it V
• • * •
Wellington (M.L.) municipality Ims completed
arrangements for buying up the privately-owned city
tramways. The terms arc; a whole volume of curse and
vituperation upon the evil results of private ownership
and private management. The co. received, a good many
years ago, the right to build, own, and run the Wellington
trams. It paid nothing for it; in fact, its attitude was
rather that the city should be profoundly grateful to it
for its enterprise in bringing such a blessing into
Wellington. Then it charged such heavy rates and
worked its monopoly to such good purpose that it
paid 25 per cent, dividends, and the demand for muni-
cipal ownership became overwhelming. Now the city
takes the business, paying £19,382, which is the
full value of the property, and £12,300 as com-
pensation to the co. for the profits it would have
made if it had continued to loot the public to the end of
its term. So if the corporation hod never listened to the
voice of the syndicate and had built the lines itself at the
outset it would have saved the Wellington public many
thousands in exorbitant fares, and suveu the £12,300 com-
pensation to the*co., and it would still have made a decent
profit for itself all these years. Also it would now only
nave to screw enough out of the tram system to pay
working expenses, and interest and sinking fund on
£19,382, whereas, as tilings are, the lines will have to pay
interest and sinking fund on £ 1,682, which makes a
difference. And all this arises out of “ private enterprise.”
• * • •
The Maoriland State Life Insurance Depart-
ment supplies its figures for 1899. They compare with
previous returns as follows :
Premiums in- ahßpH
ciuding con - Intercst Total E . t 0
sideration for Income. Funds
Annuities.
1892 ‘£241,965 £100,651 £342,616 £52,707 £132,501
1893 253,574 108,109 361,683 64,071 148,292
1894 254,204 115,274 369,478 55,722 135,649
1895 266,032 119,980 386,012 60,462 164,000
1896 270,720 124,265 394,985 55,018 163,097
1897 269,688 128,433 398,121 59,164 133,764
1898 278,948 131,200 410,148 68,825 136,429
1899 288,101 133,468 421,569 59,639 136,147
The total funds are now £2,997,681, so the Maoriland
Government Department still holds its place as the
second biggest Australasian life office. The expenses are
£l4 2s. lid. per cent, on total income, and it ranks as the
most cheaply-managed Australasian life office, the A.M.P.
only excepted, and among life offices of something
approaching its own size and age, the cheapness of its
management is unparalleled. The following are its figures
in recent years :
Expenses in proportion to total income :
1890 .. £l6 11 6 per cent. 1895 .. £l3 1 5 per cent.
1891 .. 16 4 7 „ 1896 .. 14 18 7 „
1892 .. 15 7 7 „ 1897 . 14 17 2
1893 .. 14 19 0 „ 1898 .. 14 0 9 „
1894 .. 15 1 7 „ 1889 .. 14 211
The M.L. State Department is thus becoming every year
a more cheaply-managed concern, and as the expense
rate of its great rival, the A.M.P. (the only Australasian
office which beats it in this respect), last year showed an
increase (from £8 19s. lOd. per cent, in ’9B to £9 7s. 7d. per
cent, in ’99), the two offices are approaching closer in this
respect than they ever did before.
In 1899 the M.L. State Insurance Office realised
£4 lls. Id. per cent, on its average funds as compared
with £4 14s. per cent, in 1898, £4 16s. 7d. in 1897, and
£4 19s. in 1896. All life offices are suffering from the fall
in interest rates, but the Department, on the whole,
hasn’t slumped quite so fast as most of its rivals. Still,
on its present 31 per cent, interest estimates there is only
a margin of £1 Is. Id. per cent, between the assumed rate
on which its solvency is based and the rate actually
earned; and the A.M.P. Society, with a margin of
£1 Is. 10d., is already preparing to reduce its estimates to
3 per cent. The M.L. State office should certainly do
likewise. Its securities, on the whole, look far better
than the average. Out of £3,000,000, loans on policies (an
absolutely safe asset) represent £560,000 ; State securities
£788,000 ; and municipal securities £139,000, while mort-


eaees (£1,333,000) are below the average. The excellent
ouality of the securities is evidenced by the fact that fore-
closedVoperties only represent about £6OOO and overdue
interest £605. These last two items are a reasonably good
test of the safety of the mortgages, for foreclosed proper-
ties generally mean properties that are abandoned because
the mortgage on them is more than their value and they
are not worth redeeming. #
Some figures re the Mutual Life Insurance
Co. of New York, whose balance-sheet for 1899 is just to
hand :
® a 4 ■ «
gtS.-S'mog _ <0 <u >Oin
ts g-o 2 2 s jl § c o’S
>< . u ■=<; c t: (» s x -<!Cs
£ e “ M W
o-2 M
“ £ £ £ £ &
1896 .. 3,288,340 2,133,019 10,421,359 2,107,705 3,051,451
1897 8,734,062 2,578,wl 11,312,833 2,063,053 3,933,138
1898 8 776,726 3,339,541 12,116.267 2,157,406 4,887,832
1899 :: 9,214,903 3,717,770 12,932,673[ 2,535,825 j 4,856,628
The Mutual Life of New York has now an accumulated
Assurance Fund of £61,568,053. At the beginning of 1896
its Assurance Fund was £44,839,004, so the additions
made to it in five years have been £16,729,049. The worst
feature in this year’s figures is the very large increase in
expenses, as compared with 1899. The following is
the Mutual of N.Y.’s expense rate for the past four
years:—
1896 .. £2O 4 6 per cent, of total income
1897 .. 18 4 8 „ „
1898 .. 17 16 1 „ „
1899 .. 19 12 2 ~ „
The increase is fully accounted for by the fact that much
more new business was done this year than last, and it is
new business which costs. At the same time, the Mutual of
New York was never a cheaply-managed office—especially
considering its size. It compares with some other life
assurance institutions as follows :
Expenses as com-
pared with total
income.
A.M.P £9 7 7 percent.
Maoriland Government Dept. .. 14 2 11 „ „
Citizens’(ordinary branch) .. .. 15 0 0 „ ~
National Mutual 18 4 5 ~ „
Colonial Mutual .. .. ... .. 18 10 1 „ „
Equitable of New York .. .. 18 10 3 „ „
Mutual Life Association .. .. 18 17 10 ~ ~
Mutual of New York .. .. .. 19 12 2 ~ „
New York Life 20 2 5 „ „
Australian Widows’Fund .. .. 21 16 7 „ „
City Mutual 22 0 3 ~ ~
Australian Temperance and General
(ordinary branch) 34 12 10 „ „
Against its comparatively high expense-rate,
however, must be set the fact that the Mutual Life of
New York (like the other two great American offices, the
Equitable and New York Life) has one source of revenue
which no Australian office possesses just at present.
This is the profit made by tile steady increase in the
value of its assets. These assets are mainly stocks, bonds,
debentures, and Government securities, and as the value
of money goes down, the selling price of these keeps going
up. In the above table profit on investments, interest
and rents are lumped together. In 1899 the Mutual of
New York received £2,592,653 for interest and rent—
equal to £4 7s. Bd. per cent, per annum on the
average amount of the funds. Hut it also made
£1,125,117 by the increase in value of its invest-
ments, raising the total to £3,717,770, so that the
entire return from investments was £6 6s. Bd. per cent.
No Australasian office gets anywhere near this—in fact,
most of them have, ever since the boom blew up,
been wearily writing-off losses on investments. The
City Mutual’s £5 4s. 4d. per cent, is the best Austra-
lasian rate of interest earned. Of course, there is no
possible guarantee that the American office will be able
to keep up this rate of progress—stocks and bonds
can’t always keep increasing in value. But it is a
very pleasant thing while it lasts. The Mutual of New
York has now a surplus of £10,294,158 above all liabilities
and the usual State audit guarantees that its alleged
assets are ali there and all worth the values set against
them.
* * * •
PThe story goes that Mr. Trowenack is making a
big success of the old Cornish (N.S.W.) copper-nnne,
which he bought for £6OOO, and sold half of for £20,000 to
a syndicate. Up to now he has made the show pay its
own way, and has called up none of the money provided
as working capital. Huge fortunes for skilled metallur-
gists with reasonable luck are sticking out all over Aus-
tralasia.
» * • *
The great wool firm of Goldsbrough, Mort and
Co. has now been working under its latest reconstruction
scheme for four complete years. The main feature of the
said scheme is that, after a great writing-down of capital,
the co.’s liabilities are consolidated into £1,480,150 of A
debenture stock, on which the interest (4 per cent.) is
payable whether earned or not ; and of B
debenture stock, on which the interest is nominally 3 per
cent., but the co. merely pays this, or pari of it, as each
year’s earnings allow, and it is not liable for arrears.
Results have been as follows :
Profits after paying
interest on A deben-
31st March tures only.
1897 .. ... £9932
1898 .. ~ 601
1899 .. ~ 440
1900 .. 6773
The 3 per cent. B debenture-holders’ interest would,
if paid in full, amount to £37,030 per annum. For the
first nine months of the new agreement (to 31st March,
1896) they were paid in full. In 1897 they received one-
quarter of the amount due them (15s. percent.) only.
Since then they have received nothing—in fact, in ’9B and
’99 it was a tight fit to pay interest on the A debentures
without showing a loss. The year ended was better than
its two predecessors, but it is necessary to further in-
crease the earnings by £31,257 before the co. can pay in-
terest on all its debentures in full. The great necessity
obviously is to reduce, by some means or other, the huge
load of indebtedness—the co. owes £2,720,5000n deben-
tures alone. But before any of the profits can be applied
to this purpose it is necessary to pay full interest on
the debenture stock, and a 3 per cent, dividend to
shareholders, both preference and ordinary ; and to do
these things the net earnings, after paying interest on
the A debentures, would require to be £04,852 instead of
the present £5773. Any profits above the impossible-
looking £64,852 above-mentioned are to be applied —one-
quarter towards paying an increased rate of interest on
the B debentures, one-quarter towards shareholders’
dividends, and one-half towards buying up and extin-
guishing B debentures. So when the profits, which have
just crawled up with difficulty to £5773, manage to get
up to £84,852 the co. will be able to pay £lO,OOO a year off
its B debentures, at which rate it may hope to wipe them
off in about a century. After that it can tackle repay-
ment of the A debentures. And before the shareholders
can hope to get 5 per cent, dividend the year’s profits
have got to be £139,045 —which, as compared with the
present £5773, looks a dreadfully long way off.
* * » •
About the most profitable business in Tasmania’s
refreshing isle appears to be the Tasmanian Wool-Grovrers’
Agency Co. of Launceston. Some recent figures :
Profit. Dividend.
September, 1893 .. £656 .. 15 per cent. = £637 10 0
March, 1594 .. 1,173 .. 15 ~ = 637 10 0
September, 1894 .. 657 .. 15 ~ = 637 10 0
March, 1895 .. 1,150 .. 15 „ = 637 10 0
September, 1895 .. 716 .. 15 „ = 637 10 0
March, 1896 .. 1,624 .. 15 „ = 637 10 0
September, 1896 .. 866 .. 15 „ = 637 10 0
March, 1897 .. 1,584 .. 15 „ = 637 10 0
September, 1897 .. 717 .. 15 „ = 637 10 0
March, 1898 .. 1,703 .. 15 „ = 637 10 0
September, 1898 .. 811 .. 15 ~ = 637 10 0
March, 1899 .. 1,697 .. 20 „ = 850 0 0
September, 1899 .. 1,116 .. 20 „ = 850 0 0
March, 1900 .. 2,087 .. 25 „ =1,062 10 0
£16,557 £9,775 0 0
During these seven years the Tasmanian Wool-Growers’
Agency has completely written off the £6OOO asset called
“ Premises and Goodwill.” It doesn’t appear howmuch was
“premises” and how much “goodwill,” but writing-off
the latter item was undoubtedly wise, and probably the
writing-off of the “ premises ” was wise also. There is
never any serious harm done by under-valuing the assets.
In the same seven years £242 has been added to profit
balance, and the rest has been variously disposed of. The
co. has £B5OO capital, £7500 reserve-fund, and £326 un-
divided profits, and is a very respectable little gold-mine
to its shareholders.
• • * *
White Cliffs opal-getters never had a worse time
than now ; prices have been slaughtered this last month
or two. In explanation the gentlemen who do most of
the buying say that most English Society folks
are in mourning, and so are not buying gems.
To which the digger replies that England never
was the biggest opal-taker. There is the old
talk of a co-operative agency in Europe! but the old
question, “ Who will make the advances to the needy
prospector?” is still in the way. Also most of tlie
diggers are only tributers, and the co., mostly Eng-
lish, which owns most of the best ground, doesn’t seem
anxious to do anything. In fact, the co. itself is a good
deal of a mystery.
* * • *
Both B.H. North and B.H. South have decided
upon considerable extension of their plant. The South
adopts a new idea—so far as B.H. mines are concerned.
Though paying regular divs., it is decided (by the direc-
tors, not the shareholders) to make calls, “as the board
considers machinery-extension a fair charge on capital
account.” This is cutting things very fine. As a matter
of fact, much of the machinery talked of simply replaces
other plant that has become unserviceable or it has
become necessary through changes in the character of
the ore. It is therefore no fairer, strictly, to charge a
good deal of this machinery to capital account than it
would be to make calls on the contributing shareholders
to meet the cost of new prospecting drives or hauling
shafts.
• • • *
B.H. Prop., which since it has been smelting so
largely at Pt. Pirie has been trying iron and lime fluxes
from all parts of the Spencer’s Gulf coast, now finds that
to get the best results it must have a light railway line
from the Monarch iron flux quarries, 41 miles to Point
Lowly. It proposes to spend about £60,000, and asks
Parliament for a private bill authorising construction.
And the Govt, jumps at the offer; its idea is to call it
“ a Bill to further secure the smelting of Barrier ores to
South Australia." Meantime the S.A. Railway Commis-
sioner smiles.
• • •
The prospectus of Ovens Valley (Victoria)
Dredging Co. appears in this issue. The Ovens Valley has
been known for many years as a very rich gold-bearing
district, and the co.’s prospects are therefore excellent—
always barring possible mismanagement, accidents, or the
chance, which exists in even the richest districts, of strik-
ing a comparatively barren patch. The capital is only
£15,000 in 30,000 shares of 10s. each, so a comparatively
small yield will pay decent divs. The vendor takes 12,500
fully-paid shares in full payment for his rights
and for the freehold ground he transfers to the
co. Certain adjacent property-owners agree to let
the co. work their ground in consideration of
6500 shares and £BOO cash, and vendor pays this compen-
sation out of the 12,500 shares allotted to him. lie also
pays certain preliminary expenses, so he risks about £l2OO
with no prospect of return unless the enterprise pans out
well. He thus backs his own opinion freely enough.
There is abundance of water in Ovens Valley, and the
show is within three miles of the town of Bright and only
200yds. from Porepunkah railway station—items which
mean great saving of expense in freight on machinery, &c.
• * * •
Victoria’s gold yield for May was 71,6440 z. —a
great advance on April, which only showed 42,9310 z. The
Vic. yield for the first five months of 1900 was 288,3880 z.
as against 317,6720 z. for the first five months of ’99. The
biggest producers for May were : Victoria United (Bal-
larat), 1041 oz. ; Birthday (Berringa), 11420 z. ; Madame
Berry West (Creswick), 12350 z. ; South German (Maldon),
14160 z. : Long Tunnel Extended (Walhalla), 13300 z. ;
Lord Nelson (St. Arnaud), 19740 z. Long Tunnel (Wal-
halla), 11270 z. No less than 115 Bendigo mines are
mentioned as working, yet among all this multitude the
Garden Gully (819 oz.), Great Northern (6230 z), New Moon
(7380 z.), and South New Moon (6260 z.) are the only ones
which in May got above the 500 oz. limit.
ft V * *
Golden Link (Hannan’s) is one of the glaring
inconsistencies of the field. Capital, £555,000; issued
322,183 shares, which now stand at about £2, and have
been over £4. It has never had a crushing. Found non-
payable ore, and sunk a shaft 1000 ft. looking for it; put
diamond-drills here and there—so far without definite
result. Owns 110 acres, but work mostly confined to a
12-acre block between Lake View and Ot. Boulder. Said
to have over 1 100,000 working capital left; raised £75,000
by sale of 25,000 shares to a London house that has an
option on another 25,000 at same price, but isn’t likely to
take them. Is there any man outside a lunatic asylum
who would buy this mine for 10s. a share? It has now
but a remote hope of striking Lake View lode on the
underlay, and it has done enough work to almost prove
that it occupies a piece of barren ground between two
gold-bearing zones. Its other leases may safely be
regarded as “ shypoos,” and are also surrounded by leases
which have well earned that cruel designation.
» • * *
Associated. —Hewitson finally consented to take
over the management, and has already started. Seems
to writer that he has gone from frying-pan into fire. To
pull the Associated round from its awful condition would
De no picnic for a young man, but for an old 'un like
Hewitson it is tew much. Understood that he takes a
trip ’Ome after he has examined and sampled mine. Well,
he is not likely to make a fool of himself by prematurely
declaring the mine is all right. Whatever mistakes, wilful
or otherwise, were made by previous management, there
is no gainsaying the reports by Frecheville (who has a very
big reputation to lose) and others. They were based on
over 1000 samples carefully taken from even- part
of the mine, and it appears to have been established
that the greater part of the mine is unpayable ; that
under 40,000 tons containing 53,0000 z. represents the pay-
able ore in sight and that the future depends upon what
can be found in the virgin ground. What a commentary
on the mighty Kaufmann, who, a few months before this
hideous collapse, offered £ll a share for 100,000 shares
Erovided he was allowed to control the mine I Kaufmann
as done so many strange things that one naturally asks
what could his game have been ? Whitaker Wright, too,
the second star in the Jxmdon rotten financial firmament,
offered to take a lease of the mine at £lO a share, though
what he meant by this has never been quite clear. Both
offers were magnanimously declined, for at that time the
market value of the mine was just six millions ! The out-
put for years to come was estimated at 24,0000 z. per
month, unless they duplicated the machinery, in which
case it would be 48,0000 z. per month —quite a simple
matter of addition and multiplication. The knowing ones
were well up in those tables. Since then the public has
become versed in subtraction.
* * • *
Hannan’s Star has the first plant to work under
the Diehl process, but nothing is known of the result
save that “ everything is satisfactory.” Let us pray that
the process is all right. So far the mine has been a
partial failure. It has turned out a lot of gold at the rate
of less than 500 oz. a month, but that has cost far too much
to get. Has a capital of £225,000 ; issued 177,500 shares,
supposed to have a market value of 30s. Another conun-
drum. Has a good location, next to Boulder Main Reef,
but so far seems to be just outside the pay-zone.
• » • *
IJp to now the Southern payable zone of the
marvellous Golden Mile has not been defined by any cross
course or other disturbance, and is only established by
the poverty-stricken condition of the mines themselves.
For instance, the Lake View has worked good ore almost
up to the L. V. South boundary. For long it was thought
the L.V. South must get on to div.-paying ore, and at
times it did strike something which made the outlook
bright and sent the shares to three or four times present
value. But development only proved it to be the tail-end
of something that came in from the other mine ; nothing
came into it from the south, east or west, and to-day it is
living by public crushing, of which it has done a great
deal. Boulder Main Reef is the last div.-paying mine on
the Boulder line, and the best ground is also on its
northern boundary. Chaffers’ is on the southern boundary
of the Horseshoe, which has not worked ore that far, and
the chances are never will. Chaffers’ must have spent to
date over £50,000 in futile efforts to find ore, and is now
putting up compressing and other plant to enable it to
go down to a greater depth if necessary. Many other
mines further south, the best of which have only “ pros-
pects ”; the balance are “ cats ”of the wildest sort.
* * • *
Ivanhoe South Extended—Never a crushing or
a div. Has spent a heap of money in prospecting ; said
to have struck a reef worth nearly an oz. to the ton at
one end and nil at the other. £lOO,OOO shares, worth
nearly £4 each, have been up to £7—all on account of
some visionary amalgamation-scheme which the Great
Katifinann is said to have in pickle. Why the I.S.E.
should ever be amalgamated with the Ivanhoe is a poser.
Also, why the shares should be £4 instead of 4s. It
recently took over a lease called the Great Scot 1 It is
wonderful how appropriately-named and situated some of
the Hannan's leases are.
m * * *
Merton’s mine, in the Mt. Malcolm district, is
the latest tVestralian wonder. Kaloooiu,ik Miner lately
came out with a yarn that Merton was producing 10,000
to 12,0000 z. a month, and clearing about £250,000 a year.
Merton has managed to keep things fairly quiet, which is
the right thing to do if you want to have your mine
painted in exaggerated colors. He is running a 20-head
battery, and is working a conglomerate formation that
runs several oz. to the ton ; is taking it out by open-cut
in some places for a considerable width ; has prospected
the formation from one end of the lease to the other, pay-
ing his men extraordinarily good wages ; watches every-
thing himself; had to fight for sole ownership, and refuses
overtures from buyers and booinstcrs alike. Although, if
the hoom-harvest were not over, even Merton would
probably have taken one of the more tempting offers. At
present, London is not buying any more Londonderry's or
Wealth of Nations, nor any sound mine like Merton’s at
“ Flunderderry ” or “ Wealth of Expectation ” prices.
• • • •
Lake View: The last circular referring to the
reduced output: “In notifying this temporary reduction
my directors wish to impress upon the shareholders that
the permanent value of their property remains un-
affected.” This will probably he found a neat way of
putting a cram. When the returns fell from 30,0000 z. to
12,0000 z. a month, shareholders were given to understand
that this average production could be kept up without
difficulty, and that, though the rich chute had been prac-
tically exhausted, permanent value was undisturbed;
and now that it has fallen from 12,0000 z. to 800<)oz. the
same old assurance is given. It is also insinuated that
when the Diehl process gets going the production will be
brought up to 12.0000 z., if not 15,0000 z., per month.
Time shareholders heard something more about the mine
and less production excuses and predictions. The finding
of such a marvellously rich chute as the L.V. had at
the 300 ft. level, producing nearly 6 tons of gold
in as many months, in such a formation ns that
at Hannan’s, usually means the impoverishment of
the ore bodies both above and below; and that
has happened in this mine. There was no ore corres-
ponding with it in the upper levels, nothing like it was
found in the 400, and there is every reason to believe that
no trace of it remains in the 600 or 600. What is more
unsatisfactory, the average value of the ore outside of the
few rich bunches in these lower levels is not as great as
it was above, and the mine has been so thoroughly
exploited that there remains but a remote chance of
striking another marvellous deposit. The mine is closed
to visitors and shareholders—a most suspicious circum-
stance. To the credit of the present management be it
said, everything is being done to get things ship-shape on
the surface, which will mean a big reduction in cost and
more effective work ; it is generally admitted that the
underground work of the Lake View was the best part of
it. No doubt a fairly big production will be kept up if
the Diehl process is a success, but it is doubtful whether
it will amount to anything like 12,0000 z. a month, and
therefore whether the shares are worth their present price.
* « * «
Brownhill Extended : “As soon as the sampling
of the mine is finished, the bagging and shipping of ore
will be resumed.” And this, too, in all seriousness.
Well, writer is grieved to say that it would take a very
small ship to carry away all the ore that the B.H.E. has
in sight, or is likely to have in sight considering the
situation of the block.
* * * •
Brookman’s Boulder has made an important
strike with a diamond drill going at an angle from the
800 ft. level. Ore body 20ft. thick, average value of core
23dwt., virtual depth 900 ft. Writer regards this as not
only the most important development in this lease, but
the best yet made out of the northern end of the Golden
Mile. The ore is well mineralised, is of good character,
and the enclosing strata are as good as anything in the
camp. Last year a much less important strike more than
doubled the Value of the shares ; this one sent them up
2s, and they immediately receded Is 6d. Will take five
or six months to sink the main shaft and cross-cut to see
what the ore-body is really stuffed with ; meanwhile
shares fall with the market.
* • * *
North Star, Mount Margaret: One more pro-
ducing Westralian mine outside of Hannan’s, 713 tons for
7230 z. Running 20 heads ; worked less than half-time
last month from want of water. Said to be a good show
with a lot of ore developed.
■ • * •
Cosmopolitan, in Niagara district, is another
of the same kind. Has 20 head stamps. 1350 tons latest
crush for 11630 z. ; average 17dwt., leaving sdwt. in tail-
ings. Value £4553, cost £2957. Crushed to date, 16,301
tons for 15,3970 z. A solid-looking concern.
» • • •
It ought to make people careful when, on a
public occasion, such a man as Manager Hamilton of the
Great Boulder, talks like this “He managed one of the
big mines in the great belt on which the present position
of W.A. in general, and of the Boulder in particular, so
largely depended, and while he was in charge he would
work that mine for the benefit of the shareholdei-s and
not for market purposes. Working on these lines he was
doing the greatest good for the greatest number.” The
Mayor said that he (Hamilton) was not likely to go away
but quite likely there had been instances of managers who
had worked their mines honestly' and straightforwardly
being suddenly fired, so it might not be that he could go
on for ever.
* • * *
Abridged prospectus of the Great Central Free-
hold Mines, Limited, appears in this issue. The co. ij
founded to work 939 acres (120 acres freehold, 359 condi-
tional purchase to become freehold on payment of 255. an
acre, and 460 acres leasehold) for copper in the neighbor-
hood of Condobolin (N.S.W.). Nominal capital to be
£500,000 in 500,000 shares of £1 each. At present,
60,000 shares are offered to the public, 2s. 6d. on appli-
cation, 2s. 6d. on allotment (so that if they are all sold
the co. will start with £15,000 cash), the balance in ss.
calls at intervals of three months. Another 40,000 are to
be offered later on in London or elsewhere at the directors’
option, and on any- terms the directors think best. Re-
maining 300,000 shares are to be handed over fully paid-
up to the vendors, and they are also to get £lO,OOO cash.
Therefore if the whole 60,000 shares now offered are
taken up all the money- that can be realised till the first
call comes due three months hence is £15,000, and the
vendors take £lO,OOO of this, and presumably expenses have
to be paid out of the other £5OOO, and even if all the calls
are paid to the bitter end the present issue only seems to
provide £50,000 working capital at most. And it would
seem that the vendors hand over very little, indeed, in the
way of machinery or work done in return for their stu-
Eendous grab—their expenses incurred are to be covered
y the £lO,OOO cash. The buyers of the 60,000 shares will
apparently have to provide everything—and get only one-
sixth of the profits. And the news that the directors can
dispose of another 40,000 shares on any terms and condi-
tions they please is interesting. Supposing the mine
turned out a success, it would really seem the directors
are empowered to issue these 40,000 shares to their
mothers-in-law at Is. each.
• * * •
Bayley’s (Coolgardie) : Probably the best 20-
head battery in Westralia ; a credit to the maker (Mar-
tin, of Gawler, S.A.) and to the designer, whoever he
may be. Runs at a great rate, up to 105 a minute with a
7-inch drop, crushing 4.V tons of hard quartz a stamp
every 24 hours. Weight of stamp, HOOlbs. Mine other-
wise well equipped, and production maintained by work-
ing not only the old Bayley’s lode, but also one or two
leases around now belonging to co. A payable concern
with a certainty of a div. whenever a rich patoh is struck.
The reefs on and about Bayley’s contain a little gold
everywhere, with a rich pocket here and there, and the
only way to keep such a mine alive is to equip it as has
been done.
• • • •
The Coolgardie mines south of Bayley’s are
dying slowly. Tindal’s still running battery on a dyke
formation, which goes a few dwts. to the ton. Cost of
mining too great to pay. Empress of Coolgardie—the
mine that Lane once thought a great deal more
of than the Great Boulder—also running a battery, but
making no money, and little or no prospect. Big Blow
has amalgamated with Flagstaff, once known as Star of
Coolgardie. Both leases under exemption. _ Sher-
law’s—once known as the Perseverance—has its 20-
head battery silent. Still prospecting, and to do this
more effectually the mine is being equipped with winding
and compressing plant. Far more sensible if this and
other English co.s would pull out altogether, sell their
machinery, and spend the money prospecting in more
likely parts of the country—in the N.E., for instance,
where some really good mines have been found and some
promising shows are opening up. For be it remembered
these mines south of Bayley’s, with one or two excep-
tions, were never even promising. They newer would
have been opened in the Eastern provinces, where the
conditions are favorable, and certainly should never have
been touched where mining is so dear. Their poverty
was exposed on the surface to such an extent that they
remained unpegged until the mad London boom occurred,
and to see them working nowon the two-men-and-a-boy
scale is a sad spectacle. London seldom shuts up its
mines until the last dollar is wasted.
• • • *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buena Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * • •
Metallurgist Higgins, for years in charge of the
Dry Creek Smelting Works, S.A., goes to Chillagoe to
erect the big co.’s furnaces. He has had the designing of
the plant.
0«O W3W
BttOHITIWQ
*«« Zll?
■■: v.v.
js-zxaz
a b
ml
*
\
ffobaecc#
.4
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AHD WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
“ THE FINEST - *
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Cope Bros. & Co., M., Liverpool. Agents; M. Ratty & Co., Sydney.
Bankehs’ Magazine, October, 1899 : “ Since its
establishment in 1873, tlie Colonial Mutual has written
79,800 policies, representing nearly 25 millions of assur-
ance ; it has paid to policyholders £2,148,500.”’
• « • *
In noticing the splendid clean-up of 115 oz. of
gold by the Kiandra Dredging Company in last week’s
issue we omitted to mention that the dredging plant used
by the company was manufactured throughout by the
Austral Otis Co., of South Melbourne, who also built the
barge and erected the plant on the site. This is only one
of the many similar plants being constructed by the
Otis Company.*
♦ * * *
The carelessness of certain steam-users in not
looking after their boilers and the results of neglecting to
clean them regularly when incrustation takes place has
often been pointed out in Tub Bulletin. A disencrustat-
ing boiler compound known as “ Litofuge,” with a world-
wide reputation, is being placed upon the market by W.
and J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, who
upon application will be pleased to forward catalogues to
those interested. “ Litofuge ” compounds are powders
without soda, fatty matter or injurious chemicals, which
injure rather than improve boilers. Its action is mechani-
cal and its introduction into a boiler causes no foaming *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.'W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* « # *
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
• * • •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
» » * »
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
fee., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
• * * •
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81°/.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 6S Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Larnbton Quay, Wellinqton, JTZ.;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.


Society
VERY OLD SPECIA[?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
It appears from last week’s obituary
notices that the Gov. Loch who took the oath on
the steps of Parliament House, Melb., in 1884, was
then a man of 57. He didn’t look it. Considering
the awful experiences he had suffered in China
(1860), where the heathen exhibited him naked in
a wild-beast cage to the curious populace of Pekin,
the tall, bearded Scot bore his years jauntily when
he and handsome Lady Loch started to shake
hands with the Victorians. Those were hand-
shaking times. Loch came in with the land boom
and got away before the general public became
dimly conscious of its collapse. But his Ex. stayed
quite long enough to feel embarrassed by his own
speculations it was said, and presumably the knight-
hoods he obtained for Matthew Davies and Bingy
Benjamin were thanks-offerings for favors received
The boomsters took unsaleable property off his
hands or put him in a way to escape from diffi-
CU i, ties - j £” y l 10w S* l : Henr y Loch, who had been
rather addicted to whisky for a time, seemed to get
back to his old “ form ” before he left Melbourne
for good to represent the British Lion at South
Africa. As Gov. of Cape Colony he made one or
two conspicuous blunders towards the end of his
reign, but his retirement into private life was a
great success. The Govt, peeraged him, the name
of liordl Loch loomed large on the directorates of
sundry London companies, and our old friend died
rich according to all accounts.
r * * * *
The death of ex-Governor Loch recalls the
unseemly wrangle between Melbourne’s fashion-
ables and the Vio. Customs department over duty
claimed on jewels presented to Lady Loch The
jewels were bought in Paris by Lady Lytton,
Lady Loch s twin sister, to the order of Mel-
bourneites who had been tea’d at Govt. House
but when the valuables arrived no one was ready
to pay duty. Gov. Loch finally paid out of his
own pocket.
After all, it was a miserable,
rather than a humorous, spectacle.
He was an aged man, and he had
evidently looked on the beer when
it was numerous. He was crumpled
up in the corner of a George-street
(Sydney) tram - car late at night,
and began operations by holding
his purse upside - down while he
sought the necessary but elusive
Id. fare. A handful of silver and
some few half-sovs. rolled on to the
tram-floor, and were picked up by
a sympathetic company. He
thanked them with hiccoughs, and
as he did so his eye fell on the neat
and plump girl on the opposite seat.
He leered horribly and laid an
affectionate paw on her knee. She
shook it off. He pulled out his
watch, a rolled-gold affair as big as
a prize turnip, and begged her in
drunken gluck to “take it as a
presensch.” The girl got confused
and requested him not to make a
fool of himself. This riled him.
He produced the purse again and
opened it upside-down to show
her the wealtn it contained, as an
evidence that he was in a position
to maintain her respectably. The
wealth fell out again, and this time
the passengers let him gather it up
himself. He fell down on his
knees and tried to rake it together, stopping
occasionally to lay one hairy, grimy paw on the
girl s dress. Unable to stand it any longer she
gave him an angry push, and he went over on his
broadside, and his top teeth fell out and sparkled
on the muddy floor of the car, and as he was
assisted roughly on to the seat by the conductor
it was noticed that his hair had slipped down over
his right ear, leaving a shiny patch on the opposite
side, against which his large red “listener”
looked like a badly-executed bas-relief. The
Angry official gathered up all the oash he could
him lying about, put it in the purse, put the purse
and teeth in the old man’s breast pocket and then
heaved him out on the pavement, the old one
urgently offering marriage to the plump girl as he
went and assuring her that his “intensh’ns were
honneronneronneronner’blsh-shshzz.”
• • * «
“Matt.” Harris—Sydney’s great “re-
form ’’ Mayor—says he will shortly retire from the
turmoil and clash of arms of the City Council and
seek repose in a trip to South Africa. How
peaceful will be the soothing whiz of the Mauser,
and the lulling voice of the “pom-pom” after the
rush, roar, clangour, bang and crash of civic argu-
ment, the interrupted fisticuffs, the Nortonian
sandbag-talk, and volleyed objurgations of City
Council meetings! Sir “Matt.” Will doubtlcsi
AFTER THE PLAY.
1ST. GIRL : “ Did you enjoy yourself?”
2ND. GIRL: “ Immensely . All the men had their glasses on me.”
THE PRIVY COUNCIL APPEAL.
YOUNG 'UN: “Oh, Oh, Oh?”
BRAINY ONE: “ Why don't you let go, then?”
YOUNG 'UN : “ Because I’ll lose the right of appealing to the animal if I do”
during his trip mature those plans for the disposal
of garbage by balloon which lately startled the
municipal world.
• • • •
Dr. Graham, medico, M.P. and alderman,
who was only beaten by a small majority at last
mayoral election, will probably succeed
Mayor Harris at Sydney Town Hall.
A dry, mild, pertinacious Scotchman is
the Doctor, freetrader in politics, an up-to-date
municipal politician, a fluent speaker with a good
fund of that doubtful kind of humor—more in
manner than in matter—which the Scotch call
“pawky.” His services on the Citizens’ Vigilance
Committee during the plague scare, though they
did not bring him muoh limelight or newspaper
glory, were of enormous value to the city, and well
earned him the succession to the ohair. Dr. Graham
is a inost benevolent man and extremely unostenta-
tious in the doing of good work. And what a lot
of charity is dono by doctors ! Does any general
practitioner ever get paid for 40 per cent, of his
labor ?
* • • *
Parramatta Benevolent Asylum death-trap,
with its 1000 unhappy inmates, is still a disgrace
to N.S. Wales, but happily money enough has
been found to complete the N.S.W. Treasury
buildings. Previously to the Reid Govt., the
Chief Secretary was usually the head of the
Ministry, and in the Chief Secretary’s office is
elaborate accommodation for the Premier of the
day. Indeed G. 11. Reid used to have his rooms
in that building. But this arrangement was
found “ unsatisfactory,” so new offices had to be
found at the taxpayer’s expense. Premier Lyne’s
chief room is a splendid one (“big enough for a
cricket-match,” grumbled a high official from a
rival department), with brand-new carpets and
furniture and up-to-date appointments. Presum-
ably the expenses will be defrayed as usual from
loan-moneys.
* * • »
The promotion in, N.S.W. military rank
of the sons of two prominent politicians, recalls
the fact of a similar obnoxious promotion in
N.S.W. Naval Brigade many years ago. The
men passed over called on the naval boss, and pio-
tested against the slight. “For God’s sake,”
pleaded the boss, “let the matter drop. He (the
Premier of the day) swears he will smash up the
whole brigade if I don’t give that man the promo-
tion.”
* * * *
A certain Australian police force is still in
urgent need of reform. A mining-man recently
arrived in the capital and drifted into a bower of
Venus where he stayed until the proprietress dis-
covered him to be a man of considerable means.
Then, learning that he intended to cut his visit
short, she determined upon a profitable coup and
accused him of stealing £2O. In the uproar which
followed a detective appeared and threatened him
with arrest. To save exposure the man signed a
cheque for £3O and cleared out. Mentioning the
incident to an acquaintance the latter led him to a
high police-official, who advised payment to be
stopped. The blackmailing scheme was accord-
ingly squelched but the intended victim was
amazed a few days later to find that the supposed
detective was a real one!
* * » »
After complying with the desire of Dubbo
for a lock-up in direct communication with the
local court-house, N.S.W. Justice Department has
now, by cutting-off said communication, defeated
the very object the Dubboites had in view—which
was to avoid the necessity of marching prisoners
through the street. Dubbo awaits whatever ex-
planation the Department can offer.
• » * *
Deposed in a recent Sydney divorce-case
that the female respondent used to hang some
garment over the garden “ Beware of the dog ! ”
notice when she wished to let the co-respondent
know the coast was clear, but'when the registered
“ dog” was at home, t'other dog—who hadn’t paid
the marriage-tax—read the warning and retired to
his lonely kennel.
♦ * * *
During the hearing of a recent divorce
case, in Brisbane, it was alleged that hubby was
altogether too free and friendly with the lady-heip
of the establishment. The latter, on being placed
in the witness-box, admitted that she had sat on
the gentleman’s knee on one occasion and kissed
him—“because he dared me to.” Really, it was
a challenge that no girl of spirit could resist.
* • * •
The strange case of Percy Hancock was
ended at Vic. Criminal Court the other day by
llis Honor ordering the man in the dock to lie
“imprisoned during the Governor’s pleasure.”
The man had invited some friends to his house for
a, social evening, and whilst one of them named
Lawson was playing a violin solo the crazy host
picked up a rifle and deliberately shot the per-
former, complaining the while that he couldn’t
stand the music. There aro some glorious
privileges attached to lunacy.
* * • •
“ Civil Engineer ” to The Bulletin :
Since the electric tram came into operation in Gcorge-
street, Sydney, the number of tram-accidents bus again
greatly increased. A direct knock or push is, probably,
unavoidable if the victim is in the line of traction, but the
most common form of injury, “ coming under the teheels,"
can be completely prevented by suitably-constructed
vehicles as used on several Continental tramlines,
notably in Buda - Pesth. Why have the cars not
been similarly arranged ? As regards Sydney’s steam
trams, the cow-catcher that hangs in front of the
engine is now about worse than useless, because
it is carried too high from the ground. Nor is the
stoker always at his place in the front of the engine,
even when traversing such a dangerous crossing as King-
street. It used to be quite common to see the driver
holding in one hand a newspaper, and reading it, while
fumbling with the other hand for the regulator to start
the tram on its southward journey at that very same
crossing between i and 6 p.m., a busy time of day.
The Ven. DEAN COWPER , of Sydney , who
enters his 91st year on July 3.
Dear Bulletin. —Talk about rats ! On a
visit to Sydney, once, I stayed with a friend at a
shop in Oxford-street, Paddington, and was pre-
vented from sleeping, the first night, by what
seemed to be the sound of footsteps ceaselessly
going up and down stairs. Ghosts and burglars
filled my brain all night, but in the morning my
host explained that the sound was caused by rats,
and that all food had to be kept in covered tins to
save it from these marauders. If rats are as
plentiful all over Paddington the plague should
nave slain its thousands in that suburb.— Jaygra.
* * * *
One well-known Sydney street mendicant
is never without a baby in arms, and when she is
not holding out her hand for alms she is always
significantly either opening or fastening-up her
bodice. That infant never seems to age a day.
But what a “draw” it is !
OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASOft
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted. ■
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan j Scotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVER 1
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 64 to 56 inches ii
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
THE OFtiaiKTAL
JOHN JAMESON WHISKEY
ESTABLISHED 1780.
Trade Mark.
John Jameson & Son are not Blenders of Whiskey, but Distillers of one
quality of spirit, viz., the finest old still whiskey that can be produced
—the only difference between the grades being that of AGE.
In order that customers may feel assured of genuineness, attention is
requested to our Special Export Label, and to our Name and. Trade Mark
on Corks, Capsules, and Cover; also to Age Mark.
Agents-J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.


ONE GOOD POINT.
"Do you think that style of robe very beeo[?]
“For some people, certainly; it hides so much [?]
their faces."
A teetotal deputation waited upon tin.
N.S. W. Premier t’other day to implore him to
bring hotel bars under the provisions of the Early
Closing Act. Ye gods ! Would they rob Jingoism
of its main attraction, by depriving men of the
means to get drunk on the night of a Great
Victory ? Even as it is the Licensing Act tends to
weaken the bonds of union between Australia and
the dear old &c. In London a thirsty Jingo can
wot his Imperial Sentiment with whisky until
11.30 p.m. on five nights of the week, and 12 on
Saturdays.
An inspector droppe.
into a George-street (Syd-
ney) alleged “restaurant”
the other day and found
t'ut the enterprising land-
lord had 17 beds in one
rodm. The inspector asked
the host if he didn’t think
it was rather crowded,
and that personage shook
his head vigorously and
replied with great scorn:
“Too many? Rats!
Why, next week I’m
going to have the carpen-
ters in and rig up another
dozen or so along the wall
on brackets.”
“ May 7th. The
Angel of Dawn laid at
the door of Editor P. A.
Barrett this morning a
rosebud culled from the
garden of the gods.
Mother and child doing
well.— Westralian Paper.
* * •
Private H. Singleton,
late of Melb., and now of
the S’African Light
Horse, writes :
1 am in one of the hospitals
frpm India. All the attend-
an s are Hindoos. Not at all
bad, I can tell you; a lot
better than the women nurses,
for you can pitch your boots
at th ;in as much as you like,
and they will always return
them to you.
Our wounded soldiers are
not so angelic as Jingo
High Priest Kipling
maxes out.
* * *
Under the N.S.W.
Public Service law police
magistrates must retire
when 05 years of age, but
Judges—D.C. and S.C. —
may hold on to the Bench
when 70, 80, or even
verging on 90 years of age. Beautiful inconsis-
tency !
* * • *
The plague mortality to date at Rock-
hampton (Q.) has been 15 out of 27 -about 55£ per
cent. !
“ Alba ” has struck a new industry :
Dear B.— I am starting an Emotional
Letter-Writing Agency. My first case puts
the business in a nutshell. I have married
a bandy-legged footballer to an intelli-
gent heiress ; I have made money out of
a hardshell Baptist—the hardshell is
brother to the footballer. The heiress
used to sleep on her money near
Cringalong. No one understood
whv she took to the footballer,
bat writer put it down to his fascinat-
ing legs. His room was next mine,
and I used to hear him pray for
strength to keep from hard
work. His prayer was an-
swered. One night I fell across
a letter from the heiress to
him. Its tone imported that
she was hanging fire and didn’t
want to get married just yet.
Also, she complained of his
cold letters, &c., &c. I saw at
once that Band}' was letting
£59,000 slip from him because
his correspondence lacked emo-
tional warmth. Also, his strong
determination never to do any
kind of work attracted my
sympathies. Wherefore I made
him my friend and showed
him how a love-letter should be
written. The main point was
stressed with some force —his
alarming loss of appetite. In
my career as a modern Cyrano
de Bergerac I have discovered
that nothing earthly or spiri-
tual makes a girl feel whiter
than the news of Joe’s failing
appetite. It doesn’t make any
difference whether the girl’s
an educated heiress or merely
looking after a poultry-farm,
she’ll come when asked, if
you write, “ Dearest, dearest, I cannot eat,” every 10th
line. When Bandy’s heiress got the “Agency’s” first
letter, she wrote a wild, flurried, passionate note in
return, and threatened to come down and
swamp Bandy with tears. I staved her off with
a wire. Then I sent another note so hot and
nice that the ink steamed every time I jahbed
the pen in. When she got it I could almost hear
her rushing to the bank to draw out all her
money. A few days before she came down to
marry Bandy (his clothes were shabby), I hinted to
him that we might write to his hardshell brother and
tap him for a loan. Bandy merely smiled—from this
I gathered that the hardshell one got away on his
bike whenever a friend whispered, “Can you, old
man ? ” Still, I wrote,begging a small sum ; appended
was the cry of a despairing brother, out of work, shoe-
less, destitute, police-hunted, and driven from refuge to
refuge. On page (> you could hear the cold rain falling
under the Domain fig-trees, feel the sharp hunger that stabs
'ou in the wet dawn. It was a literary masterpiece ; it was
mman art, and when Band.v read it his blinding tears fell
into the beer. We posted it. Result, £8 return of post,
and I was there when it was cashed. I was best man at
the wedding. They are living at Potts Point. Bandy
says he’ll “do something for me one of these days.”—
A MIA.
* * # *
With reference to a par. (B. 9/6/’00) con-
;rning a ridiculous decision given in the Small
>ebts Court at Singleton, N.S.W., Tub Bulletin'
s now informed that the P.M. was not, as stated,
unongst the Solons who distinguished themselves
on that occasion.
• • » *
In N.S.W. Banco Court recently a jury in
a negligence action, after hearing the case for
plaintiff, wanted to give a sudden verdict then
SYMPATHY.
OLD LADY: “ The shame of it! They torks aboot these ere a-arrl
schools, an’ yet they’ll allow a poor little innocent creathur
wike that ter go without his throusers.”
and there without hearing defendant’s witnesses
or counsel. Barrister Sly, counsel for defendant,
stuck out for his right to be heard, and though the
Chief- justice expressed a philosophical opinion
that the jury had a right to take the course they
did, yet he allowed the case to go forward and
the defendant’s witnesses and counsel to be heard.
This made no difference, as a verdict was returned
for plaintiff, with damages.
* * * •
The Bulletin ventures the prophecy that
next February will be one of the worst months so
far as the record of illegitimate births is concerned
that Australia has yet seen.
* * ♦ *
Among other results of the war-frenzy,
two otherwise respectable women who had never
before done anything to attract the law’s atten-
tion were lately hauled up «n Wellington (M.L.)
for using obscene language in a train. They dis-
agreed over the war, and their long-standing re-
spectability fell off them like a garment, and they
cursed at large. Also, at Zeehan (Tas.) two girls
fought three rounds publicly on Mafeking night,
and tore each other’s clothes and hair and nat, and
were finally dragged apart screaming just in time
to prevent them tearing everything off one
another. “ The War” was the question at issue.
One called the other Boer and the other replied
with biff, and then there was a sound like a lib.
weight falling on a piece of ox-flesh, and immedi-
ately after there was a noise like a large ink-
bottle dropping in the mud, and the rest was
chaos.
Provision will, it is expected,
be made in regulations for the taking
of the forthcoming N.S.W. Census
whereby residents in hotels and
boarding-houses will be enabled to
fill, if they choose, individual and
private census-papers. Hitherto the
head of the house has filled, or de-
puted someone on his behalf to fill,
in the names, ages, occupations, de-
grees of education, etc., of all under
his roof on a particular night, and
the admitted result lias been, especi-
ally among women, false figures and
untrue statements. As the machinery
for collecting the income-tax pre-
serves secresy, there is no reason
why the particulars demanded in a
census-paper should suffer exposure.
The head of the house, or person
acting for him, receives the informa-
tion confidentially, no doubt, but
that often is the last person to whom
the resident is willing to disclose the
required facts.
• * *
Sydney Benevolent Society,
which has between £20,000 and £30,000
of invested funds, and is subsidised
by State to the extent of £2OOO or
£3OOO a-year, distributes monthly
through the post as a “newspaper”
an elaborately-printed “official or-
gan,” the Charities Gazette, in the
last issue of which it makes the fol-
lowing statement re its Sydney pre-
mises ■“ On many occasions during
the last 20 years the Society has
requested various Governments to
resume the property under the provi-
sions for the Lands for Public Pur-
poses Resumption Act, with the
usual compensation, to enable the
rii rectors to obtain other premises. Now, both
the building and the very valuable site on winch
it stands are public property, so the 000 l effron-
tery of the proposal that Govt, should resume and
pay for its own land (which the Society only
occupies on sufferance) would be hard to match.
» • • *
This flower of poesy is culled from Sydney
Catholic Press
This paper has no objection to the above as
verse, but asks their reverences seriously if it
is the kind of verse which one would expect to
meet in an ostentatiously pious, not to say conse-
crated paper. The R.C. Church isn’t supposed to
be married. It isn’t supposed to know anything
about a bride with her hair down and dressed in a
long, straight gown of white. It shouldn’t have
garlands in its wool or blossoms on its tonsure.
The Church is supposed to go to bed sober and
solitary, after putting the strictly male cat out
into the back premises, and depositing the sober,
elderly bachelor dog in its kennel. Poetry of the
kind that languishes on a snow-white bosom isn t
in its line, or shouldn’t be. The Church is not
expected to kiss anybody’s dimples, or to have
any dimples of its own—and it shouldn’t hug any
scantily-clad beauty even in print, let alone in
reality. Does Cardinal Moran know that the
sober organ of his faith is going on in this giddy
fashion, and swooning on the white shoulder of
the lady who lias laid aside her garland—also her
boots ? And doesn’t it occur to him that the un-
seemly proceeding should be Put Down ?
• • • •
“ Constance Clyde ” writes of her visit to
a Sydney plague-quarantined area
“ ’Tis the first woman ye are to visit the quarantine
barracks!” Thus the mechanical policeman, smiling
snhinx-fashion, when I asked, “ May I go in ? ” and still
more inscrutably when I added, “ If I go in, may I come
out? ” It was a large shed, partly provisional, with small
side-offices where the clerking goes on. In this barn-like
apartment men have mealed, slept and been amused these
several weeks. Two were exemplifying these occupations
as I entered. One was rolled round in a blanket, like a
cocoon, and the other enjoying something that looked like
the substance that Bridget dips her paw into when she
starches “the masther’s” shirt. He called it blank-
mange. The towels looked rather grimy, but my escort
hastened to divert my attention by showing me the
appliances whereby 3500 people have been fed in one day
(that, of course, was when Wexford-street forestalled
socialism by getting its mutton and turnips at Govt, ex-
pense). The men, he said, were treated to every luxury
(so that there were daily enquiries “ what the State would
he‘havingon’ next year”), the idea apparently being
that the Govt, should inaugurate an annual disease in the
interests of the unemployed. I was also informed that
they had been allowed hot-cross-buns on Good Friday, so
that religious requirements were not forgotten. Also a
barrel-organ was brought round every Sunday to supply
any further regeneration of soul that might be required.
In digging round the plague-stricken Wexford-street
the men made some curious discoveries. In the ruins of
Pompeii and Herculaneum were found streets, cellars,
petrified bodies but no petrified bodies with souls
still in them, such as the Wexford - street laborers
found. One of their curios was a woman. She
was 70; as she walked, she described a semi-circle and
her hands swept to her knees. Earthy, leather-like layers
of clothes, overlapping —each garment doing a good turn
by hiding its neighbor’s deficiencies—hung on to her
Bhrivelled body. She was very thin. Someone gave her
a pair of shoes once, perhaps to see how she could get
A NEAR THING.
SHE (in the character of “ Innocence.): “ What
ever induced you to adopt a costume so—er—
unsuited to your individuality? There’s
nothing of the fend about YOU, Mr. Tipper.”
MR. TIPPER (who “ fancies himself”): “ Excuse
me, I was just going to say the same sort of
thing to you — ei —that is to say — er—very
warm night, isn’t it?”
them to stick on. She boards in a cellar with some rats,
and pays 3s. a week for the privilege of doing without air,
light, or sanitary conveniences. Every now and then a
charitable person discovers her and sends someone to take
her to the asylum. She resists. Then they send the police,
and she resists the police. From her subterranean fortress
she routs them. At last the quarantine cleaners tumbled
into her dank, ill-smelling dungeon one day. They merely
put a dab of whitewash over the mantelpiece and fled.
Yet now a bundle of black rags moans ragefully among its
bundle of grey rags, because they have ruined for ever her
“ beautiful ’ome.”
The State, which undertakes to return disinfected
articles, or duplicates of the same, doesn’t seem always to
return the right things. Therefore, there is weeping in
Wexford-street because things that went away buckets
have come back shovels, and there is a general impression
that the whole affair is a deep-laid plot of the Govern-
ment’s to get hold of various valuable dust-bins without
paying for them.
* * • »
The alarm of fire at a Melb. Coffee Palace
no a recent Sabbath morn produced many exciting
scenes on the stairs. The outbreak occurred when
the lodgers were all abed, and many scrambled for
the pavement in their night-gear. One man who
had valiantly tried to dress himself came rolling
down stairs, tangled in his shirt, which he had
got over his head and could get no further. A
lady who reached the vestibule in her sleeping-
robe carefully wrapped herself about with a fold-
ing screen, and remained there, awaiting the turn
of events. A young married couple fled wildly
down the flights, the groom wearing a shirt and a
tall silk hat, and carrying the rest of his clothing
over his arm ; the bride wore the robe of night,
with a silver girdle about her waist, and a large
new black hat upon her head. Some day a literary
fireman will write up his experiences under the
title, “ Things We See,” and it will sell like fresh
bread.
* * * *
Architect contract for cleaning
the filthy quarters of Sydney seems not to have
been so lucid and specific an agreement as that
entered into over a century ago for clearing
George-st. from Bridge-st. to Brickfield HilL
That old contractor wanted. 450 gals. of rum, but the
Govt, of the day cut him down to 400 gals., and
paid him so many gals, on account as each few
perches were completed.
A WOMAN’S MARRIAGE SONG
I shall shed my orange-blossom :
I have put aside my veil, my head is bare.
I have doffed my snowy shining satin-wear.
In my long, straight gown of white,
With no garland in my hair.
Am I fair ?
Am I fair enough for you, my love, to-night ?
When the music swelled to meet me, did I falter ?
But my feet kept step with your feet from the altar,
And my heart with yours kept beat.
Now I stay my questing feet—
Now beside your soul mine stands,
And my heart is in your bands.
Beating upward like a flame,
And the sigil set upon it is your name.
My veil is off ; no more my laces cover
The bird that sings so loudly in ray bosom ;
Can you hear it now the wedding hymns are over?
Than my veil
Does my hair make softer shadow for my face,
This shadow that with kisses you displace,
Till I grow a rose that came to you so pale ?
Am I sweet enough without my orange-blossom ?
NORA HOPPER.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholes-tie Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Medical Science asserts
\ that
LIFEBUOY
| DISINFHCTANT SOAP
will effectually destroy
| the germs that produce
infectious diseases.
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOB ALL STOCK AND POULTItY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
THE TEETH. *
The only means of keeping the teeth in a proper
state of preservation is by using a scientifioftlly-
prepared, antiseptic tooth powder. Smokers especi-
ally suffer from discoloration of the teeth.
jtST Vegetable Tooth Powder, made by
NEWMAN, Chemist,
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Meets every requirement. By Post, 2s. Sd.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _ Sydney, June 26, 1900.
My Dear Myek.—
Well, at last we know what to expect. The
first Evening Party (of a batch of five, I am told)
came off last Monday night. His Ex. and Lady
Mary stood in the red drawing-room and shook
hands with their couple of hundred guests. The
aides said, “This way, please,” and, immediately,
unsuspecting men and women were hurriedly
escorted into the ballroom, shown into stiff rows
of chairs, and left to ruminate sadly over the fact
that “ concert ” is now the cruel significance of an
Evening at Govt. House.
A little platform m the middle of the ballroom ;
chairs arranged all round ; the Gov. and party in
the front row ; deadly silence pervading. Then
music. And yes—you could clap hands if so
minded; clap from 9.15 to 11 p.m. Then the
Party rose up, and went out on the verandah, and
ate supper, and went home, more in sorrow than
in anger.
The most interesting part of this wild dissipa-
tion was the one hundred and twelve ladies and
gentlemen who “expressed their inability to
attend.” Their names were published in the
dailies next day. After scanning the list, I feel
positive that someone had given away the secret,
ha 1 divulged what sort of entertainment was
being prepared for the unwary. For among
the “Unable” were Judges, Ministers,
Deans, Colonels, one Cardinal, and one Right
Rev. ; —just the people who would so have en-
joyed themselves, if only “ Circumstances hadn’t
prevented.
As everybody sat down all the time, it was im-
possible to see how anybody looked. Lady Mary
brightened a well-cut black silk frock with heavy
diamonds ; Lady Susan was very shimmering and
serpentine in black net and sequins, and lots
more diamonds. The frocking matched the
occasion for the most part. Miss Cissie Harris
looked bright and smart in a white net worked
with chenille over white satin with touches of
cerise. Marie Narelle warbled sweetly in well-
made black. But many—nay, most—of the dresses
were old friends, and not even disguised at that.
By-the-way, His Ex. has now added another to
the long list of the Down-Trodden. The latest
addition is the Women of the Press. Their griev-
ance goes deep. But His Ex. ignores it, with a
courage worthy of a more imporDant cause, and
sweetly refuses to remedy it. In a word, press-
woman receive their vice-regal invitations nowadays
inscribed “The Representative of the Morning
Star.” Previous vice-regal regimes considered
it unnecessary to brand the inky female. The
name was enough in those old days. The awk-
wardness of these cards struck everyone all of a
heap last year. A well-known Sydney pen woman
—Miss Susan Darchv—handed her card in at a
Garden Party. The butler posed, fluttered, and
finally rose to the impossible occasion by loudly
announcing the newcomer as “ Miss Daily Tele-
graph.”
Unfortunate youth, indeed 1 A primrose path is
opening out to him. A part so ridiculously easy,
all ready to be played ! For the last sad time,
Gouli offers her heart-felt advice, miserably con-
scious of the fact that it will not be even treated
with the scorn it so richly deserves. The advice
in brief is Silence, and again, Silence. If once the
idea could find lodging in that slender Oxford head
that Sydney expects every man to do his duty
except the Gov., whose duty it is to have no duty
that looks like a duty, no views that can possibly
be mistaken for landslips, a stereotyped inanity, a
memory so unlikely that an assumed one does
even better, and a smile that’s never, never,
never weary of turning up at the right corner,
and—absolutely nothing else whatever. It would
all go into such a tiny portmanteau. At least six
of the baby aides could be dismissed straight
away, and Gov. House could be restored from the
creche it now is to the Paradise of every true
Potts Pointer.
This, apropos of Kingston’s threat re the Gov’s,
speech at Grafton, and a fiery old gent, explain-
ing in a loud voice to his son in the tram on Mon-
day, “What does “ ineptitude mean, my boy?
It means Damn-Fool. That’s what it means.”
The twenty-third grand annual bow-wowing,
mewing, cackling, ana cooing of the N.S.W. Dog,
Gat, Poultry and Pigeon Society was held at the
Exhibition Buildings last week. After it had
been open a day and three-quarters, the Mayoress
declared it open. You weren’t supposed to have
seen any exhibit till then, although you had paid
your money and patted any dog you liked on the
head the previous day. Some of the pigeons were
so fine and fat that it was quite a sin to see them
behind bars instead of under pie-crust. Most of
the dogs we had seen a few weeks ago at the
Kennel Club show turned up again baying. The
beautiful borzois, her pink skin showing through
her white, silken hair, looked miserable. One
used, a,s she was, to the society of the Czar and
the Winter Palace, to say nothing of a real winter
season, must find Sydney a purgatorial place. The
poultry exhibits were numerous and made a sinful
row. I’ve always thought that the noise a hen makes
is quite out of proportion to the size of her egg.
George Lambert wins the Travelling Scholar-
ship, the first ever awarded in N.S.W. Six young
artists competed : Joe Wolinski, Howard Ash-
ton, Fred Leist, Harry Gar lick, Wm. Moir, and
the prize-winner. Sid Long, president of the
Society of Artists, whose age and talents sug-
gested that he should enter the lists, decided not
to do so some time ago, for reasons of a private
nature. The event has created quite a flutter in
the dove-cotes of the artists. The judges were
Messrs. Longstaff, Fox, and M'Cubbin, Victoria’s
leading artists, who came to Sydney specially to
make the award.
Lambert’s portrait of his mother is far and away
his best exhibit, though, truth to tell, he has not
quite managed to express the sweetness of the
face of his charming subject. His big picture,
“ Youth and the River,” is out of his line. A
naked lady, with very long legs and arms, rides a
fine white horse into a dark blue-and-green river,
while a youth accompanies her on a black charger,
and urges her on. Certainly imagination is mani-
fested in this conception, but it is quite what
nobody expected it to be. Howani Ashton
(Julian’s clever son) came second, as far as marks go.
He shows a lovely quiet stretch of trees and grass
and sand under moonlight, but the effect is of a
dull day, somehow, and the moon looks as if it
belonged to last night. All the same, the picture
is one of very great merit indeed, and in it the
painter has managed, for the nonce, to effectually
subdue his too-Streetonian style. Wolinski’s
“ Interior ” has created a stir, many people con-
sidering it the gem of the exhibits. Suggestions
of “The First-born” and “The Crisis” are
strongly in evidence, in some opinions, but, apart
from a reminiscence, the picture of the dead man,
and the little family gathered round the bedside,
hits; which is a good deal for a picture of death
to do at this stage of evolution.
There is something peculiarly distressing in the
fate that has overtaken the community of Car-
melite nuns at Marrickville, Sydney. These
ladies—French, and, in several cases, of most dis-
tinguished family—have for long been striving to
pay-off the price of their convent-building and
grounds; but, having got some £7OO in arrears
with the interest on the balance of the purchase-
money, a bailiff was, the other day, put in,
and an execution-sale made of everything in
the place. The scene at the sale, also, was a dis-
grace to the majority of those present, and it is
hard to understand why the local R.C. authorities
have made no move to prevent such a heart-rend-
ing consummation to the efforts which these un-
fortunate ladies have for so long kept up to free
their little community from financial embarrass-
ment.
Carmelite nuns—it may not be generally known
—are precluded by the rule of the Order from
e . n ff a ff' l ig in educational or other work. Their
lives are entirely devoted to religious offices—
fasting, praying, and doing penance. In this case,
they are doing penance with a vengeance !
Slander: in the musical world. “‘She Was
True ’ (for the first time in Sydney).” That gem
(Juncker’s new song) is taken off tho programme of
Wiegand’s colossal farewell concert, that started
in the Town Hall last Wednesday, continued on
Saturday, and is still continuing to farewell in
larger, round numbers than any local musical event
to date. No, not excepting Albani, when men’s
ears flew round like chaff and women’s hair was
tossed about in handfuls. Two thousand people
could not get in on Wednesday. Blessed 2000! The
crowd that got seats got everything else you can
think of, till art was tired out with plenty.
Every singer ever heard of, organ obligatos ad lib ;
a whole Mandolin Society that played beautifully
some Podenzana music; trumpet phrases by
Harry Freeman ; Rivers Allpress on the fiddle ;
the R.A.A. Band; the Meistersingers; two girl
organists; Lewis Scott’s long hair and “ The
Charge of the Light,”—but I could go on like this
for ever and ever, finally remarking, ere my breath
quite failed, that Wiegand played “The Storm”
with his own inimitable art and experience of
Aldermen thrown in. It was indeed a benefit, a
great big fat heavy crush of a concert, such as any-
one might be proud to have handed over in cheque
form ere leaving Australia for good.
The story goes that an interesting divorce case
has been “squared” by the co-respondent-elect,
who will shortly retire from public life, and go
abroad for the benefit of his nerves. One hears
no awful particulars as to giddiness, yet the mere
mention of the name of the male delinquent is
enough to make Respectability shudder all the way
down its back. That’s why the rumor sounds as
true as gospel. The solemn old Lothario
was above suspicion—until the cat jumped out of
the bag. No breath of innuendo had ever blown
on his shiny black hat. Ilis political friends re-
ferred to him as a beautiful illustration of the
right-thinking mind in the unimpeachable body,
and the penalty for suggesting that he couid
possibly twinkle an eyelid at a strange goddess
would have been social ostracism for the suggestor,
—until the cat popped out of the bag.
A second visit to the “Pirates” found those
cheerful brigands going strongly to an enormous,
highly-dressed house on Saturday night. I sat
behind a dream of an opera cover-all. It was
built of black brocade, the big lilies in the pattern
appliqued in Chantilly lace all over the cloak.
The shape was almost ulster, defining the waist,
with big, comfortable sleeves that revealed dashes
of orange-silk lining. The neck was fussy with
black chiffon and yellow lace, and hundreds of
tiny gold buttons, in groups of six, ran down the
left side, where the cloak fastened secretly with
big, easy buttons, and loose, hidden-away button-
holes. Fullness was let in to the bottom of the
wrap by a deep-shaped, skimpy flounce, with no
applique on it, showing billowy orange flounces
mside as the lucky wearer moved up the steps.
The many friends of Mrs. Henry Gullett have
been greatly shocked at the news of her death.
For brightness and personal charm the dark-eyed,
kindly, vivacious lady was unequalled in Sydney.
As a writer, too, she had a fame of her own. She
was one of the first women to wield a pen in Aus-
tralia as a professional journalist, and her work on
the Australasian extended over many years.
She died suddenly at Wahroonga last week, com-
plaining of a pain, and expiring almost the next
minute.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ So far as Conservatorium girls are concerned
(judging by the ‘ hero buttons ’ on their hat-bands),
Roberts is dead ; Kitchener is dead, and Baden-
Powell not feeling well. When the current perse-
cution of their precious professor began, those
giddy gushers ordered an issue of ‘ Marshall-Hall
buttons, ’ and, at present, favor no others. Yes-
terday, in a crowded railway-compartment, I
heard a young thing tell her chum, at the top of
her voice, that she'd sat up overnight ‘ sewing on
the darling Director to every rag she possessed ! ’
‘Dr. McFarland, of Ormond College, who, from
a jMshall-Hall point of view, ran with the hare
and hunted with the hounds in the recent sinner-
chase, is a canny, Scotch, middle-aged bachelor.
Outwardly, the Master of Ormond is a plump,
prosperous, reddish porridge-product, who spends
his vacations ‘ fushin’ ’ in Maoriland, enjoys his
snug bachelor-quarters at Ormond, takes strictly
moderate pleasure in whist, and altogether im-
presses those interested (lashins and lashins of
em), as a Scot of more comfortable tendencies than
Barrie’s Disharts and Goodwillies.
‘‘Everybody whispers the same old tale of the
why and wherefore of the dead set against
Marshall Hall, but nobody includes it in the in-
The Professor’s little green-covered
book of ‘Hymns’ and other pagan utterances is
again and again referred to as though it was of
first importance, and all the time Bishop Field F.
boe-bless his evangelical gaiters ! —knows quite
well that the question of the Prof’s ‘moral fitness’
turns upon a particular statement which a certain
spinster made to her influential pa, or more likely
she made the statement to mama, who passed it
along to the heavy father, who lodged a Pod-
snajnan protest with the Bishop. The yarn, even
in its present one-sided shape, is not such a very
awful reason for the agitation of the Goo party,
r fchat the spinster went to the Professor
for advice on a musical subject, and he gave his
opinion in a sentence which might have been
worded quite as explicitly without venturing
so close to the knuckle. But even if it did go as
near to the bone as the spinster stated, even sup-
posing that the Young Person has not made some
slight alterations in the wording of the Professor’s
advice, it was not necessarily offensive. A broad
truth can be spoken in a narrow, businesslike way
and a girl who can road the Bible and call it holy
all the way through ought to be able to bear up
woman fully against the roughest doctrines of
Marshall Hall.
talking of Iligh-church atrocities, how is this
tor grimness ? A member of the guild, belonging
church in an Eastern suburb, died. Her
coffin with lights burning about it, stood in the
church all night, and twelve watchors—young girls
—sat or knelt with the corpse till daybreak. Now
what purpose can such an antic serve? Surely
the Irish wake is a far more reasonable and cheer-
ful affair.
Out of the eighty Nimrods and Nim-
rodesses who set out to track the Findon
hounds, the trimmest form was the dow-
ager of Cliveden, in her black turn-out and
boxer. She was mounted on a light chestnut.
Mrs. Gordon-Lyon looked plump and pink in a
similar rig. A long-waisted Toorak belle of dusky
complexion was quite out of proportion on her
tiny pony. The florid Tom o‘Brien was the
heaviest weight on the field.
Lacking the excitement of the fox-scent, two
or three drag-parties made back to the station,
but-, finding tilings bleak and windy there, moved
on to the country inn, and startled mine host by
ordering about fifty dishes of tea. The most
swagger contingent grow hilarious, and to the
accompaniment of a colicky piano warbled ‘Just
Une Girl,’ and all the rattling Gaiety airs the fair
at rummer could evoke from the key-board. ‘ Mrs.
Enery Awkins’sounded the grand finale; then
the fashionables fluttered out to their stormy
perch on the drags, and fought the windy element
to the station.
“Treasurer Shiels blundered badly over his
speech at the Hunt breakfast. He muttered
something about fiancee, and ‘ hugging his mother-
in-law,’ which none could construe into anything
sensible, and over which the majority of men
groaned. S Rupert, when his turn came round
said a few simple, kindly things, and only made
one slip, in trying to make the company believe
he had been hunting since 1800.
“Melbourne is to have a Poster ball for the
benefit of the Children’s Hospital. The cheapest
poster-character dress would be that of the most
prominent hoarding on the N. Melb. station,
where a buxom beauty is represented tightening
her corset-laces. Very little trouble or expense
attached to that.
“ Smalcolm M‘Eaoharm-‘ Cast-iron Mac,’ as he
was getting to be called of late—did an exceed-
ingly smart thing last week. On the Tuesday
afternoon he asked Melb. City Council to oblige
him by doing without a Mayor for the next three
or four months, and on the Wednesday afternoon
he went off to London like the pop of a champagne
cork. Ihe success of M‘Eacharil's move was
achieved by its honest suddenness. Sceptics who
at once assumed that no busy Mayor could possi-
bly decide to make a dash to the other side of the
world without having premeditated the surprise
were the first to discover that the Mayor had
stated his case truthfully.
It seems that the eternal round of speeches,
luncheons, private business, dinners, public busi-
ness, bazaars, smoke nights, and so forth, began
to tell on the willing goer a while ago. He suf-
fered from sleeplessness for about the first time in
his life. Then the sudden death of citizen M‘Car-
ron at St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball happened close
to his Worship, and gave him a shock. Walking
down town the other morning he felt ill, where-
upon he realised the awful foolishness of a man
having plans in the future what time he is going
the right way to get broken down before he gets
there. The next four months offered his only
chance of a holiday, he reckoned, so His Worship
five minutes subsequent to his new feeling of
dizziness, made up his mind to grab the whole
chance and make the very best of it. Within
strictly commercial and civic limits Smalcolm is as
wise as Solomon. Wiser than Solomon, in fact
for he has only one wife, and is going to England
to share his holiday with that weary Mayoress.
“Nance O’Neil does not wear a wig for her
Queen Elizabeth. Her own ‘ mop ’ is light-yellow
but to get the carrotty color of the Virgin Queen’s
hair she powdered with bronze powder very
effectively. Harris Ireland is probably the only
actress familiar to Australians who could play
Queen Bess with the aid of no more than a brush
and comb for her hair; but even powdered hair,
when well done, looks better than a wig. By the
way, probably no barrister in Australia now wears
a powdered wig. Writer remembers that the
present Lord James of Hereford, when at the bar,
used always to wear a black wig, powdered.
When he was addressing the Court the powder on
the bob-tails at the back would scatter over his
robe and on to the faces of the poople in the seat
behind him.
“In ‘ Hans the Boatman * Inez Bensusan wears
the only gown worth mentioning—a blend of
white and yellow. Lacey white draperies fall
loose from the yoke to meet dainty amber and
white frills bordering the skirt. Later, when
Mrs. Hans (Miss Bensusan) comes back from her
alleged elopement in dusty, despised disgrace, her
awful hat completely alienates sympathy. It’s
not too much to call that insane headpiece ‘ the
curse of the play,’ knocking the heroine com-
pletely out of court, as it does, and blasting
pathetic situations en mane. A woman billed to
faint, grovel and blubber, as a misjudged stage
wife must do, should pin on firmly a meek,
chastened but becoming little bonnet, warranted
to sit tight and look sadly sweet through thick and
thin. The spectators of the freaks of that floppy
black-crinoline monstrosity, which waggles tipsily
over one ear, tumbles over its victim’s nose or
dangles down her back, can’t think why she doesn’t
take it off on some pretext. Hans’ present dog,
though beautiful and good, is not an ideal canine
actor. In fact, he’s a mere borrowed amateur,
brought up non-professionally in vulgar plenty
amongst chops and steaks, First thing he does
when he comes on is to lick Miss Bensusan’s face
thoroughly as she lies in a swoon on the centre of
the stage. Ugh ! Parents are advised to take
stage-stricken daughters to witness this perform-
ance ‘Licked by a dog, go think of it in silence
and alone, then weigh against a grain of sand, the
glories’ &c.
“ Another of poor Lion’s crudities is a tendency
to scratch, promptly checked by Hans, of course.
For that matter, all the pet-dogs in Melb.
are clean enough to oat off these bubonic times,
and yet the vulgarians retain their uncultured
clawing ways. Scribe knows of a piccaninny
adopted bv white people and nurtured in the
theory and practice of cleanliness. Once, when
his benefactress warned him against fondling
“Hover” for fear of fleas, his face brightened and
he said wistfully, “ Me like ’em good scratch ! ”
“ At the Royal, “On Active Service” attracts
the plumpest playgoers available. Probably the
stout actress in the Hallelujah jersey is the attrac-
tion. _ Beholding her, they say to themselves with
conscious superiority, “ liow absurdly fat she is ! ”
T’other night the best-nourished figure in the d.o.
was clothed in black and scarlet tartan, arid had
its hair strained to its skull-top, where the scant
thatch culminated in a knob the size of a pea-nut.
As usual, all the fun in the play glimmers round a
pair of bare legs. There are no kilts in the plot
this time ; but there’s just as much innocent glee
provoked by a person who loses his clothing and
runs about towelled from neck to knees.
“ Always a thick sprinkling of men at Scherek’s
concerts —half-way house music-lovers, contemp-
tuous of music-hall catches and with a simple
pride of their own appreciation of ‘plums’— i.e.,
tuney bits, culled by cute Scherek from classical
masterpieces. On Saturday (June 23) an alarm-
clock, parcelled in brown paper, ‘ went off ’ during
the first orchestral item, to the horror of * its
owner, a blushful girl seated under the south
balcony.
“Same afternoon Una Bourne over-dosed the
audience with Schumann; and Lilian Boanas,
with an effective splash of cerise in her toque,
warbled agreeably. ‘Le Cid ’ was an enjoyable
orchestral achievement, with its under-current of
sadness, audible through the merry din of casta-
nets.
“The most pathetic thing seen in Melbourne
for some time was a songster in widow’s weeds
(fresh ones), warbling of her lost love, at a
swagger at-home recently. The words and the
weeds worked havoc, and vagrant tears worked
their way to squares of lacey cambric in many
instances. Woman’s selfish heart goes out to the
woe of weeds when it resists every other blandish-
ment.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
NECKWEAR
IN
Charming Variety
AND
Profusion,
*
oC'
Lace
Scarves, and
Eibbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Baok-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The last British census shows that there
are more Smiths in Ireland than there are
O’Briens, Ryan’s, Connors or O’Neills. Smith
also leads in England and Scotland.
The pretty Australian girl missionaries
who go to Christianise the unfortunate Chpw
should begin by improving the attractiveness of
the lady Chinee. The human male, of whatever
clime or race, is best convinced by the sweet per-
suasiveness of feminine beauty. Therefore, to win
the uneager Chinaman to modern civilization and
true faith, the lady missionaries aforesaid should
take plentiful supplies of P.D. corsets. The P.D.
is about the best religion the world has known.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
TlCHr^
I\UNNINC
IMACHINESI
Write lor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
m
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE S t REET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
GLOBE TEJIS have wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
What has become of “Outis,” “Niemand,”
and “ Aliquis,” of Sydney D.T. ? Did they suc-
cumb to too much “ secret conference ” ?
With the death of Dr. Lanigan, R.C.
Bishop of Goulburn, an ecclesiastical pension of
£2OO a year reverts to N.S. W. Treasury.
A London paper speaks of Premier Sed-
don as “an indefatigable dancer, although he
has reached the days when a concave partner is
desirable. ”
Of the 13 Premiers who have ruled
N.S.W., ten took titles. Two—William Forster
and James Squire Famell—died untitled, and
G. H. Reid has so far escaped—if you overlook his
“Right Hon.”
Two venerable clergymen have fete-days
early next week. Archdeacon Farr, long head-
master of St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, will be
81 on July 2 ; and Dean Cowper, of Sydney, will
be 90 on July 3.
Olivier, the Boer commandant who fell at
Rooikrantz, is described by a Sydneyite who
knew him well as singularly like the late N.S.W.
Railway Commissioner Eddy, both in appear-
ance and temperament.
Melb. Argus carefully omitted to print
any of “Banjo” Paterson’s account of his in-
terview with Olive Schreiner. Such literature,
it doubtless thinks, should not be encouraged,
even in the interests of truth.
An Australian Governor, credited with a
little mental perspicacity, observed lately, after a
dinner at which the editors of two “great ” daily
papers sat, “Where do the literary men of Aus-
tralia dine ? I haven’t met one for a long time.”
The politician’s name best remembered at
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) is that of Horace Tozer,
Queensland's Agent-General. Tozer has relatives
there, and almost all the boys andgirls who went
to the looal school with him still reside in the
town or district.
When the forthcoming portrait of Chief
Justice Darley is hung in Sydney Supreme Court,
that Court will be the possessor of the por-
traits of five Chief-Justices of N.S.W repre-
senting a period of 7« years. Two of the five
Dowling and Martin, died in office. Two, Forbes
and Stephen, climbed on to the pensioy-list.
Some Australian anniversaries for June •
Chief-Justice Griffith, 55 on 21st; President
Chaff ey Baker (S.A.), 58 on 22nd ; (A. L. Gordon
shot himself 24th June, 1870); Bryan O’Loghlen,
on 27th ; Federal-delegate Higgins (Vic.)
on 30th Cntchett Walker (N.S.W.) and Premier
ttuddon both celebrate their birthdays J une 22.
Many men many minds. S.A. Chief Jus-
tice Way concealed his opinion of clause 74 of the
Commonwealth Bill from his Govt., but commu-
nicated it privately to the British Govt. ; C.-J
parley confidentially told one and another, both
*° r . “so ln N.S.W. and in England ; and C.-J.
Irnmth openly announced to everybody what he
thought.
A certain Australian
legal practitioner is the
champion fee-charger. His
mania for collecting six-
and-eightpence is some-
times manifested in peculiar
ways. Even his friends are
at times surprised by re-
ceiving a bill of costs for
the privilege of having en-
joyed a chat with him on
a tram, or under a verandah
during a shower. A propos
of this, a popular brewer
tells how he and the law-
yer met in the street, and
how, walking along, they
discussed a local Act of
Parliament and disagreed
upon a certain point. As
they neared the learned
advocate’s office, the legal
luminary said, “Oh ! just
come in, and we’ll look the
Act up.” This was done,
and a few minutes sufficed
to settle the disputed point.
Next day the brewer re-
ceived an invitation to pay
five guineas for legal ad-
fice! On another occasion
the affable shark struck up
a yam with the man next
him in a railway-carriage,
who turned out to be a sea-
captain. With an eye to
business, the wily lawyer
jed the talk on to one or
other of the Marine Acts,
and treated the son of the
ocean to a learned disquisition on the same. A
few days later the captain was startled by a bill
of costs for £l7 17s.
Copeland, Cook and Fegan are the only
practical miners who have held the office of Mines
Minister in N.S.W. Cook and Fegan worked
underground for long hours and low wages, and
were expected to ransom their class. But miners
swear as loudly as ever.
Lieut.-Gov. Madden is, at the present
time, the best-paid public official in Australia.
His monthly cheque from Vic. Treasury comes to
£958 6s. He is drawing the full Governor’s salary,
plus the Chief Justice’s salary, and in addition he
gets Govt. House rent-free.
There are two Chief Justices Griffith in
the British Empire. One is in the Gold Coast
Colony. There is yet another Judge Griffith in
England. All have served as Attorneys-General
of British provinces : —one in Queensland, one on
the Gold Coast, and one in the Cape.
Sydney has had four C.E. Bishops—
Broughton, Barker, Barry and Smith ; and Tas-
mania four —Nixon, Bromby, Sandford and Mont-
gomery. Adelaide and Melbourne tie with three
each. Adelaide—Short, Kennion and Harmer;
and Melbourne —Perry, Moorehouse and Goe.
Since their lovable leader MacPherson’s
death, S.A. Trades and Labor people have not
suffered a severer loss by deaths or one which
they feel more, than that of George Duffield —a
man who was completely trusted both by the
Laborites and the general public who knew him.
Thus Kipling, in a note to an Adelaide
friend : “ I’ve also met Patterson ” —[alas for
fame! he spells it thus, with two “t’s”] —“the
Man from Snowy River. He rides like an angel.”
And perhaps, after all, “Banjo” would rather
have his riding than his writing praised—which
shows how good an Australian he is.
Ex Speaker Abbott wanders uneasily
about the floor of N.S.W. Assembly ; he feels
strange and uncertain after sitting in the chair for
nearly 10 years. He is so tall that he has to duck
his head when on a bench talking to another
member. By the way, he avoids the chamber as
much as possible, and is sensibly attending to his
health.
John Lucas, M.L.C., whose 82nd birthday
was celebrated on Sunday last, was cousin to
Sydney’s old identity George Lucas who died in
May last at the ago of 87. Both were born in
Sydney. John joined active politics in 1859 and
attained Ministerial rank ; George was a power in
election campaigns but never played the part of
principal.
“ Smiler ” Hales, now world-famous as a
war-correspondent, was brought up amongst a
family of staunch “Little Betnelites,” and was a
regular attendant at Sunday School until he
started an argument with the superintendent on
an apparent biblical error. Smiler was eventually
chucked out neck and crop, and the Little Bethel
knew him no more.
London Punch says of a war-aiticle by
“ Smiler” Hales:—
Only a column in length, but within that narrow space
is framed a picture of what War means unequalled for
vividness. Not since Forbes, writing in the same journal,
held the world breathless with pictures of the battlefields
of the Franco-Ucrman War, has anything been done in
journalism to equal this.
Andsome ex-Australian, inWESTMiNSTEKGAZET'i k
THE MARK OF OPULENCE.
ENVIOUIS PARTY : "Look at ’in! Twig the 'side.' Anybody ’ud
think ’e owned a bag er rats.”
sneers at “ Smiler ” because of his alleged Bulle-
TiN-like style. The inference is that Punch re-
gards the Bulletin style as the best it has seen
since 1871.
R. L. J. Ellery, the retired Victorian Govt,
astronomer, draws a pension of £7OO a year.
Baracchi, the working astronomer —a first-class
scientific man too—gets only £4OO a year and does
all the work Ellery used to do, as well as all the
work he himself used to do when he was Ellery’s
assistant ! Ellery seems to have spooned the
cream off the milky way and left Baracchi the
skim.
C.H.R. : Once took passage per Hobart-
to-Launceston train. It was the night mail; and
when I have said that I have expressed my feel-
ings on the subject for ever. Mine was a small
C ?,i n^ l artmen ,* : ’ stepped a quiet-looking,
elderly gentleman, dressed entirely in black. He
shivered, for the night was cold, so I offered him
a comer of my rug. He thanked me, and we
began to converse on ordinary topics. I men-
tioned the West Coast, '
and asked him if he knew
that part. “No,” he
said; “ my duties have
never taken me so
far.” “ Pardon me,
you belong to the
Church ? ” “ Wrong,”
he said, “ though I
admit I have soothed
many in their last
hours.” I considered
deeply. Was he an
undertaker? a pew-
opener ? a grave-
digger? Then
a thought struck
me. “In the
medical pro-
fession, per-
il a p s ? ”
“Hardly
that, either,”
he said, smil-
ing. “No ;
I’m a —a kind
of a—an up-
holsterer. ” He
seemed amused
at my inquisitive-
ness, and we relapsed into
silence. An upholsterer!
and soothes the last hours of
people! Strange! Perhaps
he’s a man-nurse. But a male
nurse isn’t an un-
less he rigs curtains up in a
sick-room. Perhaps—oh, hang
him! I’ll give it up. Then I
slumbered. Presently the train
st opped. “ Parattah ! ”
The mysterious uphol-
sterer awoke with a
snort, wished me
good-night,'and dis-
appeared. I walked
up the platform
and met the guard.
“That gentleman?
That’s Solomon Blay,
the hangman.”
Wliou Phil May was
in Sydney lie cultivated the
noble art of self-defence under
the tutelage of Larry Foley
and the twain became fast
friends. Larry onoe urged
May to “take on” the
wider field of England as
ho was firmly convinced
that as a black-and-white
artist he had no compeer.
“Right you are, Larry,” re-
sponded May, “let’s go together. I’ll travel as
the Champion Black-and-YVhite artist and you as
the Champion Black-and-Blue artist.”
Murray Smith, M.L.A., of Victoria, and
the late Prof. Pearson were undergrads, together
at Oxford, afterwards sat on the same bench in
Vic. Assembly, and later still went to London and
sat in the same room in Victoria-street, West-
minster-one as Agent-General for Victoria, the
other as his secretary. Whether there is any
arrangement that Smith and “the Professor”
shall be buried together nobody knows.
“Adelaide” writes :
Referring to Tiib Bulletin par. (June 16) that Major
Reay flatly contradicts the story that A. G. Hales and
Lambie recklessly galloped away from the Boers in Feb.
last and refused to surrender till one was killed and the
other was wounded : In justice to “ Smiler ” it should be
stated that Mr. Cameron, the West Australian corres-
pondent, at the time of the occurrence related substan-
tially the same story on the authority of the Boer com-
mandant, De la Rey. It was Cameron who was taken
blindfold to Lambie’s grave.
Rumors in Melbourne persist that the
Harmsworths intend starting a paper there. It is
most improbable. Some months ago Alfred
Harmsworth was approached on the subject, and
actually looked into it. He said, after examining
the figures as to population, &c., “ Well, I think
Melbourne is under-papered, and if I went into it
I should succeed. But Melbourne is too far away
for me, and, besides, all the capital I can com-
mand I want for my papers in London, and for
new schemes which I nave in my mind.” That
was Harmsworth’s view after carefully looking
into the matter, and he is not likely to have
changed it,
Writes “Banjo” in S.M. Herald re his
impressions of Kipling : “He has become Ameri-
canised, and says ‘yep’ for ‘yes’.” This is a
remarkable change of front in R.K., who, when in
’Frisco in ’B9, wrote of the American language :
Let me watch the people in the cars and try to find out
in what manner they differ from us, their ancestors.
They delude themselves into the belief that they talk
English—the English—and I have already been pitied for
speaking with “an English accent." The men who pitied
me spoke, so far as I was concerned, the language of
thieves. And they all do. ... A Hindu is a Hindu, and
a brother to the man who knows his vernacular ; and a
Frenchman is French because he speaks his own lan-
guage ; but the American has no language.
And now, it seems, Kipling also speaks “no
language,” or the “ language of thieves” !
IN THE HOUR OF VICTORY.
BIBULOUS JINGO CITIZEN (loq.): “ See that black
eye? Well, a Hanky good man gave me that
on Saturday; and this ’ere other eye is going
to be blacked, too, before I go home to-night.
It’s got to be a blanky good man, though, that
will do it, I promise you." (And he swag-
gered off to clinch the solidarity of the Empire
per medium of “a dirty left")
Minerva Victrix.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(To Miss Catherine Spence and Miss Rose Scott, and the
New Woman movement.)
O will she come with spinning-wheel,
And distaff in her hand,
Or will she come with sword of steel,
The Lady of the Land ?
O fare ye well, my dove-eyed girl,
And fare ye well with sorrow,
You were my sweetheart yesterday —
Another comes to-morrow.
Behold she cometh from afar,
Her face like morning glows;
She steps from burning star to star—
The splendid Sharon Rose.
O fare ye well, my dove-eyed girl,
And fare ye well with sorrow ;
You were my sweetheart yesterday , —
Another comes to-morrow.
The woman that I knew of old,
The maiden loved by me,
With eyes of blue and hair of gold,
Ah, where and where is she ?
O fare ye well, my dove-eyed girl,
And fare ye well with sorrow ;
You were my sweetheart yesterday —
Another comes to-morrow.
N.S.W.
V. J. DALEY
Hotel
Australia
Kates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “ There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all."
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Premier Life Insurance Company of the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE 'ZSSiS? OF NEW YORK.
CONSOLIDATED REVENUE ACCOUNT
Of the Company, commencing at day of organisation, February Ist, 1843, and ending December 31st, 1899.
£197,808,613 9 6
Outgo.
Claims incurred under Policies
(no re-insurances): —
Losses by Death
Matured Endowments ...
Surrenders
Annuities
Cash Bonuses to Policy-
holders
Commissions and Expense* of
Management, including Taxes
Amount of Insurance Funds on
December 31st, 1899
£ s. d.
45,477,842 6 9
9,642,438 3 7
28,929,879 8 4
1,315,040 17 5
20,548,135 2 7
30,327,224 15 9
01,508,052 15 1
£197,808,013 9 6
Note. —ln above Statement the pound sterling is taken at $4.87.
For full information regarding Policies apply at any of the Company’s Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
The plague has had its advantages for some
people, though not for most. The Sydney Safe Deposit,
for instance, has had a great accession of business during
the last few months, consequent on persons having de-
cided to prepare for the worst by placing their papers,
&c., in safety. The fear is that when a house is quaran-
tined valuables may go astray. It is well to be on the
safe side, and the Safe Deposit affords perfect protection
against either fire or burglars. It is well worth a visit,
anyway. The Deposit is situated in Ash-street, near to
Paling and Co’s.*
<3-0 TO HELL-
KJOLANb for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
• 74 Elizateth-st., Sydney,
Australian Stamps, bought, price-
lists gratia
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastie * Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof llats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.


Aboriginalities.
At a recent ‘ ‘ best-yielding ” corn-cob com-
petition at Windsor (N.S.W.) the 52 'competing
cobs yielded 531bs. of corn, the winning cob giving
20oz. The prize for the biggest pumpkin went to
an “Some pumpkins,” indeed !
“Perce”: But the biggest pumpkin was
grown at Warrnambool (Vic.). The farmer
told his son one day, in my presence, to get his
axe and chop a four-horse-load off it for market.
I said, “ If there’s more than one load in a pump-
kin it must be a big one.” “ Rather ! ” says the
farmer. “ I shoved the ladder beside it and got
on top to chop a load off last week. At the first
lick I dropped the axe into the hole, so I lowered
the ladder and went down inside to look for it.
While walking about ‘I lost my way and met a
man who asked me what I was doing. I said,
‘Looking for my axe.’ ‘No use, ole feller.’ he re-
plied, ‘ I lost my team of bullioks here yisteday,
and I bin lookin’ for ’em ever since.’ ”
* * • «
“0.P.”: Did you ever go pumpkin-
duffing ? All you need is a garden, a big pumpkin-
vine, and a few neighbors with pumpkins. You
go out at night and transfer your neighbors’ pump-
kins to your vine. But it is something of a fine
art, and requires practice. They’re good at it in
New England. Unless you know something of
the game you won’t detect the fraud. I know one
man who got 347 pumpkins off his one vine last
year. You see the transfer oheats the bobby’s
search-warrant.
* * * »
“Hori” : What about rabbit extermina-
tion? On Fish River (N.S.W.) some few sq. miles
are infested with the vermin. Three years ago a
Bathurst man arranged in Sydney for the sale of
rabbits for local consumption, and spent weeks
with the selectors’ sons in the “infested area”
showing them how they could get rid of the pest
and make wages. Next year the boys went mto
the business with a will, and trapped until there
were very few full-grown bunnies left. The land-
owner's, finding that trappers were making good
wages, decided that they should have a share, so
they now demand a stiff rent or royalty from
trappers. Many of the latter refuse to pay, with
the result that the rabbits are increasing to suoh
an extent that only wire-netted paddocks are
worth sowing. Is there not a clause in tho Rabbit
Act empowering Govt, to destroy rabbits at land-
owners’ expense, where the latter neglect to kill
and refuse permission to trappers to enter pad-
docks? One man deolines to allow trapper to
operate on his land unless he gets £2 per week, or
a royalty of 2d. per pair.
• * • •
Chambers’ Journal is an eminently seri-
ous publication. None the less it allows a certain
MARKED.
THE LION: “I make no great distinctions ."
F. Jones to Munchausenise thusly on things Aus-
tralian in a recent number :
The object of our journey was to take 250 prize rams
from Fremantle to Cooktown. These animals are so valu-
able (many of them costing £3OO each) that the owners
will not risk loss or injury to them by any other mode of
transit. (This is Beautiful.) A number of natives
were to accompany ua to act as servants, and as the
native will not travel without his wife, nor the wife with-
out her baby (this is even better), this mixed detachment
numbered some 40 persons. . . . The waggon contained a
keg of rum and a barrel of water, both under lock and
key. . . . Every day I had to go through the roll-call to
ascertain if any of the animals had strayed, and, if so,
tracking and recovering them.
Herein the English reader (God help him 1) is
given clearly to understand that each ram knows
his own name and promptly bleats out “ Present,
sir,” as soon as Drover Jones calls him.
• • • *
A side-light on the drought. On aN. Q.
station men who denuded dead sheep of their wool
were paid at the rate of l£d. to 2£d a lb. One man
bought the right to strip the sheep in a paddock
for £5, and cleared £lBO by the wool brought in.
On another station the manager offered a penny
a lb., and guaranteed 1200 dead sheep to the con-
tractor.
In the vicinity of Bog
gabilly Mountain, N.S.W.,
there dwelt two Chows who
both pursued the blushing
lettuce and parted with cab-
bagee for adequate cash re-
muneration. They were keen
competitors, and consequently
they lived on terms of animo-
sity, and threw their decayed
stock at each other in public.
Ah Tin was a Wesleyan, but
m course of time he acquired
the custom of the R.C. presby-
tery, and, finding it a better
customer than the parsonage,
he cemented the connection
by leaving the fold of Wesley
and transferring his immortal
soul to the care of the local
Father. About the same time
Ah Fat secured the cabbage
trade of the adjacent convent,
and he also renounced the
errors of Joss and publicly
acknowledged the spiritual
supremacy of the Vatican.
Thus the two cabbage mer-
chants were brought into
spiritual harmony, though
otherwise the feud raged as
usual. The situation was be-
coming interesting when, un-
fortunately, Ah Fat spoilt it
all by contracting some in-
ward complaint, whereby his
soul left its yellow tabernacle,
and his pigtail stiffened in
death, and Ah Fat went aloft.
Next Sunday Ah Tin, with
rage in his eye, went baok to
his old seat in the Wesleyan
Chapel and explained to the
preacher: “Ah Fat he go die ; Father Muffy say
Ah Fat five up in heaven. Then me come baok
here. No wan tee go to heaven now Ah Fat
there. Me likee go alonga hellee now.”
• • • •
“Violetta”: According to Stout’s “Psy-
chology,” “ the unfamiliar odour of an ant coming
from a strange nest has an exasperating effect.
The intruder is attacked and usually killed, but if
before being introduced it is first bathed in juice
produced by crushing some of the tenants of the
nest, no notice is taken of it, however widely it
may differ in appearance from these. It is incor-
rect to say that ants recognise other ants as belong-
ing or not belonging to their own family; all
depends on the irritating effeot of the unfamiliar
odour of strangers.”
• • • *
“ Pigeon Pair ” : I have always found that,
when a pigeon lays only two eggs, there is
one of each sex hatched. Is this invariably so?
• * • *
“ F.W.0.” ; Re Ooghlan's statistics and
other things. A
man from aGroper-
dom way-back
farming-d i s t r i o t
gave me the follow-
ing reasons for so
many couples living
together unmar-
ried :—“We never
have any money;
we always pay for
things with other
things. Well, the
parson comes round
about twice a year
on horseback, an’
he can’t carry
punkins an’ taters
on horseback; an’
we can’t get mar-
ried unless we pay
the parson. Every -
body’a wi 11 in’
enough, an’ if he
brought a waggon
” Fancy the
dignified parson—
chiefly Anglican in
those districts —
driving home with
a load of marriage-
fees : bags of
~ taters,” cwts. of
“ punkins,” and
perhaps a yearling
calf bleating on tho
top ! So tne very
way-back cockie in
W. A. and other
places fives in
conventional im-
morality. And,
seeing that—to ful-
fil legal requirements—the marriage-rite is com-
pulsory, why is not its celebration made gratis by
law ? And is the cockie immoral ? Perhaps it is
the parsons who most deserve the stigma.
* * • •
Dear Bulletin. — In footnote to “L.S.’s”
par. (8., 26/5/’00) you say that a man can run-
down a hare “if there’s just snow enough to indi-
cate the track.” This is not the case, though I
have myself run down hare 3 in the old country
after a fall of fresh snow on top of frozen hard-
caked snow, when the long legs of the hare sink
into the snow and so impede its running powers.
For a short sprint nothing beats a rabbit making a
bee-line for its hole with a dog after it. Have
seen hares “ stringing-on ” a dog not speedy
enough to catch them by slowing-down to allow dog
to make up, and then putting on a spurt.—Bob-
tail.
Dear Bulletin.—Re above comment on your
footnote to “L.S.’s” par. (B. ? 26/5/’00). The
running-down of a hare by a fairly-active man is
merely a matter of time if the man has a reliable
clue to the hare’s route. This the slight snowfall
to which you referred supplies ; and, to settle
that matter, I have myself, as a youth, assisted to
run down hares in this way, on one occasion after
several hours’ pursuit. The thing was done
exactly as it is by beagles—except that the dogs
have smell-o lue instead of sight- clue. And, as to a
hare stringing on a slow dog, the beagles aforesaid
have so little pace that a fair runner will often be
in at the death with them ; yet, bar accidents, the
exquisitely-nosed little tyke 3 seldom fail to run
into worn-out puss at last. — Alex. M.
THE TAILOR IN TOPHET.
DEMONIUS : " What is that new arrival grumbling about?"
POINTUS: “He says the suit of flames is a misfit, and wants to have a new one made to measure."
“ Redrof ” : “Dog can’t catch rabbit”
(“ 0.L.,” B. 2/6/’00). Rubbish ! Leaving out
fox-terriers, whioh are, if properly selected, re-
markably fast and “handy,” I onoe owned a
saddle-backed, bow-legged, 301 b. mongrel (beet
all-round dog I ever knew, too, despite want of
“ blood ”) that never failed to run down his rabbit,
night or day, once he got sighted or dose up on a
racing scent. Also, a man can run down a rabbit,
or even a hare, on a hot day, when the animal is
already exhausted and panting, by simply jogging
after it and preventing rest in the shade. I’ve
thus collared rabbits mysolf, and in ti-tree-
patched country, too, and I knew a man who had
run down a hare, in Scotland. Ho dosed its only
ogress from a 4-aore clover paddock, and chased it
till it lay down.
• • • •
Dear Bulletin.— About that increasing
Australian pest, the briar. I suppose something
will be done sorno day, but I know large areas that
aro already absolutely worthless from this cause.
Fire won’t eradicate the briar, and, as to grubbing,
the smallest particle of root left in the ground will
undo the whole work. Also, the swiftness with
whioh the plant thickens and advances is marvel-
lous. Apropos, was legislation tried in the case
of the Bathurst burr ? Should like to be informed
of the result.—G.
The citizens of Blanktown, in
Western N.S.W., were holding a monster
publio meeting to pass certain resolutions
upporting any Bill at all that would allow
the opening of hotels during certain hours
on Sunday. Towards the end, Rev. Mr.
Smith mounted a chair near one of the
side escape-doors. “Fri-eends, lam a
noted son of temperance, and ” —(loud
yells of rage)—“and I came here this
even-ing (A voice :“To go round with
a plate,” and laughter)—“ to tell you that
I am in favour of opening the hotels
during certain hours on the Lord’s Day ”
and counter cheers ) some people
in front fainted, and some in the centre
of the hall took fits) —“under one condi-
tion ” —(cheers, the enthusiasm of which
had never been known within tho
memory of the oldest inhabitant) —“and
that condition is : that they be opened at
no other time during the week.’ Great
and beery silence, broken only by the
crash of the Rev. Smith bursting through
the door as he fled from the wrath to
come.
Paddy Bond had a fine-looking
neddy that used, however, to fall down
violently and often. Paddy was overtaken
on the road one day by a shearer, and
after some inevitable horse-talk, the latter
offered to swap nags. They exchanged for
a trial canter, and Paddy’s new mount
promptly came down with him. “ I sup-
pose you won’t swap now,” said the shearer
“Oh, yes, I will,” said Bond—and the
bargain was struck. “Reckon I’ve got at
you a bit,” said the shearer. “ Not you ! ”
said Paddy; “ this horse has a fine style
of getting up again— but you just wait till that
wretch comes down with you, and you’ll find out
who’s best off.”
* • • *
Barkis : Re the drinking of salt-water by
kangaroos and wallabies (“V.,” B. 12/5/’OO, p.
14). Where wild animals are, and salt-licks are
not, the animals will visit any salt lake or ocean
beach at night to satisfy a natural craving.
Writer recently passed a moonlight night on the
beach in Macquarie Harbour, Tas., and saw wal-
labies, wombats, tiger cats, &c., lapping salt-
water —and not from lack of fresh.
* * * •
Karb : Re the fern-tick (“ Tassy,” 8.,
12/5/’OO :
It does not patronise the cat-head fern, but smoodges
in among the dry seeds of the todia and man-ferns, and
passers-by brush it off. Should it happen to alight
favorably it operates on man invariably in the small of the
back (where he can’t scratch), sinks its head in his flesh,
imbibes freely, swells corpulently, and itches damnably.
“ Tassy ” says that it is seldom larger than a pin’s head—
he must mean a hatpin ! It is hairy, and may be summed-
up as brother Esau to Jacob, the house-bug.
• * • *
“ Hori ” : “Have any of your readers
seen a wombat domesticated? Lately in the
vicinity of Jenolan (N.S.W.) writer met a twelve-
months-old specimen, tame as any household
kitten. Captured when very young, it refused
nourishment for nearly two weeks, when it was
taken in hand by a girl who suooeeded in foroing
milk down its throat. It is now a splendid speci-
men. It lives on good terms with all the ten
dogs, and dwells mostly under the house. At
meal-times it ooraes into the dining-room, often in
suoh haste that it can’t spare time to come round
by the door. On these occasions it just braces its
musoular back against a board or two of tho floor,
heaves the boards up, and gets through. It is the
f romptest animal at meal times that I ever saw.
t follows its mistress about the paddocks, often
for three or four miles, and would go eight miles
with her to ohuroh, only it is ohained up on
Sundays.
• • • *
“Trotter”: On a western Q. station I
saw lately 8000 sheep fed on oom, which was
spread out as if for fowls, and rationed at 2 or 3oz.
per sheep per day. The stud-sheep were fed on
oaten-hay out of troughing made for the purpose.
I also saw 30 bullocks killed for their hides, and
when these were removed praotioally bones only
remained. On a station not far from Tambo that
should depasture 200,000 sheep and 15,000 cattle,
29 tanks out of 37 are utterly ary, and where there
is a tank with water thero is neither grass, herbage
nor scrub for stock to feed on. There is no pos-
sible hope for these people as all the stock-routes
are closed owing to the drought, and on 500 sq.
miles of country they have only 500 head of catth-
MISS ROSE SCOTT, Sydney’s most prominent
lady advocate of Woman-Franchise.
remaining. I saw 200 dead beasts in what had
been a waterhole. The butcher, 20 miles away,
supplies this station with meat. Things now can’t
get much worse. A sheep-man told me t’other
day that he started with £20,000 and now
manages the property for the bank at £l2O a year.
Another, who had been 29 years on a selection,
was sold up, and now lives in a tent not 100yds.
from his former home —too old to make another
start. There are hundreds of such cases.
MACONOCHI E’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH EISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FreSfe Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings i® Tonjato SaOce
WATSON’S WHISKY.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, ■Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladles and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLANDS
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.


“N.Y.A.”: Can any Bulletin
reader give record size of goanna killed ?
In Sept, ’95, near Goondoobluei, N.S.
Wales, I saw one which I judged to be
6ft. from nose to tip of tail, and 10 or
11 inches through thickest part of body,
with a head the size of a large dog’s.
[“ N.Y. A.” starts off the goanna-liars’
stakes with a real “corker.”]
* * *
“Flabby Paul”: Apropos that
story about opening a dog’s stomach to
extract poison. Up here (Q.) an old
lady has a flock of geese which gorged
themselves so with young grass that it
killed some of them. The lady’s son
opened the rest of their “crops,” ex-
tracted the hard ball of grass, and
stitched them up again. That was six
months ago. and the geese are alive yet.
* * ♦
Ex Trooper : At dusk once I was
riding at a hand-gallop along a Vic.
country road, when I saw a magpie that
was flying towards me suddenly alight
on —nothin'll, said “nothing,” being
about sft. from the ground. I pulled
up to investigate, and found a stout
fencing-wire stretched taut across the
road from fence to fence. Searching,
1 found, hiding behind a log, a des-
perate criminal —then only recently liber-
ated after serving 5 years for sheep-
stealing (chiefly upon my evidence).
Knowing of his threat to “do ” for me
when he came out, I enquired what his
game was? “ Lea min’ Btondin,” he
growled. “Oh!” I said, “I haven’t
seen a circus for years, let me see you
perform.” He objected, but under per-
suasion of my revolver he reluctantly
mounted the wire, and, of course, fell
off immediately. This performance 7
made him repeat again and again, so
that he had enough of “ Blondin ” before
1 lot him go. I have ever since had a
great respeot for the magpie.
“A.T.P.” : Having recently to
call upon a fanner on business, T found
near the house a young man of 22 chop-
ping wood. Asked him if his name was
Smith (the ; farmer’s name), whereupon,
looking at me in astonishment, he re-
plied : “No, that is my father's name 1 My
name is Fred.”
» : * ’• •
“ Trav.” : Some sidelights on the Western
N.S.W. drought. Dined lately at Menindie, one
of the pastora 1 centres of the Darling—the depot
for what used to be reckoned some of the finest
river stations. The hotel-keeper seemed proud of
the meal, and especially of the meat—fair sirloin
of beef. “ Had it brought out,” lie explained—a
14-hour coach journey. He didn’t suppose there
had been more than three bullocks killed for meat
in the district for a year ; when one was killed due
notice was given and pieoes were distributed for
miles as dainties. And one time they fattened
thousands of head around the lakes (dry for the
past four or five years) alone. Went down to one
of the best station homesteads on the river, which
used to have considerable lucerne plots ; had
tinned milk and butter, just arrived from Victoria
by parcels post. On another station which a few
years ago ran nearly 100,000 sheep, I had (and
enjoyed) leg of goat for dinner, and didn’t know
till the tail told its story.
AFTER THE GALE.
DADDY: “Shut up, you little beyyar! You don’t need to howl.”
SONNY: “ Yes, Ido I When mum sees it she’ll say I doo’d it!”
Brought to Sydney, recently, from Nam-
tmcca River (N.S.W.) an ironbark girder 33yds.
long and nearly 3yds. square. r l he original
length—4oyds. !—rendered the monster-log im-
practicable at turns of road, &c. Pity that the
dimensions of the tree which furnished this little
stick are not to hand.
Dear Bulletin.— Re that “ giant sleeper ”
mentioned in Sydney D. T. 23/6/’OO. A beam 14ft.
square cannot have come from a tree that was less
than 20ft. in diameter, or 63ft. in circumference ;
and in this case the tree would have needed to be
of that girth at, at least, 120 ft. from the ground.
Not impossible, perhaps; but isn’t it a lot more
likely that the D. 1. s lmotypists, when they
dealt with that item, had not quite recovered from
the effects of their Mafekmg festivities ?
IN THE SALE-YARD.
1ST. DEALER: “ What was all the fuss when you came in just now?”
2ND. DEALER: “ Oh! One of my cows didn’t have ‘tuberculosis.’”
“ W.J.” : I saw, last summer, in the Vic.
Mallee, a slender black snake, ringed with narrow
white bands. Length about 24in. Can any
Bulletin reader inform as to species and venomous
possibilities?
Satisfactory to learn that certain of the
Australian “boys at the front” are not fancy
ghouls and murderers, after all—-but just plain,
ordinary liars. A N.S.W. Army Med. Corps
man, writing from Bloemfontein
We read with disgust numerous letters written by men
here to their friends in N.S. Wales and other provinces
and handed to newspapers for publication. A great many
of these are fabrications. In fact, Ananias and Bill Adams
are back numbers. One corps has collected a lot of
clippings, and I hear that they are to be read on parade.
One individual states that lie placed a piece of biscuit in
the mouth of a dead Boer. Thank God, I have not seen
such sacrilege, although if has been my lot to move
among the dead and wounded more than a great many.
Our officers and men treat both Briton and Boer wounded
alike. At Driefontein 1 was directed to wounded Boers
by British soldiers, who showed the greatest sympathy
for them.
Letter by Nelson on Jingo celebrations,
written in 1801 :
j dislike all these childish rejoicings for peace. It is a
good thing I hope, but I would burst before I would let a
d d rascal of a Frenchman know that either peace or
war affected me with either joy or sorrow D—n them
S COn ‘
THE BEST IS THE CHEAPEST,
Dnnk the best only no matter how expensive,
, , ~ . y lB the best product of Scotland,
and bottled in Scotland under the supervision of
Mer Majesty 8 excise officers,
When you treat a friend do not offer him
an ything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
w hi c h have won for it the public’s approbation.*
Lost in London.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ If Mr. Barton is there, and can’t come bank (laughter)
surely ."—Premier Lyne, reported by Sydney D.'P.
The People of this Sunny Land
Have all the world’s applause
For open heart and open hand
In almost any cause.
When Mother England went to war
To flatten-out tile Boer,
We raised a fund to aid her, for
We knew that she was [lore.
The Hat was passed with frenzied glee
And cries of “ Pay ! Pay ! Pay ! ”
From Tenterfield to Albury,
From Bourke to Broken Bay.
We are not proud, but there is no
Good cause at all, we say,
That from our doors did ever go
With empty hands away.
Our Charity’s a grand milch-cow
Whose golden milk is known
O’er all the world—and shall we now
Turn dog upon our Own ?
There is a Man in London Town—
Our only statesman grand—
Yet he, for all his high renown,
Is stranded in the Strand.
* Forlornly on the scene he stares,
And hopelessly he sighs :
And in the cook-shop windows glares
With fierce and hungry eyes.
The nap upon his hat is thin,
And broken are his boots ;
He soon will grope the gutters in
For fag-ends of cheroots.
Perhaps some souls of kindred sort
Stray meals for him will find ;
And he will feed at Inns of Court,
Who once at Windsor dined.
Or—who can tell what is in store ?
11 yet may be his fate
To beg kind folk to aid a “ pore
Australian Delegate.”
And yet, perchance, he may decamp
From London Town some day,
And come back in an ocean-tramp,
A grimy stowaway.
Never I If Fate his heart must break,
And Luck at last turn vile,
He will his final exit make
In proud old Roman style.
On London Bridge a form I know—
’Tis Toby’s—stands ; his eyes
Are fixed upon the flood below,
And solemnly he cries :
“ Australia Fair, adieu to thee !
Thy name still stirs my blood !
My soul shall soon in Sydney be,
My frame in English mud.”
He stands upon the parapet,
And, like a frog, he leaps.
The sullen waters moan ar*l fret:
The river seaward sweeps.
O rise and shove the hat around,
And send it hy the mails,
Wherever kind heart may be found
In sunny New South Wales !
Let other calls a while be dumb
While Barton’s in the rain 1
If he must in the steerage come,
We’ll bring him back again.
C.R.
25/6
42/-
Any initials in Monogram, as above, 2/6 extra.
The “Fxand R” Watch.
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE AQE.
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have Brequdt overcoil balance springs.
THEY are Jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are dust-proof and WATERTIGHT.
THE Cases SCREW' together.
THEY are specially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about, and go with great accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for 2 years.
THEY are 25/6 each in Oxidised Metal Cases, and
42/- in Solid Silver Cases.
THEY are made in every style of case.
FAIRFAX and ROBERTS,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Station Hand’s Hough Experience.
Mr. E. Koeppen, of Wilgar Downs Station,
(near Nyngan), has given us the particulars of a
rough experience which he has safely passed
through. He says:—“ For several years I suffered
excruciating agony from pains in the small of the
back, due possibly to kidney and liver troubles.
If I stopped to pick up anything 1 had to walk in
a bent position for some time before I could stand
upright,' so acute was the agony caused by
straightening my back. I also suffered from loss
of appetite, lack of energy, and general debility.
Nothing I tried was of benefit. A friend advised
me to use Dr. Williams’ pink pills, and shortly
after commencing them I felt better than I had for
years. I continued them until quite cured. lean
now walk erect, and stoop without pain; my
general health is excellent.”
In cases of liver troubles, first move the bowels
with some simple laxative; then commence Dr.
Williams’ pink pills as directed. Purgatives can-
not cure liver troubles—they merely move on the
undigested food leaving the stomach empty and
the patient weak.
By their tonic action on the blood and
nerves Dr. Williams’ pink pills cure so many
ailments, which are caused in the first place by
impoverished blood or unstrung nerves. They
attack the foundations of disease, and recovery
naturally follows. Over 27,000 suffering people
have been cured by their use. They are sold bv
the Dr. Williams' Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes fifteen
and three, post free, and by chemists and store-
keepers—But mind you ask for Dr. Williams’.*
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and, in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
B.: Every A.M.P. policyholder should send his
proxy to William Affleck, M.L.A., at Parliament House,
Sydney, to be used against the proposed extension of the
AM. P.’s business in England and elsewhere Ex-
Australian Nationalist: But people do on the average live
longer in Australia, aparOfrom all questions of infant-
mortality, immigration, &c., than in England. Coghlan’s
figures give the average expectation of.life for an Austra-
lian of 30 at two years more than for Englishmen of 30
Roughrider : Sketches lack life and spirit, and the paper
you use would damn them anyhow—as not permitting of
interlineation. Ordinary correspondents who hope
for publication should write in black ink, on
white paper, and keep their lines wide apart
Salt Bush : If your land is within the munici-
pality you are liable for rates. And rates are supposed to
he always based on capital value. If you bought a
£lOO,OOO block in George-street, Sydney, and used it only
to graze one cow on it wouldn’t make the rates any less.
.... Nithsdaie : Just plain sheep.... W. P.I). : Too soon to
begin the crusade about the selection of the Federal
capital. The subject would have grown tired before the
chance to decide on a site really arrived. Wait till the
Federal Constitution is passed, and then go it strong.
Just now the question is that of getting the Constitution
fairly out of danger.... B.S.': That good Australian story
was printed in about the fourth or fifth number of Tun
Bulletin 20 years ago, and it has been bobbing up ever
since... _E.S. ; But the prospective policeman has to prove
liis possession of at least fair intelligence. If you stipulate
for exceptional intelligence, you won’t get the men at the
price D.X. : No more “gang-gang.” Hard Hynes :
They are.. . .Judas : Force resideth not in big blanky-
words. As a rule, the more feeble the writer, the
“ stronger” the language he uses to hide his weakness-
like the steeplechaser who brandies himself up to the
fences when his nerve has gone.... Kxileson : Doubtful if
the power oan be acquired. Try Ward Lock’s “ How to
Mesmerise,” Is. Can’t answer for the person you men-
tion.... E. P. Lynd: 9 pp. received. If you don’t like
Tiih Bulletin, your remedy is easy—don’t buy it, don’t
read it. This paper lives not on anybody’s compassion,
but by the muscle of its alleged mind Banco!: Dull,
this time Ore. B.: When noxt you send 12 pp. micro-
scopic MS. please mail us at same time a new pair of eyes..
Rea: Why, you are evolving backwards 1 The germ of
the screw-propeller, as we have it, was found in just such
a screw as you suggest by way of improvement
Lorenz : Some of the whisky sold in Sydney at 3d. a go
consists mainly of methylated spirit which has been so
roughly rectified that you can still smell and taste
“paint” in it. It is quite impossible to sell honest
grog at the price, and, when you figure it out,
the man who expects the run of a bottle of high-
class spirits, with mineral water, for sixpence is a fool
W.J.G. : (1) The Transvaal tariff and constitution can be
found in the “ Argus Annual and South African Direc-
tory,” published at Capetown. Cole, of Melbourne Book
Arcade, would probably get you a copy. It is a very
small tariff, ami averages 9J per cent, on all imports.
(The Victorian tariff is about 26 per cent.) (2) The Uit-
lunders’ committee asked for the franchise without tak-
ing oath of allegiance. (8) The bulk of the British people
gain no benefit in particular from the ownership of the
Transvaal, Cape Colony, Australia, &c., but the wealthy
classes, who want new outlets for the profitable invest-
ment of capital, gain enormously. For instance, the Eng-
lish capitalists who founded the Union Bank of Australia
used to get 30 per cent, dividends per annum. Australia
was certainly worth a good deal to them. Think, too, of
the profits English capitalists have made out of the
Australian Agricultural Co. (which used to have a coal
monopoly in N. S. W.), the South Australian Co., the De Beers
Diamond Co., the Johannesburg gold co’s., &c., &c
J.L.F. : We didn't need a Laver to tell us that German
boys are more musical than Australian boyfl. The Ger-
man boy sings in all seriousness—but he hasn't a voice to
compare with the other fellow’s E.G.B. : The respited
Wainwright waw the brother of the murderer, and his only .
sin was in being accessory after the fact Men were
unloading rails to the tune of “ Field-Flowers-Goe / ”
Very good idea. The holier the name the better the deed.
J.A. : The Crown doesn’t go out of its way to “ inter-
fere between husband and wife ” if the injured party is
not seeking revenge. The doctor chose to be the victim
throughout the case, and that fact is now generally recog-
nised .... Oom Paul: Leave the skating club to manage its
own business. Candidates for clubs are always being
black-balled. And, by the way, it is a libel to print that a
would-be member of a private club has been black-balled...
E.G. : Name the well-dressed ex-criminal who airs his
splendor on the 810 ck... .lI.G. : The unfortunate book-
ing-clerk was killed by accident. Why speculate as to
whether three gossiping women had anything or nothing
to do with the accident ? G.F.11. : YVhat’s the good of
Progressive League-women railing against old-men ob-
structionists? Let the enthusiastic angels go around and
snort at their own sex. All women will get a vote when
they all, or half of them, ask for it in earnest E.A. :
Transparently false. The only people who knew of one
manager being in trouble would know which manager.
Therefore, why should all the other managers wish to
parade themselves? Liars lack reasoning-power, as a
rule. The exceptions to the rule don’t get bowled out.
You are bowled out lI.P. : Neither Sudermann, nor
Ibsen, nor Sardou has written a play to compare with
Pinero’s “ Tanqueray ” for absolute realism. Pinero was
unfortunate in having his great dramatic story labelled
by the critics a “ problem play.” There is no problem
suggested in “Second Mrs. Tanqueray.”... .E.R. : You
seek to publicly congratulate your popular friend on his
release from the asylum and his recovery of mental health.
If you want to do him a good turn, say never a word
about it beyond remarking that you’re glad to see
him well. Let it absolutely stop right there


THE RIVAL WORRIERS.
GEORGE TURNER : “What has he Rune to deserve your confidence?"
PREMIER M'LEAN : “What have I done not to deserve your confidence?”
VICTORIA : “What! At it again? Oh, my poor head!”


Barton (to Chamberlain): V There, that’s settled at last! And having secured
Federation under the most liberal terms possible, I may now return to Australia.
" Aid, by-the-bye, if you happen to have "
a boy you can spare for a few minutes
I would like to send a cable for money
to pay my passage."
Ltoe : “ Well, if anyone will supply
me with a batter word than • stran l.'d ’
to express old Harton's position 1 will
adopt it gladly.”
Barton in Lon-
don, or what may
happen if that £5OO
is not forthcoming
He might turn an honest penny
by sweeping crossways.
Perhaps—
Or leoture on Palestine^
« Wish to goodness they’d hurry up with that £500 ; Fm getting as thin
as a shadow 1 ”
Or disguise himself as a Count
and supply street music.
Think of lodgings like this for
Australia’s Noblest Son ! Sji _
' He might work his passage.
He has had some experieuce
of “stoking” while in England.
Or become a stowaway.
Toby (having arrived at laat, to a few choice spirits): “By Jove ! boys,
living in London is jolly expensive ; why, I hadn’t been there four
, months when bang went a thousand quid ! ”
But the money
having arrived, he \
buys return passage,
afid strolls leisurely down
to the steamer —
Where he arrives just in time to see the vessel
under way, and too far out in the stream for
a stout gentleman to jump on l>>ard. " P’raps,”
tie says, “ they’ll send a locomotive or some-
thing back after me.”
STRANDED IN THE STRAND. TOBY BARTON “GETS LEFT” IN LONDON.


3*
s
A. SAUNDERS
815.517 CEORGES T
a SYDNEY
„ ~ ~ A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “The Challenge,'* 15s; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
(Single or nouule) £2loa.
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 108, £5. 16c. Solid Gold
£6 10s, £O, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. PuiJ
Silver, 10 s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart.
10s, small 8s (Id.
Full Size
Gold Brooch, 6s 6d. Special value.
_ A. SAUNDERa
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 6s. Huntint
Cases, £2 10s, £3. Written guarantee.
Send for Prino T.iaf.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold 2-Bar Pearl Set and Red Stone Scroll
prwy'h.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra strong, 10s.
16c. Gold 16s ; 18c. Gold 20s. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s dd
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Wish Bone and Pearl and Turquoise
Bee, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Gold 3-Bar and Red Stone Brooch, 16s.
Very Neat.
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold, 8s 6d and lps.
8 Front, 15c. Gold, 12s 6d and 15s.
Send, for List.
a. k.\i
Wew Model TT&ter'oury, {-plate, Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled, 16s 6d ; Silver, 35s ; Gold,
£2 15s. These Prices are Specially Reduced.
„ . „ A. BAUNDEJU.
1. N,w Secret Name Br<>eeh, • TMamondi,
mi i Diamond and t Ruble*, tt 10*: Cheaper
&J»e. Urn. Any Name FKKIi
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 15c. Gold Key, Heart & Ivy Broooli
80s ; 18c. Gold, £2 6s. The Very Latest.
bAUNDERS.
Register** 9c. Gold Aniethytt Brooch.
17# 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Col*, 86#/
Ouj Latest Motto Brooch.
16c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 265. Very Cheap.
A. SAIUNPERS.
Latest Gold Brooch, I'earl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2.
16c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 16s. Special Value.
OHARM.
Gold Mizpah, 4a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Brooch, 10s 6d. Our
own Registered
Design.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
Horseshoe, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, 128 6d.
Name Free.
CHARM.
Gold, Amethyst,
and Pearls, 15s 6d;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Charm, 10s.
Very Latest.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Gold, with
Enamelled Post
Office, 10s.
A.SAUNDERS
CHARM, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d
Special Reduced
Gold Trilby Rings,
5s 6d ; with Ame-
.thyst, 7s 8d ; with-
out Chain, 8s 6cL
Gold Bell and Chains,
4b 6d 3s 6d 2s 6d.
i . SArrrDSES.
8 'ECIAL MAI’E liOTHEEBAJC ITO 3,
Full Cap, £3 108 : Extra Jewelled OfarouvuniVer
Balance, £4 10s ; Kevl.-ss Full Cap, £S.
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed
A.
toadies’ Waterbury Watch, Keyless,
18s Cd; Pure Silver, 30s ; Gold, £2 los.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Link, 20s; 15c. Gold
85s. Silver, 4s.
Uoid H«*rt & Dumbell Links,
128 Bd j lie-, 25s ; Silver, Bs 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
New Stj'le Gold Links, Extra
Strong- and Heavy, 22s (id ; 15c.
Solid Gold, £2 2s. Silver,4s (id.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbell Links,
9c. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Links, 18s Cd, 20s,
265, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d Extra.
a. sawders.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold 1900 Pearl & Diamond Brooch, 20s.
«N!MS
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 l’earls, 365.
Bracelets to Match, £2 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooe.h, 7s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Erin-Go-Bragh B ooch, 17s 6d ;
15c. < old, 30s ; 18c. Gjld, 355.
A SAUNDERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 30s :
18c. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
l»c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
*4 10s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
180. OoW, 6 Opals,
i-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNTERS.
18c. Gold, 8 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £6.
A. SAUNDERa
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2los,
£8 ; 16c. Gold, 80s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Old English
Coin, Gold Mounted,
108.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss, £3;
16c., £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Keyless Waltham, j-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s ; 14c. gold, £5 os ; Extra Quality, £7 10s,
£lO ; 18c. Gold, £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£3, £4, £5. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s (id ;
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizpah Brooch, 12s 6d
Silver, 4s 6d.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed,
Silver Hunting Kevless, 265, 80s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £6
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s 6d.
Our Newest Gold Bird and Bell, 6s 6d.
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, 1 6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
a. haundcri.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flag Brooch, 20s.
Ours is the Australian Flag.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition — A Special Easter Show or Send for our 1900 Complete illustrated Book
" ' = free anywhere.^^
9
Leading Art Jeweller,
815 4 817 George St.
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
STATION,
'liauplij


The N.S.W. Public Service Board.
A Civil Servant writes ......
poTe'anda' long findmg
jgr-JST
head and front of whose offending
pleted their 60th year-the appointment of «oyew,
niH Sfinendiarv is quite another matter. ** .
which compels recognition of the
age-limit retirement on cml-servants. No oim not even
the PSB., will seriously contend that a man ot w is
necessarily incapable. But the Mjß..do*'
times and then at other times it doesn t , which inconsis
tency’ is its essential characteristic and pervades every-
thing A few years ago, amid much parade and ostenta-
Board graded all the positions in the Service and
tion of paying proportionately to /? LT p u bUc Service
All of which was in accordance with the Public Service
Act. But the salaries thus apportioned are not all paid,
which is in accordance with the Public Service Board-a
board being an insensible thing that is wooden at both ends
Of course in some instances these salaries are paid. Butthat
is only the natural concomitant of the circumstance that
in oilier cases thev are not. Which is consistent with the
consistently inconsistent character of the Board’s' 10 “ -
The grading was the most prominent featureof the
Board's scheme, and it is a permanent feature-except
that no attention is paid to it. The next step
importance was the institution of the annual-increment
system, which (as annual increments are only payment by
old age) would effectually stultify the promised payment
by merit (if it had not died of asphyxia), provided the
Board considered it obligatory. But the Board considers
that the Board is the Blessed Trinity, and the Board is a
religious body holding nothing obligatory on the Trinity.
So the annual increment system was christened, received
its fine name, and was then spanked and put to bed.
Some officers received their increments ; but this was
necessary inasmuch as others did not. For the Board is,
above everything else, consistent. It is also like a crab
and runs straight, on occasions. But for all this it is a
pitiable reflection that one of N.S. Wales biggest'.public
institutions, a feature, almost, of the Constitution
itself, is controlled by men who cannot even frame
the programme they propose to carry out; whose
two most important laws are in hourly conflict, each
jeering at the impossibility of the other. For the
annual increment system (assuming it receives attention)
cannot live harmoniously for one moment with the policy
(assuming it receives attention) of paying offleere -or
work actually performed. If you fix the salaries of two
men according to value now, and then start them on
regular annual increments, the man who improves
and the man who deteriorates progress equally, and pay-
ment by value goes under. But the two .systems are
alleged to exist side by side, so some men get annual
increments as a matter of course, and others are told that
they can’t have annual increments because there am t no
such thing, and that the only way to get an increase is
bv showing to the Board’s satisfaction that they are of
increased value to the service. Others again, so far from
getting annual increases, can t even get the full salary
which the Board has allotted them. Writer knows an
officer, qualified by the Board’s tests to occupy positions
carrying salaries up to £3OO a year. Same officer at pre-
sen t'fills a position graded by the Board at £2o° o year,
and he cannot get even that! This only by the way.
Truly a Board is a flat, unreasoning thing made of wood.
At Broken Hill, situated in what was,
before the drought, one of the finest pastoral dis-
tricts in N.S.W., steak is now 101 b. per lb. and
chops 7d.
A Police-court idyll:— .
It was a day or two ago in an Australian city Police-
court and the Beak announced that, as usual—
dames ! —he would “ fix up the females first! ” The tall
myrmidon called on Mary Smith, and Mary stood forward
and convulsively clutched the spikes. She was a good-
looking woman of about 27 or so, and as she bore no signs
of having celebrated the Relief of Mafeking overmuch,
the Stipendiary actually looked at her twice. She was
evidently a new hand, she hung to the bars so hard and
looked so appealingly toward* Robert —who replied with
a deprecatory side-look. She was charged with ‘ solicit-
ing." The constable explained that otherwise she had a
very good char-racter —a very good char-racter indade j
she wurrked in a laundry und her wages wax 10s. per
waake, und she’d a choild to support, yer worrrship, und
10s. per waake was not enough, und he didn’t see rightly
what else she could do, yer worrrship, but “ solicit. His
enquiries at the laundry had proved the truth of her
statement about her wages and her child, and that she
had the reputation of being a sober, hard-working woman ;
and he recommended the case to his worrrship as a harrd
one—a very harrd one, indade, sorr.” The Beak was per-
plexed. He asked the bobby why he arrested her, and
the man in blue, though somewhat staggered, replied
that having caught her loitering and “ soliciting, he had
no option but to perform his unpleasant duty. The Beak
hummed and chewed his penhandle; then be said,
" Haw ! ” and looked at the vigilant officer with an ex-
pression which said plainly, “You’ve made this mess,
and now you can just clean it up 1 ’’ The pohceman
understood the “haw!" and he
suggested “ the rising o’ the coort.” The mapstrate de
murred as it would record a conviction against her. Then
he turned to the woman who still clung J
the iron bars, with, “How much would r r-nnld make
make to live as an honest woman J “ (rl n -said
15s. altogether, your worship, I couldpuU
the poor creature. The pohceman hit the desk, r P“
yer worship might see your way clear t s*, re ™f
her own reconysances, to see if she can obtain the fiftee
bob a week ! ” he said with all the enthusiasm of asudden
inspiration. The Beak clutched at the inspiration, and
papers were filled in and Mary asked to signandthen
told to go and try and make arrangements for los per
week, and to let the Court know when the arrangement
was completed. So Mary departed tremulously grateful.
A tall, sympathetic-looking young reporter rose hastily
and glode out after her. While the next case was pro-
ceeding he returned and resumed hisplace, looking sonie-
what uneasy. The Court went on, rapidly turning o«
drunks, langwidges, and riotous-conduct cases at double
speed to make up for the delay in Mary s case. and was
still at it when that young woman stole into
whispered something to the gushing pohcenian who
actually blushed, smiled, coughed, and looked at the
reporters' desk apologetically. The tall reporter'flushid
turkey-red, and bit his pen very hard i then the po
man cleared his throat and informed his
that the case of Mary Smith was now
lady had come to an arrangement with a kind Mhtleman
by which her income would now be 15s. per weel ?> a ' . t *
would no longer nade to be guilty of breaking the law by
loitering, etc. The Beak smiled, the court rippled. an
the kind, charitable reporter’s face glowed a duskv rtd as
he went on writing very fast. He was a brave man, that
reporter.
Prospectus
OF
THB
Ovens Valley Gold Dredging Company,
’ _. 7/ Api 7RQQ JVIiS. IV. i
rht, Victoria, between "uvens ana bbcwhiu
of tne jm.s.w. border, and three hours train journey from Albury.
(To be registered as a “No Liability” Company under Par. 11, Companies Act, 1899, N.S.W.)
- £15,000 ±*r 30,000 Shares of* 10».
miles
i referred to herein.
No
Liability.
NO CASH TO VENDORS.
Although the Vendors will have a considerable amount of Compensation Money to pay
Freehold and Orchard Properties, they are so confident of the richness of h
accept the whole of their interest in shares. 7,000 fully paid up shares is the actual amount the
Vendors will receive, as they have to allot the property owners 5,500, together with cash, wind ,
including sundry expenses, will total upwards of £l2OO. ,
The Vendors and their friends are also taking up a considerable number of Contributing Shares,
and have already lodged applications for over three thousand (3,000).
The whole of the proceeds from the sale of shares will be placed to the credit of the Company, less
Brokerage and Flotation expenses.
x r
DR. OLUBBE, Macquarie Street, Sydney. r7v, RAN M!>isli'nt» 'avd^evY'* 6 ’
W. DIXSON, Ebq. (Dixson & Sons, Tobacco Merchants, Sydney).
R W HARDIE Esq. (Hardie & Goruian, Auctioneers, Sydney).
MICHAEL MEAGHER, Esq.) (John Meagher & Co., Merchants, 82a Pitt Street,
*Mr. I’. W. TEWKSBURY will Join the Board on flotation of Companj
BANKERS:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Sydney, Melbourne, and Bright.
SOLICITOR:
WALTER G. PARISH, Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
LEGAL MANAGER ;
WALTER HARDIE, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BROKERS:
Messrs. RANDLE A WILLIS, Martin Place, Sydney.
Kew, Victoria.
Sydney).
r |IHIS Company is being formed to acquire ana workLe'L^ent^cioim) and
T ss " ocomp “-
of transit of machinery from the Railway Station practically ml.
It is proposed to secure a Bucket Dredge capable of treating MO loads of hour tlie
The workings of the class of machinery mentioned has been brought k ™ idly M»R• it
enormous returns obtained in New Zealand and other places t t annroached by Syndicates with a view
The owner of the orchard portion of the property-hassetm.es been a P P pegged out quite a number
of obtaining concessions for mining purposes but hitherto withoutßuccess. t M Pgg orchard property
of times, and the owner even threatened that the property would be worked in spite>« of the owner,
is exempt under the Mines Act of Victoria it was fn ii v treating with the owner, who, after a good
Tiie vendors have fortunately overcome this to work the orchard, the
JvS dX thereon. The whole o. the OMh oon.U.r,ti.n b»
central position of one of the most important leads in the , reviva j ; n „ o ld mining by centrifugal pumps
ous deposits, and which is at the present time the centre of i a remarkable revival in gma
and dredges. Gold is distributed so freely on the prppe ty K b to work the ground contained in the
holes and making other surface excavations. Many / b fc the presence of water in quantities too large to
wfesa^NSwwaßta^^
worked-out area with the cream of its auriferous deposits abstracted. - f ground can be secured by the
oo„,sm'a» - •—— orer
have been made with the primitive sluice-box and pick and s tbe ]( f nietbo d and working out the
a miner who has supported his family for upwards of 30 yearn by sinking on the om revented B t he lead
wash on this particular ground, but, as pointed outby the vep ’ouertv is doubly valuable inasmuch as it has
being followed on to the property secured by the vendors. Thus the property is va u d value o{
been proved beyond a doubt to contain a very valuable aun e Richardson and Blair’s Report, will give the reader
the gold in this lead is £4 2s. fid. per oz„ based on a ff B VorLd by Sate machTnery.
ssssfaUKSf r,2 sus&ft ssarffiaa w* «»,>.»-
“' l *S°, , S» U i„ S ~« the n™. Ol the pert... t. end da. - egg*.
th ' S,TS S oXo'? Me. the Company's Solicitor, and the tulte.t inlem.tien win be
offered bv him as to the nature thereof.
1899 Aug. 24th— Danibl Oarmody and Pearson William Tewksbury
1900— May 31st—James Duncan and Pearson William Tewksbury
1900—June Ist— George Rayner and Pearson William Tewksbury
1900— May 19th— William Solly and Pearson William 'Tewksbury
iqoo— June Ist Edith S. Oroft and Pearson William Tewksbury
1900— June Ist John Chandler and Pearson William Tewksbury
Special Reports from Richardson and Blair >
Mining and Dredging Experts.
RICHARDSON & BLAIR,
Consulting Dredging Engineers,
Gold and Tin Dredgers.
Ohab. E. Richardson, m
»te Manager Mataktaki & Manorbars
G.D. Cos., N.Z.
11 Vickery's Chambers,
82 Pitt Street,
Sydney, November Ist, 1899-
David K. Blair,
First-class Certificate of CompeteßOjr,
Board of Trade, London,
Late Engineer Manorburn G.D. Co., H-*.
P ' mI R B ”ve having inspected your Ovens Valley Gold-Dredging Company's Property, situate at
L. a . . , < « • J J nnlra ond f.ho
P ° re |he n ctJSsM of 73 acres of flat, adjoining the Ovens River, partly laid down in grass paddocks, and the
rem^ e Jroun o dfs a ill low-lying, and eminently suited for Bucket Dredging, there being no engineering difficulties
that will m any way interfere with derasß ‘entfreTv'free from clay, with a bottom of soft, decom-
The gold-bearing wash is a rough gravelly n e P? T_, (le 15 From information obtained locally from the
sEisßa *btsat.™ - «•»- <* -a— ■>- * “
extensively worked above and below your ground) traverses the entire length of your claim. After carefully inspect-
Wit^e‘ river your claim at the present time, it having cut its way to a level of IB feet below the old
” Ve There on your property, in fact in the greater part of it the water-level is not
mor ifcwUl be necessary” 1 tobbAng' l inVsmall S keep the water circulating in the dredge paddock. This can be
smadexpense. The 1 length of race required will be 120 chains, and cost about 7s. per chum, or a total of
5 as* sssyus. tsstssi s rs#* 1 *
-S3E“S2SS£C -U-
-is CERTAIN to produce highly payable results. {aithlully>
RICHARDSON & BLAIR.
11 Vickery’s Ouambers,
76 Pitt Street,
„ „ 0.. j. wnTH Sydney, February 19th, 1900.
To Messrs. Randle a Willis, ’
Martin Place, Sydney.
We beg to report having further inspected the Ovens Valley Gold-Dredging Company’s Property, situated at
P ° re £uS? in consequence of the very dry season, we were able to
gink deeper tha“oTthe, previous occasion, an§, as anticipated, highly satisfactory results were obtained
We were also able to ascertain that the false bottom came in at from 12, in the shallowest places, to 20 feet from
the surface in the deepest ground, and, as the auriferous deposit rises to within 2 and i feet of the surface, there is
fullvlo tolB feet or fn estimated average of 14 feet of wash to work on, which carries gold right through.
We also found that timber suitable for a great part of the pontoon can be procured from a mill quite near the
PrOP Abundanceo* t flrewooiFis hand price, delivered on the ground, about 9s, per cord
The Kailway Station is within 200 yards of the claim, thus the transit of machinery from tram would be trifling.
We 6 consider the area of ground an,pie for dredging purposes; the whole of it is auriferous, and can be turned
over at a profit Should the Company desire to increase the area to 100 acres, this can be done at a small cost for
surface damage, asthe property is pegged in such a manner as to permit of 30 to 40 acres more, a continuance of the
Bam There°isibil b utdy notWng d to prevent this ground being worked on the most economical basis ; the suitability
of the ground for dredging will enable it to be worked at the minimum of cost.
Tours faithfully,
BieuiDnenu a ri Ain
DREDGING.—The great success attending Dredging depends upon the large quantity of stuff which can be
treated at the MINIMUM OF COST.
The following table will show the results from one Dredging plant, treating 100 loads of wash per hour, based on
yields of 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 grains to the load
j.' ror!1 the above calculation the reader will be able to form some idea of the enormous profits that the Ovens
Valley Company is like to derive when operations commence.
Branch of the Bank of Australasia, or on application to the Brokers.
Copies of Prospectus, containing 1
further Reports, Photos, and Plan, can be obtained at any
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected. —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
POOD is not only highly nutritious,
but ig most easily digested, and is so delicious that it Is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BE USE ITS FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by «-
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
* British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
. AND
THE AGED.


POLITICAL
POINTS
A “ Christian Citizens’ League ” has been
formed in Melb. A lot of reactionaries want to
substitute priestcraft for State and presscraft.
AUSTRALIA TO J. BULL.
In War I may take care of thee,
In Law thou must take charge of me I
N.S.W. ex-Premier Reid did not venture
to push his motion of censure on Premier Lyne to
a vote. It appears that had he done so, Lyne
would have had a 4 to 1 majority.
When the Lyne Govt, presents its pro-
mised Volunteer Bill an effort will be made by
some of the country members to make land-grants
part of a volunteer’s remuneration.
Cabled that there is “ no question of con-
quest ” in the invasion of China by the Powers.
‘ No question of conquest ” —where have we read
that before ? Can it nave been about the Trans-
vaal?
Lord Beauchamp’s unnecessary warrant
authorising N.S.W. Leg. Assembly to elect a
Speaker to replace the retired Abbott was a
grotesque blunder,' but one to be amused at in-
stead of indignant with. There are officials about
him who lcnew quite well that the Governor’s
warrant in such cases was abolished by Act of
Parliament a lifetime ago, but because they were
not consulted they let the Governor go his own
way,
THE YOUNG IDEA.
FATHER (to Tommy, who is proudly showing off his new sailor-suit): " But you must remember,
Tommy , it’s not the coat that makes the gentleman.”
TOMMY : “I know, father — it’s the trousers.”
The recent haggling over Barton’s allow-
ance as Federal delegate to England shows that
the N.S.W. Parliament is about the meanest poli-
tical institution on earth, barring Vic. Parlia-
ment, which gave Graham Berry an annuity
without providing at the same time for his wife.
The JVI.L. Oppositionists, it is reported,
have decided not to elect a leader or a whip. In
fact, if they did, so there wouldn’t be much of a
party left to be led, or much of a tail to be
whipped. Besides, they hope that by letting
things drift they will hasten the disintegration of
Seddon’s party, which they have been prophesying
for the last nine years.
Only three N.S.W. Speakers—W. M
Arnold, T. A. Murray and W. M‘Court —rose to
the Speakership from the Chairman of Committees’
chair. As a rule Parliament does not promote
from the lower position, the impression being that
the chairs require different powers.
N.S.W. Civil Service Superannuation Fund
is practically “ broke ” —at least, it will be on pre-
sent appearances in five years from now. Then
either payments must stop and theoldC.S. pen-
sioner go to the Benevolent Asylum, or else the
suffering country must come to the rescue.
The Philp party holds out a promise of
electoral reform as a sop to electors next session.
Said electoral reform to consist of One-man-one
vote plus One-adult-one-value. The latter phrase
is designed to cover a redistribution of seats by
means of which the southern pig is to be greased
for his loyalty and the Northerners and Centra-
lians to get their lawful due for past recalcitrance.
Solomon seeks to work up a no-c< nfidence
motion against the S.A. Ministry, but is not ex-
pected to succeed. Another fate, "however, might
be in store for the Holder crowd if Playford or
Glynn could be induced to lead. But it so
happens that the politicians named are anxious
to keep sweet with the electors in view of the
coming Federal elections, so they are walking
circumspectly.
The Bulletin invites the attention of the
workers, especially the miners, of N.S.W., to
the ukase (already acted on in several cases) of
certain Wyalong employers that any employe of
theirs daring to openly differ from them in re the
S’African war shall lie sacked. Do the workers
endorse the pronouncement that there is to be less
liberty here than in England and not more than
there is in Russia ?
S.A. Register, to influence Parliament
against the Holder Ministry, protests (June 19)
violently against the' despatch of Kingston to
London as a Federal delegate, although months
ago it recommended him as the right man.
Besides, had he not gone he would probably have
won his seat in the Leg. Council and would have
secured the return of a second Laborist in Central
district. It takes a lot to satisfy some Tory
papers.
It is printed that “ Since John Forrest
became Premier the population of Westralia has
increased from 50,000 to 180,000.” Which recalls
the fact that since The Bulletin’s fox-terrier
pup became one-eyed the British have invaded
the Transvaal, and the Powers have started to
peg-out the Chinese Empire.
“ The excessive drain on the Treasury
caused by the sending of Victorian contingents to
South Africa.” That, according to Chief-Secretary
Shiels, is the reason why filters cannot be placed
in the State schools, where the children are
habitually refreshed with diluted typhoid. War
and pestilence have always gone hand in hand.
AT “THE TWO OYSTER-KNIVES.”—AFTER
THE CELEBRATED DIVORCE-CASE.
LATH PLAINAIFF: “How's my wife getting on?”
Late Co-respondent : “O, sp [?]! How’s
mine ?”
Isn’t it about time the Jingo party raised
the question of Australian contingents for China?
The Chow disturbance threatens to develop into
a far bigger trouble than the Transvaal war—an
all-round European row, in fact—and Britain,
with the Boer shindy still on hand, is short of troops
for a big demonstration. And there are stacks of
Australian girl-missionaries in Chow Land, who
are in danger of being sawn each in 18 pieces by
the Boxers.
Poor J. L. Purves' effort to get into the
Federal Parliament is indeed pathetic He travels
round all the Melb. suburban meetings with the
same speech that he has been delivering since the
beginning of the war, and which he got off five or
seven times on Mafeking day. Once loud in his
advocacy of “cutting the painter,” he is now
using up all his former arguments for a mighty
upheaval by turning them upside-down—a very
simple process to the legal mind.
Westralia is a good place for shindykits.
The Govt, constructed a big dam at Sutherland
between Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie—largely to
supply its trains with water. Then it leased the
dam for a song to a private co., allowed it to make
a tramway connecting the dam with the State
railways, and buys water from its own dam off
the qo. Also it pays the co. heavy freight charges
—much higher than its own regular rates—and
the co. was doing well when last heard from.
Victoria’s general election is due in
September, and the first visible bird of prey in the
political sky is barrister Maxwell of Melbourne,
who is going to run against that sturdy democrat
Murray at Warmambool, on the ground that
Murray wasn’t glad enough at the Boers being
killed. Maxwell was last heard of on the Tory
National Ass. ticket, when Gray beat him at
Prahran. Now he is on the Jingo ticket,
though he has the front to call himself a Liberal
now.
Victoria has now built seven railways on
the co-operative or butty-gang principle— i. e. ,
without the usual contractor or middleman. The
results are staggering. In each case the estimated
cost was made up on the basis of what the State
had paid for similar lines in similar country under
the contract system, and in every case the butty-
gang did it for much less. The estimate for the
seven lines was £547,908 under the contract
system—and on co-operative principles they cost
£351, 111.
Query : Seeing that Vic. Railway De-
partment has again abstained from prosecuting a
defaulting clerk on his returning the stolen money,
that it habitually does this, and that it defends the
practice as perfectly just and right—considering
these things, will the Vic. Govt, have the courage
to back its alleged opinions by enacting that the
private defaulter shall also be free of prosecution
provided he returns the stolen cash? If it be-
lieves the principle to be good, why not apply the
good principle all round ?
The intention of N.S.W. licensing-law
might be secured, with magisterial connivance, in
this way—despite the last Supreme Court “ tied-
house ” decision : Let the “tied” license expire.
Refuse renewal or a new license to brewers or their
nominees. Grant a new license (free, of course,
from the old bond) to Parkes of the Stepney Hotel,
or to any unmortgaged owner of licensed premises
in similar case. But this plan—if it were practic-
able—would not obviate the need for legislative
interference, which is urgent.
Speaker M‘Court niakes the sixth layman
to hold the chair in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly.
During the last couple ’Of years an opinion was
industriously stimulated that lawyers make the
most successful Speakers, and for a while it looked
almost certain that the opinion would receive
effect on the retirement of Abbott. Allen, Barton
and Abbott, two attorneys and one barrister, were
not, however, greater successes than Arnold, Hay
or Murray, and it is just as well lawyers should
not be allowed to pre-empt the office.
N.S.W. Postmaster-General Crick’s assur-
ance that he would not sit at an Executive Council
meeting where the case of a capitally-sentenced
person, prosecuted or defended by him as solicitor,
came up for consideration, may be readily
accepted—and one danger is thus averted. But,
to avert this danger, another is invited, for the
condemned person is entitled to full consideration
by the whole Executive, and the man who dis-
qualifies himself and stays away might just be-
the man who, were he not disqualified, would oa
best able to judge the case.
Brother Alick Forrest’s paper (Perth,
W.A., Morning Herald) alleges that Brother
John Forrest's Coolgardie water-supply scheme is
going to cost more like £7,000,000 than the esti-
mated £2,500,000 If this proves true there are
exciting times ahead.
It is explained that Cecil Rhodes hurried
back from London to S’Africa “ in order to make
arrangements with Australian and Maoriland
volunteers to settle down in Rhodesia, where men
who can work hard and fioht hard will be especially
valuable to the Chartered Co.”
The Forrest Government still maunders
about its scheme for getting the British mail-boats
to make Fremantle their port of call, but until
the transcontinental railway is built, there is little
visible hope. Fremantle is round the corner, and
that means delay. When the Federal Govt, has
built the transcontinental line, Fremantle will be
the first port of call inward, and the last outward
as a matter of course, also it will be the landing
place for mails and the great passenger centre; so
W. A. had better pin its hopes to Federation and
push it along for all it is worth.
The proposal of E. M. Clark, M.L.A., that
N.S.W. Govt, should take over the Sydney-North
Shore ferry service looks like a move devised in
the interests of that profitable monopoly, though
not intended as such. If the State builds
the North Shore bridge, as it should do, it
gets the bulk of the across-harbor business
without buying out the ferry co. But if it buys
up the and goodwill of that concern at a big
price, then it must either abandon the bridge so
as to make its new purchase pay, or build the
bridge and practically destroy tfie goodwill of its
own ferry service.
Tie the N.S.W. Opposition-leadeNs recent
half-fought motion of censure. Of course the
Same Old George Tioes not wish to risk an acci-
dental defeat of the LynoGovt. now, which would
involve an inconvenient dissolution. Ho is play-
ing to the constituencies, and if ho can by hints
and innuendoes (as he did in the case of Dibbs) get
the electors to believe that the Lyno orowd are
hanging on for the mere sake of the salaries, or
are afraid to go to the country, or that their mere
retention of office is in itself a suspicious circum-
stance, he may come back from next g.-noral elec-
tion with a majority.
The meanness of the small fry in N.S.W.
Assembly was quite as conspicuous as their lack
of capacity in the debate on M*Gowen’s hostile,
adjourned motion over the request of Federal
Delegate Barton for £5OO additional expenses in
connection with his Commonwealth mission to-
London. The cloven hoof of anti-federalism was
displayed in an effort of the provincial politicians
to humiliate the Federal Leader. Barton, more
than anyone else, has succeeded in stripping the
Maoquarie-streeters of nine-tenths of their im-
portance. 11(5 has reduced them to the level of a
municipal rabble, and this is their last chance of
exercising their authority.
Otago Witness (Dunedin, M.L.) demands,
with a great flapping of the Flag, and then a
sudden dropping of that Emblem into the soup,
that the name of Pretoria be altered, and says :
We are not going to have the chief town —[it evidently
thinks Pretoria is the boss city of the Transvaal]—of the
British Transvaal named after any Dutchman.
This agitated organ had best start by getting rid
of the Dutch name of its own province (New Zea-
land, or, as it was originally, Nova Zeelanda), to
say nothing of such names as Tasman Bay (Dutch),
Mount Egmont (Dutch), Mount Hochstetter (Ger-
man), Cape Maria Van Diemen (Dutch), D’Urville
Island (French), Dannevirke, Haast, Cape Egmont
and the like. Perhaps the latter crowd doesn’t
matter much, but Maori land’s conduct in officially
bearing a disloyal cognomen is going to bring-
trouble upon it some day.
The English blue-book embodying the
correspondence between Chamberlain and the
Federal delegates is interesting reading. The
long memorandum of the delegates in support of
the original clause 74 is almost poetical in parts.
When Chamberlain read it he must have thought
at times that it was a screed from the Poet
Laureate that he had got hold of by mistake. The
fine Roman hand of Barton is umnistakeable in
places, but who except D oak in could have written
this sentence ?
If they accepted the Constitution with such an amend-
ment it would be because tlie.v were made to choose
between the bowl of intervention and the dagger of
delay.
It is not often vou get a bit like that in a blue-
book. The “give us we beseech thee” tone ia
altogether too prevalent in the memorandum,
which in style is vastly different from the cold,
clear, unrlietorical document in which the Colonial
Secretary set out his notions.
A Thin Disguise.
The cuttle fish has a trickv habit of covering his
tracks by exuding an inky fluid which discolours
the water and keeps him out of view.
Some people cover their tracks so that others
cannot follow them, while others boldly proclaim
the virtue of Warner’s Safe Cure, which they
have proved and found curative when suffering
from liver disease.
Mr. F. A. Burt, a nine years’ resident of Bourke.
N. S. W. , belongs to the class of those who give
credit, where due, unhesitatingly. He says :“ I
have much pleasure in stating that just about
twelve months ago I suffered from a pain in my
right side which caused me to seek advice from a
medical book. There I found the cause was the
liver, and knowing Warner’s Safe Cure to be a
good medicine I gave it a trial, with great success
and I have never been troubled with this complaint
since.”*
GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
IS
BEFORE ALL.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyho at
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MOI7NTCASTLE & SONS. Brisbane, Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATUONAGE^
...0n...
Mr. Fraok SeQior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists .
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
Impor ant Anrunnismicnf to our City and Country-
Conn i'ucn's.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art A uettoneers,
Auct on Room\ 324 Georp Street, Sydner,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
])latc, and Works of Art.
Auction Sal-s, in til-? City nr Country, conducted by
Mr. Hadley, assisted by a competent staff.
■ Sales lli-t'l at the A-uetion Founts.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sales,
v aluations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltkiv Bkadley & Co., 324 George-st


N.S.W. Lnger Bier Co.’s splendidly-ap-
pointed brewery was sold last week, at auction, to
that live citizen, brewer Edmund Resch, of Syd-
ney, for £16,500. The brewery, which covers over
three acres in Dowling-st., Sydney, cost about
£75,000, less than five years ago, to build and
equ'p and get going, so that Mr. Resch may be
considered as having secured one of the greatest
bargains that ever fell to a Sydneyite. Several
“big’’-Sydney people dropped heavily over the
lager-bier venture, which was started on too big a
so.de at the outset, without waiting for the public
to acquire a taste for the new drink. Two share-
holders dropped £lO,OOO each in the concern,
while another was struck for £7OOO. Brewer
Resch, who started in the “colonial” beer indus-
try at Wilcannia (N.S.W.) some 25 years since,
bought the Sydney Waverley Brewery—another
soft snap—a few years ago, and is now reputed to
be worth a-q carter of a million. About a year
agone he bought R. L. Tooth’s mansion, “ Swifts,”
Darling Point, dirt-cheap at £14,500.
TF you read the Testimonials I publish each
day, vou will learn something of what
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Remedy,
can do, and is doing, for
SUFFERING HUMANITY.
A VICTORY FROM JUNEE.
20 YEARS A SUFFERER.
VITADATIO CURED HIM.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —It is now close on 30 years since I had the
first attack of a cold, which has troubled me continuously.
At first the cough was only slight, and, as most people
thoughtlessly do, I did not take any particular care of
myself, thinking the cough would soon leave me. I was
then about 14st. in weight, but I began to get much worse
and in spite of medical attendance I soon found the cold
had such a severe hold on me that nothing apparently did
me any good. For years I tried many of the advertised
remedies, but they failed to cure me. The cough in-
creased, and before 1 could lay down in bed at night I
would be seized with a fit of coughing, which frequently
lasted an hour, during which time I would expectorate a
great quantity of phlegm. I lost flesh rapidly, and my
clothes were simply hanging on me like bags. However,
a short time ago I commenced taking “ Webber’s Vitn-
datio,” and after taking the second bottle I began to im-
prove, and now after taking six large bottles of Vitadatio
I feel splendid and have regained my loss in weight. I
am list, again. I cannot express my gratitude for the
recovery of my long-lost health. I intend taking a few
more bottles, so as (o make the cure thorough and com-
plete, and I am sending vou this testimonial in the hope
that other sufferers may be induced to give your wonder-
ful medicine a trial.
Yours gratefully,
(Signed) W. R. LYONS.
Junee, late of Albury, February 2tlth, 1000.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s (id; Small Size, 3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s (id.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
US' ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT ofl
NEW ZEALAND, OTAGO AND [
SOUTHLAND DISTRICTS. J
-No. 148.
UNDER “The Divorce and Matrimonial
Causes Act 1867” and the Amend-
ments thereof and “ The Divorce Act,
1898.”
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith.
TO
JANE STEDMAN, of Dunedin in the
Provincial District of Otago in the
Colony of New Zealand, and
BENJAMIN MOLLISON DUTHIE, of
Dunedin, aforesaid accountant.
WHEREAS Samuel Richard Stedman of
Dunedin in the Provincial District of
Otago in the Colony of New Zealand Cycle expert
claiming to have been lawfully married to you the
said Jane Stedman has filed his petition against
you the said Jane Stedman and Benjamin Molli-
son Duthie in our said Court praying for a decree
dissolving the said marriage with you the said
Jane Stedman and ordering you the said Benja-
min Mollison Duthie to pay the costs of this suit
wherein he alleges that you the said Jane Stedman
have been guilty of adultery with you the
said Benjamin Mollison Duthie NOW this is to
command you that on or before the twenty-first
day of July one thousand nine hundred you and
each of you do appear in our said Court then and
there to make answer to the said Petition AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that in default of
your so doing the said Court will proceed to hear
the said charge proved in due course of law and to
pronounce sentence therein your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Registrar’s
Office Dunedin aforesaid and there to enter an
appearance in a book provided for that purpose
without which you will not be allowed to adcfress
the Court either in person or by counsel at any
stage of the proceedings in the cause.
DATED at Dunedin this twenty-eighth
day of May one thousand nine hun-
• dred.
(Sgd.) G. A. KING,
(US.) Deputy Registrar.
THIS CITATION is extracted by Saul Solo-
mon, Solicitor for Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said Saul Solomon,
112 Princes-street, Dunedin, aforesaid.
Chenhall and Eddie,
Solictors, Sydney,
Agents for
Saul Solomon,
Solicitor, Dunedin.
PHOTOS
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS.
R. <SENN€RT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris,France
FURNITURE, CARPETS, BEDSTEADS
AND BEDDING.
A. Hall & Co.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, covered in Rich
Tapestry and Silk Plush Borders —Couch,
2 Armchairs, and 4 Small Carved Chairs,
4 Guineas.
A. Hall & Co.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Color-Ward robe,
dress compartment, enclosed by bevel plate-
glass door ; Duchesse Dressing Table to
correspond. Marble-top Washstand, 2 Chairs,
and Towel Rail. £6 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, Very Strong-
-6 Padded-back Chairs, Pair Easy Chairs, and
Couch, all Spring-seated. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
FULL-SIZED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Extended Footrail and Brass-mounted ; Best
Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and 2 Pillows,
Triple Wire Mattress.
£4 15s. complete.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-street, Sydney.
Hall’s New Catalogue, 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations, Posted Free.
- Country Orders Packed Free.
Open all day Saturday until 9 p.m. Close 1 p.m, Wednesday.
Leave Tram at Liverpool-street for Hall’s.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
LS2W
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Type writers, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co. ; Launceston : Hedley Button.
tsr Agents also for the XKW CEN'lUlil and DENSMOIIE .
LOST!
That is the constant cry
of the Shopkeeper
SOMEHOW
who hasn’t a
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER
■*kv
To maize Leakages
impossible,
THE
NATIONAL..
Cash Register
IS
THE
MONEY
KEEPER
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
t*
' i
* /.,r .
DO
YOU
KNOW
that Roadster MULTIPLEX
which are the most reliable on the road,
Can (in the unlikely event of a punc-
ture) be repaired on the roadside
by the merest Novice in a few
minutes.
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months.
The flunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of J|us. [td.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
I ixr.s.'W'.
Hjont deplete o.^|.Co->[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., 174.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 George Street (facing Bridgest.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A ceident
at i (l
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ 1.0 it 1 1 mi.
[ Fidelity Guarantees, Emp. IdaUnty. ,
i Accidents, Typhoid, lliphtliei in, etc, j
W. M'Millan, M.,l\, A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide : 15. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mcl-
liourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. llassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
file Bank of |)orth Queensland
limited.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,001
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability,
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.p. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600— assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358.325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commei cial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23.4/’ool .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esn., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M’Nicol, and All an Hill.
Assistant Inspector: C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant; Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hi shop spate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NIW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford 'with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Friday, June 23, 5 p.m.
Gabo, Sat., June 30, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE n
WALLAROO /
PORT PIRIE (
PORT AUGUSTA )
Banin3'on2f, Tues., July 10, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninj T ong, Tues., July 10, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Gabo, Sat., June 30, 12 N ion.
Konoowarra, Tues., July 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., July 7, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Gabo, Saturday, June 30, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, July 7, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALPTON
CAIRNS. &c.
FLass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carjro
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, comer George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Tr(ist€€s, €xe<;GtorS,
AND
Cofijpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £160.000 () 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O,(KM) 0 I)
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1801) ... 10,277,747 11 8
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: P. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman : John Grice,
Esq. ; O. M. Oflicer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
EREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Cyciney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Streot.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z aland Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Z' ttbind Government .. 500,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capita] .. .: £8,000,000
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MAN AG ERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Business Announcements.
Established 1853.
ia° 4 „, ROBERT BYRNE
Has actively resumed business as
Land and Estate Agent,
At his Old Address—
-333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
(next Commercial Bank and Heidelberg). Telephone 1269.
&
m
I
AMUSJSnrJSNT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
« and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
~<siVe Prices.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrik & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Coiling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &e., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
riN G L A.N D ~~ F / M E RIGA
® J by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The at camera of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
ALAMEDA .J 3158 July 4 July 9 July 27
MARIPOSA .. 8158 August 1 August 6 August 24
MOAN A . 4 QUO August 29 Sept. 8 Sept. 21
Tickets are available until used, and .Saloon
Passengers can break .their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, rni'way mnps, and guide books showing
all other inf rmaii apply Union S'earn Bldp Co.
of N.Z., Ltd.. Equitable buildings, George Sireet,
next Q.P.0., Sid'im ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Million i ne ; 11. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Sireet,
Adelaide; H.I.S.N. Co., Brisbane.
“ "nTdTl."""g o ivi pa n y.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . ('O.MPRISINO . .
95 Ocean and '4l Ivor Steamers with
19C.169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 18!ri, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,063
Passengers.
PASSENGERS‘ROOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and llmnen, via Ports.
Steamer. Tons Commander.
I
I 1
DARMSTADT 6012 C. Divers
*P. R. LUVIVOLD 0213 H. Water
GERA i 5005 0. von llorell
KARLSRUHE | 6057 C. ()i>sseliTu*rin
•KONIGIN LUISE 10561 M. lii h 1
'Sydney
11 a.m.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
.Tune3o July 7
Aug; 25 Sept. 1
Sep. 22 Sept. 29
Oct. 20 Oct. 27
Nov. 17 Nov. 24
’TWIN SCli W STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS anti GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
Steamer. Tons
Commander.
From |
Sydney]
Destina-
tion.
MIMCHEN | 4536 A Krebs 'July 25 Hongkong
STETTIN ...' 2478 J. Tu 'ermeyer Sep. 5 Singapore
And regular y thereaft. r every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Heal Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agcuis,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO.. Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ * VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Tjegal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest No /elties will arrive by each in-
co .i.ng Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
LADIES !
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in steak.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
\ew South Wales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply House >
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
June 29.
•
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
June 30. (Without
Transhipment..)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrogo, Friday,
June 29.
Itfst and Cheapest Iloate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable a f ler tbe
first Port b-tween .Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and YV. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LTNE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOYVN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Muokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOYVNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKKTOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenf/er A crotn modation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp <& Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE It. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FRF/MANTLE and PERTH I). Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at. the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, ±35 io £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £'6fi to lift.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial pons
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
limes' Steamers having room. Particulars on application
t i F. WHITE, Acting Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
iuddart, parker § Co’s jjine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, JIOItA RT,
LAUNCESTON, YVfiST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cir-rent Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. jTns Commander. |Leave Sydney.
AIRLIE ... .. 2500 St. John George .. Jjuly 12
AUSTRALIAN . 3000 P. T. Helms .. 'August 4
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M'Arthur ... September 1
EASTERN .. 3000 Winthrop Ellis September 22
. i l i
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
'**7 Pht-street, Sydney.
[i)‘|liDraith,|fl‘Eacharn*C3.
- PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
M'ilwraith, M’Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay. India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKET’S AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


FEDERAL SUITS
45/- To Order 45/-
The Flag: on Top of this Advertisement is Symbolical of our
System of Business.
Paying Prompt Cash on the Spot for Our FASHIONABLE
GOODS enables us to BUY at CUT PRICES, consequently
our Customers share in all the Privileges appertaining to
this Happy System.
BEFORE THE RISE IN WOOL and subsequent advance in
all Manufactured Woollens, we placed AN IMMENSE
ORDER (amongst many other lines) for
Serge rettes.
This foresight on our part enables us to Supply the BEST
QUALITY SEItGERETTE for our
Famous 45/- Suits.
To convince you of the fact, we ask eyerv gentleman who reads this to CALL IN AND COMPARE
THE QUALITY or WRITE FOR PATTERNS, and PLACE THEM BESIDE ANY OTHER FIRMS
SAMPLE. We defy any competitor to produce a SUIT for 45/- equal to the
We are NOW OFFERING.
PERFECT VALUE
We make SHOPPING BY LETTER a Simple, Easy Method by Supplying—
(l) Samples Free. < 2 ) Self-Measure Forms Free.
(3) Tapes for Measuring Free. (4) Fashion Plates Free.
And forward SUITS POST FREE to any town in New South Wales. No Extra for Carriage.
A LARGE STOCK OF
Winter Coatings, Winter Trouserings, Winter Suitings to select from
No Delay ; we have a large staff of experienced Cutters, who give every possible satisfaction.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
««*. FEDERAL TAILORS——**
203, 205. 207, 209, 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
th
H
r-
\A
2
t 1 :;\l
-jS
> %
tVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
i
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
■ Sydney’s Leading Jurgeon and Anatomical Demon-
jstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
' CIAN, tiicrefore wholly an Australian invention,
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR, DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
I o re to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extrr powerful, with suspensory
a.on jhmcnts 8 8 0
Ladies' Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. IX STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney i
“COMMON BKN.BK KAlt DUUM.”
rrHf>
DEAF
mms
Y't OMPLET E L Y restore the
'- y Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
Eost-eard to-dav for illustrated
ook, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street,-Melbourne
am
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo'n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Ib a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic puwer. A
br. ken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, bruin & blood,
quickly Si permanently re tor-
mji to th*- suffcrt r the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Pi ice posted, 7/6 ltocke,
l omosiit &Co., Druggi ts, i 92
Ft nders-street W., Melbourne.
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New & Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
forDrunkenne s. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Free.
EUCRASY
Address or call on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering- gUQRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers,
193 pp. ; 6d.
m*out v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Tills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Trout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ROptOre
CGr^d^
TV HEN we say “RUPTURE CURED”
' ’ we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work! Have received so mam-
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “ Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.;or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Publications.
“SOLDIERS
QIIFFN”
CHARMS.
Solid
Gold
Mounts
(Crysta
Glasses)
PLAIN,
5/-
Hand-Painted in
Permanent
Colors,
6/6
Each Charm contains a Photograph of
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
And any one of the following “Soldiers of the
Queen ”:
Lord Roberts
Major-General Baden-Powell
General Sir George White
General Sir R. Buller
General Lord Methuen
General Sir A. Hunter
General French
Major-General Macdonald
and others.
(POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.)
H. NEWMAN
175 & 177 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
SKI If DISEASES ■ • *n» • •
— Their Treatment.
AONE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.G.M.. Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
THE SECRET SOCIETY, BY dr. hodgson, m
HODGSON’S TALES OF MEDICAL STUDENTS.
All Booksellers and Stationers.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop* Co- l+d- «vd-
Books. BooJia. JB _> iw i.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 0 Vols., AS for .11 ss. The
A Home Physician, £2 10s. for il. Uhamhers’
Encyolopaodia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, L 7 10s.
for t'2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bush ranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. Od. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Stdnev.
lAHIOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS ancl MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC
COMIC. SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. Tills
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d. t posted
2s lOd from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO.. Wat-
erloo Chambers, 468 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for tills
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
SEND FO It A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
1
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILD ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
ILIUSTrirtTEU
BOOKLET of ß0 R 0 A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
lI.XiTJSTR A. TED
11l
TSTITH numerous anatomical
” colored plates and engrav
ings, A NEW AIEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, ami
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Medical.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
(Registered.)
'T'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. 6d. per box. tainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co.'
Druggists, 272 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
IT WILL PAY YOU XO (JJ Xiliiitfi.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and bu> the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
LINGOLN. STUART& CO.
' PROPRIETARY LIMITEO.
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (or. Station).
10,000 ■ i res of Wooile is to select from.
(fSS
0
l i \
0
1
Our Suit to order at 4?s
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweed*. \i-
cunas. or Serges, fast color*
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of materia!.
£3 3s. To measure, capita!
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, l*a. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure
£.>. Clerica. Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
Hid ng Breeches, 25b.
Riding Habits. Ac.
Wo supply ready-made
Elen’s Capital Tweed Suita
Jls.. 25s
Famous Ballarat Serge
uits, Indigo «lyo, 255.
hon,' Chesterfield Coats
.ill colors. 30*.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, sa. lid.
All-wool Blue and Blact
Vicuna Coats and Vesta,
19s «d.
Tweed Overcoats 21s.
Waterproof Coats, ful
rapes 15s 9d. Uudresse'
White Shirts, linen front
and cuff-* 2* fld., 3s. b‘*
4». 6d.. 5«. «d
Heavy Warm Travelling
Kuza IBs 91., 13s. 9>l.
All wool Crimean Shirts,
s*. ttd., 7*. «l. Travelling
Trunks, Bugs in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4a. 9d. . a 1! colon.
Hard Hats,4s. 6d,
Caps. Is.
Merino Undershirts or
rants Is 9 *•
Neckties.Tv 1 shapes an I colors. It. White hilts to measure.
(}.*nts* Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6a. 91. 9* fid.
We like to write loiter*, an don't he afraid to a k for any
Information. Our bonk. •*TI»S Philosophy of Dress.'' ami
pivttorns of all kinds and sell-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
•Ml
>7i
Brandt Bros.’
KEROSENE
ROOM WARMER
(Registered).
No Bmoke. No Bmell.
This heat radiator with
asbestos cone gives a red
glow, and will warm a
room in a tew minutes,
and by removing the top
cover a kettle can be
boiled upon it.
It is nmdo to fit a
Jupiter or Primus Stove.
Height, 18in.; Diameter,
lOin.; Weight, 41b.
PRICE: Made in Sheet
Steel, 16s ; Brass, 26s ;
“Primus” Stoves, 9s (Id
and 10s Od ; Jupiter
Stoves, 12s Od extra.
Kerosene Bath Heaters
heat a How of water in-
stantly. You can fix
them yourself, JB3 16s
each.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
238 Pitt-street, Sydney,
and 422 Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne.
i'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I'rtro, 10s. (id.
Solk Agknts :
m
y
The Re suit.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Goorge-st. Sydney
XJSB
SPOONERS
P:T7.
SPOONER’S
V 1 4-
r r "Him**
INTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED KIDS «
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc. , Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
fringes,
tftlural Curljr, from 3/0 eaofc.
PLAITS and TAILS,
t(Hn. lone, tJn. all real hair.
CUTTINGS A COMBING*
•ogled up, ifi on oz.
vf» are the cbeapeitto Aa»
Walla for all Bair Work.
Send Color of Hoi/.
W.,H.!wi S zell ;
>lO Willi au Stbset,
■orner of Pnimfcr-etreel,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
_ Send etamps for full Price LIsV '
PkUpt attention given to Country OrtStm
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. HOME TREATMENT
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY. ’


SPORTING NOTIONS.
The punters who took fives about Chelsea
for G. N. Steeple must have felt sick when that prad was
fairly beaten, at only 121bs. difference, by Mysore, in the
Wanda Steeplechase, at Caulfield, on Saturday.
• « • •
“ Spare me days” (in G.N. Steeple) is the latest
addition to turf nomenclature. Suggested that after this
“ Bli’ me ” and “ Strike me pink ” are a possible double.
» * « *
“Jim Crow”: Astonished to see that you
send Mysore to your clients ” for G.N. Steeple. I saw
him at Warrnambool at the big meeting last April, and
when they were training him for the Steeple they had to
flog him with stockwhips over the jumps. Then when the
race came along for decision he refused his first fence ; so
unless he has improved in his manners since then he can
have no earthly chance in this year’s big event. You
ought to give horses like Butler and Blueher a show ; and
when you are tipping for the big events at the Spring
Carnival here don’t forget Verne, full sister to Bobadil. I
saw her carry 8.10 and spread-eagle her field just like
Bobby used to do. I don’t know as to her staying powers
(she is very small), but she can gallop.
• * » *
Melb. writes : In none of Lindsay Gordon’s
biographies have I noticed the fact that his horse Viking
won the V.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase of ’69. He
rode the famous Babbler into third place behind Viking.
(The V.R.C. Grand Nat. Steeplechase was not known
under that name in ’69. The first recorded winner of the
race was Sussex in 1881.—Ed. B.).
* • * •
“Old Judge, winner of the Woodlands Steeple-
chase at the late Oakland Hunt Club meeting, at Moonee
Valley (Vic.), was foaled in 1887, and has probably started
and been placed in more ’cross-country events than any
other horse now racing in his province. Lack of pace puts
him out of the ranks of thetop-notchers, hut he iseasily first
among the hunters who compete on metropolitan race-
courses, and it is claimed for him that only twice in his
long career has he failed to “stand-up” in jumping
events.
* * * *
“ Gun ” : See old Theodore, foaled 12 years ago,
ran last in Welter at Sandown Bark (Vic.) t’other day.
Present owner evidently thinks there’s a race in the
ancient yet. Theodore figured first at 2yrs., and started
nearly 60 times in seven seasons, winning on six occasions
only ; his last success was about half-a-dozen years ago.
He was once owned by Teddy Sampson, whose persistent
bad luck caused him to blow his brains out. Strange to
say, Theodore took a turn at winning after that, and
proved a really good spec, for a while.
* • * *
If Dan O’Brien crosses the Tasman Sea on lucre
bent this spring, his pair (Malutua and Military), both
Australian bred, will likely keep their opponents’ feet
warm. The first-named, like his sire, Malua, improves
with age, and makes a good handicap moke, while the
Light Artillery youngster is speedy and full of promise.
The pair figure in Sydney Metrop. and Melb. Cup, and
Military will likely show Ins paces in A.J.O. Derby. The
two M.L. cracks, Seahorse and Advance, are also in the
big Flemington event, and Seahorse is almost hound to
go across, ambitious Major George being impatient to
show Australian turf-critics that Nelson’s son is nearly as
good as his sire, and that the colt was out of sorts in the
autumn. As Hon. Hugh Mossniati also contemplates re-
presentation in Sydney and Melb., Maoriland’s invading
force will be strong.
* * # #
The Grafter-Syerla mystery was apparently
not satisfactorily explained to latter’s owner—“Oxy.”—
for cable tells us that he has shifted both his nags—S’yerla
and Sailor Boy—from Brewer’s stable. Most people who
studied the thing expected this. What stuck in Oxy's.
throat was the fact that several times when The Grafter
started £5O went on for him, and yet, on the occasion of
the latter’s success, he didn’t carry a cent of the Sydney
leviathan’s, though £250 of his money went into Mo’s
maw through Syerla’s third in same race.
• * » •
Cabled that the Australian nag, Patron, by
Grand Flaneur—Olga, bred by Mr. “ Bill ” Long, was sold
in England for 4100 gs. Patron won Melb. Oup in ’94.
Odds on that Merman's consistent fine form “down
under” prompted the purchase. If Parthian strikes form
at ’Ome he is sure to fetch a big figure also. All three
(Merman, Patron, and Parthian) are by same sire, and
first saw light at Hobartville (N.S.W.).
• • • •
At Grafton (N.S.W.) the other day, in a turf
case, Judge Gibson remarked that a certain Sydney race-
course had the reputation of “ being a place where people
went to rob and be robbed.” A racecourse is a “ place,”
then, after all, though the law has decided that it isn’t.
*i * * *
Why is trotting so dishonest a sport in Austra-
lia ? It is even worse than pony-racing.
* * • •
The luck of the sport! Five ’chasers, including
the best-fancied, had to be scratched for Auckland (M.L.)
G.N. Steeple at practically the last minute. Voltigeur, a
mean-looking old grey, banged away for the best part of
miles before he was caught by the favorite, but the
latter promptly hit the grass, and the old horse strolled
in a winner, holding together until he reached the post,
when he broke down unutterably. Nor’-West, lately seen
on Sydney side, was a sick second.
* * * *
Australian horse-breeders—at first inclined to
whoop a lot over General Forestier-Walker’s recent official
report that Australian horses make the best cavalry-
mounts—have discovered that the gilt is all taken off the
gingerbread by the accompanying statement that, whereas
Argentine horses cost only £26 each landed in South
Africa, the Australian prad figures up to £55. N.S.W.
horses, equal to those already sent, can, it is asserted, be
Erofitably landed in S’Africa at an outside cost of £3O per
ead, and the Govts, are. being urged to try to find out
where the big discrepancy of £25 creeps in.
* » • •
N.S.W. Coursing Association, after badly bung-
ling Oaks and Derby last month, made a big success of
three-days’ Challenge Stakes meeting, finished on Satur-
day at Rooty Hill. Prize-money for the event totalled
close on £4OO, and competing dogs numbered 120, includ-
ing reps, from all other provinces and M.L. N.S.W.
hounds Braddon Blot and Magpie were winner and
runner-up as named. Nearest visiting dog—Megaphone—
went under in fifth ties. Braddon’s Blot is a 14-months
puppy belonging to veteran-courser Bladon, and never
ran till May this year. He beat the crack Vic. dog Confi-
dant pointless in first round. Writer saw one or two
stiff ’uns, on which he’s going to put some dollars.
« * * *
“Old Timer”: The present coursing craze
recalls that when old Jem Mace had the bag on—laying
’em—in Australia years ago, he went to a coursing-meet-
ing for the first time and after looking on awhile started
fielding. In the first course lie tackled Jem laid 6to 4
one dog and, later, the same odds against the-other. His
clerk kicked. “I know what I’m doing,” said Jem,
“ ain’t the rabbit got no chance ? I saw six of ’em get
awav one after the other.”
* » » *
Pugs. Cribb and Sturgeon get to it a second time
in Sydney on Monday. Owing to their previous sensa-
tional struggle the probabilities of the match are discussed
everywhere. Said that Sturgeon has improved out of
sight in condition and cleverness, and he seems like start-
ing a hot favorite if the talkers will put their money up.
Cribb won’t bring more skill to bear, but he’ll be a heap
better physically and, tough ’un from Toughville that he
is, will take kno'cking out. Good judges of the bruising
game are betting on the M.L. man and chancing
“ Snowy’s ” lately-acquired addition to his fighting kit;
they like the chap who won before—he’s got that in hand
to start with and it’s always a big help. There will be a
record house.
• • » •
Erstwhile newsboy “Cocker” Tweedie had
another soft snap served up at Metrop. A.C. (Sydney) last
week. Jim Barre, who cut even with Melb. Harry
Downey, was made a monkey of by the man who, when
in ’SVisco, had “ dove on toast and a cold bottle ” for
breakfast every morning, and hobnobbed with Judges and
sich. Tweedie can’t punch worth a cent, but he’s clever
enough to make the other fellow punch himself out. Save
for a jab now and again and a right or two in the ribs, that’s
how Barre got licked.
• • • »
“Mick” (properly Nick) Dooley came to
Sydney on Saturday from W.A. in search of fight. He
settled Doherty at Fremantle last month, and intends
having a cut at the winner of the coming Doherty-Felix
affair for Aust. heavy-weight supremacy. Dooley scales
12st. 101 b.—much lighter than when in Sydney last, four
years ago. At 43 Mick looks a lot too old for the game,
but if this section of the sphere doesn’t produce anything
better than Felix or Doherty, Dooley might stay 10 years
more and easily be atop all the time. Writer doesn’t
think the big black will have much stomach for the new
arrival, though Doherty won’t mind another go.
* * * *
Yankee files by Aorangi told of another set-back
for nuggety Dan Creedon —once Australian champion
middle-weight. Kid M’Coy did the trick at New York
last month. Dan was belted and banged as if he were a
dummy until'his seconds skied the towel in sixth round.
Creedon was a top-notcher when we had the best here,
hut his short reach always handicapped him, and, as a
rnle, he fought very open ; still Mick Dunn and one or
two other first-flighters had no hope with him then.
They’d probably beat him now, though they are older.
Dan has lived in America too long, ana seems latterly to
have degenerated into a chopping-hlock for almost every
pug. that comes along, known or unknown. Sooner he
and foster-brother Tracey quit fighting and take to saw-
ing wood or some other like occupation the hetter it
will be for those dependent upon them.
• * » *
Tom Tracey—foster-brother of Dan Creedon
(whilom Australian middle-weight premier pug.)—though
a clever, gritty fighter when he left for Yankeeland years
since, has done little good. He is either licked, swindled,
or has to put up with a draw, and rarely manages to get
away with the right end of the purse. Tom’s latest
knocks came last month, when he went under to “ Young
Peter Jackson” and Woods (a comparative novice) in Cal.
Might he mentioned that Dan and Tom are Maorilanders,
not Victorians as is generally understood. M.L. doesn’t
produce many bruisers, but they’re mostly good, as wit-
ness Billy and Tim Murphy, Fitzsimmons, Harry Lsung,
and the latest sensation, Cribb.
• • • *
Pug. Fitzsimmons’ craze for savage pets will
land him in a 6 x 4 allotment yet, t.e., provided there’s
enough of him left after his menagerie gets through.
The Maorilauder owned a lion two or three years ago,
but through having too much chain-play Leo got
hopelessly mixed up with a couple of electric-light
wires and was electrocuted. lie has hud Great
Dane and huge St. Bernard dogs since, also a fractious
circus-pony that would get on its hind legs and ’rustle
with him. He owns another young lion now, fresh from
Africa—a friend brought it. Mail news is that while Fitz
was trying to chum in with the cub the thing nearly took
his hand off, and he had to indefinitely put off the fight
with big Gus lluhlin. There can only be one end to this
hobby.
• • • *
Saturday’s round saw N.S.W. first-grade
Metrop. Rugby footbull competitions half-way through.
Western Suburbs heat Glebe 8 to nil, Sydney heat S. Syd-
ney 6 to nil, E. Suburbs went under to Unis. 8 to nil, and
Newtown scored 11 to Balmain’s 6. Point'scores up to
now are : N. Sydney 11, W. Subs. 10, Glebe !>, Newtown
8, Uni. 6, S. Sydney and E. Suburbs 4 each. Balmain nil.
Sydney ’Varsity-skipper Wood had liis leg
broken Saturday in match against E. Suburbs. Last
month he got badly kicked on the head. Apart from
being among Sydney's first-tiiglit exponents of Rugby,
Wood has always been an influence for good in the
game, and so will be much missed. The ’Varsity team
has been very unfortunate so far, as other members—
Messrs. White and Blue —are also incapacitated.
• * * »
If N.S.W. sends a Rugby team to M.L. this
winter the manager should he a man who will not let his
men develop too much thirst, and who will see that they
have a fair amount of training, and are not rushed through
the province haphazard—playing a match, for instance,
and travelling 50 miles on the same day. Too much
thirst and too much travelling were the curses of last
N.S.W. Rugby team fn Maoriland.
At the recent annual meeting of the M. L.
Football governing body a proposal was carried that
every travelling inter.-state team should pay its own ex-
penses, although it is manifest that to make a M.L. com-
bination a success financially in Australia it would be
necessary to send it over steerage, and let it board in the
park. Up to now N.S.W. has paid all board (and in most
cases medical) expenses, and M.L. toe-ballers will soon
find the difference if their own governing body under-
takes financial control of these matters.
* * » •
The chastened joys of refereeing. At a recent
Lyttelton (M.L.) football match the man with the whistle
got flattened out by a brick ; one of the skippers stopped
a shower of clods; and a touch-line judge was followed
by a heavy fire as he fled up the street. Rugby Union
suspended the ground, and informed the Lytteltonites
that, as it (the Union) was unfortunately short of officials
at present, it could not spare any for local assassination
purposes.
One M.L. football union, sick of the rowdy
juvenile element at its matches, advertised prices of
admission—Gents, 6d. ; ladies, free ; boys over 11 years,
Is.” ; and two burly persons, of ferocious aspect, were
placed at the gate to enforce the charges, per waddy if
necessary.
• * * *
Invitation from Australian Amateur Athletic
Union for a team of English athletes to visit us has been
declined “ with thanks” by the’Ome Association, which
begs to be excused owing to the war and lack of funds.
Latter complaint is chronic here. Cricket has thriven in
Sydney since the formation of electorate clubs, and foot-
ball looks like following in same groove (there were 10,000
at one match and 5000 at another recently). Amateur
athletic people are trying the same remedy, and, to this
end, have divided the metrop. area into four sections.
No other organisation, bar University A.C. and those
connected with schools, will be tolerated.
* » » »
Centurion Hale, the English cyclist now en-
gaged in riding 100 miles per day for 12 months, Sundays
excepted, has only another 6 weeks to go, so that the
success of his undertaking is almost assured. Hale’s
mount, a chainless machine and Dunlop tyres, will have
covered the stupendous distance of 31,300 miles on the
road, upon the completion of his ride.*
* • « •
Old Bill Beach came out from his retirement at
Dapto once more last week to make one of his periodical
swoops upon the spoil of the pigeon -shooting game in
Sydney ; and he got away with a fair load. Writer knows
a prominent metrop. pigeon-shot who makes a point of
“ saving ” with William of the South Coast every time he
appears on the scene, and finds it a profitable thing.
• • • •.
Latest Eng. mail brought news that N.S.W.
sculler Geo. Towns had had a big ben. which panned out
well, and that he had recovered from his severe chill.
Towns and the N.S.W. south coast man, Wray, were again
slangwhanging each other over the question as to whether
they should row for the Eng. championship, on Thames or
Tyne, and at that they seem likely to stick, as for months
past Towns and little Wag Harding are “chinning” at
a great rate too. Wag is the man who beat Australian
Tom Sullivan twice but was smothered by Stanbury when
the latter went ’Ome with bookie Beales.
• • * *
Word from U.S. is that prof, champion swim-
mer of Australia —Percy Cavill—has a match on with
M'Cusker, the top-notcher of “ the States ” who was op-
posed to Joey Nuttall when the latter (in Eng.) put up
present world’s mile record. At ’Frisco recently Percy
covered 440yds. in 5.57 3-5, lowering previous American
best (6.24), recorded by Dr. A. T. KenDey, of Melb., when
studying dentistry at Pennsylvania Univ. Same night
Sid. Cavill (now “ prof.” at the fashionable Olympic Club)
got over the 100yds. in 1.21, wiping out previous Yankee
Best by 4i«ec.
« • • •
“Wal”: Trooper Tom Morris was the first
Australian recommended for the Victoria Cross. The
name will bring back recollections to Sydney schoolboys
of the fifties and sixties. At that period one Tom Morris
used to turn tops in Forbes-street. Woollooiuooloo, and
boys of the day reckoned there was hut one man on
earth could make a good top and that was Tom Morris.
A Tom Morriser could be distinguished at a glance from
any other make and Morris must have made a good thing
out of them as he charged as much as half-a-crown for a
large-sized one. The art appears to have died with the
ancient; to-day there is not to be bought in Sydney a top
which the old-timers would have given pocket-room.
* * • *
Appears that an irremediable split has occurred
in International Cyclists' Association, from which the
French, Belgian, Swiss, American, and Italian Unions
have seceded, and formed a new body called the Inter-
national Cyclists' Union. The old association thereupon
decided not to hold a championship meet this year, but
the new Union fixed world-championship tussles for Paris,
and asked M.L. league to join its ranks. M.L. authorities
have now written to their representatives, empowering
them to act for the best. Shorn of the support of so many
big unions, the English Association is now small potatoes.
• • • •
“Bias”: Bowls in N.S.W. will have two
premiers this year—the old-established Association cham-
pion and the newly-created “champion of champions.”
All affiliated bowlers may compete for first-mentioned
title, while only club champions are eligible for last-
named. Question is, which has the better endorsement.
The Association top-notcher (Strong) should win the
Assn, championship, as has been the case for years,
hut he couldn’t win the supremacy of his own club,
and the man (Iteeder) who did gain it went under
rather easily in the second round of the “ Champion
of Champions” last Saturday. Groth (St. Leonards) met
lfowe (Redfern) in the Association event and beat him,
yet when the luck of the draw brought same pair together
in the new competition, positions were reversed. A
mixed-up state of things.
• • • *
The fond belief that sending live quail to Sydney
during close season evaded provisions of the Birds Pro-
tection Act has sustained a rude shock. Police got on to
the game—they might have done so years ago ; sportsmen
generally knew all about it, for the thing was worked
openly. Birds were auctioned ; poulterers and others
sold what they could alive, and kept a big stock of dead
’uns on ice to supply demand. One firm that has been
doing a good thing with the business for a long time were
found with 63 live quail in their possession, ready to come
under the hammer. Consignors’ names having been
ascertained, they were proceeded against, and lined Od.
for every bird. So quail-on-toast is “ off ” just now.
The Melb. man, whose cats expired at the
commencement of the plague-scare, is having a bad
time. His store was closed and fumigated weeks
back, and a big portion of his stock destroyed.
He has not since been allowed to resume, and, as
his business has in consequence vanished, he is
practically ruined. No compensation has, so
far, been talked of, though the case appears to cry
out for such.
The exit of F. B. Suttor, M.L.C., from
Bathurst, which town he has represented—with
intervals—in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly since 1875,
was stormy. His sudden resignation and accept-
ance of the position of Vice-President of the Leg.
Council, without consultation with his supporters,
might have aroused no feelings; but when he
claimed to “nominate his successor” (his own
words) the local protectionists and others rose and
sang choruses while he attempted to introduce his
nominee, and when he said “Thank God, I’m done
with your music!” he bade good-bye to all
chances for the Federal Parliament so far as
Bathurst is concerned. W. P. Crick, by the way,
will stand for Bathurst and should get in—against
almost anybody.
Description by Henry Lucy, in S.M.
Herald, of the Judicial Committee of the Privy
Council, the right of appeal to which is so much
valued by some people :
The body known as the Judicial Committee of the Privy
Council is as quaint in action as it is obscure. Its local
habitation is in a room about the size of an ordinary
dining-room, in which are usually found seated at the
table from three to five elderly gerttlemen, at least one of
whom is asleep. Very recently, according to the testi-
mony of a member of the Commons who, in his legal
capacity, was engaged before the Committee, a case of
supreme importance to one of the colonies was before the
Committee on Appeal, and all went well up to luncheon
time, after which the leading counsel for the colony rose
to reply, but of the five judges seated two were presently
asleep, and not being masters of the art of sleep, their
somnolence was so obvious that the counsel stopped
abruptly short. The sudden silence had the designed
effect of waking them, and the counsel repeated the
portion of the argument they had lost. The learned
Lords had not even the excuse of the weight of wig and
gown, for in this, the highest court in the land, neither
Bench nor Bar are so adorned.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., reports, for the week ended June 23, that the supply
of marsupial skins was much less than was expected, and
consequently showed a good, cheese-like firmness, lied
and grey kangaroos kept their end up to the former level,
while wallaroos and wallabies got above it. Likewise
bear-skins. ’Possums were snapped up at former week’s
values. Some prices : Best grey ’roos, 42Ad. ; reds, 541 d. ;
wallaroos to 33jd. ; scrub wallabies to 21d. ; swamp
wallabies to 26Jd. each. Best Monaro grey ’possums,
14s. 6d. ; best Monaro reds, 11s. 9d. ; mountain blacks,
21s. 6d., per dozen. All sorts of hair and bones taken at
full rates, while good horns and glue stocks remained
unchanged. Friday showed but moderate catalogues of
sheepskins, owing to climatic interference, but still there
was a slump—on even choice skins Id. per lb., and id. on
medium and faulty lots. Full wools also suffered to the
extent of id. per l’b. Choice full wools are worth from
7d. to 7J<l. : half-growths, Cd. to or G : fd. London
reports that American melters are asking higher prices
for tallow, and London prices are steadying somewhat.
Rumored that England and the Continent not being well
supplied with the raw material values may shortly show
some recovery, but just now the local demand is very
slack and on Friday went another 10s. per ton to the
bad. London cables that all low-grade opossum skins
have declined 20 to 30 per cent., which will mean more or
less reduction locally at an early date. Choice skins not
affected. The return of sunlight cheered the tanners
into a little brisker bidding, many lots of hides on the
co’s Friday catalogue going id. higher.
Wake up! You are an energetic man—an
ambitious one. But it is hard to get up in the
morning. You feel that you could just take one
more nap, and still more.
Your head is heavy. You
hate to get up. Your
mouth tastes bad. Your
breakfast does not suit,
and y 9 u
are irrit-
able.
When you
go to work
you don’t
feel like it.
You fight
the feeling
all day,
and a
couple of
hours be-
fore cl os-
ing time you turn in and work like a good fellow.
When it is time to stop, you are just warmed up
for a good day’s work. But it is too late and the
next morning it is the same thing over again.
That is not laziness, it is sickness —real, serious
sickness—and later will develop into something
worse, liver trouble, blood disease or nervous
prostration. There is a remedy that will put you
on your feet —Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They will wake up your stomach, give you an
appetite, put life into your liver, a move to your
bowels, and give you blood that is pure, rich and
red. ‘ ‘ For the past twelve months 1 have suffered
from impurities in the blood,” writes Mr. T. J.
Cummins, of Wangaratta, Vic., “which mani-
fested itself in blotchy pimples, causing me great
inconvenience, and at times pain. About five
weeks ago 1 commenced to use Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and am pleased to say that the pimples
have quite disappeared, and my general health
has much improved. 1 attribute this to their
blood purifying qualities, and would advise all so
affected to give them a trial.” I >r. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills stand alone as a perfect blood purifier,
and positively cure biliousness, indigestion, dys-
pepsia, headache, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles and blotches. Price Is. Ud.
per bottle, or six bottles (is. lid. Hole proprietors,
The W. H. Colas took Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 53 Pitt-streot Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.
The proposed appointment of N.S.W.
Lands Minister If assail as commercial agent for
the province in London is a political job, pure and
simple. Mr. If assail is not regarded by the
mercantile community as having any qualifica-
tions for the position.
Speculator llooley claims to have effec-
tually repaired his fortunes per medium of a great
Siberian gold-concession which he has engineered
out of tiic Czar: but the Russian Embassy in
London denies that the Russian Government
knows llooley in the matter.
Twenty-four invalided Australian soldiers
of the Cape war, at least one of them a sure V.C.,
were “returned empty ” per s.s. Australasian last
week. Empty indeed, for the men, sick and
weak, poorly-clothed, and in great need of com-
forts, had literally only threepence among the lot
of ’em ! If anything can cure Australia’s craze to
interfere in England’s wars, it may be the treat-
ment meted out to Tommy Atkins by the arro-
gant British War Department.
John Norton has administered a 3 column
rebuke to The Bulletin for venturing to notice
the reverence with which he has of late been
eyeing the Jingo movement in Australia. If
John lie a Republican “ in theory only ” (to quote
his own words), why did he form his staff and a
few others into a so-called “National” Republi-
can Union, which elected him president? And
when that “National” Union (consisting
mainly of his staff) sent him as a dele-
gate to Bathurst Federal Convention, why
did lie do his utmost to get a resolution passed in
favour of an independent Federal Republic ? (see
official printed report of Convention). If he bo so
extremely theoretical why did he, when on trial
for sedition, harp upon his Republican convictions
as a palliation of his offence in having
abused the Queen ? If he be so enamoured
of “ theory only,” why was he one of the leaders
of the riotous anti-Jubilee Republicans during the
Town Hall disturbances some years ago? Perhaps
however, John has now discovered the error of his
ways.
One explanation put forward for ex-
Premier Reid allowing the censure motion to go
on the voices, is that he has a much better case m
the extravaganco of the Govt, over the plague
expenditure. Rumors have always been afloat as
to what Premier Lyne really offered Superinten-
dent McCredie for the work of bossing the
cleansing operations. No one believes for a
moment that the £5 a day hinted at in the
Assembly was the figure this expert was offered.
Nor does anyone believe that £35 a week will
satisfy Mr. McCredie. Mr. McCredie is a civil
engineer, and has been engaged for some time as
consulting engineer in connection with the tele-
phone tunnels at a fee of 5 per cent, on the cost
of construction, and it is openly stated that he
was to he employed at the quarantine areas on
some such terms. The story goes on to say that,
when Govt, saw the magnitude of the work it
in a moment of panic had undertaken, it altered
its ideas, and the matter has not yet been
finally settled.
THE REMARKABLY PERFECT Dust-proof
Oil-retaining Bearings that are a feature of the
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE make it the Easiest-
running of Man-propelled Machines, just as it is
the Handsomest.
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wales UeadquarterB T Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 885 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND. VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
OCCASIONED! COGNOSCE
Translated, means “Know your opportunity.” Many people don’t know their oppor-
tunity, and it slips past unrecognised. When they find out it has gone they are sorry.
Don’t let this happen to you. A marked revival in cycling lias set in. The Goold
Bicycle Co. Ltd. have made arrangements to meet it. “Red Birds” are being put
together and sold faster than any other bicycle on the market. Those who cannot go
the price of a new bicycle are getting their pick from a large assortment of Second-hand
Machines. Everyone is sent away delighted. This is your opportunity— Uccasionem
Cognosce.
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD.,
64 King Street, Sydney.
Telephone 3160.


GETTING
ACQUAINTED
When you have once
become acquainted
with the genuine
Purity, Strength,
and Flavour of
Derby
TOBACCO,
you will never change to any other brand.
** DERBY” MAKES FRIENDS AND KEEPS THEM.
If you don’t smoke DERBY, you haven’t tried it yet.
GET ACQUAINTED WITHOUT DELAY.-
17
&
S'
S'
k.
r
2
THE . . .
IDodern Jjrt Jewellery (Jo.
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ROTHERHAM WATCHES.
Cold and Bilver English Levers.
EXPRESSLY Manufactured for us by the
Renowned Firm of
Rotherham & Son, London.
A BOON FOR BOYS.
OUR GUN METAL
“COLLEGIAN” LEVERS.
Price, 21s.
“The Absent-Minded Beggar”
Medal, Bronze (Jilt, with hand-
some Enamel Bow, specially
struck bv agreement with the Kipling 1 War Kumi flu.
For More Than Qne Hundred years
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
BOTIM9 hbioicp,
too so vs.
Distance,
130yds.
To be bun ox Friday Afternoon, Aug 1 24.
Nomination, 10s.; Acceptance, 10s.
NOMINATIONS, Wednesday, Bth August; HANDICAPS,
Monday, 13th August ; ACCEPTANCES, Tuesday, 21st.
August, 1930, Entry Forms and full particulars may bo
obtained from the undersigned,
WILLIAM HUNT,
Kelso's Hotel, Oxford-street, 'Sydney,
ROCHESTER LOD<S€
eollins Place Bast, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hal'
Close'trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Beaer.te.
At Poverty Point.
“ What a shame a good man like Styan should waste his
talent in Bland Holt’s sensation shows," writes “ M. E. P.”
to Tub Bulletin, but the bitter cry of the actor’s bar-
racker happens to come at the wrong moment. Styan
is just now playing a gloriously lurid character part in a
Bland Holt drama at Sydney Royal. As Caliban, the
raucous fiend who encourages tirl-fights, and loves
murder for the sake of its incidental berlud and agony, he
is by no means wasted. He contributes a strong, amus-
ing bit of mummery to a successful show, and gets just as
much credit for his work as though he were doing the
same thing in a fine play. Arthur Styan is a good actor
with no great physical advantages to help him along.
His face is not heroic, his voice is harsh and creaky', and
he has a sad tendency to “ stand over at the knees,” as
they say in horsey circles. Taking one consideration with
another this scribe sees nothing lamentable in Styan’s
long engagement as leading heavy man of the Bland
Holt Co.
“ F.’’: Jlelb. Age critic, having gone so far in hysterical
praise of Magda that he couldn’t afford to disparage
Nance O’Neil as Elizabeth, was careful to say nothing
whatever about her absurd death scene, where she croaks
in an almost impenetrable gloom. The death scene is the
test scene. It requires the actress to present a tragic
character picture of an old woman on her last legs.
Elizabeth's' monologue in that scene is her longest solo.
Nance O’Neil presented no picture at all. She merely
play'ed blind man’s buff—a better word would be bluff—
with the audience. So the Age critic wrote a column
notice which gave no hint of there having been a dismal
fifth act to the play. He was more prudent than the
Paunch gusher, who said : “ If it is necessary to retain
this (fifth) act, it should be played in a little stronger
light than on Saturday evening, for the agonies which
no doubt were pour tray ed were invisible to all except
those close to the stage.” The Paunch man took Nance’s
agonies for granted, but admitted that he couldn’t see
them., whereas the Argus man said: “ Finely artistic, |
too, is the presentment of the Queen in her dying hours. ,
. . . The death scene is realistically enacted." Now, if I
the Argus eye in the dress circle could actually perceive
the “ fine artistic realism ” aforesaid, how came it that
the Age man ignored so important a feature of the per-
formance? Also, why did the Paunch man complain that
only the orchestra and the front rows of the stalls were In
a position to criticise what was happening behind the
veil of darkness? Nance O’Neil seems likely to get the
local press notices into an awful state of sixes and sevens
before her M elb. season is through.
“ A London rumor that Mrs. Brown-Potter would marry
Lord Kitchener is denied. Australian rumor was that
when free she would wed a certain bandy-legged but
fascinating mummer. By the way, lvyrie Bellew left
Sydney for England per Oceana, after a visit to Queens-
land.
“ Dick ” Whittington, one of S.A.’s two oldest theatri-
cal identities—he was for years Wybert Reeve’s treasurer
at the Royal—is now, when past iiis 80th yeicr, in almost
desperate straits. The help of friends has kept the poor
old fellow going for some tune, but at last a public appeal
hat been necessary in order to keep him out of the Des-
titute Asylum. lie is a fitter subject for the Home for
Incurables ; but for that haven one has to, book one’s bed
so far in advance that death often comes before a
vacancy.
“Stroller”: Nance O'Neil can't die—she is too fulj of
life. Her last act of Elizabeth is unconvincing. She is
merely simulating a dying voice—a high head-register
version of her ordinary tones that has no weakening in it.
Elizabeth might have used it at Che acme of her strength
—if she hail a sore throat. Physiologically, Nance is
stiffening her muscles when she uses this tone, and this
always'leads to loss of expression and conveys the im-
pression of what a dying person should be incapable of—
effort. Nance’s “ Alone with Myself—and God ” also at
the end of one of the acts drops sheer into pathos ; “ and
God” being added like an irrelevant afterthought. These
two words should be spoken with awe—dread—shame—
any feeling so it be strong enough for climax ; and not
with the “ I suppose I must drag him in ” —effect the lady
produced on me.
After all it must be credited to Nance O’Neil that she
drew crowded houses to witness a strong play of the new
order and actually interested the Philistines to whom
Sudermann’s philosophy must have been shockingly
repugnant. How many actresses have we had in Austra-
lia who would have forced Respectability to tolerate
Magda ?
Ethel Ilaydon’s husband, George Robey, now figures in
big type beside Dan Leno and other expensive items on
the poster-bills of the London ’alls. Robey is the man
whom Rickards engaged for an Australian season before
he made his big hit, and who paid forfeit on the contract.
“Woman and Wine” (the alleged chief pleasures of
Man, differing only in the fact that the latter improves
by keeping and the former doesn’t) is another of the
dramas wherein the heroine loses her reputation on small
provocation. The rapidity with which the usual stage-
girl disjoins herself from that article (which always seems
to be in a semi-detached condition, anyhow, and liable to
get loose at .any moment) is astonishing. In “ Woman
and Wine ” the heroine merely sits in an office by herself
a minute or two, and immediately becomes a Flossie. At
least the usual cold and brutal world comes to that con-
clusion. Similarly, in “ Sowing the Wind,” the unfortun-
ate heroine is afflicted with persons who rise up from her
past and publicly call her “ Rosie.” They never say any-
thing else oi a damaging character ; nathless, the hero
gets a worried look, and lias to have elaborate explana-
tions, and whenever he has just forgiven her for being
called “ Rosie,” another dark shadow invariably crosses
her path and with the fatal word hurls her in the dust
once more. In a Sydney Lyceum play of some time back
the girl got accidentally locked up in a stable, and though
there was no one there except a few horses, she also lost
her reputation and became Lost for three long acts till
she was fortunately (if writer remembers correctly)
accused of a greater crime, and being acquitted of that,
was, according to stage ethics, assumed innocent of the
other matter also. In real life the modern girl doesn’t
seem to lose her reputation quite so easily, and it is often
such a small reputation to begin with that its loss doesn’t
seem to matter much when it does go.
“ G.G.” : lie that Charles Mathews par. (B. 2 6/’00) :
Writer remembers how Travis, the military ventriloquist,
neatly doubled up a lady and gentleman who had arisen
in the front stalls with an expression of much boredness
and were moving out, the man leading. Travis, without
moving a muscle, and through the medium of his raucous-
voiced coster puppet, remarked, “ Ladies first, old man 1”
There was a yell of laughter and no more early leave-
takings.
Antoinette Trebelli at latest was repeating her previous
successes in Canada. Toronto Mail (April 24) said : “ The
Sure womanliness of Mile. Trebelli’s singing, as much as
er exquisite, flexible voice and her charm of expression,
makes her the great artist she is. She wins instant sym-
pathy and liking by her unaffected bearing. . . . Her
laugh is as delightful as her singing, and the audience
laughed with her, and applauded and laughed again.” At
Toronto the winsome Antoinette was associated with
Mine. Schumann-lleink, a well-known operatic contralto.
Brisbane Amateur Opera Co. is dealing out “ Les
Cloches,” but the public mostly stays away. No budding
Laila Miranda yet unveiled, though most of the principals
are of that Chosen race that has given to Australia so
many of its sweetest singers.
“ C.” : Re that Age critic taking seriously the Gilbertian
humor in “Pinafore” (8., 2/6/’o0). When “Pinafore”
was first produced at Auckland, M.L., the local Evening
Star wrote of the part of Rackstraw as “ overflowing with
love and pathos,” and gravely accepted “ He is an Eng-
lishman ’’ as an expression of serious patriotic sentiment.
Dear Bulletin.- Re statement in your columns some
months ago that deceased vocalist, Charles Harding, was
“ discovered ” by Simonsen. I knew Harding intimately ;
in fact, was his partner in a theatrical spec., and if any-
body “ discovered ” him (which I question—believing that
he '“ discovered ” himself), it was Harry Shepperson,
manager of the Lydia Howarde co., when touring Maori-
land, some 22 years ago. At any rate, it was with him
that Harding had his first engagement. Harding came
to Auckland as a seaman when about 18 years old, ran
away from his ship, and went gum-digging. Later on he
owned a small schooner, with which he used to bring
firewood from the north of M.L. to Auckland. It was the
wreck of this “ hooker ” which decided him for the
“ boards.” His voice—purely natural and untrained—
was, as such, about the finest I ever heard. His first
operatic appearance was as Sir Marmaduke, in “ The
Sorceier” (Riccardi’s company), at Auckland Royal in
’79.—J. A.C.
Onp.of the ladies who lately retired from a certain co.
is *qid to have given the “star ” a bit of her mind re the
alleged celebrity of the said “star ” in any other country
than Australia. The trouble centred in the question,
Who ax® l/ou, I should like to know?”
A LONG NERVOUS STORM.
Ip you ever watched a dentist draw a nerve out
of a tooth, you will remember how much it looked
like a little snip of wet, white cotton thread.
How can so contemptible a thing inflict such a
mountain of agony ? And why does it do it.
“ Disease,” you say. Ah, surely. A simple and
obvious answer ; yet in what way does the true
nerve-fibre, wrapped up and coated as it is like
the wires in a submarine cable, get to be diseased ?
Yet, somehow, these soft strings do become
fearfully out of order, or our friend Miss Hunt,
alluding to the neuralgia from which she once
suffered, would not say, “Sometimes I was almost
mad with the pain.” And that is but one of many
forms of torture imposed on us by the nerves; yet
without these nerves we should be but lumps of
clay—lacking feeling and power of motion.
How can we cure these dreadful nerve-pains?
The drug-shops abound in so-called remedies for
them, yet they are only as breath to cool the air
of a torrid summer day. The real cause and cure
are among Nature’s deeper secrets. Can we find
them ?
“ Nearly all my life,” says Miss Hunt, “ I have
suffered from indigestion of an aggravated kind.
I felt low, weary and weak, having little or no
energy. My appetite was variable. At one time
I would eat voraciously, and at other times I could
not touch a morsel of food.
“After eating I had great distress at the chest
and around the sides. I suffered martyrdom from
the horrid pain in my stomach and limbs. As the
years passed by my nerves became totally un-
strung, and I endured untold misery from
neuralgia. My lips and half iny face were almost
dead from this distressing malady.”
[The lady will pardon the writer. In the sense
of being objects of use and pleasure, they were in
truth practically dead ; but in another sense were
horribly alive, as the sky is when it is pierced and
rent with the lances of the lightning.]
“I consulted,” she adds, “dootor after doctor,
but in spite of all their medicines and applications
I found little or no relief. Sometimes I was almost
mad with the pa in.
[Not a doubt of it. Undor such circumstances
the body is a poison-house of keen suffering, and
people have, not infrequently, taken their own
lives to escape from it. Only acute rheumatism
or gout can be compared with neuralgia and
(please observe) the whole three are forms of the
same tiling—results of the same cause. Hence
sufferers from the former two ailments will be wise
also to road this essay to its end.]
“In .June, 1886,” continues the letter, “ a book
was loft at my house in which I read of many
Kersons who had been cured by a medicine called
[other Soigel’s Syrup. I bought a supply from a
chemist in New North. Road, and soon my indi-
gestion got better, the pain in my head and limbs
was easier, add I felt stronger than I had done for
years.
“ I think it only right that others should know
of what has done so much for me. You have,
therefore, my permission to make this statement
Bublic if you like. (Signed) (Miss) S. Hunt, 57,
•ale View Road, Stamford Hill, London, June
30th, 1896.”
Our correspondent is a schoolmistress, and, as
her letter shows, a woman of fine intelligence.
At the outset she names the radical, and only real
disease she had—namely, indigestion, or, as we
indifferently call it, dyspepsia. Starved from
want of nourishment, and poisoned by the pro-
ducts of food constantly decomposing in the
stomach, her nervous system was thrown into wild
disorder, and protested and cried out with the
thrilling voice of pain. No application, no
emollients are effective to remedy symptoms
springing from a cause so profound and firmly
seated.
Would we stop the writhing of the trees during
a gale? Ah, they cannot be bound or held. We
must employ, if we possess it, a power which can
say unto the wind, “Peace, be still.”
Something akin to this Mother Seigel’s Syrup
did when it abolished the digestive trouble. It
enabled the stomach to feed the feeble body, and
with returning strength the nervous storm sub-
sided into the calm and harmony of Health.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
food order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
ring you a list. “Duck" brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from 1 h.p. to 50 h.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there U
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Poet
Office.
Proprietor - ■ GEO. W. ELLIS.
-7
IX -
♦
V
OLD
HNS
SUtfBU,
L*J
FINg
c/?
&.C
N
Y
P, *0p
R, tTORS .


Core.
the EA.MOTJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEJWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. lIEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
‘DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE. BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
j|re IJou Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Cua, ameed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specie:’ty!
Write or c ill for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
E.izajeth-s.reet, Sydney.
.zt.i3:rici2c.s
‘('aaa'BAV'Bxu
‘(aaxiwi'j)
ojt«iva
SM ELTERS.
• • • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
or
FINE SILVER.
% il &&
35a
£
V*
< •
!H v?
*fr
WfiNSS
Nj&B
--'v>
MAKERS OF
S. Co, cf A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW ARK. A”
SOFT LEAD.
rchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST I'GICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, itc., apply to E. A. Wkinbkko, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia,
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Ltd., DAI’TO, N.S. W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
LIVER AILMENTS.
etwrarTf
m
KUTNOW’S
mproved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
*r,
&
rA
2
W
•Y/,
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap.
L?
r »■■ London:
41, FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOTJIE
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
KUTNOW’S POWDER Restores Health and Activity to the Liver, and Drives Away
the Biliousness, Headache, Nervousness, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Lew Spirits,
Insomnia, Lack of Appetite and Energy, &c. s which a Disordered Liver causes.
+ . 4 n active healthy liver means pure blood, a stomach and kidneys in good working order, a healthy appe-
tite for food, ability to sleep capacity for work, and freedom from headache, nervousness, biliousness, dyspepsia,
constipation, and a hundred other ills that make life miserable. Those persons, however, who are enga-ed in
sedentary occupations, or are m the habit of indulging too freely in rich foods, or even plain foods, seldom have
bodies that are m this healthy condition, and hence a very large proportion of the people of the well-to-do, well-
led, brain-working class suffer from a disordered liver.
It is useless to attempt to remedy liver derangements and their symptoms by taking malt, pepsin, and
other preparations, which give nothing more than mere temporary relief. In order to restore the liver to healthy
activity it must be freed of the impurities which weaken it and hinder its action ; and nothing does this more
effectively and less unpleasantly, than Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder It is the most sneedv
and certain remedy for all derangements of the liver. F J
Everyone is aware that when a sponge has been in use for some time the pores become clogged with soap
and other matter, which make it almost useless. When, however, it is soaked for several hours in a solution of
salt-or, better still in a warm solution of alkaline sulphated water-the soap and other impurities are dissolved
out and the sponge becomes clean.
Exactly the same thing occurs when a sufferer from a disordered liver takes a course of Kutnow’s Powder.
It increases the action of that and other digestive organs by freeing them of the waste matters that cause their
derangement It renders them, as it were, like a clean sponge. The moment this derangement of the organs
has been rectified, and the liver has been restored to a healthy condition, the sick headache, biliousness nervous-
ness, dyspepsia, constipation low spirits, insomnia, loss of appetite, &c, which liver disorder causes will disappear,
and renewed health, strength and vigor follow. 11
assimilati^otlmptr' 8 ** <%eSti ° n be °° meS —e p r „ mp t, and the
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Kutnow’s Improved brarvescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and
Medicine Vendors , See tha the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirsehensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the auloarauh
facsimile signature, “ S. KUTJSOW & COLd., ” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness
Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any substitutes. They may be worthless, probably injurious
PROPRIETORS——.
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A.
ffUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway,


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAGUE and other Fevers
Take a Hot Bath daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
wards; apply Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing:,
Handkerchief, and take 4 drops on a piece of loaf sugar each
» __ . Evening when going to bed; take two Alfaline Liver and Kidney
Pills once or twice a week if Constipated; use the Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes freely; if the Nerves are weak take the Alfaline Vitality Pills for a month or two; if the
Blood is imoure take the Alfaline Blood Pills. The Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil and Jujubes and the Alfaline Herbal Remedies are absolute PREVENTATIVES AGAINST
BUBONIC PLAGUE AND ALL OTHER FEVERS.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Speciul Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Diver and Kidney Complaints, Oostiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BROOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY_FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the A 1 fal i n e
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
w wm :
r-.
*
m ; **
fc/ 1 !,"-: 1
i
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Aljaline
Herbal Jtemedics.
IMPORTANT
• - • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only he
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of' which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
tit a/i rs for tin yen nine
Alf aline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be yin n for in-
formation con rictiuy
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERE RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
ADVK€ FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t ouglis, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remtdy for transforming Ihe stoniest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant oure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
anil Strengthens the S.ist'in, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifior— A guaranteed
pure and hurmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freokles, und wo derfnl for Beautifying tho Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialino Hair Restoror and Beautiflor—A
guaranteed remedy for ptevet.ting the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfalino Worm Powders— Destroy and expel nny
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Paokets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfalino Eucalyptus Oil Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, 1b ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfalino Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfalino Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, is.
Alfalino External Pile I'owder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Bolts -Containing powerful and effectual
Kleetrie currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfalino Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE: 160 Q,ueen-st (near Creek-st.) / ADELAIDE: 154 Rundle-st(nr. York H’tel) t PERTH, W, A.: Hay-st. (next Royal The a' ro)
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke-st. <qpp.East. Markets) f/ N.Z., WELLINGTON: 91 Lambton Quay KALGOORLIE: Hannan-st. (next LindelTs)
A unique act of petty larceny is re-
ported from Jumbunna, Vic., where a funeral
had to be postponed because somebody bad stolen
the coffin.
The U.S.A. postal authorities are going to
inaugurate a reindeer postal service in Alaska.
Under favorable conditions a swift reindeer can
do 150 miles a day—at least, the best reindeer
liars say so.
Mount Lvndhurst, in the S. A. Leg. Council
constituency so long represented by the at-last-
discarded Ebby Ward, nas made a record. At
the recent elections just one vote was cast there,
and it was informal.
“Alex. M.” : Current accounts of the
great telescope for forthcoming Paris Exhibition
say that the image of the moon, 18ft. in dia., ob-
tainable through the monster instrument, repre-
sents the satellite as it would appear at a distance
of 3G miles from the earth. Nqw, viewing the
moon at that distance would be, in approximate
ratio, the same as viewing, at a distance of Oft., a
disc 100yds. in dia. ! To give a size only equal to
an 18ft.-dia.-disc, viewed from a distance of 20yds.,
the moon would, again approximately, have to be
about 12,000 miles away.
Incomparably the best fire-extingusher is
liquid ammonia. In one instance, where fire had
originated, probably from spontaneous combustion,
in a pile containing several tons of cotton-seed, and
the interior thereof was almost a solid body of
live coal, a half-gallon of ammonia completely
smothered the fire. In another, at Savenay,
France, the vapours of a tank containing 50 gallons
of gasoline caught fire in the linen-room of a
laundry. The room was instantly a mass of living
flames, but a gallon-and a-half of ammonia water
thrown into it completely and almost immediately
extinguished the fire. The ammonia was in a
glass demijohn in an apothecary’s shop next door
to the laundry, and was thrown into tne room by
the druggist as an experiment. So completely
was the fire extinguished that workmen were
enabled to enter the room i Imost imme lir.te’y,
where they found the ron ta. k of gasoline i..tact.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
*ith Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the powei to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, ami been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I < AN
OURb OU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL.. Because
others have failed is no* reason for not now being cured,
tend at once for
ALBERT'S'GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b x. Prepared bv
AI BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, Ei gland.
Agents - ELLIOTT BROS., Sydrcv Purchasers sliou.d
’ook foi the registered trade mark of tht Grasshopper on a
green lalel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
WHAT IS CP.TSRRH ?
MED I CATO it-
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lirtiiijr membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If t his in-
flaniinatioii is not, arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and hint's. It, injures the *ij{ht an I
hearinp, destroys the sense ot taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal ear
tilet;es, and rots awa.v the small
frontal hoi es of the skull. The pul rid
discharge passing through the uinys
and stomach causes dyspep-ia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’treatment, by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?e Catarrb CCirc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
SKIN A NEW
DI. .EASES. DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLL'EME never fails to CURE ECZEMA Psoriasis
Acne”). BAR3OD RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to bv well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing' Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.
m
GRIMA’JLT’S
IHDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Comrhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GH.IMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROpyNE.
Oaution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of tliis well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I weife asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chi.okodyne. I never travel
without it, and ils general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
V
M)
X
N
fi
a
m
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A WLIA JVC ICS
a trial of 30 flays before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt hy the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. VVe mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
■Proprietor:—STEPHEN GREEM,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
medical.
Bubonic Plague
&
t,//
m
REGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By Using:
ECKERSLEY’S
fflentholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6; Small /-
Wholesale from
Australian
Go.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. AH you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi-
cine and to try it. 1 am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LONDON
HEALTH AND STR€N6TM
" may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day today. Arc you a Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price JO /- and ‘JO/- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address :—HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145,
Collins street. MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Sate and pleasant for Children.
“ I UB9 a good deal, giving it to se- vunt«
and others, and invariably hear cf goo 1
results. My brother, who had Wh oping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” —E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Furingdon.
AG-3Nrs—Elliottj Hoff-u-’g; D erdicj
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Fauldine; Falk
CURES COUGH


Rumored in Hobart that Mr. Richardson,
the lately-appointed Commissioner of Police, re-
signs on six months’ pay, and that Mr. Steward,
the Tasmanian Pooh-Bah, will be his successor.
Also, that Gov. Gornianston goes on pension in
August, and that Ministers are to find a suitable
position for Private-Secretary Rawlinson.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. 1 *
13. B. O’Conor, M.P. for Sherbrooke
(N.S.W.), just returned from S’Africa, where he
went to watch the great Boer-hunt, was amazed at
the daring (or folly) of “Banjo” Paterson while
lead was flying about. “ ‘ Banjo,’ ” says the M.P.,
“ gets so far in front.of the British that they shoot
at him, thinking he is a Boer; while from the
other side the Boers blaze at him because they
don’t know what lie is.”
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler's
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney. Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
From a civil servant :
Dear Bullktin.—Your paragraph re the N.S.W. Minister
who retired an official on his aeath-bed, and thus obtained
for his necessitous family a gratuity —amounting to £BOO
—the alternative to a pension, which would have died
with him, and so bereft his family of the results of his
long service—recalls the fact that, in many similar in-
stances, the N.S.W. Public Service Board deliberately
acted on contrary principles, greatly to the advantage of
the N.S.W. Treasury and ex-Premier Reid’s surplus. The
civil servant being due for a pension if he remained in the
service till he was 00, there was an obvious saving if the
Board fired him out when aged 69 years and 11 months.
The Minister you refer to is Postmaster-General Crick,
who, rumor avers, is not persona grata to the P.S. Board.
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 30 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
R. D. Meagher’s motion to reduce the
salary of the N.S.W. Governor may be useful as
a feeler, but should in propriety be part of a
general motion covering the whole fiold of reduc-
tions in view of the establishment of the Common-
wealth. And it is not a private member, but a
Minister, who should father the motion. Any-
way, the Governor is entitled to the first cut.
As an institution he has flourished—rankly—and
the time for decay has arrived. N.S.W. Governors
have drawn up to £lO,OOO, with extras ; Hotham
and Barkly, in Vic., £15,000 each ; but, curiously,
as the provinces grew in population and intelli-
gence they gave their ornamental headpieces less
and leas to five upon. And the first whom N.S.W.
now threatens with the Federal knife is that
already-whittled official.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The 85th Waterloo anniversary has evolved
even more piteous “poetic” balderdash than
usual. J oan Torrance, in Melb. Evening ’Erald :
Great Wellington, thy marshal (sic) glory
Dies not with the march of years,
And now more sacred grows the story
Of battle triumphs and grim fears ;
How noble knight and belted earl
Fought for England in her peril.
Literally a “pearl ” of a rhyme, this last.
“G.H.E.,” in Launceston Daily Telegraph :
Brave Wellington bold, he was ne’er bribed with gold,
From his army he ne’er would depart;
At famed Waterloo caused the Frenchmen to rue,
He, in fact, broke Napoleon’s heart.
He was one of the right kind, you must bear this in mind,
And ever speak well of his name.
This hero so proud now lies in his shroud—
Remember from Ireland he came.
Again, poor Ireland !
In any case, the most sated Sybarite
among us can at least own to finding some matu-
tinal exhilaration in the morning tub, and that
buoyancy of spirit may be prolonged and increased
by the simple expedient of adding Scrubb’s Fluid
Ammonia —a tablespoonful or so to the bath. It
is, in fact, when used in this way, a perfect foe to
fatigue ; and did jaded beauty know how the
contents of this simple shilling bottle can help to
brace her nerves and give tone to skin and muscles,
not a toilet-table would lack its stimulating pre-
sence.*
The Modern Art Jewellery Co., of 187
Pitt-street, Sydney, has just opened a new ship-
ment of English-made silver-plated trays of all
shapes and sizes calculated to suit the purse and
taste of the most fastidious. There are trays for
sweets, trays for cigar-ashes, trays for hair-pins,
trays for the toilet-table, heart-shaped trays,
oblong trays, rococo trays and 1000 other varities.
These silver-plated trays are being sold at a
ridiculously low figure considering the quality and
the exquisite workmanship and elegant designs.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
“ Non-com.” : It is very possible that
Major-General Hutton’s quarrel with Premier
Laurier was premeditated by the former, to whom
it would have been galling to sit at ease in Canada
while his particular fad, mounted infantry, was
to be so much in evidence. In fact, when in
N.S.W., if Hutton had had a free hand, all the
country volunteer corps would have been con-
verted into M.I. His frequently-expressed wish to
lead the Australian bushmen in action has, by the
whirligig of time, been granted, and he seems to
be doing it well, too.
D?MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
■ST'S'
A New Volume of Proses
.... By HENRY LAWSON
Will be published THIS WEEK by
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
The Title is . .
“On the Track and Over the Sliprails
And the price, 3s. 6d. (cloth), or in 2 Parts at Is.
Postage, 6d. extra.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
. . op . ,
The Great Central
Freehold Mines, Limited
(To be registered as a Limited Company under Part
2, Division 1, of theCompanies' Act, 1890”)
CAPITAL:
£500.000 in 500.000 shares of £1 each.
300,000 shares, fully paid up, to be issued
to The Intercolonial Mines Purchase
Option and Development Company, No
Liability,
AND
200,000 shares are to be reserved for sub-
scription.
PRESENT ISSUE :
60,000 shares: Payable 2s. 6d. on application;
2s. 6d. on allotment; ss. in three months;
ss. in six months ; ss. in nine months.
DIRECTORS:
E. Neale Wioo, 320 Colli:! ! Street, Melbourne (Director
of the Broken Hill Pro, rietarv Company Limited).
Harvey Patterson, 320 Collins Street, Melbourne (Chair-
man of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company
Limited).
John T. Lbmpribrb, 606 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Director of The Mount Garnet Freehold Copper and
Silver Mining Company Limited).
(Directors of The Intercolonial Mines Purchase Option
and Development Company No Liability.)
SOLICITORS :
Lawson & Jardink, 320 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY:
Thomas Rollason, 47 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS:
Toliiurst Keats & Cummins, Melbourne.
Greene & Brush, Melbourne.
Randle & Willis, Sydney.
Currie & Co., Brisbane.
Bayley & Walch, Hobart.
A. L. Simson, Launceston.
It. F. Irvine, Launceston.
Irwin & Morey, Adelaide.
THIS Company is being formed for the purpose of pur-
chasing from The Intercolonial Mines Purchase
Option and Development Company No liability 120 acres
freehold, 359 acres M.C.P. (which becomes freehold on
payment of about 255. per acre) and 460 acres leasehold,
the whole forming an area of 939 acres, more or less, situ-
ated at South Mount Hope, N.S.M., west of Condobolin
Railway Station.
Of the 500,000 shares, 300,000 fully paid up, together
with £lO,OOO (to cover expenses incurred) will be issued
and paid to The Intercolonial Mines Purchase Option and
Development Company No Liability for the above-men-
tioned properties.
Of the balance of 200,000 shares, 60,000 are now
offered for subscription, payable 2s. Cd. on application,
2s. 6d. on allotment, and ss. at three months, ss. at six
months, ss. at nine months after allotment.
40,000 shares may be offered for subscription or sale in
London or elsewhere at the absolute discretion of the
Directors, on such terms and at such time as they may
consider best in the interests of the Company, and 100,000
shares will be held in reserve for future issue, if required.
The proceeds from the sale of the shares, less £lO,OOO
to be paid to the Intercolonial Company and flotation ex-
penses, will be placed to the credit of the Company as
working capital.
Mr. A. T. Brown’s report on the property furnishes a
full description, the value of the ore, and the extent of
the workings.
Mr. Brown describes a gigantic deposit and ore-bearing
formation, the outcrop of which is traceable in an almost
unbroken line for over a mile in length, and in one place
over 600 ft. in width. A considerable amount of work has
been done in prospecting and developing portions of the
property, particularly the huge “ Central ” deposit, where
good copper ore is proved to exist over an area of 480 ft.
by 750 ft., and to a depth of over 300 ft., with every appear-
ance of its extending in length, depth and width.
Special attention is directed to the fact that the ore-
bearing rock is of a kindly soft character, and may be
easily treated, no refractory material of any kind having
been found, and that a large mass can be worked on the
“ open-cut system ” to a depth of 300 ft. at a trifling cost.
An estimate may be taken from Mr. Brown’s report, and
there is no reason to doubt the assumption upon which
the figures are based as follows :
84ft. of surface cutting averages over 4 per cent,
copper ; 114 ft. cross-cut, 70ft. below averages 6 per
cent, copper, thus giving a general average of 5 per
cent, copper.
The same character of ground is visible with rich
ore showing wherever sunk on or cut still further
East, and for the whole area over 300 ft. North. The
main shaft further South-east proves that good ore
exists the whole way down for over 300 ft.
Discarding the large area of other payable ground
which has been proved to exist, and taking only this
block of ground as a fair and reasonable basis of cal-
culation :
120 ft. by 300 ft. by 300 ft. equals 10,800,000 cubic feet.
Takingl4 cubic feet to the tonequals, say,77o,oootons,
assaying 5 per cent, copper, or allowing for a loss in
mining and treatment of 30 per cent., equals a yield
of 3'3 per cent., or 26,950 tons metallic copper.
From careful calculations made, including cost of
quarrying, picking, concentrating, smelting, cartage,
freight, and realisation charges, &c., and taking cop-
per at £6O per ton (instead of present market price),
it is estimated that the net profit will be about £1 per
ton, or, say £770,000, from this small portion of the
deposit.
It is intended to at once proceed with energetic
development, and the erection of the necessary-
plant for smelting and general mining equipment.
The Directors Believe this to be one of the best
and soundest mining investments that has ever
come under their notice, and one capable of rapid
development.
As applications have already been made for a
large number of shares, intending subscribers
should make early application, the list closing on
30th June, 1900.
Pull Prospectus and Report to be ob-
tained from the Brokers or office of tbe
Company.
Tailoring:
Tailoring.
POOR OLD HATTE
V' —^
He toils not,
Neither does he spin,
T>UT he turns out a REAL GOOD
SUIT, with Extra Pair of Trou-
sers, for £2 25.; and a. clinker for
505.; and 3 Guineas Hand-
made.
A DRESS SUIT, Bilk-faced,
from 635.
A CHESTERFIELD OVERCOAT
for 555. upwards.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
C. G. HATTE
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
X
\ . 1
ft
SEARCH
THE
WIDE
WORLD
OVER
And you will not find any Musical Publications that
compare in variety or value with the
Australian..
.. or ..
Music gooks
No. 52 (Just Published) contains
10 Pianoforte Solos
ol Moderate Difficulty.
No. 51 contains
25 Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
A Perfect Gem. Get it for your Children.
No. 50 THE QRIEC ALBUM, contains
21 Magnificent Pieces
By the Famous Composer, EDVARD GRIEG.
No. 49 contains
49 Little Songs for Tiny Voices
This is another splendid number you should have
for the Children. It is certainly a marvellous
Shilling’s worth.
No. 48 contains
11 Pianoforte Pieces
Moderately Difficult. A splendid Drawing-
room and Teachers’ Number.
No. 47 contains
12 Selected Songs
Including Gounod’s Serenade.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST, which will be sent
Post Free for the asking.
%0~ If either of the above Numbers are not obtainable
at your Musicsellers send direct to
Ilian $ (Jo. proprietary [td.
Music Publishers,
276 & 278 Collins St., Melbourne
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION.
PRICE ss. 6d., POSTED.
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSON 4 CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
The Pirates of Pen*ance.
SATURDAY, JUNE 80, THE OLD GUARD.
Plan, Nicholson’s. IST PRICES—Ss., 35., 25.. and Is.
-pH EAT RE ROYAL, BYDNEY.
ASTOUNDING, ASTONISHING ACHIEVEMENTS.
* BLAND HOLT’S
Fascinatingly-Vivid Melodrama,
WOMAN AND WINE.
WOMAN AND WINE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Ib. Box Plan at Elt/s.
CR.TERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Alfred Dampixr.
FRIDAY, JUNE 29,
“MERCHANT OF VENICE.”
SATURDAY, JUNE 30,
For the term of
“ HIS NA T UliA L LIFE . ”
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
A R’ LECTURE,
WITH 100 REALISTIC LIMELIGHT
ILLUSTRATIONS, by Mr.
JOHNSTONE SHELDON.
JUST ARRIVED FROM THE SEAT OF WAR.
SPECIAL WAR CORRESPONDENT of the
London Daily Chronicle and Cape Argus, and at the
outbreak of war was on the Editorial Staff of the
Johannesburg Star,
who will make his First Appearance at the
PALACE THEATRE,
and will give FOUR LECTURES ONLY, commencing
SATURDAY NEXT, 30th INST. ; MONDAY, 2nd ;
WEDNESDAY, 4th ; FRIDAY, oth.
POPULAR PRICES—Ss, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HARRY SKINNER, Manager.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY OOMPANV
Re-appearance after Three Years Absence of
THE HAYTORS THREE
FRANK EDIE ARTHUR.
Splendid Success of Mr. Cl I AS. SEEL, PROFESSOR
ALMOND, DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, PAUL’S 1900
CENTURY ANIMATOGRAPIIE, Billy M’Ulain, M.
Cordelia, Alma Gray, Roy Gasilin, and all our Great
Double Co. Plan at l’aling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. llarry Rickard*.
First Appearance of the. World's Greatest Pan tom i mists,
PAUL MARTI NETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Light, in his
Masterpiece, ROBERT MACAIRE.
THE FLYING JORDANB, VENUS and OLAF
SCHRADER.
WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, Mr. Tod Callaway, Dr. Leigh,
Dora Taylor, Eva Im, Violet Bishop, E. Brinkman,
Fred Duncan, Alf. Lawton.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
FRIDAY, JUNE 29, LAST NIGHT OF
“ON ACTIVE SERVICE,”
SATURDAY, JUNE 30,
ANOTHER MAMMOTH ATTRACTION,
“Two Little Drummer Boy*-”
Prices— 3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s
> RIN CESS’ T H EATR E, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS of
THE ARNOLD SEASON
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY,
tlx© Boatman.
CHARLES ARNOLD in his original creation
of the Title Role.
Sox Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
rl (Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, JUNE 29, LAST NIGHT OF
“QUEEN ELIZABETH,”
ATURDAY. June 30, NANCE O’NEIL, in Comedy.
SIX NIGHTS ONLY,
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
iress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s J Stalls and Family Circle,
a; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
jy ONA L D MACDONALD,
The Australian War Correspondent.
Brilliant Ladysmith Lectures
At present attracting Enormous Audiences
throughout Victoria.
THEATRES TOO SMALL EVERYWHERE.
EDWIN GEACH.
-|-OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 30, at 3 O’Clock,
Scbsrck’S Orchestra.
(5C Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RIT I S H ~~ B lOGR A P H.
(From Palace Theatre, London).
THE ONLY BIOGRAPH IN AUSTRALASIA WITH
GENUINE BOER WAR FILMS.
Maryborough, July 6 ; Bendigo, 7 to 12 ; Echuca, 13 ;
Deniliquin, 14 ; Castlemaine, 16 ; Ballarat, 17 to zu ;
Melbourne return, 23 to 26 ; Sydney, Palace Theatre,
July 28, 4 weeks.
Newcastle and Brisbane to follow-.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THC AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
HAS STOOD THE TEST
FOR AGES.
SAUCE
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Agenta—VlßGoE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.


La Grippe’s Antics*
VIOLENT PALPITATION.
Two Days’ Treatment Effects
A PERFECT CURE.
The Case of
Mrs. C. CASTER and FAMILY,
(by our special.)
Every springtime, for several year past,
when the parks are yellow with dandelions,
large numbers of Adelaide residents are
attacked with a distressing malady known
locally by the vaded terms, ‘ influenza,
“ dandeli' n fever,” and “ hay fever. VV ith
the utmost impartiality it attacks both high
and low, emptying both the factory and the
halls of Parliament. Medical sciem e strag-
gles vainly with the disease ; in fact, the
doctor and his family are often amongst the
first victims. We were, therefore, very
pleased to hear that Mrs. Arthur Carter, of
Pulsford-road, Prospect, Adelaide, had found
a successful remedy for this dire complaint.
On being interviewed by a reporter, this lai y
very kindly related her experience
“ It was last spring, just about this time ;
the fields were all yellow with flowers, when
I had my four children all laid up at the
same time with influenza."
“Can you tell me their symptoms, Mrs.
Carter 1 ”
“ They were very bilious, with that sort
of feeling as though they wanted to be
sick and retch up, and yet could not do so.
They had no appetite at all—l could not
tempt them to eat with any dish I set before
them. Their mouths were nasty, with a
white coat over the tongues. '1 here was a
croupy cough from the chest, and phlegm
always coming up. A drawing-in pain in
the stomach, like a fainting coming over
you. Round under their jaws their necks
were all swollen up as though they had the
mumps. Of course, I had them all in bed,
and the younge-t, my little girl, was in such
a state of fever that she became quite de-
lirious. And I noticed that they all turned
Yellow in the face —quite a greenish yellow.”
“ Did you send for a doctor, Mrs. Carter ? ”
“ No. I have always tried to avoid doc-
tors ; and besides, I had been strongly ad-
vised by a friend of mine to try a remedy
she had the utmost faith in ; and that, I
may tell you, was Clements Tonic. I gave
all my children a course of that remedy.”
“ What was its effect ? ”
“ First, it sent the children off into agood,
sound sleep ; and when they awoke, it was
with a good appetite and a much-improved
appearance. After that their cure was so
rapid that in two days they were quite well.
There was no sign of biliousness, white-
coated tongues, croupy cough, or swollen
necks ; the skin was the natural colour, and
the feverishness had quite gone. You can
imagine my feeling of joy, and my thankful-
ness to Clements Tonic.”
“ But I hear, Mrs. Carter, that you have
personally derived signal benefit from Cle-
ments Tunic. Will you kindly tell me about
that ? ”
“ That is true ; but I wished to tell you
about the children first. My own trouble
was chiefly a violent palpitation of the heart.
I made sure I was getting heart disease ; it
would thump, thump, thump, like a wheel
in an engine with a missing cog. The pain
of it would seize my chest, and almost choke
me for want of breath.”
“ What were your other symptoms ? ”
“Indigestion, with a heavy pain above
the stomach. I have often thought this
arose from my drinking so much tea, and
for that reason I now make my tea much
weaker in strength, and drink less. I had
a sharp, piercing pain between the shoulders.
There were times when this pain came to me
suddenly, without warning, like a dagger
being driven into my back It would cause
me to scream out, and be for tlie time qt ill*
helpless Another trouble was my che-.; ;
there a pain like bronchitis r eked and tore
me with a burning soreness all over my
lungs. I would rough and cough as though
striving to bring up all the llesh and blood
in my inside. As you may have guessed,
proper rest as quite out of the question.
No position would give me comfort it was
move and turn all the time, and I was fright*
fully irritable and nervous. My mini was
in a constant fear of some trouble happening,
and restless with a dread that could not he
allayed. As neai ly as I can describe it, I
felt as I think a criminal would feel who
was in momenta)y expectation of being ar-
rested by the police, knowing at the same
time . 11 escape « as impossible.”
As t ic reporter listened to Mrs. Carter s
vivid desci iption of one of the severest symp-
toms of nervous disorder, and noted her
present ample and matronly figure, hearty
with vigour and good health, her experience
appeared even more extraordinary than it
does when set out in cold type.
“ D d you consult a medical man on your
own behalf, Mrs. Carter ? ” enquired the
reporter.
“ Luckily, I did not,” replied Mrs. Carter;
“my troubl s, though severe, were of short
duration ; for, knowing the virtues of
Clements Tonic, I was quick to try that
remedy, and, as in the case of my children,
theeffectoniny sys ein was rapid and magical.
My heart ceased to trouble me by throbbing,
my indigestion gave place to good appetite, I
slept well, losing the fearful mind worry ;
and my chest and lungs, that had been sore
to suffocation with ther morseless cough, be-
came eased and quiet; and the stabbing
pain in the back between the shoulders never
came again.” , .
“And how long was Clements Tomo in
effecting this great change ? ”
“ Only a few days. You will remember
I took it very quickly after my trouble
began, and no doubt this hastened my cure,
saving me much pain and expense.”
“ There is a great moral lesson to be
drawn from what you have told me, Mrs.
Carter —a lesson that should go to the heart
of every mother and suffering woman in
the land. May I tell them ?”
“ If you really think so, and wish to pub-
lish what I have said,” replied Mrs. Carter,
“ you are quite welcome to do so, and in
any way you may deem best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Carolinr Carter, of Pulsford Road, Prospect,
Adelaide, in the Province of South Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
rend the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any manner
my statements which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and 1 make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the sixth year of the reign of his late
Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled, “An Act
to repeal an Act- of this present Session of Parliament,
intituled, “An Act for the more effectual altolitior.
of Oaths and Affirmations taken a'd made in tin
various Departments of the State, and to substituc
Declarations in lieu thereof, and fo" the more entiri
suppre-sion of voluntary and ext'a jud'eial Oaths and
Affidavits, and to make other provisions for th-
abolition of unnecessary Oaths.'*’
Declared and subscribed at Prospeo 1 , in the Pru
inoe of South Austialia, this 26th d*y of October, on
housand eight hundred ami ninety-nine, before im
b HtKNity D. BIUDLE, J.P
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’
A Simple Remedy for Preventing" & Curing" by Natural Means
m
m
a
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL-POX, SCARLET FEVER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every menuonable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever pyaemia, erysipelas, measles
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno s Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to a 1 my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot ue
over estimated.”—A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY HABVEUOUS IT IS, IK FACT, NATURES OWN REMEDY,, NO AN UNSURPASSED ONE,
Withmt a m Uvea
Prepared only by J. C.ENO, Ltd.,at the FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, l QNDON, by J. C. ENO’B Patent.
.i 9 is the Latest Type I
'AMOPHONI
'ONOPHONEI
Price, £7.
TALKS! SINGS
PLATS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing' to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List —FREE.
4gr Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones ;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
«X*o t~> t.i r*v COMPBXIXIOU.
WINES rhe Bes ‘ B Z d> 0> SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent .Brewery, SYDNEY.
IRS
ANCHOVY PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs.
Manufacturers I
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office—o & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware of substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
for making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Hall the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors :-GOODAI_L, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd,Subiaco,Pcrth,W.A.&6B,KlngSt., Melbourne
PLAIN NOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riaije, which makes it a superior to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers. „ , , ... .
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr.'Cahvbr's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty's SECRETS. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. ls6dpost.
Every Man Hrs Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, ls£d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer Is 6d«
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O'Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest). Is Oct post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
bv him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, is Park Street, SYDNEY
Price 6s.
Post Fres.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd.”


STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Beware of Imitations..
S. D. & Co.’s Special Value in Waltham Lever Watches,
has best-finished movement, enamel dial, gold hands, heavy
hunting Hall-marked silver cases, and is recommended m
Reliable Timekeeper. £3.
S. D. & 00. s 11 Dorby ” Double Chronograph gives an
instantaneous record of any event in minutes and seconds; the
movement is J-plate lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer
expansion balance, Brequet spring. In Solid Silver Cases, open
face, £6 10a. ; Hunting, £7 10s.; In 18-ct. Gold Oases, open face,
£2O; Hunting, £22.
D. <fe Co.’s “ Eclipse ” Watches have finest quality }-plate
full-capped, dust-proof movements, jewelled in 8 holes. Extra
heavy sterling silver cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best
watches at the price ever sold. In Hunting Oases, £2 ; Crystal
Front, £1 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Cadies’ Silver English
Lever Watches. Has fine-finished
rim capped jewelled movement, En-
—-'ved Silver Cases, £3 10s.
S. D. & Oo.’b Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunting:
Lever Watch has fine-quality J-plate lever
movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer ex-
pansion balance, perfect keyless winding:, strong:
18-ct. Gold Cases, £l6 10s.; in open face, £l4 10s. ;
size smaller, £l2 10s.; in Hunting Cases, Solid
Silver, £2 10s.
The “Triumph” Watch, for Gentlemen or
Youths, is a Gigantic Triumph over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. Polished
Nickel, keyless, short wind, 18s. 6d.
8. D. & Co.’s Lady’s “ Eclipse” 811-
ver Watch has finest quality |-plate
movement, jewelled in 8 holes, beauti-
fully Engraved Case, elegant tinted opal
dial, a perfect timekeeper, £1 10s. ; in
Hunting Oases, £2. Warranted for 2
years.
S. D. & Oo.’s 18-ct. Gold Keyless “ Prin-
cess” Watch has finely-finished
jewelled movement, strong-, solid 18-ct.
Gold Engraved Oases, perfect keyless
action, £5 10s.; Half-Hunting, £6 ; open
face, £4 10s.; also in Silver Half-Hunting
or Full-Hunting Cases, £2 10s.; open face,
£2. Warranted for 2 years.
?: ®l„* Co ' s - En , g 1 , 8 v, Huntmg Lever Watches contain special patented improve-
al-p ftfn “ f abl lt »’ tmekeepmg, and freedom from accident in wear. The movements
Jff,^JV ca PP e l?' dust-proof, jewelled in rubies, and the cases are Strong Sterling Silver, Hall-
marked, £3 10s. Warranted for 3 years. Special quality, with chronometer expansion
balance, and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s.
Rotherham English Lever, Hunting Silver Key-wind, £4 10s.
8. D. <fc Co.’s Ladies’Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “ Nonpariel” Watches are
truly a speciality amongst specialities,
much recommended to ladies who desire
a unique, compact and elegant inexpen-
sive Gold Watch. The entire watch is
most exquisitely finished, fine full
jewelled movement, 18-carat Gold Strong
Cases, perfect keyless action, convenient
and reliable. Hunting Cases, £7 10s.;
open face, £6 10s. Warranted for 8 years.
' tBSE
gsg®
SB!
■
IS
m
:
S. D. & Co.’s “Excelsior” Keyless English
Lever is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best f-plate movement, full jewelled in rubies ; real
chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked Silver Cases,
each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 10s ; in heavy 18-ct.
Gold Cases, £22 ; open face, £lB 10s.; also made Key-
wind Hunting, in massive Silver Cases, at £5. Strongly
recommended. Silver Keyless Hunting Rotherham
English Levers, £6 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s Gold Keyless Wal-
tham Lever Watch, with best
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled, strong
solid Gold Engraved Hunting Cases, per-
fect keyless action, sunk seconds, and
enamelled dial, £6105., exceptional value ;
Silver Cases, £3 55.; open face, £3.
S. D. & Co.’s Ladies 10-ct. Gold Key*
less 3-plate Levers, in beautifully
engraved or plain cases, fine full-jewelled
movements, chronometer balance, and all
latest improvements, are thoroughly re-
commended. Each watch warranted for
6 years. Open face, £lO 10s. ; Hunting,
£l2 10s.
■
m
m ■
S. D. & Co.’s Gent’s Keyless Waltham Lever
Watch, finest quality J plate movement, fitted
with patent safety barrel, expansion balance,
Brequet spring, heavy Government Hall-marked
Silver Hunting Oases, £3; in 10-ct. Gold Cases,
£9 10s.; 14-ct. Gold Cases, £lllos. ; 18-<st. Gold
Oases, £l6los.
Any of the Watches .Mustrated above will be sent, securely packed and Post Free, on receipt of
remittance.
412 George Street and Strand, Sydney.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. dcdtu * » ’
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. PERTH. AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON. LONDON.
N.S.W


Sowing the Fear.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His chair of brass was inlaid with turquoise and
ivory : its tawny lace and b ick-red cushions smelt
of Asia; it was as narrow as a coffin and higher
than a palanquin ; upon each arm sat Indra, the
elephant-god. In odd comers of the room were
ominous things from Upper Burmah and Thibet—
the bones of a man-ape ; an idol that leered like her
of Babylon, but in its lashless sockets were dark
jewels that gleamed with a deathless light. There
were tiny bricks of agate and a broken cornice
looted from a temple on the lower Irrawaddy.
The man himself was fair of skin, and his eyes
were tender and imaginative, but sometimes, when
the fit held him, he could address you in language
that would shame a Cairo Jew.
There were occasions when he gathered his
minature agate bricks and builded queer storeyed
Joss-houses and pagodas, which he illuminated
with alcohol-lamps of green and yellow. It was
an unusual hobby, but it satisfied some inner
craving. He rarely spoke of countries beyond
Australia, yet, by the way he piled up his agate
temples and slanted his pagodas, you knew that
he had drunk tea in Pekin and bathed in the snow-
waters of the Himalaya.
His name was Cuthbert Kane, he was a mil-
lionaire ; year in and year out his ships did good
business in three oceans.
Opposite him sat a gentle-faced Hindoo. For
the last half-hour they had not spoken. Cutli-
bert’s eyes were fixed absently on the red satyrs
that sported inside the frescoes of the Moorish
ceiling. The Hindoo, squatting on a divan, was
reflected in twenty mirrors ; the gluck, gluck of
his silver-mounted hookah filled the room with a
quaint aroma of tliq Ea>t.
The millionaire, half-stretched from his coffin-
like chair, flung a grotesque shadow across the
wainscoat. The Brahmin’s alert eye flashed upon
it suddenly ; he smiled at the picture it conveyed
to his mind.
“Awake, thou lotus-man ! Thy shadow is like
a gourd. By Kismet, the lights in thy jewels are
as yellow as Job’s sores; a diamond should be
white. I thought thou wert a judge of stones ! ”
Cuthbert Kane swooped gently at a fly that
settled on Indra’s nose, and would have relapsed
into indifference but for the slight challenge in
the Brahmin’s voice. He drew up his knees to
a sharper angle and yawned with dog-like vigor.
“Yellow as Job’s sores, eh? And you said
something about a gourd. H’m, you don’t beat
about the bush when you want to be nasty,
Velarney. Please don’t compare me or anything
I wear to old man Job again. ’
“Does the comparison hurt?” The Brahmin
smiled serenely.
Cuthbert frowned. “It does. You may com-
pare me to an animal if you choose, but let the
animal be clean. I have a particular objection to
Job.”
“That is another word for fear,” suggested the
Hindoo. “ Thou art afraid of dead Job.”
“Bosh ! why should 1 be afraid of the deadest
man in history, eh ; why should I ? ”
Cuthbert, trie millionaire, put out his chin and
drew his hands together almost sharply. Ho
began to detect a hidden meaning in the Brah-
min’s words, and his fierce imagination revolted
against the innuendo. “ Why should I fear the
deadest man in history ? Fear is an inherited
disease; my ancestors were captains, fighters.
Fear? I am afraid of nothing ! ”
“ Ah ! ” The Hindoo humped his back slightly.
“ You English will never learn that fear rules the
world. We of Asia know—we of Asia know ! ”
Kane shifted his eyes as though he were not in-
terested. A latent dread warned him against
pushing the odious subject further. What was
Job to him?” . ..
These two had travelled across Asia, laughing
at death in every shape but One, and when It
crossed their path in the valleys of the Brahma-
pootra, or in the stillness of the jungle, they
turned from it with eyes flaming with fear. Cuth-
bert would run and turn again like a child who
flees from some dreadful ogre, his throat full of
sounds, his lips glued to his brandy-flask. It was
the only death they had learned to fear, and Kane
feared It with an abhorrence that even the high-
strung Brahmin was incapable of. Cuthbert could
not obliterate the picture of the Death as he had
seen it on the Inman highways, in the bazaars,
and in the white-roofed lazarettes. It caught him
in his sleep, gripped him with thick, shapeless
hands, until Its hot mouth was lip to lip with
his own, scorching him with a breath that seemeef
to come’from the lungs of a volcano.
But the horror had not haunted him of late ; it
was only when this Indian doctor visited him that
his blood resurged and his brain-cells exuded their
atmosphere of the pungent East. And the gentle-
voiced Brahmin knew it and chuckled. lhere
were moments when Kane’s brutal language hurt
him • in retaliation he sometimes made half-sug-
gestions that worked the brooding millionaire into
a state of havoc. And yet, withal, they crossed
the world to meet and assault each others feel-
'"cuthbert reached for the tiny alcohol-lamp and
held it to a black cheroot.
“Tell us something about Budcl and your
damned juggernauts. I’ll listen. I’ll listen. En-
lighten me about your fat priests who haunt the
five rivers. Faugh ! it beats me how you people
stand such rot.” TT . , .
A shadow of anger crossed the Hindoo s pro-
file • his toes turned in suddenly like the paws Of
a wolf. A spasm of old hatred resurged within
him against this alien who scoffed at India and
her gods. His thin lips puckered. .Purely thou
hast forgotten thyself. I spoke no ill of thy god
or church, and there is little need to insult mine.
Permit me to retire. . , , , ■
Cuthbert grinned maliciously as he spanned his
jewelled fingers over his thigh The Hindoo had
reached the door and was looking back with the
air of a man who departs insulted. Cuthbert sat
uu with a half-muttered apology. You began
it you know, Velarney. I was dreaming peace-
fully when you chipped in with your festering
jewels and Job’s sores. Have some sherry;
there’s prune-brandy on the sideboard. Whats
the hurry? You’ll lie back in Mandalay next
month, and I want to talk about those ruby shares.
Theebaw wants a finger in era, greedy old boor.
And you . . . Now w tat are you gaping at . oit
down ; don’t look at me like that ? "’
The good-natured grin on Kane s flushed face
changed to an ominous scowl as Velarney, with a
panther-like stoop, approached him, his hand
uplifted to shield his eyes from the mstraying
sunbeams.^^ a t y OU staring at ? Sit down.
Don’t look at me like that ! ” ,
Velarney stood gaping in the centre of the
room, his piercing eyes fixed
Kane’s throat, where the loose collar exposed the
white flesh beneath. , .
Kane shifted uneasily under the intense scru-
tiny and sat up. Velamey had recoiled as if
Kane had suddenly changed places with a lion.
“ Aren’t you well ? What are you gaping at ? ”
There was something in the Hindoo’s hypnotic
stare that made Cuthbert laugh hysterically. It
seemed utterly indecent to remain more than a
moment under so glittering a scrutiny. He
wriggled and turned his face. Yelamey remained
mot.onless, with sweat streaming from his fore-
head.
“ Pardon me, my friend, but I notice that thy
collar is undone. Thou art not well, not sound.”
“Aren’t I?” Cuthbert ceased to laugh; he
squared his big chest and met Velarney’s glance.
“If that’s what’s troubling you, my Ganges
apothecary, I can soon put you in error.' I’m just
itching to smash something ugly in the way of a
man. Come and feel this.” He threw out his
arm and drew it inwards until the muscles
bunched and heaped under his silken sleeve.
Velamey retreated towards the door.
“Comeback; I won’t hit you. What a queer
animal you are ! ”
Velarney looked back swiftly, and his ear-
rings trembled. “ I think thou hadst better send
for thy English doctor. The sickness of Asia is
upon thee.! Thy collar is undone, and I see it as a
mother sees a rash on the breast of her babe.
Thou art not aware, eh ? The disease is very
gentle at first; but—thou art a leper ! ”
He nodded until his beard wagged and the ear-
rings quaked. He made no further movement.
Cuthbert Kane was bolt upright; he remained
thus like a cast in lead ; his eyes bulged. “I’m
what ? —l’m what ? ” He was about to shriek with
laughter, but the Hindoo caught his glance in the
shift of an eye—it was like a sword-stroke; the
grin died away from Cutl)bert’s mouth, leaving it
dry and wrenched. If Velamey had said, “ sly
friend, you have cholera,” he would have reached
nonchalantly for the cognac ; such ailments were
easily observed by men of Velarney’s breed; but
since another word had been used, a word that
consigned a living man to Gehenna ; since—since —
The strange noise in his throat made Velarney
look up.
“ Send for thy English doctor. Shall I ring, or
perhaps thou wouldst like to keep it secret for a
little while; thou art absurdly sensitive about
this particular malady.” A blow from a hammer
could not have silenced Cuthbcrt more effectually.
He turned his eyes down very slowly and glanced
at his breast as if he were about to contemplate
a reptile curled upon it. By a singlo word
Velarney had cast him into the depths of Filth.
The swift revelation left him dumb; his mind
was shattered by leaping pictures of black and
white lazars marooned on a surf-rung barrier. Ho
sat back suddenly as if a quick hand had pushed
him. Across the reeling apartment slipped
Velarney, offering him brandy from the side-
board ; he took it mechanically and gulped it
down.
The tiny French clock ticked lustily, and the
dreadful silence seemed to hold that he might
shatter it with vociferous denials. The Hindoo
watched his face stealthily and murmured to him-
self that the color of fear was grey—grey flesh
drizzled with perspiration.
Cuthbert’s chin lolled drunkenly. He felt a
sudden desire to question the Brahmin, but the
tongue, cleaving to the hot mouth, refused to
articulate.
To-morrow a hundred newspapers would blaiv
out the news of his malady, and the men and
women who knew him would stand as still as he
stood now. In one of the southern cities lived a
woman who cared for him beyond his wealth, and
the thought of her hurt him most. He could see
her now, her white chin thrust over the paper,
her cheeks aflame with anger against the very
letters that proclaimed his unspeakable complaint.
Later, she would steal to her room to hide the
nauseating revolt that would hold her by the
throat. Within a month he would be blacked out
from civilisation, within a year forgotten by every
man and woman but one. For a moment, he was
seized with a savage impulse to bar the windows
and shut himself in darkness. Already he could
hear the tread of Government officials on the
stairs, could feel their uncouth hands dragging
him from his palace to the white lazaretto, where
the lepers squatted in the sun Chinamen,
islanders, and the scum of Asiatic ports.
Suddenly his tongue was liberated from the dry
roof of his mouth ; his limbs obeyed his furious
will; he sprawled over a divan rebellious and
trembling with horror.
“You say I’m—” He stopped sharply and
touched his throat. “You say I’m that—that ! ”
He spat on the carpet. “By God, you lie?
Who said you were a doctor ? My skin is clean
as Christ’s ! You understand—you black swine !
Don’t look at me, you hear?” Pah!” He
snapped his fingers valorously like a man who is
to be drawn and quartered. He tore off his coat
and pitohed it across the room. “ I’m clean, d’ye
hear, you blind fellaheen ? Come and look again ;
but, by God, don’t say that!”
The sound of his own voice filled him with a
new horror; it seemed as if he were shouting
across a sea of pestilence to an impassive Brahmin
who made dissenting gestures.
He stooped, moistened his forefinger and agam
touched his breast, Velarney smoked on quickly,
and his thin, grey garments seemed to melt in the
tobacco fumes. The hangings behind him moved
as though a sudden draught had tought them.
Cuthbert put out his fist, but the Hindoo had
vanished. With a howl, he sprang into the cor-
ridor, peering left and right. An outer door
slammed like a pistol-echo ; Cuthbert rocked for-
ward as if a bullet had whipped his breast; his
elbows jerked violently, his reddish hair bristled.
The acid of thought had bitten into his impres-
sionable mind, and his body had become alarmed.
Velarney had gone to warn the authorities. He
must be intercepted, forestalled, argued with.
Cuthbert retreated stealthily into a side-room
that was filled with island curios, and seized a
malacca cane that held a thin sword.
Out in the passage he paused, half-crouching,
and faced Velarney, smiling through the half-open
door. His silvery laughter was like a bugle note
on Kane's ears. He salaamed.
“ Pray, calm thyself, my dear friend : there is
really nothing the matter with thee. It is not
often I play such a joke. I think I scared thee,
ha, ha ! It is good that every man should know
what fear is.” , -
Cuthbert did not move. Velarney s words
failed to liberate him from his thrall. A rim of
ooze edged his lips. , ■
“ I swear by Imnra, I did but jest! My word is
mv word.” Velarney advanced gesticulating.
His anger had evaporated; he smiled munih-
L6 The frown of a nightmare remained on Cuth-
bert’s brow ; his lips widened to a vacuous grin,
but behind it was the omnipotent fear that holils
a man who has beer I*. oen by a snake.
There was a block in the Canal; across the
reeking sands came the cough of a liner and the
jabberings of hysteric lascars. Beyond the Canal-
head a big-beamed freighter roasted in the sun.
A Hindoo in a boat was being rowed under her
stem leaning over the rail was a man in a white
topee; he was beckoning familiarly to the Hindoo
in the boat.
Hulloa, Velamey ! Didn’t expect to meet
you in Port Said. Won’t you come aboard?”
Velarney lay back against the cushioned seat
smiling. The tip of his beard had grown white ;
his eyes had lost the glitter of former days.
“ Salaam, sahib Glynn ! Thy memory is good ;
thou dost not forget faces. How many years
since we met ? eight, nine ? Ah, those days in
Rockhampton ! ”
Glynn nodded cheerfully. “Good old Rock-
hampton ! I shall be there again next month.
Been there yourself lately ? ”
Velarney shook his head. “No, no; it is nine
years since I left. Didst thou ever meet Cuthbert
Kane, the millionaire ?”
Glvnn started; the ashes from his cigar fell
into his sleeve.
“ Cuthbert the millionaire ? ” Velarney shaded
his eyes from the sun that was setting towards the
Nile.
“Excuse me, Velarney, I didn’t quite catch
what you said about Kane. How long is it since
you saw him ? ”
Velarney sighed. “It is nine years since I saw
him last. We quarrelled—a word spoken in jest,
that was all. I frightened him. He was angry.
Ido not think he has forgiven me. What he he
doing now ? ”
Glynn’s voice was almost drowned by the strik-
ing of eight bells.
“ Cuthbert is marooned on Shark Island lazar-
etto : he contracted leprosy eight years ago ! ”
ALBA DORIGN.
An old-time Melbourne auctioneer named
Hammill lay sick unto death. His friends,
grieved at the irritation caused by a neighbor’s
howling dog, besought the owner to stop its noise.
The gentleman appealed to, who afterwards held
a very high political office indeed, courteously
replied, “ ’Ang ’Ammill; let the dog ’owl.”
Tyson’s Domicile.
Re Tyson estate. It was decided, the other day, by the
Q. Supreme Court that if the late millionaire Tyson was
domiciled in Queensland the estate in the other provinces
was liable to pay succession duty. N.S.W., some short
time ago, came to a similar decision.—
The drought was parching all the West,
The plains had waxen sere,
We’d ceased to supplicate and pray,
We only yearned for beer ;
We’d just begun to pawn our shirt
To raise a scanty meal
When round there ran the joyful news—
“ We’re Tyson’s domicile ! ”
What visions flashed before our eyes
Of coffers running o’er,
Of loans from out the Treasuree
To square our liquor-score ;
Our mouths were all with smiles a-curl,
We danced a drunken reel,-
The day we knew our province, too,
Was Tyson’s domicile!
So hang the Drought and hang the Plague,
And doubly hang the War !
We only grin and claim the tin
And bless our happy shore.
’Tis not for useleas heroes dead
We ring a merry peal;
We sing no song of glories fled—
“ We’re Tyson’s domicile ! ”
PHILLANDER FLAM.
“ Britislmh ” : It is glorious to see notori-
ous Irish rebels sporting tlie red, white, and
blue, carried away by the lava-stream.
California Sprup of Figs,
AGREEABLE, MILD, AND SURE.
is a positive, reliable, and at the same time the most agreeable, family remedy
for Constipation, Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression,
Feverishness, Loss of Appetite, Hi adache, and all kindred Complaints,
speedily restoring health, appetite, t nei gy, and good spirits.
California Sprup of Figs.
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A luxury as much as a medicine, and an unfailing remedy. It acts as Nature
does. It does not gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It gives reiki pleasantly,
leaving the liver, kidneys, and bowels permanently b< nefited, so that its use
may be discontinued as soon as the system is relieved and cicaused.
California Sprup of Figs.
ACTS GENTLY, BUT PROMPTLY,
is strengthening, invigorating, and energising, not weakening and lowering, as
most ordinary pills and purgatives are. there is no discomiort or inconveni-
ence. It simply aids and seconds Nature, and its results are healthful
regularity, and freedom from dangerous impurities in the system.
California Sprup of Figs.
CLEANSES THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
is not an old time medicine —it is compounded with a knowledge of exactly
what is required ot an end-of the-century reuudy. It you always have it
handy, taking a dose now and then, it will put your vital organs in healthy
condition and keep them so. You do not require to lay up to get well.
Nature’s Pleasant Laxative keeps you well while you live as usual.
California Sprup of Figs.
AN IDEAL MEDICINE FOR CHILDREN.
It is perfectly suited to their strength, never tiring or weakening the
stomach, iiver, kidneys, and bowels, which it cleanses, completely dissipating
at will all troubles ot these organs, and then t materially strong' In ns them.
In action it is as bland aud gentle as rain-water, and there is no risk atteni -
ing its use.
California Sprup of Figs.
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT,
—unlike other articles offered to effect the same result-does not require to
be taken in doses of constantly increased strength The ordinary dose
always effective, because while relieving the weakened organs ot thmr
it strengthens them against recurrence of the disturbance. and
purgative- merely relieve, and always by over-violent means. Because ot
these merits physicians everywhere recommend it.
California Sprup of Ftes.
THE TRUE AND ORIGINAL REMEDY
Do not overlook the fact that in order to get the beneficial n suit you are
seeking you must obtain the GENUINE Syrup of Figs, for the -nidations of
rS mos. impor.ant quality-,he curative. It»nvauc «
scientific processes know,, to tho Cal,forma F,g Syop Co. onl and
of the genuine bears the name and trade mark of the
California Fig Sprup Co.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. and is <>
DEPOT:—33 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENG *
Australian uoiouie*— jl an wading Wholesale houses.


Egyptian Smith.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Mahaffv, in a note in the Athen.bum, an-
nounces the fact that Smith is an ancient name. A man
known as Smith in the twentieth year of the third
Ptolemy, 227 B.C. was occupied in brewing beer and
selling it.
Ho, Brown and Jones and Robinson !
Ho, Johnson, do you hear?
Two hundred years before our Lord
. „ ~ , .
A Smith was on the beer !
What is your boasted pedigree,
Your Norman blood to me ?
The Smiths got drunk with Ptolemy
Tmn opnfnriM fl i
A learned Yankee scientist
Has termed the place below
m , , a ... • x i i i
The great Smithsonian Institute,
Where most of us must go.
For thirst and beer.and Smith are One,
And we were on the spree
And rolling round with Ptolemy
m f • t> o J
1 wo centuries 8.0.
_ . , ~ , ,
I mind me well the day we won
Great Pharaoh’s daughter, Sphyx—
Her dowry, half the Israelites,
And seventy million bricks.
A 1 i j. , ~
And, bending o er the register,
With triumph in his eye,
Our bridegroom Smith attached his name—
And spelt it with a “ y.”
We drank the Libyan sun to sleep :
We came home with the cat;
it t> ,i i i> i ■
Ho, Brown and . ones and Robinson,
Now, what (1 ye think of that !
And swapping hats upon the kerb,
Whilst tears were running free,
Egyptian Bmytlie and Pharaoh sat,
1 „ ’
t wo centuries 13.0.
t> , T , .. , .
Oh, Brown and Jones and Robinson,
Don t bring your lineage here!
The celebrated House of Smith—
It is as old as beer.
The fellow that the girl enticed
. , , , . b ,
And shared the apple with
He was not Adam, as you think,
But good old Johnny Smith !
PTOLEMY DE MOLYNEUX SMYTHE.
An Archaic Subject.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Somebody once said, “ the occasion always
produces the man but sometimes the man pro-
duces the occasion. Whether Noah produced the
flood, or the flood produced Noah, is a conundrum
I have never solved.
I have heard all that the parsons have to say on
the subject, but I feel sceptical as ever. A
parson is like a phonograph ; certain things are
talked into him, and he talks them out again -on
consideration that he may take up a collection
afterwards. And it has struck me that if he were
not a parson he would take up the collection
beforehand, since a hungry man who has been given
a brick to digest, is not in a generous frame of
mind.
The parson sticks to his book, which is emphatic
and explicit. He says, without turning a hair,
that this flood of his occurred exactly 4248 years
ago; that it covered the tops of the highest
mountains and had 15 cubits to spare—exactly 15
cubits ; that representatives of all existing fauna
congregated in Noah’s valley, and that they came,
some in pairs and others in fourteens, and filled
up the ark. All animal life was represented on
that marvellous craft; every order, every species,
every variety: nothing was forgotten; not even
the stink-bug.
And they must have been considerably crowded
in that ark, those hundreds of reptiles, those
thousands of mammals, those tens of thousands of
birds, those myriads of insects; from the Arctic
cold they came, from the Torrid Zone, from the
temperate clime—and there were only four men
and a few women to look after them all, and feed
them. And feed them on what ?
No doubt Noah was given orders to take in
stores for the voyage. He must have been good
at commissariat work. And then the flood began
to rise, and the ark too. It was a very wet
season, the decks were sloppy, and the ship
laboured a good deal, and drifted like an ocean
liner whose propeller had dropped off. But
fortunately the animals remained very quiet, and
when the elephants or the giraffes lost their foot-
ing, before they had found their sea-legs, Noah’s
patent padded stalls prevented any great damage.
The “old man ” remained on the bridge and never
took his oil-skins off for forty days and forty
nights, and had his meals taken up to him on a
tray by the “ missing link,” who had been trained
to act as steward.
I have often thought that it would add greatly
to the interest of the authoritative account if it in-
cluded extracts from Noah’s log :
“ Thursday, Nov. 19th. Strong gales from S. W.
with driving rain. Drifted past several peaks
covered with refugees who hung out signals
of distress. Maria suggested we should throw the
swine and the laughing-hyenas overboard to make
room for a few refugees, but I told her it was
against the orders of the Board.
“Sunday, Dec. 10th. Began to make water
somewhere abaft the snake-house, and sent the
beaver over the side to look for the leak. Leak
located. Sent the beaver’s wife to plug it with
her tail. N.B. Shall carry beavers on all future
voyages.
“March 15th. The cattle in the forward hold
have developed ‘ticks.’ Of course we had to take
the ticks aboard—they were confined in a box with
the bots and other pests—but Japhet’s boy,
Gomer, the curse of the ship, undid the lid, and
let the ticks out.
“March 16th. There was great trouble to-day
with the rattle-snakes and the cobras. The case
for the female cobra was that the he-rattle-snake
kept swallowing the young cobras as soon as they
were hatched. In separating the combatants
Ham got bitten in the arm, but he lias been drink-
ing port wine and brandy ever since, and will pull
through.
“Mayl3th. To-day‘link’died and was buried
B»ti sea.
“April 3rd. A steam-pipe burst on the lower
deck, where the tropical animals are kept, and
badly scalded. Then something went
wrong with the gear in the refrigerating-room,
where the polar bears are. Troubles never com ■
singly. The result is that all the animals from the
tropics will have to be rugged, and the polar bears
hosed frequently, till repairs are effected.
“April 4th. Saw the sun for the first time to-
an °^ surVilt * on 39-30 N., 41 '33 L.
Sent out the raven.
“ April 10th. The dove, which I liberated
yesterday, returned this morning with an olive
branch, but whether it was got from a hill-top or
a floating tree, the bird didn’t say.
‘ April 12th. Took another observation. Still
39-50 N., 44‘33 E. Can’t make things out, unless
bas stuck fast on an uncharted shoal.
oi tunatelj the weather is calm.
April loth. Have called the mountain we
have' grounded on, Koh-i-Nuh,-i.e., Noah’s
mountain. The embarkation commences to-
morrow. Expect to experience great difficulty in
gutting the hippopotami down the mountain. File
? W , h ° le job T . hadt °
be done over again wed jib, Board or no Board.
And yet many difficulties remain unexplained.
For instance, we know that Australia was chopped
off from the rest of the world more than 4248 years
ago ; its fauna is unique ; it contains animals and
birds found nowhere else on earth; it possesses
j u , m P? rs > and ‘j 1686 « lust have gone
to Noan and got back again after the event. Yet
no one lias ever explained how they jumped
Torres Straits and the Straits of Sunda.
. Maoriland, too, possesses some distinct forms of
The moa was there very lately, and it must
have been in the ark ; the taniwlia, male and
female, were there ; and so was the tautara lizard,
' 8 n6ver 111 a hurry.
Unce 1 saw a captive tautara that was trying to
get across ftis cage. When 1 saw him first he had
one foot in the air, in the act of taking a stop. I
was in his town a week, but he had not succeeded
111 getting ftis foot down when I loft. It was not
ftft( ; r , waniB that I heard he had
been successful m the effort. Of course his for-
bears were in the ark. What a time it must have
taken then! to get to the Euphrates valley, and
they had to be there on time, to the very tick, or
they would have been left out in the rain.
Probably they started for the ark some thousands
°f yuars before Noah was thought of which goes
n they T deo £ er thl V k ?S B tl !f n is OV< J"
generally supposed, and probably they onlv
recently got home again. The tautara is said to
be a long-lived lizard. He needs to be.
And here, dear brethren, at this precise point,
endeth the first lesson.
A.G. & J.R.S.
During a recent visit of Yic. Minister
Outtrim to Mildura, the most imposing deputation,
asking for railway extension, was compose,!
wholly of women. But they were not ordinary
women; for after three of them had spoken, ten
others, who had got speeches ready, declared
that all they could have said the first three had
said already, and so, having nothing fresh to say,
they would say nothing.
Proposed in Maoriland to abolish the right
to be represented by counsel at the Arbitration
Court oil tho ground that lawyers win cases by
working technical points, and not by getting at
the facts of the case. The advocates of the change
say that with a bench that settles down to cross-
examine all parties, and does its lest to get at the
truth, lawyers are unnecessary j and only serve to
cloud the issues and conceal the truth.
Most soldiers have a tinge of superstition.
Lord Roberts lately wrote to a friend in England,
thanking him for a horseshoe he had forwarded to
him, and mentioning that he picked up one him-
self the day before Cronje surrendered, and
another the day prior to the capture of Bloemfon-
tein. As “Bobs” has since taken possession of
Johannesburg and Pretoria, he must have found
two more horseshoes. Some 15 years ago Sir
Louis Cavagnari went to Afghanistan as British
Commissioner. As he crossed the Indian frontier
on his journey, a raven flew across the track.
This unfortunate officer and his English com-
panions all noticed the evil omen, and the party
was massacred soon after reaching the Ameer’s
capital.
To the subjoined, The Bulletin says
hear, hear: —
Dear Bulletin.— Re sweating in Vic. telegraph depart-
ment (B. 9/6/’00), what about the N.S.W. department,
which last month sent the following circular to postmas-
ters throughout the province :
“ Owing to the difficulty of filling vacancies for opera-
tors, particularly where ‘ sound ’ readers are required, it
is requested that postmasters will furnish the names of
any operators attached to their respective offices whose
places could, in the event of their transfer, be satisfac-
torily filled by the appointment of juniors at salaries
varying from £65 to £BO per annum.”
In this matter of sweating and reducing wages, what
does N.S.W. Telegraph Society do to justify its existence'?
Surely a well-organised society of operators should be
able to obtain something better than a bare living wage.
P.M.G. Crick, at a recent shivoo given to some Queens-
land operators, informed his hearers—all operators—that
some of the officials in his department got less pay than
he would care to offer a blackfellow. In the face of these
facts the operators of the various States of the Common-
wealth would do well to give a little attention to the
results achieved by co-operation and trades-unionism.
Dot.
War is bad, but Jingo war-“ poetry ”
is worse. One of the most terrible results
of the present unpleasantness is a leaflet
containing two soul-cries by “ Mrs. M. A. 8.” (the
balance of the lady’s name is wisely concealed), of
some unspecified town in N.S.W. The exact
address is wrapped in gloom, probably lest a grate-
ful nation should come and swoon with delight on
the lady’s clean doorstep. Here is half the first
poem :
Mrs. B.’s two effusions are offered at 3d., the
proceeds to go to “the Patriotic Fund.” Some
reckless individual has issued them without an
imprint, and is consequently liable to be fined a
good deal more than 3d. as soon as the excitement
cools down.
Why shouldn’t a man be hale and healthy at
seventy ? In the evening of life, after the battle
has been fought, why shouldn’t he enjoy the rest
he has earned ?
Ask the man of seventy why he stoops, and what
is the weak spot in his constitution. Nine times
out of ten he will reply, “Oh, it’s my back. It
isn’t strong, and it pains me to move or stoop, or
straighten up.”
Ah, but is it really the back ? The back does
ache, but the real ache is deeper than that. It’s
the kidneys, for they lie just under the small of
the back, and the hurry and bustle and worry of a
long life in the fight for wealth and position have
finally told on the kicjneys, and they have become
weakened.
Disturbances of the water have appeared—there
is a sediment in the kidney secretions. Disease
has attacked him in the weakest part, and will
never stop of its own accord. Yet it can be
checked and cured even at seventy by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, for they heal the kidneys,
they act on the kidneys only, and will clear the
secretions, strengthen the back, and check the
most dangerous of all diseases, kidney disease,
even in a man of seventy.
W. D. Harvey, of Stawell, whose picture is
given above, is seventy years old. He has lived in
Stawell for forty-eight years. He says:—“My
back gave out and I had plenty of proof that my
kidneys had become diseased. In the first place,
the pain in my back was confined to the small of
the back, just over the kidneys. I could stoop
over only with difficulty, and any exertion brought
an increase of pain. Of course I am an old man,
and this pain was hard to bear. At length the
kidneys began to act wrong. I was restless at
night, and I noticed that the secretions from the
kidneys left a sediment, and were of a high color.
There could be no mistaking these symptoms, and
I got some of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at
once. I took them with splendid results. I
derived great benefit from them, and, at my age,
this is gratifying. My back is better, and the
kidney secretions again natural, and I can highly
recommend them to anyone suffering from back’
ache or any other signs of kidney disease. The
above is true, and you may publish the facts.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will
be posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney
(main office); or from any of our branches, as
follows: —292Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54King
William-street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
Bros.; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “D-O-A-N-S.”
Bless the mourners and comfort each one
Especially those who have lost their only son,
Fathers and Brothers who fell in the fight
And many bright sons with a promising life
And may the bereaved ones find solace
And those they mourn for, now lie in S.A. at rest
And their names will ever remain in our midst
Many kind letters of sympathy we read
Sent by her majesty the Queen,
To comfort those who for their lost ones grieve
Who have been brave men indeed.
Bless our Queen, give her peaceful rest
Her majesty has had a large share of grief
And let her declining years be years of peace.
And here is one-third of the second beautifu’
effort :
And may the minds be energize
Of our noble men who rule and guide,
To prevent all wars in the future to come
Pay any price to be kind and united to one.
fl fflan’s Kidneys at Sewentg \
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
POE ALL AGES.
3 sS
y.'W.
m
&
■
•'.'Ac
>1
JSlSife
SSwife,
m
,,'S
•: '•'•.'• ••••'• V£ ■': is
•/• •
sS®
;£5'S;j
■.
UM
m
v.\
L\#
i
III!
mu
V'
m
ila
it
Mk. W. D. HARVEY.
ITCHING PILES.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES PER-
MANENTLY BY CURING THE CAUSE.
A REMARKABLE REMEDY, WHICH IS
BRINGING COMFORT TO THOUSANDS
OF SUFFERERS.
Probably half the people who see this article
suffer from piles. It is one of the commonest
diseases, and one of the most obstinate. People
have it for years, and just because it is not imme-
diately fatal they neglect it. Carelessness causes
no end of suffering. Carelessness about so simple
a thing as piles has often caused death. Hemor-
rhages occur from no apparent cause, and loss of
blood causes death. Hemorrhages occur under
surgical treatment, often causing death.
Piles are simple in the beginning, and easily
cured. They can be cured even in the worst
stages, without pain or loss of blood, quickly,
surely, and completely. There is only one remedy
that will do it—DOAN’S OINTMENT.
It allays the inflammation immediately, heals
the irritated surface, and with continued treat-
ment reduces the swelling and puts the membrane
into good, sound, healthy condition. The cure is
thorough and permanent. Here is a case :
T. W. Hickson, of No. 170 Cumberland-street,
this city, says : “For a few weeks I was very
much inconvenienced by an attack of itching piles
from which I could get no relief. Doan’s Oiut-
ment was first advertised at that time, and I ob-
tained a pot at Newman's pharmacy, in King-
street. lam glad to say that the piles completely
disappeared after a short treatment with the oint-
ment, and I’ve not had occasion to use it since. I
will not forget to recommend Doan’s Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Chilblains, Sores,
Insect Bites, &c. It is perfectly safe, and very
effective.
Very frequently two or three boxes have made
a complete cure of chronic cases that have not
yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot free by mail who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Kies
or Eczemafor onesinglemoment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our word
for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.


The Father of Wellington
Eighty-eight Years of Age; Cured of Rheumatism
One Bottle Made the Cure.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
SJ»
7
Mr. John Plimmer, of Wellington, New Zealand, sends us bis
from which the above illustration was made, lie is known as the “ lather or
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was written in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says :
it i consider Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a great remedy for the rheumatism. I had suffered
from that painful disease for many years. 1 was asked to try Dr. Ayer
purchased a bottle. This one bottle of it cured me and I have not felt the slightest return oi
the trouble since, I always keep a bottle of it in the house, for I hud it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions,’’
After reading this letter you are certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people call Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
v. “The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes out all poisons from the system and makes the
blood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Aybr’s Sarsaparilla.
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and refresh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them all
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
AYER’S Sarsapari Ila
Restores the Sick to Health.
AYER’S PILLS are the best liver pills you can buy.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Bmpire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
ftVKbridge’s
UjQuiglfruc
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
J\ r o Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at I*. lid., 2». 9rf., in. 6cL,
and 11#., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale o£ all London and
Colonial Houses.
>r
*
VA
; -«=
W^I
ti
p
IN GREAT REQUEST.
Head from the Bed : “ You’ve been a long time bringing
those BEECH AM’S PILLS, you beauty ! ”
Snowball : “ Yes, sah 1 thank you kindly, they are all ring-
ing for BEECH AM’S PILLS this morning—and I
always help the ladies first.”
XMaßoaFt-T-A-isri* J a k .3xr3\roxx3xrcsES3Vi:3E:3xr“r j
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
m
Perrru**
Sen-Sen 6-\
[ FAR KINGDOM ASJ ENUfc’
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
l SINGERS & SPEAKERS
cK e
W>
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE
That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINGTON S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
Cycle Tyres
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Tube 16 6
Outer Tyre, Canvas and Rubber, 15s. and 0 18 6
Outer Rubber Covers ... ... ... o 8 6
Inner Tube, complete, with Valve ... 0 7 0
Inner Tube, not joined, without Valve... 0 5 0
Re-rubbering Old Canvas ... 12s 6d and 015 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy) 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wearing Strips, Regular, Hin. wide ... 0 3 0
Wearing Strips, Regular, attached ... 0 5 6
Dunlop Valve ... ...- 016
Victor jlvims ... ... ... .. 06 6
Palmer Tyre, Single Tube Fabric ...150
Kubber Solution and Patching Rubber.
BEST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
Lists Sent on Application,
We do Repairs.
PERDRiAU&CO.
268 and 270 GEORGE ST.,
Between Hunter and
Bond Streets.
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Quo on Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
IS THE ORIGINAI
DUPLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WO RTHIN GTO N
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
&
TANGYES’
PULLEY BLOCKS.
Hydraulic and Screw
Jacks
TO
100 TONS.
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.. Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Ooolgardie.
LIFTING TACKLE
gsr| YEARS DYEING
ML9 FOR THS LADIES.
W. O- ELlDmixiE! Sc GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 "YOKE STlllil I'M’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout trum ail the colonies promptly
ROBERTS’
George and BIATri
Market-Sts. IIU I CL
Board or Apartments at Option.
LTD
PASTEURISED
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a line aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
v ; .; - pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE ]
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
-
HORIZONTAL AND YERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBRE AKERS ROLLS PUL
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING AND OILS
Blake Steam Pumps
msm
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTTMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Yalves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY atrd MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN # SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square)
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS
HEADOFricEj WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
1 | OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
J[ 1 There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these erand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of gutferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are.supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, psgr" p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 628 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
SECOND-HAND a
AND
■KTEW FURNITURE f
« (Best Quality). J
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
™ <Qr the Fu , rnishin ? of the HOME, of best
where y Inl and SBthan priceS chanfed
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
Telephone 1023; St " (3 d °° rS PaSt SYD^&Y.
