

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S BUM
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATZUZffS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE— •
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
J': .
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
ĥ
SEND FOB PRICES AND PARTICULARS
WINE!
WINE!
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
Or Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'S f !
85 Pitt Street,
SOLE AGENTS FOB
m
•io^oox
‘no^sn
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABL*,
VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
U a’v;' '.:f‘ '' ' >
. \v ',
•■:
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS
r '^>.r *
AND
PUMPS.
santric
Xb.rasla.iiis Macbines, Saw Benches,
. ‘
&o.
THORNE’S
*•- A 1 WHISKY.
NDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTBLS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
jp
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
-pJOTICK TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI>or,K-S GEORGE HOT EL, opposite S
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lot
Boarders, 9s- per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
a/£ , tif&l/Ctsco -tf/'&i/yj co
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Lore Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out' to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wiaard Fieh (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
ħ
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 Georjre-street, SYDNKY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
h
LEATHER
'belting
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDQWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches :—P. Frankel & 00., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Go., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Go., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is, 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the li.mjstratkd London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ĥ
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds. Influenza, Headaohe, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -S j
Nasal Ointment, only * Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
ħ
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
h
HIGHLAND
CREAM
m v * ■. v:
ĥ
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
tub G-nas-A-T TYASHAAUsriYAiT
CASCADE ALE
IS HZEIRIK] TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
t
OF
■
T. C. Williams Co.’s
Manufacturer
TOBACCO
.'.V-• , . . ■ v
BEST IMPORTED DARK TOBACCO IN THE MARKET.
' E*-TRY IT! TRY IT! TRY IT ! “■*
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated.
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. GENNERT,
89c FAUBOURG ST., MARTIN, PARIB, FRANCE.
THE WORLD-EENOWNED
E diswan - Lamp.
EDISWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co.. Ltd. S
Australasian Branch : 16 Carringrton-street.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsl&nd Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 21.—N0. 1082
[Saturday, November 10, 1900.
Fen-stored at the Genera! Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pont as a Wowsnaner.


The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Lest Sacrament and Other
Verses :
By Dorkington (“ Alba Dorion”).
A baud-ovne volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
*** Noth. — -This book contains all the best
stories which Dorrington has contributed to
The Bulletin, and several unpublished
tales of equal or greater interest.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James II eishleth waits ; being
No'. 11. of ihe Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped,, Is. 9d. post. free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By W ill H. Ogilvik. Third Edition. Silk
doth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free.. * # * A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top ; 55.,
post free. %* Australia’s best book of sea
. and sailor verse..
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Maliprvy,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Full wood ; 6s. post-free. %* “The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin . Writers ; Is. 3d.
=post free.
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Duniop & C 0.., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
saqnfnp lom-uouing s.uospnn
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
S
LUS
fest®
<V*^
IN TINS, Is. 6ct.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE (.FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, | IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN\s PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in
PLACE.
ligestion and Dyspepsi;
THE RED PAGE.
The Wisdom of Nietzsche .
From “Thus Spake Zarathustra."
OF THE NEW IDOL.
The State is called the coldest of all cold mon-
sters. And coldly it lieth ; and this lie creepeth
out of its mouth : “I, the State, am,the People.”
It is a lie ! Creators they were who created the
peoples and hung one belief and one love over
them; thus they served life.
Destroyers they are who lay traps for many,
calling them the State : they hung a sword and a
hundred desires over them.
Far too many are born: for the superfluous the
State was invented.
Alas, even within you, ye great souls, the State
whispereth its gloomy lies ! Alas ! it findeth out
the rioh hearts which are eager to squander them-
selves !
Ay, it findeth out even you, ye conquerors of
the old God ! Ye got wearied in the battle, and
now your weariness serveth the new idol.
The new idol would fain surround itself with
heroes and honest men ! It liketh to sun itself
in the sunshine of good consciences—that cold
monster!
What I call the state is where all are poison-
drinkers, the good and the evil alike. What I
call the state is where all lose themselves, the
good and the evil alike. What I call the state is
where the slow suicide of all is called “ life.”
Look at those superfluous! They steal the
works of inventors and the treasures of wise men:
their theft they call education —and for them
everything turneth into disease and hardship.
Look at those superfluous! Diseased they
ever are, they vomit bile and call it newspaper.
They devour but cannot digest each other. _
They all strive towards the throne: that is their
madness—as though happiness were sitting on the
throne ! Often mud sitteth on the throne; often
also the throne sitteth on the mud.
Madmen they are all, to my mind, and climbing
apes, and over-hot. 11l smelleth to me their idol,
that cold monster; ill smell they all to me, these
idolaters.
For great souls earth is yet open. For hermits
in pairs, many seats are yet empty round which
floateth the odour of calm seas.
For great souls a free life is still open. Verily,
he who possessetli little is possessed still less : a
modest poverty be praised !
Where the state ceaseth there beginneth that
man who is not superfluous: there beginneth the
song of the necessary, the melody that is sung
once and cannot be replaced.
Where the state ceaseth— look there, I pray, my
brethren ! Do you not see it, the rainbow and
the bridges to Beyond-Man ?
OP THE FKIEND.
■‘There is always one too many about me” —
thus thinketh the hermit. Always once one—
that maketh in the long run two.
For the hermit a friend is always the third one ;
the third one is the cork that hindereth the con-
versation of the two from sinking into the depth.
Alas ! there are too many depths for all hermits.
That is why they long so much for a friend and
his height.
Our belief in others betrayeth what we would
fain believe in ourselves. Our longing for our
friend is our betrayer.
“Be at least mine enemy:” thus saith true
reverence that dareth not ask for friendship.
Thou wouldst not wear clothes in the presence
of thy friend. It is to honour thy friend that thou
presentest thyself unto him as thou art ? But he,
therefore, wisfeth thee to go unto the devil.
He who maketh no secret of himself shocketh :
so much reason have ye to fear nakedness ! Ay,
if ye were Gods, ye might well be ashamed of
your clothing! , ~
For thy friend thou canst not adorn thyself
beautifully enough : for unto him thou shalt be an
arrow and a longing towards beyond-man.
Didst thou ever see thy friend asleep so as to
learn what he is like? What is thy friend’s face
at other times? It is thine own face seen in a
rough and imperfect looking-glass.
In iinding out and being silent the friend shall
be master : thou must not wish to see anything.
Thy dream shall betray unto thee what thy
friend doth when he is awake.
Let a finding out be thy sympathy : in order
that first thou inayest know whether thy friend
seeketh sympathy. Perhaps in thee he liketh
the unmoved eye and the look of eternity.
Let thy sympathy with thy friend be hidden
under a hard shell, on it thou shalt break thy
tooth in biting. Thus thy sympathy will iiave
delicacy and sweetness. ,
Art thou unto thy friend fresh air and solitude
and bread and medicine? Many a one cannot
loose his own chains and yet is a saviour unto his
friend. , t . ,
Art thou & slave ? If thou be, thou canst not be
a friend. Art thou a tyrant ? If thou be, thou
canst not have friends.
Far too long a slave and a tyrant have been
hidden in woman. Therefore woman is not yet
capable of friendship : she knoweth love only.
In the love of woman there is injustice and
blindness unto everything she loveth not. And
even in the knowing love of woman there is still,
along with light, surprise and lightning at night.
Yet woman is not capable of friendship : women
are still always cats and birds. Or, in the best
case, cows.
Yet woman is not capable of friendship. But
say, ye men, which of you is capable of friend-
ship ? ,
Oh ! for your poverty, ye men, and your avarice
of soul! As much as ye give unto your friend I
will give unto mine enemy, and will not become
poorer thereby.
There is comradeship; oh, that there were
friendship !
OF LITTLE WOMEN OLD AND YOUNG.
Everything in woman is a riddle, and everything
in woman hath one answer: its name is child*
Man is to woman a means: the end is always the
child. But what is woman for man ?
Two things are wanted by the true man : danger
and play. Therefore he seeketh woman as the
most dangerous toy.
Man shall be educated for war, and woman for
the recreation of the warrior. Everything else is
f °Over - sweet fruits the warrior liketh not.
Therefore he liketh woman; bitter is even the
sweetest woman.
Woman understandeth children better than man
doth but man is more childlike than woman.
In the true man a child is hidden that seeketh
to play. Up, ve women, reveal the child in man!
Let woman he a toy pure a., delicate like a
jewel, illuminated by the virtues of a world which
has not yet come. . , T
Let a rav of starlight shine m your love ! Let
your hope be called : “Would that I might give
birth to beyond-man ! ”
Let bravery be in your love ! Little else doth
woman understand of honour. But let it be your
honour ever to love more than ye are loved, and
never to be the second.
Let man fear woman when she loveth : then she>
sacrificeth anything, and nothing else hath value
for her.
Let man fear woman when she hateth : for in
the heart of their heart, man is only evil, but
woman is base.
Whom doth woman hate the most ? Thus spake
the iron unto the loadstone: “ I hate thee most
because thou attractest, but art not strong enough
to draw unto thee.”
Man’s happiness is: “I will.” Woman’s hap-
piness is : “He will.”
“Behold, this moment the world hath become
perfect! ” —thus thinketh every woman, when she
obeyeth from sheer love.
And woman must obey and find a depth for her
surface. Surface is woman’s mood, a foam driven
to and fro over a shallow water.
But man’s mood is deep, his stream roareth in
underground caves: woman divineth his power,
but understandeth it not. . .
Thou goest to women ? Remember thy whip!
OP CHILD AND MARRIAGE.
Marriage: thus I call the will of two to create
that one which is more than they who created it.
I call marriage reverence unto each other as unto
those who will such a will.
Alas ! that soul’s poverty of two ! Alas ! that
soul’s dirt of two ! Alas ! that miserable ease of
two !
Worthy and ripe for the significance of earth
appeared this man unto me, but when I saw his
wife earth seemed unto me a madhouse.
Yea, I wish the earth would tremble in convul-
sions whenever a saint and a goose couple.
This one went for truths like a hero, and at last
he secured a little dressed-up lie. He calleth it
his marriage.
That one was reserved in intercourse and chose
fastidiously. But suddenly he for ever spoiled
his company : he calleth this his marriage.
Many short follies —that is what ye call love.
And your marriage maketh an end of many short
follies —being one long stupidity.
Your love unto woman, and woman’s love unto
man : alas ! would it were sympathy with suffer-
ing and veiled Gods ! But generally two animals
find each other out.
OP LOVE FOR ONE’S NEIGHBOUR.
Ye throng round your neighbour and have fine
words for that. But I tell you your love for your
neighbour is your bad love for yourselves.
Love unto the most remote future man is higher
than love unto your neighbour. And I consider
love unto things and ghosts to be higher than
love unto men.
Unable to endure yourselves and not loving
yourselves enough: ye seek to wheedle your neigh-
bour into loving you and thus to gild you with his
error.
Would that ye could not endure any kind of
your neighbours and their neighbours ; were that
so, ye would need to create your friend and hi&
enthusiastic heart out of yourselves.
Ye invite a witness, if ye wish to speak well of
yourselves, and having wheedled him into think-
ing well of you, ye think well of yourselves also.
One goeth unto the neighbours because he
seeketli himself, another because he wisheth to
lose himself. Your bad love for yourselves
maketh for yourselves a prison of solitude.
I teach you not the neighbour, but the friend.
Let the friend be for you the festival of earth and
a foretaste of beyond-man.
I teach you the friend and his too-full heart.
But one must know how to be a sponge, if one
would be loved by too-full hearts.
I teach you the friend in whom there standeth
the world finished, a husk of the good, - the crea-
tive friend who hath ever a finished world in his
gift.
OF THE BITE OF THE ADDER.
If ye have an enemy, return not good for evil:
for that would not make him ashamed. But prove
that he hath done you a good turn.
And rather be angry than make him ashamed.
And if ye be cursed, I would have you not bless.
Rather curse a little also !
And if a great wrong be done unto you, straight-
way do five small ones in return ! A horrible sight
is he who is oppressed by having done wrong un-
avenged.
It is higher to own one’s-self wrong than to
carry the point, especially if one be right. Only
one must be rich enough for that.
I like not your cold justice ; from the eye of
your judges the executioner and his cold iron ever
gaze.
Say, where is justice to be found which is love
with seeing eyes ?
Arise ! invent that love which not only beareth
all punishment, but all guilt as well !
Arise ! invent that justice which acquitteth
everybody except the judge !
But how could Ibe just from the heart ? How
could I give unto each what is his ? Let this be
enough for me : I give unto each what is mine.
OF THE PREACHERS OF DEATH.
Bull is earth of superfluous ones, spoiled is life
by the much-to-many. Would they could be
tempted away from-this life by ‘ eternal life.’
There are the terrible preachers of death who
carry about within themselves a beast of prey
and have no choice except voluptuousness or self-
laceration. And even their voluptuousness is self-
laceration.
There are the consumptive of soul. When
scarce born they begin to die and long for the
doctrine of weariness and renunciation.
They would fain be dead, and we would ap-
prove of their will ! Let us beware lest we
awaken these dead ones or damage these living
coffins! ...
Whenever they meet with a diseased or an old
man or a corpse they say : * Life hath been
refuted.’ .
But only they themselves are refuted, and their
eye that seeth only that one face of existence.
Wrapped in thick melancholy and hungry for
those little accidents which produce death they
wait with clenched teeth.
Or: they reach out for sweetmeats, and so doing
mock their own childishness: they cling to the
straw of their life and’ mock because they are
hanging on a straw. .
Their wisdom is: “A fool he who remameth
alive ; but to that extent we are fools ! And that
is the greatest folly of life ! ”
And let this be the teaching of your virtue:
“ Thou shalt kill thyself ! thou shalt steal thyself
away ! ”
“Lust is sin,”—the preachers of death say—
“ let us turn aside and produce no children ! ”
“Giving birth is toilsomesay the others—
“ Why give birth ? One giveth birth to unhappy
u«es only ! ” And they also are preachers o
death. .
Or: “ eternal life ” : that is the same unto me,—
if they only pass away quickly !
The Ethic of Nietzsche.
ITI'RIED'BIOH NIETZSCHE, who died at
A Weimar in August, had fifty-six years of
life, forty-five of life intelligent. In 1889
his brain gave way ; and for eleven years
he lived like a child in tho care, of his mother and
of his sister. No history of degeneracy accounts
for the disaster: his family was singularly hale.
The machine, as Ellis says, was too highly charged
with inherited energy, and worked at a pressure
which ultimately brought it to perdition.
Nietzsche was born in Saxony, the son of a long
race of Lutheran ministers ; but racially lie was
and knew himself a Pole, a Slav. He was
a brilliant student, aspired to universal know-
ledge ; and his force of character was early
manifest. In 18d9 he was named a classical pro-
fessor at Basel. He left his university to take
part in the war against France as nurse and
ambulance-bearer, being unable to obtain univer-
sity, permission to fight; and in the nervous strain
and hardship of war his sister finds the source
of subsequent ill-health. His mental .life was
markedly influenced first by Schopenhauer, then
by Wagner ; but in 187(5 he took his own course,
and maintained it* till the end. In 1880 he re-
signed his chair at Basel, and was liberally pen-
sioned. Thereafter lie wrote and travelled, de-
voting himself to the formulation and expression of
his system of philosophy. Gradually his fevered
brain lost control of its machinery. He developed
megalomania, and affirmed himself a unique per-
sonality—the Prophet of the New Man, the Over-
Man, Beyond-Man, Man-of-the-Future. “Inmy
Zarathustra I have given to men the deepest book
they possess,” he wrote; and in Nov., 1888, he
wrote to George Brandes : “I swear to you that
in two years the whole earth will be writhing in
convulsions. I am Fate (ein Verhaiignissj.” A
letter of Jan. 4, 1889, to the same friend, was
signed “ Der Gekreuzigte,” “ The Crucified One.”
A few days later he became permanently insane.
* * * *
That would not be wholly a fanciful parallel
which called Nietzsche , a modern Prometheus,
defying the Gods and flung into Tartarus. Only,
the fire which Nietzsche brought to men was not
stolen from Heaven, but flamed in his,own brain.
By the strength of his intellect, the styeep of his
knowledge, the stimulus of his personality, the
vitality of his teaching, he deserved the title of
Great. He has shaken the idols of civilised cen-
turies on their pedestals ; and though they may
neither fall nor totter visibly, the marks and
effects of Nietzsche’s blows remain. Those who
are fitted to receive his gospel receive and will
continue to receive it.
It is no absolutely new gospel: there are hints
and portents of it in a hundred places; but
Nietzsche gave it his own definite shape, his own
aggressive force. He was a. man of his time,
and he built on the accumulated ideas of his time,
as we all build. Complete originality of thought
or doctrine is impossible to any man born of man
and woman, living among men and women:
ancestry and environment mould us inevitably.
What can be said of Nietzsche is that his ancestry
and environment fitted him to swim on the crest
of the rising wave of human evolution, and lie
swam with the foremost—maybe a little in ad-
vance of the foremost. Before he succumbed to
his mortality, he had fought beyond the limits of
mortality fixed by the Past, and his sinking head
had seen a glimpse of the heights to which mortal
men might rise in the Future. He preached the
Humanity of the Future, and he showed the way
up.
What is a man to live for ? How can be get and
give the most and best from his life. Heaven and
Hell are chimeras, said Nietzsche: live for
Earth ! But which Earth—that of the senses?
that of the spirit engrafted on the senses7—for
Self or Others? for the. Individual or the Com-
munity ? For all, said Nietzsche ; since human-
ity embraces all. Live in sense and spirit “live in
Self for Others ; live with the Individual for the
Community ; live at your fullest to the utmost;
and, above all, Live f Dogmas of self-sacrifice to
gods or men are poisonous ; religions of renuncia-
tion on earth for heaven are seeds of death ; Live
and Rejoice in Life, and work for the Life to
Come on Earth, not in a mythical paradise ; strive
to the goal of the Earthly Future, work for the
Better-Man, the Beyond-Man, who can be made
by our effort and control as far superior to the
mail of to-day as the man of to-day is superior to
the ancestral ape.
The . Past is past, said Nietzsche ; the Present,
for all that we can do to help it, is also for the
most part Past; but we have the Future in our
grip to make or. mar: let us work for the Man of
the Future, and give our children’s children cause
to bless us. As a tree falls, so will it be; as a
man 1 ves, so will he die ; as a man dies, so will
his descendants be to all human eternity.—; —
And Nietzsche never married. But his brain-
children are worth many myriads of undistin-
guished body-children.
It is clear, preached Nietzsche,—it is admitted
even by the mass of intelligent people,--that
the sacrifice of the Earth which has invented
us to the Heaven* which we have invented
is a blunder and a crime. The gods are
dead ; yet their shadows remain, and for many
a long day we will have to go on fighting
those shadows. Nietzsche fought, and gave no
quarter. With close argument, biting satire, he
denounced that Faith which poisons life by teach-
ing that death is the only good. Above all things
lie preached the Gospel of Strength, strength in
one’s self, strength which gives nothing away to
nourish the horde of human weaklings, brain-sick
or body-sick; but which reserves itself for the
possessor, and gives itself freely for the Better
Humanity to come. Sacrifice for others ? yes ;
but for what others ? Not for the contemporary
rabble whose weakness and uselessness are fixed
beyond hope of benefit, for the consumptive
of soul and the diseased at heart, for the
cripples of the body and mind who swarm
superfluous in over-breeding cities ; but for those
who will profit by the gift of strength, for the
children in the womb of the Future. And, re-
member, said Nietzsche, that in order to give
strength, one must have it, mud; conserve it, must
not squander it without hope of return. Nothing
for nothing; but the something may be a well-
based hope.
In the strife of Individual and Community,
Nietzsche was all for the Individual. Vet the
secret of happiness, of getting the best out of
life, was not to live in one’s self, for one’s self,
absolutely ; but to live in one’s self, for one’s self,
that one might have more to give to others who
would be worthy the gift—-to the Men-Beyond-
Man of the Future. The regimenting and level-
ling of the democratic community Nietzsche held
in horror. Men were not equal; why should
the Better be sacrificed to protect and perpetuate
the Worse? The State with its equal regard for
all was at best a makeshift. Asylums and hos-
pitals for the past-living, past-curing, were waste
of strength which should be held to create more
strength. When a man is no longer fitted to enjoy
life, let him die, and make room for the living, the
alive. And if he is useless and afraid to die, let him
be destroyed. The pity given him, the effort wasted
in preserving him, are so much energy diverted
from the logical human task of nourishing a
stronger and bettor humanity. Everywhere in
Nature the fittest and strongest survive ; and it is
thus only that Man lives at all, because he is the
highest product of earthly evolution. But where
Man has power, led by false religions, false morals,
he deliberately defies the law of Nature, permits
and encourages the unfittest to survive. That is
useless in the Present; and it is a crime against
the Future. Let us be ruthless as Nature, and
suffer only the strong to live.
Whence Nietzsche praised war and the warrior
as the embodiment of strength : in the warrior’s
destruction, he held, is the germ of better
creation. Whence he counselled the Self-
development of every individual to the highest,
careless of the claims of weaker men to
existence except in so far as they were co-ordin-
ated with self-development and the interests of
the Beyond-Man to come. Whence he preached,
in a word, that enlightened selfishness which
takes from life all it can get, —just as does the
brutal selfishness which underlies the conventional
morality of self-sacrifice,—-but which'is differen-
tiated from brutal selfishness because it takes to
give—to all who are worthy the gift. Thus in
gaining one would be giving, and in giving one
would gain strength to give more.
* * * •
This suggests in part some of the tenets which
Nietzsche advocated at his best epoch. His teach-
ing is included in a dozen or more volumes, of
which the collected German edition is not yet
complete, and which have been only partially
translated into other languages. The develop-
ment of his thought was consistent, but the books
which contain his thought at different periods
are not always consistent with one another or
with themselves.- Often one meets a half-
truth and has. to look far for the com-
plement. The vital truth which Nietzsche
saw clearly, and which is the spirit shining
through his imperfect expression of its details, is
that when the Christian religion and its congeners
were intellectually overthrown, the Christian mo-
rality fell with them. And upon its ruins Nietzsche
has erected a system of human ethics to which
there are many sentimental objections, but to
the kernel of which no conclusive intellectual ob-
jection has yet been devised..


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge \
for Selling Wool J
21 per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents,
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL.
lVinchcombe, Carson & Co . Ltd .
Selling Agents teni/n -
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OE YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
... -■■•■si..'.-.. -x*.. ... .
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 r*er Cent, to tlie Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS East Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge §c£. per lb. to the Buyers.
C B B
SOS
SW*
soo
mIL
5907
5808
Guaranteed rjof to creator burn.
'C B B
BRIAR
CERTIFICA TE Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
. application. Thousands Soiling Daily.
rice Simons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
SS- THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE 1
GRAWIOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
h
BARGAINS!
Coin Slot Graphophone gc
Same as formerly, £l6. S#
Gem Phonograph, 30/-
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY.
Everything' Reduced. Try !
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Howe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
Publications.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L..D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
Post Pree for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ĥ
ILLUSTRATED
ħ
Address,
"WITH numerous anatomical
’’ colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this hook unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUK SUET I tit bits in prose and poetry
that you can And daily use for. xv 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, pout i oc, and incidentally hap-
piness with one you love. A woo- 4 v,eriOAN Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Cliambers, 468 George-at., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
this paper when writing.
TIMM
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted <d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson,
hh
MEMORY^
T»ught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given, A
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T.GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ Xtbasincreased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. 0. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“lt has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the.
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter-
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinarv memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
I’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
bimuMum
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Au'strr
lusia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS :
The Result
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680-682 Ceorge-street, Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Go.
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
21
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower .
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION i P er Cent *
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising fid. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ...
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc.,
be quoted on application.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
SPECIAL RATES will
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Blarsupial Skins Held Weekly.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
it
&
b
&
o
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
it
Regd.
ss LAWRUS ”
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
fcfc r.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, Ceorge St., Sydney.
I to
'V.
kt
m
vak
K
wV)\
*Vhen
writing
please
mention
Tim
BULLETIN.
: ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAIa APPLIANCES, invented by
> Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
-1 strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
* CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
\DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
5 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
* Debility, Weakness, Doss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
i They impart vigor and potency to every function,
* brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy s are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without- the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
1 0
1 10
2 2
8 8 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plajn Belts, witfl twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aits shments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will he
forwarded to any address with written guarantee ana
carriage prepaid on -receipt of remittance. J aena m
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chesfcpaa i
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st-., Hyde Park, Syaney


TATTERSALL’S.
Address : Csa/re GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
SANDHURST 0.
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me..
JSTov. 28.
above.
shares in the
Name
Address
£
Newcastle 0. Dec. 15.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEKSALL.
Please allot me
in the above.
shares
Name
Address
SUMMER 0.
Deo. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5
To TATTERS ALL.
above.
Please allot me
Name_
Address
shares in
£
CARRINGTON S. Deo. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in above.
N ame _____
Address_
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Oeo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BgSt Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
NX
X
\ \
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
m
fiuiD
AIAWiEM
„R?co/ww
A\em
r JNPIOEjTIo^
/^HcirnTyg,
fcrVous -3fe- t
HEADACHE
*
♦sr
w
The Grip
In that tickling cough of
yours there lurks a
crouching tiger! It’s
ready to spring just
the moment you’re off
your guard. Damp
feet, a little more ex-
posure, moist air, or
some little change,
and you are down with
pneumonia. Take no
chances with such a
dangerous foe.
You may not have
the Grip hard, hut there is
always danger of pneumonia.
chcirx
Pectoral
is the great preventive of serious lung
disease. It’s a prompt and certain
cure for the Grip. Your hacking
cough stops at once, the soreness in
your chest passes away. Your escape
from pneumonia is complete.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing over the chest one
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
bv Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
“POWKIDGE’S ’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SP»SCIA.Ij ktotiob.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
Amoujt ot CASH BONUSES distributed smon S tile p»rtid,Su„g £lic” h „ Sere durin S Tta a“X yei S
was £510,771 (bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two /ears). Every Year a BonusYean
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their proposals at once either direct or throuTh
the Society’s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus. p at ouoe, eitner direct or tnrougn
E Sn R Eaa * Theto Rilff P a’ J v Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman; Joseph
Abbott, Esq. , The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. , The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. ; B. Shout, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary— RlCHAßD TEEOE FI A FFA FSS
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’ ROBERT B CAMERON. Secretary.
ĥ
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
B3T Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIETt. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ħ
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
cRMCA
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World,
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Solcl Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS aloue.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
D Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6S,King St., Melbourne
IV.S.'W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
'ind every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.-Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
h
Itolirered at any Wliarf ®r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Various Verses.
A Melb. street ruffian was recently given
three months for using a sling-shot on a home-
going citizen, with hospital results. On a subse-
quent charge of having the sling-shot in his pos-
session he got six months. So it seems that, in
the eye of the law, it is twice as criminal to carry
a dangerous weapon as it is to use one !
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buver of all other Australian erems. *
Dunedin (M.L.) City Council follows the
offensive practice of taking its garbage down to
the Heads and dumping it overboard at ebb-tide.
The filth, or a deal of it, gets washed up on Port
Chalmers beach, and that borough’s inspector
eventually “went for” the unclean city, laying
three informations. The S.M. decided, however,
that the by-law under which they were laid was
inapplicable, so the mephitic practice will con-
tinue as aforetime. If Port Chalmers could dis-
cover a law under which it could legally take its
garbage up the harbour and drop it opposite
Rattray-street wharf it might do more than any-
thing else to bring Dunedin’s dirty city fathers to
their senses.
The blessings of the weird system which
divides one ordinary-sized city into 10 or 27 or 43
municipalities turn upj in unexpected places some-
times. Richmond (Vic.) council desires to grant
permits to establish bonemills, fellvnongeries, and
emporiums for the boiling of tripe, pigs’-trotters
and cow-heel in its suburb, so that the conse-
quences will float down the Yarra and make Mel-
bourne sit up suddenly in its sleep. And it flatly
refuses to take any notice of Melbourne’s objec-
tion to the smell of pigs’-feet and cow-heel on the
ground that Melbourne is a different municipality.
The charming fiction that things don’t smell the
same in a different municipality is one of the bye-
products of the system, so to speak,
At the trial of the Boer Lieut. Cordua,
shot at Pretoria for conspiracy to abduct Lord
Roberts, it was admitted by the prosecution that
one Gano was sent out as a tempter (agent-provo-
cateur), and the legal agent of the British Govt,
endeavored to justify this act on moral grounds.
In replying to the contention of accused that he
had been induced to enter into the conspiracy by
the English detective, the prosecuting lawyer de-
clared that the Govt, was justified in resorting to
such expedients, and quoted Australian Judges as
a ffording precedents in holding that the police were
entitled to lay traps for the purpose of effecting their
ends. “Australian Judges! Good on you,
Tim ! What a noble advertisement this ghost
of the Bromley-Dungey case is for our bleeding
country !
The Open Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wine to the brim of the goblet, and no one to
whisper, ‘ 1 Stay ! ”
Coin and enough to squander, and no one to say
me nay;
Never a gamble questioned, and never a kiss
denied—
If this is your vaunted freedom, let me be chained
and tied.
Never a wife to wait one, and never a child to
cheer,
Never a love to follow, and never a God to fear ;
Never a pride behind one, and never a hope
before —
If this is your vaunted freedom, go back to your
chains once more!
I would be done with the laughter, and follow the
human cry,
As a freed horse follows the teamster that turned
him adrift to die ;
I would be done with the careless life that is all of
it nought but care,
I would barter this gilded freedom for the cruellest
chains that were.
Hither and thither and outward, journeying near
and far,
With never a range to bound one and never a sea
to bar,
Never a home to hold one, never a toil to claim—
If this is your vaunted freedom, by God ! I am
sick of the name !
There stretches one way to freedom—Courage !
O, trembling hand !
—And how can a man go roving, laid six feet under
the sand ?
And how can a man go roving, heaped earth at
his head and his feet,
—No room for a world to beckon, no room for a
heart to beat !
N.s.w.
WILL OGILVIE.
A Motley Legion.
A motley legion has come from the region
Beyond the utmost sea—
Saints and sinners, losers and winners—
What can its purpose be ?
There’s a white-faced priest, and a score at least
Who follow on his singing,
Knights and churls, and boys and girls
Of fair up-bringing.
There’s a Beast to the core, with at least a score
Who wait on his nod,
Fighting and chasing, fleeing and facing,
And laughing at God.
And the rest are a rabble, that drivel and gabble,
And shout or are dumb,
As the frenzied priest or the turbulent Beast
Seems to o’ercome.
Praying and wrangling, healing and mangling,
What can their purpose be ?
Saints and sinners, losers and winners
—The name of the legion is ME.
N. S. W.
D.


FORBIGIXr STAMPS.
("'OIEAP SETS.—2 Orange Free
State, surcharged V.R.1., Is ;
11 Canada, including Map, 6d ; 50
Spain, 2s ; 15 Russia, 6d ; 8 Sweden
Official, 6d ; 16 Roumania, Cd ; 6
Luxembourg, 3d ; 9 Canada Duty,
6d. Packets 50, Different, Is ; 100,
2s 6d. Gibbons’ Stamp Catalogue,
2 Parts, 4s 6d. Stamps Purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
h
ĥ
Books. Books. Books.
■pOPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
- 1 - Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopsedia, bound half oalf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for fc'2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sidney.
The Australian (Poms’ Fund P® Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
r PHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; . Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
Aceumtilated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMJPJESTXXIOKT.
WINES Tlie Bes< £ H s o,ay 0> SPIRITS.
oc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
LADIES’ TAILORING
—SPRING-
NEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mailboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
f
B
BB
V
OWN
MAKE
IRE RECOGNISED AS THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
Toe
t
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys ” Milk Food No; i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
The “Allenburys” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over sir monthß of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
★
SSS
★
ameo
§WKe
Yankee Doodle at the Front!
An incident in the Boer war as related by a returned Officer.
regiment of our Australian infantry was travelling (as depicted in
the smaller photograph) to Belmont. At Graspan we were
ħ
h
ĥ
entertained by the
garrison of Gordon
Highlanders sta-
tioned there, and
when taking our
departure by rail
were accorded the
customary musical
send - off by the
garrison band,
which, on this occa-
sion, consisted of
two drummers and
a piper. As our
train moved off I
heard the cry on
all sides from our
boys —'‘Yankee Doodle!!’ ‘Yankee Doodle!!’ and there in the distance
was an almost exact representation of the Yankee Doodle tobacco brand
so familiar to all Australians. The band after seeing us aboard were
returning back along the road to camp, and as we passed they sturdily
marched and played, whilst we, with the familiar tableau before us
reminding us so of home, cheered wildly. I instantly took out my kodak,
and, although the train was moving fast, secured a fairly good picture,
with the idea that perhaps my friends (the Dixsons) in Australia would like
to have it. On many a weary mai’ch afterwards, when smoking the army
regulation tobacco, did we long for just one pipe of the old far-off favorite.”
-r-^p — *wgr.. rr&vrr —,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vox . 21.—N0. 1082.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1900.
Prior 6d.
London, Friday Afternoon.— The
allied forces are in possession of 100 mom-
bars of the Emperor of China’s harem.
“ If,” cabled Premier Lyne to Chamberlain, “if you want any
more Australian troops to fight for Old Mother Country in her
V hour of peril in China, now is the time ! Say the
\ word, and I could raise 15,000 men in
w. N.S.W. within 24 hours.”
GEORGE REID AND HIS DRY DOG.
See also sub-leader this issue.
THE POLITICAL BREELONG BLACK.
He has run out of powder and (happy for
bins) his gun. will not “go off.”
DEPARTURE OF THE GOVERNORR
By the stirring incidents of last week
N.S.W. was left without a Governor.
'lt is officially reported that
Prince Tuan, having shaved his head,
has fled to Mongolia in the disguise
of a monk,'’
In other words he shaved his head
to save it.
The above is a labored joke ; |
in fact, it was made by Chinese cheap I
labor, and Hop. holds himself in no
wise responsible for it.
“It is reported that the steamship
owners hare been approached by a Sydney
firm with a suggestion that they should pre
sent a State barge to convey the Governor-
General to his official landing-place. A
design has been prepared for the vessel."
Mr Lyne at first thought that one of the barges belonging to the Works Department might do.
• Only,” explained Mr. O’SuKvan, “since I came into office all our barges have been kept .so busy in
earning out necessary works originating in this brain that really I couldn't spare even a mud-scow."
THE DRY DOG, AND OTHER FOLLIES.


The BUlletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
- - ---- - NOTICE. ...
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with p&ttage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,-
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bud we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilucJi and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-dr axon—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions, under ichich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gfotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2h6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and .Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 23 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Alaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — lpl. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight-mow
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1900.
A Policy for the Common-wealth.—The
Federal Public Works System.
When the Federal Government has hung up
its legislative hat in its legislative halls, and
assumed formal control, it will presently
have to develop a Public Works policy. As
owner of Australia’s postal, telegraph, and
telephone service, as its principal railway-
maker, and possibly its principal harbor-con-
structor, it must needs be a mighty builder
throughout the land. Whether it will build
for cash or on tick is a question which has
to be left to its own good sense to decide.
Hitherto it has been in some sort of way a
daily-paper axiom that the Australian is a
weak-kneed, degenerate creature, with a
streak of cowardice in him which makes it
impossible to hope that he will pay his way
and take thought for the future as a
Britisher or American, or any other superior
being, might possibly do. Newspaper pro-
prietors and Fat Men generally have de-
manded that public works shall be built out
of loans so as to save them a little immediate
taxation, and have laid it down as a gospel
that the people won’t stand being taxed suf-
ficiently to pay their way. The people have
been told so often that they are too limp to
stand enough taxation to pay their way (t hough
it isn’t put in exactly these words) that
they have almost come to believe it. When
a Government a shade more honest than the
rest borrowed a little less than usual for un-
productive works, and of necessity taxed a
little more to make up the difference, the
people didn’t really notice any change, but
the Fat Man’s papers told them they were
tottering under a huge tyranny, till they
thought they noticed it. So they threw the
more-honest-than-usual Government out of
office, and the next one took off the extra
taxation and went back to the extra borrow-
ing. The people didn’t notice any relief,
for the relief was really imperceptible, but
the Fat Man papers told them that they
were now able to breathe again after being
bowed down to the dust by a crushing load
of imposts, and being told this so often the
people at last almost began to feel as if they
had been relieved. The Fat Man press has
made the cultivation of national cowardice
and the discouragement of self-reliance one
of the leading features of its policy—with the
worst kind of result.
* * * *
There was never any need for Australia to
borrow a single copper for public works ; and
though the past, unfortunately, can’t be un-
done there is no need for Australia to borrow:
a single copper more. The business doesn’t
pay. Victoria is, in proportion to popula-
tion, the least indebted of the Australasian
States, and this is how its record stands : It
has borrowed in all about £48,000,000 —that
is the amount it received in cash, though it
owes about £49,000,000. It has already
paid in interest about £43,000,000, and the
country is young yet; in another 20 years
the same £48,000,000 of debt will have cost
about £80,000,000 in interest. New South
Wales has borrowed about £65,000,000, and
has already paid about £43,500,000 in in-
terest ; Tasmania has borrowed £8,400,000
and nearly £5,600,000 of it has already gone
in interest. The heavier recent loan flotations
of the two latter provinces have kept their
borrowings further ahead of their interest
payments, but taking the three together
very nearly the whole of the influx of
British capital in the shape of Government
loans has gone back to England already in
the shape of interest payments. In about an-
other five years it is probable that the three
States will be able to look back on their past
financial record and make this solemn re-
mark :
If we had built all the public works (railways, tele-
graphs, fortifications, public buildings of all sorts, har-
bors and sundries) in N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania out
of taxation we would not have required to tax our people
to the extent of one penny more than they have paid in
taxation under the borrowing system, and we would not be
burdened with £125,000,000 of debt; nor would we be
loaded down with an annual and eternal interest liability
of £4,375,000 a year. All this incredible burden is money
wasted and utterly lost for the want of a little courage
and a little foresight. There isn’t a penny more in the
three States now than there would have been if we had
never borrowed anything at all. The money which came
from England in loans has all gone back to England in
interest, and left us just where we were—except that we
owe £125,000,000 with nothing to show for it, and have
to pay £4,375,000 a year with nothing to show for it.
♦ • • - *
The trouble arises out of the fact that the
men of years gone by wouldn’t face their re-
sponsibilities when they were young, and if
some of them are still alive and have to face
them when they are old it is only poetic jus-
tice that they should do so. If they put their
policy into actual words they probably
said something like this: “If we build
£50,000,000 worth of public works in the
next half-century out of our own means, that
signifies that we must pay £50,000,000
within the half-century out of revenue. If
we build £50,000,000 worth of public
works in the next half-century out of bor-
rowed money that also means that we must
pay £50,000,000 (for interest) within the
next half-century out of revenue, and there
will be the stupendous drawback that we
will still owe the £50,000,000, making
£100,000,000 in all. The difference lies in
the fact that if we pay for the public works
out of revenue, we and our children will pay
about equally. If we pay for them out of
loans, we will pay less and our children will
pay more. And if it is a question of making
things a little easier for ourselves at the ex-
pense of making them an enormous amount
harder for our children we decide, without
hesitation, to make them easier for our-
selves. In a general way our verdict is :
Damn our children ! ”
• * • •
And these fine old characters of 20 and 30
and 40 years ago went in for having a good
time, and damned their children cheerfully.
Here is the combined record of N. S. W., Vic-
toria, and Tasmania at four different dates
in their career :
1870.
Influx of Loan Interest .. .. £1,202,288
Money.. .. £1,809,600 Balance— Money
coming into
the country .. 607,312
£1,809,600 £1,809,600
Then the boom grew bigger and more
riotous, and this is how things were with the
three States a decade later :
1880.
Influx of Loan Interest .. .. £1,762,960
Money.. .. £3,738,638 Balance — Money
coming into
the country .. 1,975,678
£3,738,638 £3,738,638
Then the boom grew larger and wilder still,
and for the last year of the next ten N.S. W.,
Victoria, and Tasmania showed these re-
sults :
1890.
Influx of Loan Interest .. .. £3,629,453
Money.. .. £7,788,690 Balance— Money
coming into the
country .. 4,159,237
£7,788,690 £7,788,690
Up to this time the three States had adhered
manfully to the policy of floating larger and
larger loans, so as to cover the outflow of
interest and leave a balance of borrowed
money over to keep the boom going. But
suddenly Britain became chary about lend-
ing, and what made the smash, so far as
concerned N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania,
three years later was this :
1893.
Influx of Loan Interest.. .. £4,625,275
Money .. .. £2,782,905
Balance going
out of the
country .. 1,842,370
£4,625,275 £4,625,275
The simple and sufficient reason why the
collapse was worse in some places than in
others was that the States didn’t come to
that famous temporary stoppage in their
borrowing frenzy with equal suddeness.
The respective figures were these :
1893.
New loans Interest -Mpf- i oag
coming in. going out.
N.S.W. ..£1,929,580 .. £2,425,987 .. £496,407
Victoria .. 606,721 .. 1,876,138 .. 1,269,417
Tasmania .. 246,604 .. 323,150 .. 76,546
* * * *
There has been a balance going out of the
country ever since 1893. It has been more
or less according to circumstances ; in some
years an extra spurt of foreign borrowing has
made the outflow smaller than in others, but
the outflow is always there, and it is always
large. Also, as Australia can’t make
up its mind to leave off borrow-
ing, the outflow always tends to grow
larger. Superficial people of a consolatory
disposition point to the fact that the railway
earnings cover a large part of the interest
bill, but that makes absolutely no difference
in the result. Whether the money that goes
out of the country in interest is taken from
the people in railway charges, or income-tax
charges, or in any other charges, it is the
same old outflow and the same old drain on
the country’s aggregate resources. Forty
years ago, when the borrowing disease
was still very young and the bill hadn’t
yet come home to roost, there were neither
land nor income taxes in N.S.W., Victoria,
or Tasmania ; nor was there any need of
them. Now all three provinces have got
them badly, and the struggle to pay interest
on borrowed money is the reason. If all
three provinces had levied land and income
and other taxes at their present rate about
1860, and applied the proceeds to the build-
ing of public works, and used the net revenue
from these works (which would not then
have been swallowed up in interest) for the
construction of more public works, it is
quite probable that the three provinces
would have had all the public works they
have now, and have had no debt at all,
and no interest to pay, and they would be
about able to abolish their land and income
taxes by this year 1900, instead of struggling
to find new taxes to put on. If the shiftless
and irresponsible and shoddy old pioneers
had taken the same care for their children
that they did for themselves, and had been
willing to carry their fair share of the tax
burden, that is how things might have been.
It is pleasant to remember that some of
these persons lived unreasonably long, and
the burden they shirked when they were
young has fallen on them with an extra thud
when they are old.
* • * •
And as to how things are : When the
Federal Parliament takes over the business
of railway and telegraph and many other
kinds of construction, it has to decide
whether it will be another shoddy pioneer
or not. If it likes to double the direct taxa-
tion now existing, and use the extra income
as a Public Works Fund, it may find in 30
years that the debt has considerably dimin-
ished, and that the income from new works
constructed out of revenue will keep the
Public Works Fund going to such an extent
that the new extra taxation, as well as a lot
of the old taxation, can be taken off perman-
ently. On the other hand, it may go on as
at present, in which case the extra taxation
will come along just the same —a little later,
certainly, but, on the other hand, when it
arrives it will come to stay, for it will be
required to meet the further enlarge-
ment of the interest bill, and the interest
bill goes on for ever. In fact, the
present generation has just the same
question before it that the last one had.
If the Federal Government decides to build
£150,000,000 worth of public works, in the
next 50 years or so, out of revenue, it has to
find £150,000,000 out of revenue in that 50
years to do it with. And if it decides to
build £150,000,000 worth of public works in
the next 50 years out of loans, it will have
to find about £150,000,000 in the same 50
years out of revenue to cover the interest,
with the stupendous additional disaster of
having £150,000,000 of permanent debt
at the end of the period. It will have to
pay about the same sum out of revenue in
the same time whether it borrows the money
or whether it doesn’t borrow it. If it
doesn’t borrow, the burden will be spread
pretty evenly over the half-century, and
there will be po £150,000,000 debt at the
end of it. If it does borrow, the burden
will be a little lighter at this end of the
half-century and an enormous amount
heavier at the other end, and there will be
a permanent liability of £150.000,000 after
that. The beasts that perish, having no
foresight, would doubtless adhere to the
old loan policy on the ground that it
makes things a little easier to-day, and
though it makes them a vast amount worse
to-morrow r , that is a thing for to-morrow to
reckon with—for we are only beasts grazing
in the fields of the immediate present, and
there is no certain future. TheFederalParlia-
ment is expected to be a little higher than the
beasts, so it may, perhaps, view the matter in
this rather different light : A public work
costing £1,000,000, if built to-day out of
revenue, only costs £1,000,000. The same
work, if built out of foreign loans at 3| per
cent., costs nothing to-day, but within the
next 50 years it costs £1,750,000 in interest
alone, and in 100 years it costs £3,500,000 in
interest, and if the money is repaid at the
end of that time it has cost £4,500,000 in
principal and interest. And the million
of local capital thus “set free for private
investment,’' as the phrase goes, lies idle
in the cellars of some bank, and isn’t in-
vested, and earns nothing. It isn’t a question
as to whether Australia can afford to pay its
way without loans. The much larger and
more urgent question is whether it can
afford to go on floating loans —whether it is
rich enough to pay millions, or 9 mil-
lions, or 18 millions, for a railway worth
only a million. Also whether any nation of
this size is rich enough to keep fully
£20,000,000 over and above its real require-
ments lying idle in its banks, and costing
fully £700,000 a year in interest, without
yielding any return whatever.
* » * *
For very many years Great Britain has
been gradually paying off its back debts
while Australia has paid off nothing—the
small amount contributed from revenue to
various sinking funds has been more than
counterbalanced by new debt incurred to
make good revenue deficiencies. There is
no special reason why one branch of the
Anglo-Saxon family should go up in a
financial sense while the other goes down
—save this reason : Britain strikes its popu-
lation with direct and indirect taxes (local
and national) to the extent of about
£3 10s. 6d. per head per annum. Aus-
tralia and Tasmania levy taxes (local
and national) to the extent of about
£3 2s. 6d. per head per annum. That extra
Bs. per head makes the whole difference.
If Australia had taxed itself at the British
rate from 1860 onwards it need never have
had any debt. If it taxed itself at the
British rate now it could gradually free
itself of its burden. Unluckily it has come
to be a boast in some of these States —espe-
cially in New South Wales—that they are
among the most lightly-taxed countries on
earth ; and they are getting deeper and
deeper into the mire through trying to live
up to this record. The Bulletin trusts
that the Federal Government will up-end
these things. If it can truthfully say, two
years hence, that Australia is one of the
most heavily-taxed countries in the world—-
that the heap of useless cash in its banks is
at last being used to some good purpose—
and that it is employing the proceeds of (he
extra taxation wisely to obviate further
borrowing and to pay off the liabilities of the
dead and malodorous past, that will be
something worth boasting about.
George Reid’s Dry Dog.
George Reid, the remarkable old gentleman who
was once Premier of N.S. Wales, went on a
crusade recently as far as Adelaide, to tell the
people about the beauties of the Freetrade policy
which he never dared to practise during his long
term of office. In the Australian States which
have tried Protection the majority is mostly for
Protection, which seems to suggest that the policy
is one that can stand inspection. But the one
State where the majority howls for Freetrade and
votes for Freetrade is a State which never
tries New South Wales has never
had Freetrade this century. It is about 70
years since it had even pure Revenue-
Tariffism. It hasn’t many large manufacturing
industries of the kind which are exposed to
foreign competition, but those it has are almost
all protected. Its sugar-growers, brewers, tobacco,
cigar and cigarette manufacturers, confectioners,
wine-makers and various other industrial workers
are all protected, some of them very heavily. Its
penny daily papers are protected to the extent of
50 per cent., some of them by gratis special trains,
and all of them by differential postal duties.
These are not revenue imposts in any sense;
and if George Reid had believed in his own
political lie that Freetrade made the country
richer he would surely have taken these off
and made the country richer, and gained credit
thereby. Even supposing that real Freetrade is
impossible for reasons connected with the revenue,
and that pure Revenue-Tariffism is the nearest
approach to it that can be looked for George
Reid’s situation is curious. He was put in office
with a huge majority to establish pure Revenue-
Tariffism. He and his party laid a large hairy hand
on its joint and several waistcoat-button and swore
that Revenue-Tariffism meant wealth, and that
Protection meant poverty, misery, and wretched-
ness. They had a chance to make themselves
solid with the people, and to get a permanent hold
on their billets and salaries, by making N.S.W.
rich and prosperous by pure Revenue-Tariffism.
Yet they retained a whole lot of Protectionist
duties ; by their own solemn swear and assurance
they wilfully damaged and wronged the country
and themselves; and they persistently protested
that they were practising Freetrade when they
were not. Finally, George Reid himself, in
almost his last bid for office, practically threw
overboard in words the creed he had already
thrown overboard in deeds, and declared on a pub-
lic platform that his faith in Freetrade had waned
grievously since he came into office.
And now the great political impostor is stump-
ing Australia preaching again the faith he
practically abjured, and telling of the advan-
tages of the policy he didn’t follow, and bidding
for the position of Freetrade Federal Premier in
order that he may again practise Protection sur-
reptitiously, and deny that he is doing it. At
Adelaide the Great Wobbler told the people that
the first essential was to vote for men who,
whether Freetraders or Protectionists, had honest
convictions. Judging by his own record the only
honest conviction G. Reid will ever have is when
he is fined at the police-court some day for for-
getting to pay his dog-tax. Also he informed the
public that the fact of a thing being old is in itself
pretty satisfactory evidence that it is rotten, and
seeing that practical Freetrade dates back to the
times of the Missing Link, before man had indus-
tries to protect, or sense to protect them, the
statement seems reasonably true. He told them
that “trusts” were impossible in England be-
cause of Freetrade, which, in view of the huge
trusts that have been growing up in England
within the last two or three years, is the sort of
assertion which only a person with the brassy
assurance of the great Freetrader who practised
Protection would be capable of. Also he went on
like this :
South Australia has had the great national blessing of
protection for 14 years. The baby ought to be off the
breast by this time, but if they tried to take even 1 per
cent, off the duty they would hear how the infant
squealed after it.
According to this wondrous logic, the fact that a
country which lias tried Protection finds it good
and sticks to it is a proof that protection is
BAD.


There was no mistake about it, there was no
smarter, more enterprising, more capable people
in this world than the people of Victoria. (Cheers.)
They used to be able to run rings round New South
Wales until they got salvation. (Loud laughter.) He
would show what they were doing now. He would be
merciful to Victorian friends, and instead of comparing
Victoria with New South Wales he would compare her
with little Tasmania. During the last nine years Tas-
mania has increased her population hy several thousands
more than Victoria from 1891 to 1899. Victoria’s increase
was only 30,000 ; Tasmania’s was 37,000. (Cheers.)
According to this, the fact that one Protectionist
State has increased faster than another Protec-
tionist State proves that Protection is bad.
In 1870 Victoria had 228,000 people more than New South
Wales. In 1899 New South Wales had 193,000 more than
Victoria. (Cheers.) He did not forget the greater size of
New South Wales. He was only showing that Victoria,
with all her resources and her grand people, had not
made this protectionist policy a brilliant success.
(Cheers.) If any people in the world could they ought to
have done so. (Cheers.) From 1891 to 1899 the arrivals
in New South Wales were 30,000 more than the depar-
tures, while in Victoria the departures exceeded the ar-
rivals by 127,000. It seemed cruel to throw puppies into
water, but they learned to swim. (Laughter.) In 1861
the Victorian trade was double that of New South Wales.
In 1899 the New South Wales trade was £54,000,000
against Victoria’s £36,500,000. In 1871 the New South
Wales shipping trade was only 145,000 tons more than
Victoria. In 1899 it was 1,650,000 tons more. (Cheers.)
More men were working to-day in the factories
of New South Wales than Victoria. There were more
women at work in Victoria.
It sets one wondering again why George Reid
didn’t drop that much-talked-of pup into the
water and let it swim. For not only did he keep
on protecting many of the N.S.W. industries, but
he was the greatest spoon-feeder of industries
with borrowed money in eastern Australia. In
his five years of office he spent on an average
£1,500,000 a year of loan money in finding work
for, and paying wages to, the people of N.S.W.,
against the Victorian average for the same period
of about £300.000 and the Tasmanian average of
about £160,000. He found constant sustenance
with borrowed cash for over 100,000 people, in-
cluding those directly employed by the State and
their direct dependents, and saying nothing of the
multitude of tradersandothersindirectlysupported
by these 100,000 —while Victoria only spoon-fed
about 20,000. Turner practically cut off the supply
of loan subsidies and told his dog to.swim and be
self-dependent, while George Reid dry-nursed
about one-twelfth of the population directly
and one-sixth directly and indirectly with ex-
traneous assistance. The difference between the
increase of population in N.S.W. and Victoria is
almost wholly accounted for by the people
whom George Reid coddled with loan funds as
compared with those that George Turner didn’t
coddle. All the days of his political life the
Great Political Fraud went about with his dog
under his arm, and preached about the advantage,
of dropping it into the tank and letting it care for
itself.
* * . * *
And, after all, things went none too well in
N.S.W., probably, because George Reid’s Protec-
tion was only half-hearted and his mode of carry-
ing his dog unscientific. Wages, as shown by
Coghlan’s annual statistics, went steadily down.
Thirty millions of cornstalk money disappeared
through the slump in property-values. There
was no visible . decrease of prices when
Dibbs’s duties were taken off. The num-
ber of women employed in N.S.W. fac-
tories more than doubled in George Reid’s
spell of office, and he says that is a bad sign.
The total value of all the products (agricultural,
pastoral, manufacturing, &c.) of N.S.W. de-
creased a little, while those of Victoria in-
creased. It is impossible to mark out any
area of 87,000 square miles in N.S.W. which
can even begin to compare in wealth with the
87,000 square miles of Victoria. Victoria’s com-
merce has certainly not increased as N.S.W.’s has
done; it decided long ago that it was better
to manufacture its own products than to be a
porter on a wharf, piling its raw material on to
foreign-owned ships and unloading finished pro-
ducts that come back in return. Yet in propor-
tion to population, Victoria’s Bommeree is now 50
per cent, larger than England’s, and England’s
commerce is the pride of Freetrade doctrinaires.
Also, N.S.W.’s commerce is smaller in proportion
to population that that of S.A. or Westralia.
And in proportion to the area of the country,
Victoria’s exports are more than twice as large
as those of N.S.W.; there has to be some relation
between exports and area, for the wheat, wool,
beef and other produce exported necessarily depend
on the amount of ground there is to grow produce
on. When last heard from N.S.W. had 9000 more
paupers than Victoria —the figures are given in
the latest issue of Coghlan’s “Seven Colonies.”
Victoria can impose a legal minimum wage and
maintain an Anti-Sweating League to ensure that
its workers shall be decently paid. N.S.W. has
neither ; its spoon-fed industries, apparently,
can’t afford to pay a legal minimum wage. The
fact that the only Australian State which can
venture to abolish starvation wages by Act of
Parliament is also the one which has the most
scientific Protective system is the grandest
advertisement that Protection could well ask for.
* * * -*
Protectionist Victoria, like Freetrade Britain,
has of late lost some of its population by excess of
emigration. Its trouble is temporary ; it only
commenced when George Turner resolved to
drop his dog into the water by practically ceasing
to spoon-feed the population with loans and
pay them wages with borrowed money. Britain’s
trouble is constant —at least it has gone on now
for nearly a century. When a comparatively
crowded Protectionist country like Victoria (for
Victoria is enormously crowded compared with
the other Australias) exports population, it shows
the awfulness of Protection; when a compara-
tively crowded Freetrade country like Britain
does the same, it shows the energy and adven-
turous spirit born of Freetrade. And N.S.W.
kept its population, partly because that great
spoon-feeder, George Reid, found them employ-
ment and wages out of borrowed money, and
partly because he found them employment and
wages in protected industries while bitterly
cursing Protection, except on the famous occasion
when he turned round and faintly cursed Free-
trade instead.
* ¥ * *
The Bulletin would like to have this constant
controversy about the relative merits of partially-
protected N.S.W. and wholly-protected Victoria
put on a more understandable basis. At present,
it is a controversy without rules. So it asks-these
two questions:—
(1) Is it an understood thing that a Protectionist State
of 87,000 square miles must hold more people and grow
more produce for export (without the ground to grow it
on) than a Freetrade State of 310,000 square miles, else
Protection is no good ? If so, what comes of the, fact that
the Protectionist United States and Germany hold more
people than Freetrade Britain ?
(2) When an allegedly Freetrade State Which doesn’t
practise Freetrade supports 70,000 more people directly,
and many more indirectly, out of loan moneys than a
Protectionist State, is that a proof of the advantages of
Freetrade ?
George Reid, with his perfectly dry dog under
his arm, and his impassioned lectures about the
advantages of dropping the animal into the water
and letting it swim, is requested to clear up these
points.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Ears and Tail of George Reid.
At Albury the other day George Reid—
N.S.W.’s good old Borrowing George -the man
who carries his own dry dog under his arm and lec-
tures on the advantage of dropping the animal in
the water so as to teach it to swim, and who
preached Freetrade while retaining so many Pro-
tectionist duties in his own tariff -passed off as
new a very weary chestnut indeed. He wanted
to why know, if Protection was good for all the
Commonwealth, it wasn’t equally good to have a
separate Protective tariff for each State of the
Commonwealth, or for each country, or each
town, or even for each street.
The Protectionists have given themselves away by talk-
ing so much about intercolonial Freetrade, because, if
Freetrade was good between provinces, surely its appli-
cation between countries was to be commended.
And by the same process of reasoning, if it is
good to have a revenue tariff barrier round all
the Commonwealth (and Borrowing George says
it is) then it is equally good to put a revenue
tariff barrmr round each State or town.
And if it is good (G. Reid has always
professed it is) for N.S.W. to have
an army, and a Parliament, and a mint, then that
proves that each township in N.S.W. should have
its own separate army and Parliament and mint.
And if it is good for there to be a Premier and a
Governor, and a military boss-commander in
Sydney, that proves, according to the logic of
Borrowing George, that there should be a Premier
and Governor and military commander in every
town and hamlet in the province. George Reid
is a rather plausible person to those who come
within the range of his baleful eye-glass, but when
his logic is analysed in cold blood he is a poor,
silly dodderer at best. Boiled down, he is some-
thing like this :
(1) You (the Protectionist party) want Australia to have
one Protective Tariff, one Federal Parliament, Federal
capital, Governor-General, military commandant, army,
&c. You are therefore fools. If it is good to have these
things for all Australia, then it must be good to have a
separate Protective Tariff round'each town, and a separate
Federal Parliament, Federal capital, Governor-General,
military commandant, &c., in each town.
(2) I want Australia to have, one Revenue Tariff, one
Federal Parliament, Federal capital, Governor-General,
military commandant, army, &c. Therefore I am a fool.
If it is good to have these things for all Australia, then it
must be good to have a separate Revenue Tariff round
each town, and a separate Federal Parliament, Federal
capital, Governor-General, military boss, army,.&c., in
each hamlet. In fact, we are both, by my own showing,
exactly the same kind bf fool. Only I am the supercilious
variety of ass who wears a superior sneer and scorns the
other ass for having exactly the. same kind of ears and
tail that I wear myself.
And here is another sample of George Reid’s
ears and tail
You (the people of South Australia) have had this great
national blessing (Protection) for 14 years. The baby
ought to be off the breast by this time, but if you try to
take 1 per cent, off that duty, just hear how that infant
would squeal.
And N.S.W., according to the man with the glass
eye, has had the blessing of Revenue Tariffism for
much more than 14 years, and is as little able to
do without it now as when it started, and if
deprived of it, its squeals, we are assured, would
be something awful. .Also N.S.W. has coddled
its people with loans for 50 years, and has got
the biggest debt in Australasia; yet judging by the
heavy increase of borrowing when Reid was Pre-
mier, it is as little prepared to do without that
coddling now as it was 50 years ago. Isn’t Reid’s
own infant nearly off the breast yet ? Isn’t
his dry pup ever going to swim ? And N.S.W.
has been protecting itself against Chinamen
with a heavy poll-tax for many years, yet it
is no more able to do without that Protection now
than it was at the first. As an even worse case,
Britain has been protecting itself with a large
navy for some centuries, and is no better able to
dispense with a navy now than at any other time.
All these things prove that South Australia should
never have had Protection, and N.S.W. should
never have had Revenue Tariffism, nor should it
have poll-taxed Chinamen, and Britain should
never have had a navy. The figure of speech
about the infant may be summarised thus
(1) After a long trial of Protection you are so well satis-
fied with it that you want to keep it. That, proves Pro-
tection is very bad indeed,.
(2) The only way you can prove that Protection is good
Is by abolishing it. But if you did that I would, of
course, say that that also proved Protection to he very
had indeed, and that you wouldn’t have abolished it un-
less it was a failure. At the same time you prove it is a
failure by not abolishing it.
(3) Yet if you tried Freetrade for 14 years, and the
Freetrade infant was still at the breast then and would
not let go, that would prove Freetrade was very good
indeed. For the argument that applies-to you doesn’t
apply to me by arty means.
And so the pot looks scornfully through his eye-
glass at the kettle, and wonts to know what the
kettle means bv it.
‘ ♦ ‘
The Victorian Election.
So far as can be gathered from the evidence yet
available, it would seem that the hours of the
M‘Shiels Ministry in Victoria are numbered.
When M ‘Lean and Shiels, and the “intelligent
man ” Fink, and the rest of their little party of
recalcitrant Liberals, rose in sudden revolt against
the Liberal Government of George Turner, and
ejected it per aid of Duncan Gillies and his
Conservative following, they struck an unholy
alliance that was bound to lead to trouble. The
following which kept them in office.consisted of a
party of Liberals who, complained that the pro-
gressive Turner didn’t progress fast enough, and
a party of Tories who regarded Turner as a
howling red revolutionist, who wanted to tear up
the Constitution by the roots and devastate the
land. The M ‘Shiels Government started to trot
giddily along the razor-edge of impossibility by
pleasing both these parties. For the fag-end
of the old Parliament things went well enough.
Duncan’s following of reactionaries voted steadily
to keep in a Government which professed to be
more aggressively Liberal than the one Duncan
G. had helped to turn out. It didn’t present its
bill for payment too suddenly. But Parliament
expired, and the M'Lean-Shiels Government
had to go to the country with what it professed
was the most Liberal programme that the country
could ask for, and with the cordial support of the
worst Tories in Victorian politics. And the
people couldn’t help suspecting either that Gillies
supported M‘Lean because his programme wasn’t
so progressive as it looked, or else because the
programme was never to be carried out. The
cloven hoof of Gillies and the end of
Gillies’ tail seemed to be visible underneath
the document somehow. The spectacle of
M‘Lean, the alleged economist, recommended by
the Boom-budget man, was too much like the
progress down street of an intoxicated teetotaller
with a bottle sticking out of his tail pocket. On
present appearances the Turner Liberals muster
one more vote than the M‘Lean Liberals and the
Gillies Tories combined. Among those who are
gone are Postmaster-General Watt, Baronet
O’Loghlen, the dreadful Keys, of Dandenong,
Hamilton, of Bendigo, and (deeply regretted)
Hume Cook. Deakin, Murray Smith, and G.
D. Carter retired, and in each case a follower of
Turner secured the seat. Of the three old land-
boomers who tried to get back Matthew Davies
was so badly licked that he all but lost his deposit;
Munro was rejected by 321 votes ; and Bent
actually got in. But Bent, who comes in as a
follower of M'Lean, adds nothing to the strength
of the party, having merely displaced barrister
Moule, of the same way of thinking—at least
Moule thinks that way, and Bent is that way
without thinking, but he might think if he
had the apparatus. Among the new can-
didates whose defeat is a loss to the com-
munity are Kemp, who tried to oust that
political disgrace Frank Madden ; Randolph
Bedford, who failed to shift Samuel Staughton ;
Gibney, who found Pursey Chirnside too heavy
to lift; and H. H. Champion, who nearly got
there at Albert Park, but didn’t quite arrive.
Whether Champion would have been a success in
practical politics it is difficult to say, but anyhow
the spectacle of Bent in and Champion out is a
melancholy reflection on somebody or something.
Sydney’s Little Branch Railway.
The latest Sydney railway proposals of the Lyne
Government, as more fully expounded by
Attorney-General Wise, look reasonable, all
except one point—the usual point. It now appears
that the line, which has hitherto come to a dead
stop at Redfern, is to be extended parallel with
Kent-street, through the resumed area, and finally
carried over the harbour, to connect with the
North Shore system. This means that the main
Australian line will now run straight through
Sydney. There will be little extra cost of resump-
tion, for the railway will be built most of the way
through property already resumed. The buildings
to be destroyed are principally of the kind that
have been crying aloud for demolition any
time these last 20 years. The new order of
things, instead of wrecking a beauty spot like
Hyde Park, will reconstruct and improve
one of the most wretched and dismal localities in
the city, and a great part of the extra values
created by these improvements made at the public
expense will be extra values added to the public’s
property. The scheme looks most commendable
—with one remarkable exception. Tim Lyne
Government apparently can’t get rid of the idea
that Sydney’s principal railway depot should be
away at the back end of the town, so it is proposed
to construct a huge new main establishment at
Redfern, right alongside the present one, and
serve the business portion of the city with two
little wayside stations —one near Bathurst-street
and the other near Erskine-street. This seems a
vast absurdity. Sydney wants its huge,main
station about Erskine-street or in the neighbour-
hood of Wynyard-square, and the existing place
at Redfern should be a wayside station, like
that at Newtown or any other populous
suburb. Then it would be only necessary to
build one large station and one small one—not
a large station and two small ones. By the pro-
posed ai’rangement it appears that the Melbourne,
Brisbane and Western expresses will still start
from Redfern, and presumably end their
inward journey there; it is impossible to
guess why a new main station is wanted
at Redfern unless the long - distance trains
are to stop and start from it. It would be
absurd to make a lug, expensive main station, and
then have the traffic run right through it as if it
was a wayside platform out in the backbloeks,
with cows looking in at the window of the ticket-
office ; and to turn the little by-station down by
Kent-street into the principal place of arrival and
departure. So, after all the recent explanation
and elucidation, it appears that it is still intended
that all important trains shall have their terminus
in the great metropolis of Redfern, and any pas-
sengers who want to visit the casual, bushy ham-
let of Sydney shall take another train along a
branch line or extension till they reach their
destination. The habit of looking at Sydney as a
rising township, with grass and goats in its streets,
which is really entitled to a branch and a small
station of its own, seems quite incurable.
Some People -with Bricks.
Certain misguided individuals have commenced
to flood N.S.W, with literature like this —sample
from Bathurst National Advocate -
Thus it will be seen that whilst it is mandatory that
the Federal Parliament shall establish a.capitaLin N.S.W.
100 miles from Sydney, there is absolutely no provision
can force N.S.W. to give up one inch of territory for the
capital when she does not choose to. The Federal Parlia-
ment might choose Albury as the.capital; but N.S.W., by
refusing to give up any Albury territory, could make it
impossible for the capital to be located there.
The position then really is that N.S.W. and N.S.W.
alone, has the power of choosing the capital site. It
must be 100 miles from Sydney.
Bombala openly professes to rely upon the support of
Victoria to obtain the capital. Her reliance will be found
to have been misplaced. Victoria has no more voice in
the matter, further than what N.S.W.’s courtesy allows
her, than Tonga has. And the voice of N.S.W. will, we
feel assured, be practically unanimous in favoring the
Western district, for such a choice would at once serve
the highest Australian patriotism and the best interests
of the mother colony.
This sort of thing is likely to end in some pretty
hard swearing on the part of somebody. Suppose
N.S.W. in general takes up this idea. Suppose
the Federal Parliament decides on a site
(in N.S.W., of course, as per agreement)
for the Federal capital. Suppose N.S.W.’s State
Parliament replies that it has decided to have the
Federal capital somewhere else; that it won’t
surrender any site except the one it has selected, '
and that the capital must be there or nowhere.
And suppose the majority replies : “The Consti-
tution says the Federal Legislature shall sit in
Melbourne till it arranges-about the new capital in
N.S.W. There is no date fixed for removal. There
is no date fixed for selecting the Federal capital.
The drinks are very good here and the beef is ever
so much better than on Sydney side. When you feel
inclined to hand over the Federal capital site we
have selected, even if it is 500 years hence, just
let us know, and the work of building the new city
will start at onco.” The Bulletin sees, as in a
vision, a short, stout, hatless man, covered with
dust, leaving a city on foot, in great haste, pur-
sued by many people with bricks. The man isi
George Retd, who went down ’to Melbourne and
demanded the insertion of the clause which fixes,
things this way, and wouldn’t federate till lie got
it. And the people following him with the
geological testimonial are some friends of his.
Extract from the annual report of Sydney Cham-
ber of Manufactures, issued towards the end of
last year, being part of the chairman’s speech :
With Federation now practically accomplished, we
should see that the advantages claimed for N.S.W., and
admitted by the other States, are secured at the earliest
opportunity. Provision is made that the capital shall be
distant not less than 100 miles from Sydney, and that the
required area shall be given to the "Commonwealth ; it
therefore seems reasonable that the voice of the people of
N.S.W. should be heard in the matter. Undoubtedly no
site will be acceptable to the great majority unless its
natural port is Sydney. If a site like Bombala is chosen,
there will undoubtedly be a rival port established at Eden,
and the result would not only be division of trade, but a
great Waste of both private and public money.
Also, from Sydney Mail of 18th Aug. :
The proposed (Oarcoar) site creates no fresh and compe-
titive port inimical to the commercial interest of Sydney
—Queen City of the South —one of the greatest trading
centres on earth, and possessing the finest harbor in the
Southern Hemisphere. By maternal right she demands
the bulk of the Federal city trade.
The Sydney bagman-community’s jealousy of
Melbourne and Adelaide was pitiful enough, yet
it might pass as a sort of parochial patriotism.
But the Sydney bagman’s demand that the
development of another N.S.W. port shall be
blocked, in order that the port where his drapery
warehouse is may profit at the injury of another
part of his own State, is a squalid example of
selfishness and personal grab. The Sydney bag-
man is not only against the other States of Aus-
tralia, but he is bitterly hostile to all of his own
State outside of his own shop-door. N.S.W. has
practically only two ports now—Sydney and New-
castle. And the Sydney bag-fiend is mad at the
idea of his own State growing great enough to
have three, lest it should take 2d. out of his own
mean little pocket.
Jawbone Neild’s Children’s Protection Bill in
N.S.W. Assembly is going to punish parents who
“procure young children for the purpose of
soliciting alms.” That’s all right as far as it goes.
But what about the “beloved pastor” who sends
the lambs of the flock round from door to door
collecting threepenny bits for the Sunday-school
picnic, missions to the heathen and what not ?—or
about the Sydney charity manager who sends
broadcast through the post invitations to parents
to send out their youngsters to beg pennies for
“thousands of poor children ?■” These things are
simply a liberal education in mendicancy, and the
child who has been well-trained in collecting pence
for the Sunday-school, the heathen, or the
Benevolent Society, will have no difficulty in col-
lecting on its own account when it wants money
for lollies or toys—always under the pretence o”f
helping some “worthy object,”—and will thus
rake in a good deal more than the poor little
wretch who honestly or dishonestly avers that he
only wants money for “mother, who’s sick at
’ome.” . Both classes of juvenile beggars are as
often as not frauds ; but the well-dressed and
well-fed youngster is the greater nuisance of the
two, and a fitter subject for the application of
Neild’s bill,
>
S.A. Leg. Council has once again rejected the
Closer Settlement Bill—providing for compulsory
re-purchase of large estates —which Kingston lias
always made a main plank of his policy. This
time the Tory majority is larger than ever, 14
members in a house of 23 voting on Fat Man’s
side. Immense areas of splendid S.A. farming
land are held by a few big absentees and support
about one-tenth of an inhabitant to the
sq. league the vast Mootak estate at Mt.
Gambier, owned by a wealthy person in
England, is a notable case in point. Kingston
framed his measure almost exactly on M.L. lines,
and he could not have done better. Under such
legislation the Seddon Ministry has acquired the
Cheviot and similar big estates, and placed
thriving communities where previously there was
but a small population. S.A., which is burdened
with monopolists such as the South Australian
Co., Angas, Browne and Riddoch, is in worse
case than even Maoriland was, considering that the
latter has very large tracts of fine country, whereas
S.A. has rich lands only in patches. The Tory
monopolists, when Kingston first brought his
Bill along, went in for obstruction and delay, but
now that the spineless Holder is at the head of
affairs they have contemptuously thrown out the
measure. History is repeating itself. Last year
the Council rejected Household Suffrage, Closer
Settlement, Early Closing, and Workmen’s Com-
pensation. Already this year the first two have
been destroyed, and it is safe to say that the other
two will either suffer the same fate or be mutilated
beyond recognition.
*
George Reid’s statement that the N.S.W.
Premier—who is his political opponent, Bill
Lyne — is entitled to be the first Federal
Premier may be generosity towards a rival,
but as the last man who found George Reid in
a politically-generous mood has probably died of
old age before now it is much more likely that
it is an attempt to foist on the Federal Protec-
tionist party the most incompetent leader he can
find, to the party’s undoing. If, by an appeal to
provincial prejudice or otherwise, Reid can
persuade the N.S.W. Protectionists to demand
that their own unlucky Bill shall lead the party
in the Commonwealth Parliament, so much the
sooner will Reid’s own hour come. It is a
beautiful thing when you can persuade the
enemy’s army to let you select a general for it.
Just now there is a scarcity of front-rank men
among N.S.W. Protectionist politicians, and
Reid’s danger is that the party may desire to
follow a brainy chief from another State—a man
who could hold the fort against Reid and all his
fish-stories indefinitely. His appeal sounds some-
thing like this: “My dear friends, do let me
persuade, you, from the noblest motives, to insist
on having for your leader a man who will bring
your policy into discredit by his bungling, and
whom I can lick more easily than I can any other
Protectionist who is in the running for the Pre-
miership. Don't choose a man of the calibre of
Kingston or George Turner, who would wipe
the floor with me, and who would associate Pro-
tectionist policy with good, clean and successful
finance and government. Let me nominate a
commander for you—one who will hang like a
millstone round your neck, and enable me to point
out that Protectionism is synonymous with in-
capacity and failure.” This is a world where
even the noblest intentions are apt to be miscon-
strued, and this paper misconstrues the noble
Same Old George as above-mentioned.
S.A. House of Assembly has rejected the Holder
Government’s Bill for creating a popularly-
elected convention to draft a new State Constitu-
tion. It might have been otherwise if the Pain-
fully Thin Man had fought in deadly earnest for
his scheme, but Holder isn’t that kind of a
fighter. The proposal which met with more ac-
ceptance was that the making of the new State
Constitution should be done by Council and As-
sembly sitting together, thus giving each politician
a chance of saving himself and sacrificing his
neighbor. The Assembly has ignored the great
principle which underlay the Federal move-
ment —that it is for the people to de-
cide the nature of the Constitution under
which they shall live. Changes in the
several States are the necessary outcome of a
Federal union, and why should not the people
finish their work? When the people were com-
petent for the great Work of directly creating a
Constitution for all Australia, they are equally
capable of the much smaller work of draftings,
scheme of government to suit the altered con-
ditions of a mere State.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD
.
vlii
msg&
- ■ .
375 George Street,
59 Queen Street,
SYDNEY;
BRISBANE ;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
PRICE 25/. To £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Noth Our Addresses :
A
260 Collins Street,
65 Bundle Street,
MELBOURNE;
ADELAIDE.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
■■
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
CmfcF Office—
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL ■■■■(
MINERAL WATER
BE
A
_TH £ _
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a 0 n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—^
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Spec,ini Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE,
Manaohu.
, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agants for Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s / “ Hedda Gabler."
- .ZSKStew
Theatre Royal “A Trip to Chicago.”
IVOl ' l Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
lIER Majesty’s “The Rose of Persia.”
Theatre Royal “ The Absent-Minded Beggar.”
; uou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Exhibition Oval Fitzgerald’s Circus.
I linders-Street Wirth’s Circus.
Hedda Gabler, by the big Norwegian
gentleman who forgot to get his hair cut, did a
two-mghts season at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, last
week. Ihe season was thin as well as short, and
the emotions it left behind were conflicting
Ibsen has been variously described as a Genius, a
lum bug, a Crank ; probably he is something
?r tt and a little of a Diseased Bore as well.
His Hedda Gabler is a bundle of anomalies, doing
large and middle-sized insane things from ridi-
culously small motives. She is an intensely self-
centred woman, yet her great desire is to influence
the life of somebody or anybody else. She cares
nothing at all about Lovborg, the brilliant author
and glittering drunkard ; and she cares nothing at
all about kind, ordinary little Mrs. Elvsted, who
reclaims him from the beer that is long and the
rum that is short; and she is blankly indifferent
to the great and learned tome which he has written
about the causes of hash in Jupiter, or something
of the sort. But she beguiles Lovborg back to
drink, and when he has painted Christiana bright-
red, and has lost his irreplaceable manusciipt out of
his unsteady tail-pocket while whooping outside a
house of ill-fame, she burns his life’s work. She
has no real enmity towards him, or the book, or
the woman who reclaimed him ; she merely desires
to influence the course of somebodv’s life. She
could do as much by tying a rope across the street
after dark , when a man falls over a rope and
breaks his leg it often turns his life into an entirely
new direction. Then she lends the frantic author
a pistol and tells him to commit suicide “ beauti-
fully ” —to be a nice corpse, and not mangle him-
self or make an ugly splash on the floor. This be-
guiling of Lovborg to a beautiful death is a curious
contrast to her previous beguiling of him to a
miserably ordinary drunk. When she hears that
he has gone to a brothel, and there howled angrily
and coarsely at a woman of ill-fame, and then shot
himself clumsily in the abdomen, she is enraged.
She is struck with the dismal idea that there must
be something wrongabout herself, in a picturesque
or poetic sense, when the man whom she drove to
suicide dies by gunshot in the unromantic lower
stomach. So she hollers for a while in the next
room, and pounds out a loud tune on the piano,
and then shoots herself.
* * * m
Hedda Gabler is a quite unusual character.
Being quite unusual, Ibsen may have studied
human nature more deeply than other men, and
found possibilities and motives which they missed.
Or he may have invented a crudely-impossible
female out of a badly-kinked brain. He may have
drawn an animal with a fidelity never before
known, or he may have pinned the front of a
camel and the back of a goat together and made a
beastly and impossible Joss, which excites the
wild admiration of people who know no better as
a most accurate picture of an animal that doesn’t
exist. This writer thinks he has made a Joss.
People have looked at a sketch of a unicorn and
remarked how true it was to nature; and they
have looked at Hedda Gabler and said the
same thing. Also people have considered a jim
jam seriously and been impressed by the ac-
curacy of the drawing and coloring. The verdict
of this scribe is that Hedda Gabler is the jim-jam-
of a delirious dramatist who is drunk with his own
hair. People who assume that she is a human
possibility are impressed with the fidelity with
which she is drawn, just as people who start by
taking it for granted that there is a sea-serpent
may be staggered at the amazing likeness of the
sea-serpent of the illustrated paper to the one they
took for granted.
• * • •
Nance O’Neil did General Gabler’s sour
and disagreeable daughter mostly in a pale-yellow
dress, a pale countenance, and some pale-yellow
hair dragged tightly round her head. All the
same, she played Ibsen’s jim-jam exceedingly
well. There isn’t a gentle or womanly spot in
all the jim-jam’s hard character—and, as already
mentioned, Miss O’Neil played the part admirably.
Thomas Kingston made a big success of Lovborg;
and Joseph Carne’s George Tesman was a real
human being among much unreality.
* * * *
A brief spell of “ School for Scandal ” fol-
lowed, and The Bulletin desires to speak some-
what kindly of Miss O’Neil’s Lady Teazle, which
has improved in some particulars. Came and
Kingston, as the brothers Surface, were about
equally excellent, but as these two reliable artists
have never yet left a trusting Australian audi-
ence in the lurch, this is only what was expected
of them. Four characters who may be classed as
respectable were M‘Kee Rankin as Peter
Teazle, Barton Hill’s Oliver Surface, Plimmer as
B. Backbite, and Mrs. Bracy, who was rather
more than respectable in the part of Mrs. Candour.
Likewise Miss Roxy Barton was an agreeable
vision as Lady Sneerwell; while Miss Jose-
phine Thynne made a small, plump, mat-
ronly Maria with a painfully weak voice,
about as unlike the usually, accepted version of
that lady as possible. The screen was unusually
high at one end—the end Miss O’Neil was con-
cealed behind. If the advt. keeps faith with the
however, the royal and vociferous drama
of Queen Elizabeth ” will be on deck by the
time tliese remarks get into print, and the present
programme will have gone to join a certain late
politician’s debts in oblivion.
** * »
A great crowd that was dressed very
fashionably and behaved very badly went to see
the Rev. George Walters’ new play at Sydney
Palace on Thursday night, youths of noble blood
having to sit on the steps, and clergymen in all
parts of the house shedding a sacred influence
round the heathen temple. The play was much
wanting, in unity, and was still more broken by
the passing of vegetation over the footlights. No
actress could be five minutes on the stage without
a miniature flower-garden being reached up to her,
and even when there was no one on the stage the
flowers were passed over just the same. “Thou
Fool ” proved to be a sort of drama wherein the
second act had nothing to do with the first,, and
people wandered in and out irrelevantly, and
seemed much more important than they after-
wards turned out to be. It tried to be a variation
of “Joseph of Canaan,” a Sunday at Home tale
and a modern novel of the Ellen Thornycroft
Fowler school at the same time. The pious father
turned his son out. of doors because the
son did not believe in what they pronounced
as “Gard,” and immediately the son became
ragged and starved. As he was a strong, healthy
young man there seemed no great reason why he
should starve in this sudden and astonishing
manner,, except that his friend’s wife might
rescue him. The friend’s wife was a very nice
girl, but she did not seem to mind going astray at
all. The rather original agreement arrived at
was that she should go along to the starving
man’s place to-morrow in a casual sort of way,
and stay there perpetually as the unmarried Mrs.
Savage. The wife’s lady friend also thought it
a very nice arrangement, so it was left for the
hero to have remorse on the eve of his going
astray, and to wonder whether he would be a
fallen man or not. He also saw visions of his
mother about this time.
* * * »
Mr. Fred Wilson, as the married man,
spoke in a muffled voice never heard on any but
amateur boards, but the young man who nearly
sinned through a too-obliging disposition was
fairly strong. The actresses were mostly tall,
beautiful girls, and when occasionally small were
beautiful all the same. There seemed a good
number of them with nothing very much to do
except to look tall and beautiful. The summing
up of all this is, that “Thou Fool” is too frail a
thing to be worth hitting seriously. Nobody cares
to smite a confirmed invalid.
** * *
John F. Sheridan opens Sydney Royal in
petticoats on Saturday with a “Trip to Chicago.”
** # »
Mr. Will Whitburn appears nightly at the
Tivoli as De Rougemont with imitation legs
astride his turtle, while his faithful dog walks at
his side. Fanny Powers improves weekly, while
mimic Whelan adds to his repertoire a scarecrow
dance in imitation of Johnny Coleman, The
creator of Ta-ra-ra ” keeps to her old items,
and has not once fallen over herself in her wild
prancings round the stage in the glad abandon of
being out on the “ Ran-dan-dan.”
** * *
“Robbery Under Arms” still continues
to teach the youth of Australia that bushranging
is sin, though only one of the bushrangers comes
to a nefarious end, the other two being allowed to
settle down and marry their best girls. They are
not even expected to restore the sovereign which
they nobly took from the rich man to give to the
poor girl that had only ’arf-a-crown. All the same,
Jimmy Governor had better not entertain any
hopes on his own acoount.
** * #
Without doubt, last week’s production of
“ Lohengrin ” has given new dignity and import-
ance to Musgrove’s grand opera venture. At the
end of their six weeks’ season Melb. will begin to
look forward to a return of the opera forces next
year with “ Tannhauser,” “ Cavalleria Rusti-
cana, ‘Pagliaeci,” and perhaps “Un Ballo”
and one or two other florid Italian works which
the younger generation has never heard. The
second season promises to be even more interesting
than the first. 6
** * #
“Lohengrin,” the fourth item in George
Musgrove’s opera-season, was a surprise to the
many people who didn’t expect a highly-finished
productmn .of Wagner’s stately fairy drama.
Melbourne is speaking reverently on the subject.
The word has gone round that G. M.’s latest en-
tertainment is worth more than the prices of
admission, and Melbourne means to make the
best of a good bargain. Considered as a musical
show, Lohengrin,” at the Princess’s, is poetic
and impressive, and, of course, somewhat dull at
certain points. Harmonious in the sense that
stained - glass windows in old cathedrals
are harmonious, and great with the great-
ness of Beethoven’s heaviest symphonies,
lhe Wagnerian opera-drama, like the sym-
phony of the Apostle Beet., will always
irmte the objection that its meaning
might have been more forcibly expressed in fewer
notes. It goes slow, and it extends over the time
required for catching one’s last train. Wagner’s
scheme of “music of the future” is already an
admittedly solid success, despite a leaning to-
wards brazen blastfulness, but m his composition
of opera for the future the Bavarian thinker did
not foresee this blessed age of short stories, meat-
lozenges, and other condensed novelties. Wag-
ner’s mysticism in four acts seems needlessly
tedious by comparison with the swift operas of the
new Italian school, quite as dramatic, picturesque
and coherent as the respected “Lohengrin,” and
more in sympathy with vocal art. The finest
voices in the world will never sing praises to
Wagner.
* • • »
Conductor Slapoffski is an enthusiastic
boss of this notable production. He knows his
“ Lohengrin ” well, in all its lights and shades.
The 40 or more instrumentalists bring out beautiful
effects of orchestration, the chorus people are well-
trained to their important part, and though the
opera may suffer in expert German estimation by
the lowering of the pitch and the omission of, per-
haps, some weird instruments of the trumpet
family, Australians in general will not crave for a
vaster volume of sound than the finale of the first
act. Costumes are rich, the scenery by Coleman
and Goatcher is good, and the careful stage-man-
agement showed only one or two faults the first
night, chiefly in the cold, mechanical lining-up of
the lady-choristers.
* * * *
Moreover, the principals get through their
heavy tasks in a capable manner. Louis Arens,
the tenor, who was wanting as Faust, is better
suited to the part of Lohengrin. His health has
improved, and his voice, round and pleasant
within its limits, is seldom asked to sing above the
northern boundary. The broken English of Arens
worries one, but his figure, in silvery armour, is
attractive, also the distinct enunciation of Lohen-
grin’s girl, Elsa, may be said to tell the story for the
two of them. Miss Lorraine, young, fair and buxom,
sings the Elsa part nicely and acts with good dis-
cretion. Max Eugene is the full-voiced villain of
the fable, and Miss Crichton is his wicked spouse.
They give more colour to the plot than to the
music. The lady in her first costume looks very
like the Queen of Spades, and Max’s melodrama-
tic rage is considerably overdone. Charles Til-
bury, well made up, is a majestic King of Ger-
many in voice and bearing, and the ripe baritone
of Lawrence Mooney makes the Royal Herald’s
announcements go for all they are worth. The
Princess’s bill for the remainder of this week is
“Trovatore” to-night (Thursday), “Lohengrin”
on Friday, and the popular “Carmen” again on
Saturday. Next week “ Bohemian Girl,” or
“ Maritana,” or both will be produced, and these,
with further performances of “Carmen” and
“ Lohengrin ” presumably, will carry the season
to the end of its six weeks.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s they promise to get
along all right with “ The Rose of Persia,” in face
of the fact that grand opera at the rival house has
set up a trying standard of comparison for the
lighter work. Slapoffski’s orchestra deals tenderly
with the singers, whereas the less numerous band
at Her Majesty’s almost drowns the voices in some
cases. Melbourne is moderately warm in its ap-
proval of “The Rose.” If the ballet were
left out the approval would drop 15 degrees,
and this not on account of any particular weakness
in the performance, but because there is nothing
that bices the public fancy. Even Lauri’s per-
formance of the intoxicated Hassan doesn’t bite,
though it tickles one artistically. Apart from
Lauri the show lacks character. The pretty
music _ is too much of a muchness, and muchly
reminiscent of Sullivan’s earlier work. Kenning-
ham has not enough to sing or say, and Brownlow
is too serious and beautiful a Sultan for the job.
A leading lady who could do something more than
sing would give the opera a friskier aspect, but on
the other hand Miss Winston Weir’s voice is a
high-class article, which is more than can be
said for some of the other ladies. Concerning
Carrie Moore the present scribe has nothing new
to say. She is neat, winsome, tuneful and clever,
but her physique carries no weight. She ought to
devote 12 months to the task of putting on flesh
and importance.
** # *
The return of Bland Holt to Melb. Royal
is such an auspicious event that The Bulletin
feels inclined to pardon the prodigal’s first offence.
It is the offence he committed in Sydney three
months ago, and he was bound to repeat it at his
first Melb. opportunity. “The Absent-Minded
Beggar ” is a drama with nine toes in the grave.
Somebody wrote it hastily for the London market
last year, at a time when any sort of S’African
war show would pass muster, provided that the
right Flag got a triumphant waving in the last
act. Now that the Flag has been waved more
than enough, and the Boers don’t look nearly as
black as they were cabled in Nov., ’99, and
Kruger is a sorrowful, seasick person of no
importance, “ The Absent-Minded Beggar” ought
to be buried in a Jingo’s grave. All the
same, Melbourne has got to put up with this
awful thing for Bland Holt’s sake. “The
Beggar” has nothing in it to speak of, except a
hundred or two stage soldiers, thirty horses, a
barouche, and a remarkable baby. At one time a
figure which purports to be Y.R. goes through a
form of reviewing the forces in Hyde Park, and
subsequently a bogus “ Bobs ” and a spurious
Buffer review them at Pretoria, on which occasion
the combined brass bands play “ Rule Britannia”
instead of “God Save.” Walter Baker, Styan,
Albert Norman (as an unaccountable Boer), and
Brown shift from England to South Africa in the
course of the evening. Also, Bland Holt has a
foolish character to support, and Miss Florence
Seymour regrets that she is Norman’s mother, and
Miss Ross kisses the baby. Mrs. Holt, disguised
as a bugler boy, scores an irrelevant success for a
few minutes. Miss Harrie Ireland is another
joyful accident. In fact, the drama would deserve
more sympathy if it didn’t make a miserable pre-
tence of having a plot to work upon. The casual
interlopers who accept no responsibility for any-
thing that happens are the brightest features of
the business.
** * *
J. C. Williamson has commissioned
Hazen, of Sydney, to go forth to Italy and pro-
cure an Italian Opera Co. of as good vocal quality
as the co. which Martin Simonsen imported 13
years ago. Hazon came to Australia to conduct
the orchestra for that co.
* * #
The big tent of the Fitzgeralds, at Exhi-
bition Oval, was crowded again on Saturday, so it
seems that the best site for an old, reliable circus
is just where it happens to be pitched, as per
advt. Last year Lizzie, the elephant, scoffed her
light refreshment and trod her tricycle in the
Eastern district of Melbourne. This time she is
addressing the electors of the Northern suburbs
through her trunk, and the popularity of that
growing young female is not less marked. All
the same, there are nicer girls than Liz. in Fitz-
geralds’ Circus. Adelina Antonio, who lately
returned to Australia after fulfilling a long
engagement in Heaven, or somewhere, is the
most graceful trapezist this country can call
to mind. Also the lady juggler has
an appearance which adds interest to her
juggles; and Rosie Aquinaldo is probably the
most fascinating little contortion actress on earth.
Rosie looks fresh and pretty in 26 different shapes,
but her smile is not seen at its very best until she
twines both legs tenderly round her neck, and
chides her backbone for its absurd mutability.
The Dunbars, who sometimes bring off their
cleverest feat at the first attempt and sometimes
score three failures, are a favorite turn, and the
high-jumping act reduces the horsey populace to
cheers.
4t * * *
Wirfch’s Circus, which started business
last Saturday in Flinders-street, at the place
where the Fitz. canvas was spread of yore, is not
quite such avast affair as the rival institution, but
it is big enough to satisfy any reasonable appetite.
There are many gee-gees and much clever riding
in Wirth’s ring. One rider, Welby Cooke, is as-
toundingly clever. Also the elephant that shakes
mortals off its back, and a performing baboon, like-
wise the boxing ponies and the bear on horseback
are acceptable novelties as circus novelties go.
Mons. Soukie in a cage with some uneasy-looking
tigers (“ forest-bred ” the programme calls them)
appears to run a risk of getting chawed, and
Australia in general likes to feel alarmed on the
other fellow’s account. Take it altogether,
Wirth’s is a good entertainment, with only a
family semblance to the other circus. If there is
any time o’ year when Melbourne can provide
large audiences for two important circuses this
should be the time. But the time is not long,
anyhow.
** * *
The latest advt. from a crowded Rickards
announces that George D’Albert will make his
first appearance in Australia next Saturday.
The Wild Cat Column.
Revenue returns for October, 1900:
Revenue Increase as
for compared with
Oct., 1900. Oct., 1899.
New South Wales.. .. £910,124 £117,916
(Rents from resumed area included)
New South Wales .. £901,816 £109,608
(Rents from resumed area not included)
Victoria 636,261 79,960
Tasmania .. „ .. 109,599 28,874
Westralia .. _ „ 238,455 12,958
Decrease as
compared with
Oct., 1899.
Queensland .. .. 322,008 £71,802
So far as the financial year has progressed in each of the
provinces results are about as follows :
Increase as
Revenue to compared with
Oct., 1900. period to
Oct., 1899.
N.S.W. (4 months) ..£3,173,915 £137,719
(Rents from resumed area included)
Victoria (4 months) .. £2,408,500 £121,475
N.S.W. (4 months) .. 3,144,917 108,721
(Rents from resumed area not included)
Tasmania (10 months) .. £877,187 £95,469
Westralia (4 months) .. 960,213 85,913
S. Australia (3 months) .. 626,082 11,731
Decrease as
compared with
period to
Oct., 1899.
Queensland (4 months) .. £1,532,306 £114,835
It is still a matter of dispute whether the
New South Wales Treasurer has any right to include
Darling Harbor rents in his revenue, as no provi-
sion ha 3 been made in this year’s estimates for pay-
ment of this year’s interest on the price of the property ;
or whether they shouldn’t have been put to a suspense
account to pay the interest with—at least until the
resumed area became actually Government property.
Reckoning these rents as revenue N.S.W.’s State income
is £137,719 more than for the corresponding four months
of 1899 ; while reckoning only the same sources of revenue
which the State had last year the increase is £108,721. It
is a handsome increase either way.
The progress of the States is best estimated
however, by bringing the respective increases to a
common rate of so much per inhabitant per annnum. The
N.S.W. increase is taken as not including the Darling Har-
bor rents :


m
w(f
W a.
19ft
r
*¥•
<
PIEJSU^E
ORIKKIT
fORpIEASURE
Ahd You Acquire;
Health
BRINK IT .
FOR HEALTH
AND YOU DERIVE
ĥ
ZETZ-SPA Proprietary Limited
JSYPN&Y.
fioddvcjo snouißj
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAYY AHD WAR OFFICE-
p§r
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. & Co., Ltd, Liverpool. Agents iM. Rutty & Co., Sydney.
Mr. F. W. Payne, consulting engineer to the
Kia Ora Gold Dredging Co., Ltd., N.Z., has placed an
order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co., South
Melbourne, for all the dredging and gold saving and
tailings elevating machinery for a complete bucket gold
dredging plant. This is one of a large number of plants
in course of construction by the Otis Co.*
* • * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* » * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
• • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * m »
% The Capitalist, London, July 21st, 1900:
“ The steady progress which the Colonial Mutual is now
making is especially gratifying and one of which the
management may well be proud.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * » »
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is nowin a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-malcing
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* » » »
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— He advt. in N.S.W. papers
requiring miners for Bethanga. Let me warn miners
against coming here, as there is only the one mine and
that is full-handed. Competent miners, after coming long
distances at considerable expense, are either told there is
no show or kept hanging round without getting a start.
Wages poor, ss. to 7s. 6d. per shift including shaft and
machine-men, in fact men are working on machines as
improvers at 6s. and 6s. 6d. per shift, The tunnel to the
shaft is 1700 ft in, and it’s all ladders to 500 ft, there being
no cage, and the time from starting to return to tunnel-
mouth is nearly 9 hours.—Miner.
Last year, in N.S.W., ’95 per 1000 coal miners
were killed, 1'94 per 1000 silver-lead miners, and "99 per
1000 gold, copper, and tin miners. The blood-bill in the
English coal-mines was 1'283 per 3000. Next to Broken
Hill, Cobar is the N.S.W. field which costs most life ; and
Chief-Inspector Slee explains that this is probably partly
due to the fact that conditions in those places are so bad
that skilful and experienced men prefer to work and liv e
elsewhere.
CYANIDE .
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, eto.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and RACKAROCK.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 37 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
A uckland, NX.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 par cent,
pure), Bleaching: Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
Increase per Inhabitant
per annum.
Westralia _ .. .. £i 10 1
Tasmania .. .. .. 0 12 7
Victoria .. . ... _ 0 6 3
New South Wales .. .. 0 4 10
S.A 0 2 7
Decrease per Inhabitant
per annum.
Queensland £0 14 3
Three States (N.S.W., Queensland and Westralia) publish
monthly expenditure accounts. Those for Westralia are
only available to the end of September ; for the other two
States they are published to end of October. Figures are
as follows:
Increase in Decrease in Total Ex-
Ordinary Ex- Loan Ex- penditure
penditure. penditure. Increase.
Queensland (4 months) .. £170,643 £15,220 £155,423
Increase in
Loan Ex-
„ „ ... penditure.
N.S.W. (4 months).. 53,340 119,407 172,747
W.A. (3 „ ).. 157,872 Unknown 157,872
Queensland has £114,835 less revenue and £170,643
more ordinary expenditure, so things are £285,478 worse
than they were as this date last year. Westralia, for the
first three months of the financial year, had a revenue in-
crease of £72,955 and an expenditure increase of £157,872,
so things were £84,917 worse with it at 30/9/1900 than at
30,9/’99. N.S.W. has, for the four months, £108,721 more
revenue (not including income from resumed property)
and £53,310 more expenditure (not including interest
payments in connection with resumed property), so its
ordinary revenue account is £55,381 better than at 31st
October, ’99. But the huge increase in loan expenditure
more than counterbalances this. Altogether the year
has opened none too well—especially in Queensland,
which appears to have struck a memorable snag. This
is the time when a Treasurer with a genius for cutting
down expenditure shines, bub Queensland apparently
hasn’t got one.
* * * *
Every time a new N.S.W. Ministry is formed,
one of the first items of business is to issue a big batch of
Treasury Bills to cover the further additions that have
been made to the deficit. Lyne now asks Parliament for
authority to issue another mass of these temporary
securities to cover Reid’s shortages, and so the game goes
on, and the big deficit grows bigger. This time it is to
be hoped that it will be a complete cleaning-up—that it
will cover Reid’s unpaid accounts, his unpaid half-year’s
interest, and all his jobs and fakes ; also that it will make
up the entire shortage on the Civil Service Superannua-
tion Fund, Police Superannuation Fund, the Centennial
Park and Martin Place suspense accounts—in fact, that it
will be the final cleaning-up, and that no floating items
will be left to necessitate another cleaning-up later on.
N.S.W. is about tired of cleaning-up.
» » * *
The Queensland Government thinks of partially
following the example of Maoriland, Victoria, and South
Australia, and founding an apology for a State Land
Bank—to be called the Agricultural Bank. It is pro-
posed to raise money by the issue of bonds bearing in-
terest at not over 4 per cent., and to lend at 5 per cent.
Borrowers must commence repaying their principal five
years after the loan is granted, and repay it in full within
15 years. Nobody is to borrow more than £BOO, and no
loan must exceed half the value of the security. The rate of
interest is certainly lower than that usually charged by
private lenders in expensive Queensland ; still it should
be possible to borrow at 3J per cent, and to lend at
4£ if the thing is done on a large scale. But
it is proposed to do business on an absurdly
small scale, the advances being limited to £lOO,OOO.
The Philp Govt, is evidently weighed down with the idea
that a State Land Bank is a terrible and dangerous ex-
periment, and wants to fool gently with the sleeping
tiger. S.A., Victoria and Maoriland have all had their
State Land Banks in successful operation for years ; the
great Norwegian State Land Bank has existed and pros-
pered since 1852 ; the Russian Imperial Bank has been in
the same business since 1859 ; and other State and private
land banks are dotted all over Europe. But either the
Queensland Govt, doesn’t know these things, and still fan-
cies a Land Bank is a reckless and revolutionary proceed-
ing, or else it has grievous doubts about its own ability to
honestly manage even so simple a concern. It has such
grievous doubts about the permanency of its institution
that it reserves the right to start repaying the miserably
small capital of £loo,oooafter 6 years. Loans are only to be
made for the purpose of effecting improvements, and even
then only to the extent of half the value of the improve-
ments, and no attempt to supply cheap money all round,
and rescue the Queensland farmer on a large scale from
the costly private or joint-stock usurer, is contemplated.
The Queensland Govt, is probably too deeply solicitous
about its private usurer for that. If it went into the
mortgage business on a large scale—say to the extent of
£1,000,000 or £2,000,000 —it could probably run the busi-
ness at a cost of about 6s. or Bs. per cent, per annum on
the capital, at which rate it would be possible to lend at
4A- per cent, with profit. The very small institution now
contemplated will probably cost £1 per cent, on the
capital in expenses, and there will be no margin even if
the rate charged is 5 per cent. The small way in which
the Philp Government crawls at the democratic idea of a
State Land Bank is strangely different from the large way
it rushes with all its feet at its syndicate-railway jobs.
* * * *
The Bank of Australasia’s balance-sheet for the
half-year ended 16th April, 1900, shows another great im-
provement, the net profits being £148,422, which com-
pares after this fashion with some previous earnings :
October, 1892 .. £80,346 October, 1896 .. £40,400
April, 1893 .. 60,742 April, 1897 .. 45,376
October, 1893 .. 60,607 October, 1897 .. 40,278
April, 1894 .. 48,571 April, 1898 .. 48,547
October, 1894 .. 45,735 October, 1898 .. 54,148
April, 1895 .. 40,854 April, 1899 .. 56,312
October, 1895 .. 41,159 October, 1899 .. 119,870
April, 1896 .. 40,568 April, 1900 .. 148,422
A dividend of 9 per cent, per annum £72,000 (the
’Asia paid 10 per cent, in 1892 ; 7£ in 1893 ; 6 in 1894 ; 5
per cent, in 1895, ’96, and ’97 ; 6 per cent, in ’9B ; 7 per
cent, in the first and 8 per cent, in the second half of ’99,
making 7J per cent, for the year ; and now 9 per cent.) A
sum of £15,000 goes in a donation to the staff, which
suffered somewhat in the bad times, so in the
good ones the management has decided to remember the
ox that treadeth out the overdraft. An addition of £40,000
increases the reserve fund to £875,000 ; £20,000 is written
off the book value of bank premises, and the
remaining £l42s, added to the previous balance of
£11,153, leaves £12,575 undivided profit to carry for-
ward. It is admitted that the earnings include sums
(how large is not stated) recovered from debts pre-
viously written off as bad, but even if considerable
allowance is made for this the improvement is remark-
able. The earnings shown represent the splendid
rate of £l2 3s, 9d. per cent, per annum on the
capital and reserve fund. Deposits and other liabilities
to the public are £17,461,412, and the cash and liquid
securities (£5,771,940) are equal to 33 per cent, on this.
* * * *
According to the cabled intelligence, the Eng-
lish, Scottish, and Australian Bank shows a large improve-
ment for the year ended 30th June, 1900, profits being
apparently £36,915, as compared with only £15,411 last
year. Owing to the condensed nature of cablegrams, it
is difficult to be certain of the amount; the ’gram says
that the profit is £36,915 “after putting £15,000 to
reserve-fund,” but this probably means that last year’s
profit of £15,411 was carried to reserve this year, as usual,
and that this year’s earnings are £36,915. Out of this
sum 1£ per cent, extra is paid to deferred stock-holders,
raising their interest from 3 to 4A- per cent., and share-
holders get a per cent, dividend—the first since 1892.
• * • *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. closed another
profitable half-year on 30th September, 1900, and paid its
usual 10 per cent, dividend. The most remarkable
feature about this institution is the painful accuracy with
which it earns that 10 per cent, dividend every time.
Some recent results are these :
"SS 4 -
March, 1896 .. £85,167 £85,060 £lO7
September, 1896 .. 85,546 85,100 446
March, 1897 .. 85,473 85,100 373
September, 1897 .. 85,301 85,100 201
March, 1898 .. 85,726 85,100 626
September, 1898 .. 85,404 85,100 304
March, 1899 .. 85,581 85,100 481
September, 1899 .. 85,812 85,100 712
March, 1900 .. 89,408 89,254 154
September, 1900 .. 89,381 89,344 37
Either sugar is a most regular and accurate substance, or
else these are not always the real profits, and the ap-
parent accuracy is arrived at by adding to and taking
from certain inner reserves as occasion requires, or by
varying the allowance for depreciation according to cir-
cumstances, or by some other book-keeping process. The
reserves are now about £420,000, and the paid-up capital
about £1,786,880. It is proposed to increase this to
£2,000,000, and use the proceeds in paying off debentures.
When this is done the co. will be practically free from
outside liabilities.
* * • •
The Illawarra Steam Navigation Co. (Sydney)
had only moderately good fortune during the half-
year ended 30th September, 1900. The falling-off is set
down, in part at least, to the disorganisation caused by
plague proceedings, quarantine, and resumption by the
State of the co.’s property —still the earnings are only
£lOO less than they were at September, 1898, when there
were no plague-scare and resumptions. The half-year’s
profits are £2097, and the usual dividend of about 8| per
cent, absorbs £2490, which is £393 more than the earn-
ings. As a result, the undivided profit balance is reduced
from £507 to £ll4. The total reserves are now £27,114
(insurance fund £27,000 and undivided profit £114). At
March, 1896, the reserves were £32,160 (insurance fund
£31,483 and undivided profit £677), so not only has no
serious effort been made to repair the insurance fund, but
the dividends have exceeded earnings on the whole.
Under the circumstances the 8J per cent, dividend looks
a good deal higher than is fairly justifiable.
* * * *
Michael Flurscheim, the great theoretical re-
former, and one of the best-meaning men in the whole
world, has just been heard of from Maoriland. Flurs-
cheim selected Wellington as a suitable spot in which to
establish his Exchange Bank, which was to issue notes
payable in labor or goods, instead of in cash. A man who
accumulated £2O worth of Flurscheim’s notes, and who
found it difficult to get value for them, sued for cash pay-
ment. The theorist offered half in cash and half in soap.
But plaintiff didn’t want so much soap, and demanded
the sordid money of the Philistine. The court gave him
a verdict with costs, so the Exchange Bank idea may be
said to have broken down. Flurscheim, when he first
made the offer of half-payment in soap, ran a soap-factory
of his own, but that also appears to have closed up—in
fact, the break-down is seemingly complete all round.
» * » *
Mr. J. C. Hassall, of 184 Queen-street, Bris-
bane, announces by advertisement in this issue that he
has ceased to be branch manager in Queensland for the
Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation, that co.
having made a rule that every branch manager must
represent it only, and Mr. Hassall having felt it impossi-
ble to comply with this rule. Mr. Hassall now repre-
sents in Brisbane the New Zealand Accident Insurance
Co., and the Scottish Union and National, the Cale-
donian, and the Mannheim Insurance Cos. Messrs.
Burns, Philp, and Co. also announce that the accident
business of the Scottish Metropolitan, which they
formerly represented, having been taken over by the
Ocean Co., they now represent in Queensland the acci-
dent branch of the Colonial Mutual Fire Co.
October’s top price for silver was the highest for
four years. Four things seem mainly responsible for the
firm silver-market —Bimetallist Bryan’s improved chances
in the U.S. Presidential fight (the result of which will
probably be to hand ere this is published); the discovery
that, despite the introduction of the gold standard in
India, the natives go on using silver ; improvements in
Mexican conditions, resulting in reduced exports of
Mexican dollars, and the ructions in the East (China and
the Philippines), where silver-payments are necessary.
» * • *
Broken Hill Town Council, in which Laborites
predominate, wins the first round in the long-threatened
Equity suit re the taxation of the mines—the Council
asks one co. alone to pay nearly £20,000. The co’s sub-
mitted, first of all, that the assessment had been impro-
perly made, that the valuers were incompetent, and that
anyhow they had not gone about their work properly;
but the Court holds that the rate-book is conclusive evi-
dence. The co’s, amending their statement, now put it
that the valuers returned valuations merely to fit in
with the predominating party’s ideas. So far—and the
struggle has apparently only begun the Council’s
costs have reached just short of £lOOO. And
when the cases are finished all that will be de-
cided will be that one particular method of arriving at
a mine’s taxable value is legal; it will not decide that no
others are legal, and the law is so vague that a score of
legal bases are quite possible. If N.S.W. Parliament
really does want to lessen the waste of public money in
litigation it ought, in the amending Municipal Bill, to set
out clearly the method that it does want adopted in con-
nection with this matter.
* » * •
The Australian Metal Co., which did propose
to use the closed-down zinc works at Broken Hill for ex-
perimental purposes, concludes that it can do that sort of
thing cheaper abroad. It hankers after a successful
wet process.
* * * *
There is a mystery about B.H. Prop.’s an-
nouncement that it has sold 5000 tons first-grade concen-
trates for export. The story up to this was that the new
concentrating mill was needed to keep the furnaces going.
The move may be still another way of notifying S. Aus.
that her hold on the smelting industry is not particularly
tight—that, considering what a very big quantity of coke
this stuff requires in smelting, it will pay just about as
well to ship it off to a place where coke is cheap. It has
paid best all along to ship the product that has been
heaviest in zinc. And it may be that the sale is the
“ straight tip” also to the Port Pirie smelter employes to
drop their request for higher wages.
* * * •
Block 10’a developments at the reef level—
915ft.—are remarkably good. Drives have been run
along the ore for about 130 ft. In one end the stuff assays
13‘50z. silver, 15 per cent, lead and 16 per cent, zinc ; in
the other, 13'50z. silver, 16 per cent, lead and 17 percent,
zinc. This is a shade lower in silver, but 2 per cent,
higher in lead, than the average of the ore, broken from all
parts, now going through the mill. Certainly Block 10
has worked out a larger proportion of its ore above 715 ft.
than other of the bigger mines ; and the most interesting
question is—What is the value of this development as a
guide to the quality of the lode in the other mines at
915 ft. ? Perhaps it does not prove much more than that at
one point the lode at that depth is payable ; and though
is pretty fair to assume that if good ore lives to that
depth in one mine it will live also in others, there
is this other fact to make one go slow—the ores in
Block 10 above 615 ft. were much above the average in
richness, and it is at least likely that the ores below that
level are also richer than the average. The co. is now
exploring at 1015 ft. General-manager Warren, who has
been in charge from the beginning, and who pioneered
sulphide-concentration on a large scale, has just come
back from a round-the-world trip with the confession
that he has learned nothing in either Europe or America
about mechanical ore-dressing.
* * * *
British B.H. profits for half-year to June 30
were £30,085; an interim div. of Is. 6d. will be distri-
buted. The prospecting of the northern block with the
diamond-drill continues to give negative results.
» » * *
Turon dredges for week, 590 z. gold (No. 1,220 z.,
for 136 hours; No. 2,370 z., for 130 hours). The co.
threatens a div. at Xmas or thereabouts. Araluen Pro-
prietary, 40oz. for 136 hours, as against 30oz. for 139
hours previous week.
* • * •
W.A. Mines : Things very unsettled ; looks as
if would be long ere stocks recover the positions of 7
months ago. If attention of London becomes mainly
diverted to Band scrip, as is likely, a big all-round slump
must take place in Westralians. Some will have to fall
one-half their present price before they reach a fair
value ; others will want to fall very little before they be-
come a genuine mining investment, and two or three
mines have reached that position already.
* * * *
S. Kalgurli: “ A portion of the furnace has caved
in.” Likely to happen to any furnace of this sort.
Putting up a bigger plant. Pity it wasn’t a bigger mine.
Before crushing, shares went to over £7 ; now less than
half that, and likely to go lower. It has the tail-end of
the “ Marvellous Mile.” Veins thin, ore-shoots short, not
the mine it was cracked up to be a year ago, but a good
one compared to many others close by. Will pay an
occasional div., but a long time about it.
» * * *
Lake View South : Mine manager, it is averred,
says he knows nothing of any reconstruction scheme, but
reconstruction is inevitable. More money must be put
up or the mine shut up. Latter would perhaps be the
less of the two evils, but they are slow to do such
things in London, with a mine occupying so excellent a
situation. Having a fine crushing-plant, with no ore of
its own to treat, it has done well by public crushing—
which is now falling off.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef : Shares back to 425. ; they
reached 555. on the find of a month ago. An immensely
rich patch of telluride was found driving north at the
600 ft. level, about 200 ft. from Gt. Boulder boundary— one
of the richest patches yet seen on the field, but the drive
has passed through it. Rumored that some men in the
know made thousands on the rise, but you can’t always
believe rumor.
* * * •
L. V. Consols: £ll 10s. (£2 15s. lower than
they were a month ago which only means three-quarters
of a million.) Hard to get reliable information as to the
character of developments in the lower levels. Seems
certain that the main lode, from about the main shaft
south, has gone into the Golden Link. If one can judge
by the work in G.L. this lode appears to be poor, so it will
not be much good in the deep ground to either mine un-
less further prospecting shows an improvement.
*'* * »
Associated : £3 ss. Went to 83s. a month ago
on the strength of their “ marvellous development.” It
wasn’t marvellous by any means, but probably the shares
would be £1 lower without it. Was, at the 600, probably
a repetition of Tetley’s lode, found in driving north from
Tetley’s to Judd’s shaft, to connect the two for economi-
cal working. Too soon to say what is the value of the
strike ; looks promising, and certainly has rich ore in it.
This new branch will probably be better than the main
lode, and it is nearly certain they will find another shoot
further north. They are now going to add the necessary
plant to get a better extraction, putting in grinding-pans
and filter presses. Adelaide has still many Associateds.
• * * *
Boulder Perseverance : £lO 10s.—a drop of 30s
since the new sulphide plant started, because of the
usual troubles in starting a new mill and process, but
there seems no doubt of the ultimate success of the plant.
Their furnaces are so far working well and are a great
improvement on those on the L.V. and Associated. A
splendid mine ; big lodes, several of them, long ore-shoots
and consistent values. The ore contains more silica than
that in the L.V., Associated, and other mines surrounding
it, and for this reason needs fine grinding. From the
want of it, extraction is not so great as expected, and
from the lack of grinding appliances, the capacity of the
mill is considerably reduced. This and some other defects
are being remedied. The mine can wait, and shareholders
who are able and willing to do likewise are bound to get
a good return. There would seem to be no danger in
Perseverance at £lO.
* * * •
Paringa diamond drill, stationed on the boun-
dary of Cygnet lease, is down 600 ft.; proposed to go
1000 ft., looking for the lode of the N. Associated. “The
bore is within a stone’s-throw of the Associated Northern
main shaft.” It would take a strong man to throw that
stone. A stone’s-throw distance is very variable.
» » * •
Great Boulder, 275. The lowest price reached
for more than a year. Cause unknown. Extraction
satisfactory, but plant unable to work up to its full
capacity owing to the conveyors being faulty, and Collie
coal rather ticklish to handle in gas-making; N.S.W.
coal required to mix with it. Putting in fresh conveyors,
taking out the push-conveyors behind the Griffen mills,
putting them in front of the furnaces, and putting
shaking conveyors behind the mills. This change is ex-
pected to overcome the conveying difficulty. The
furnaces are consuming more fuel than the test in
Victoria indicated, but it is expected that when in full
work the cost of roasting alone will be under ss. a ton.
The cyanide plant is making big inroads on the old
tailings-heap at the rate of 300 tons a day, but before
this magnificent asset is exhausted the minor defects of
the sulphide plant will be remedied, and there is no
reason to doubt that the present gold production from
two sources will, for years to come, be kept up by the
sulphide plant alone. Value and permanency of mine
established in the number of lodes, in size and length,
and in depth. It is well equipped, well managed, and is
certain to be a div.-payer for years.
* • * •
Ivanhoe : Attempt made in London to sweep
away Whitaker Wright’s nominees on this board—which
is believed to consist of nothing else. Stated that the six
members of the board only hold 360 shares in the co., and
some men signing the requisition own individually more
than ten times that number. Two Rothschilds have
signed it Kaufman is supposed to be at the
back of the move. The Financial News, British
Australasian and other London financial papers
are supporting Whitaker Wright’s crowd. Thus
the B. Australasian : “ The surprising thing is that some
well-known men in the City should have lent their assist-
ance to an agitation which can only result in depreciating
the market-value of the shares of the Ivanhoe mine, and
add to the feeling of want of confidence which is once
more coming over the W.A. mining industry.” It seems
a renewal of the fight between Wright and Kaufman, and
undoubtedly a case of from the frying-pan into the fire, or
from the fire into the frying-pan.' It is an outcome of the
disgraceful dismissal of the honest Hewitson, for which
someone should be made to suffer.
* * * •
Northern Associated : 525. A big drop after a
magnificent return. “ Always sell before the crushing ”
was right here, too, although the result was a big one-
over lOoz. to the ton and over 600 tons ! Manager said to
estimate tonnage in sight at over 100,000, and value
£1,500,000. Mine developing: wonderfully well—so many
developments have taken place as to give color to, if not
absolutely estahlish, this great value, yet the market is
no higher than when the first strike was made
six months ago, and when it was impossible
to say how long it would last. Since that
time new levels have been opened, winzes sunk,
two lodes at least proved—and shares still fall.
Mine recently found some splendid ore in the main
shaft, and has been developing the same shoot from the
north end towards the same shaft; anyhow it seems to
be the same ore-body. If this be so, the ore-shoot is
very long and rich, but it appears to dip south at a very
flat angle, and underlies west very fiat also. Manager
jubilant re prospects of mine. And yet shares were
within a few shillings of present prices when the mine
had not revealed one-tenth its present value.
* • * •
The Westralian dry-blower and individual
digger have struck a new woe. Last year a Gold-Dredg-
ing and Sluicing Act was passed through the Groper Par-
liament. It authorises anybody to take up as much as
5000 acres at a yearly rent of 6d. per acre, and to hold the
ground against all comers for any number of years with
out doing any work whatever. It is merely necessary to
pay the rent and put machinery of a certain value on the
ground inside 12 months—the Act doesn’t even seem to
specify for certain that the machinery mustn’t be immedi-
ately taken off the ground again. “ Dredgingand Sluicing ”
naturally suggested operations in wet places only, so the
dry-blower paid little attention while the measure was
going through. But when a capitalist pegged out almost
the entire gold-workings at Kurnalpi under this new law,
there was such a sitting-up among the dry-blowers as was
never seen before. And it really seems a matter of un-
certainty whether these proved gold deposits, some of
them five miles away from water, can’t be grabbed, and
all the prospectors ejected, under this comprehensive
Dredging and Sluicing law. Nearly all the mining laws
in W. A. appear to be either a man-trap, or a spring-gun,
or both, and they are always exploding unexpectedly.
• • • •
Mt. Dedd-sick : Half-yearly meeting recently
held in Melbourne when the directors announced that
authority had been given for flotation in England of the
co.’s property conjointly with other properties on the
Dedd-sick field, and an examination of the field was now
being made by an expert selected by the English
investors. How nice this would read—were it not a
million to one that that’s the end of it? Meanwhile
nothing is doing on the mine, and much money is
thereby saved. This scribe has so far been unable to
discover that the mine was ever much good—or ever will
be —unless something extraordinary happens.


Conaplete
Outfits.
ĥ
AN ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To fffmnre” Slothing
.. AT ..
PRICES-'
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY
George Si Barrack Sts., Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH CELEBRATIONS.
Snapshots of anything in connection with this great event will be of increasing value and
interest as time advances, and in order to induce the general public to pi ctorially record the
Harrington & Co. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
Have selected a suitabßc Camera, which they
offer at a reduced price until -further notice.
Our Special Offer— The Premo “ D ’’ Camera.
A neat, well-built instrument of modern construction,
compact and suitable for all kinds of photography, giving
equally good results in portraits or instantaneous pictures.
It may be used as a Hand or Stand Camera, and is fitted
with good Lens, Revolving Diaphragm, .Double View-
finder„Time and Instantaneous Shutter, Focussing Ground
Glass, and 3 Double-plate Holders, enabling 6 photographs
to be taken at one outset. Very simple to use, and full
instruction given. Price complete, £2 10s.
THE PREMO D.
;£2 lOs.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD., 66 King street, Sydney.
~ ~ Branches or Agencies in every colony.
SOCIETY
A peculiar position surely ! Chief Justice
Darlesy tried and condemned to death Sleigh, the
Bombala murderer. At a meeting of KS.W.
Executive held on 30th ult., the C.J. attended, as
usual in such cases, to advise the Executive, and
consideration of the case was again adjourned for
the purpose of inquiring if the condemned man’s
father was at present confined as a lunatic.
Meanwhile the C.J. becomes State-Governor and
consequently final arbiter of the condemned man’s
fate. It is no argument to say that in the Chief
Justice’s new position as Lieutenant-Governor he
is practically bound by the Imperial instructions
to take the advice of his Executive. As Judge he
advises the Executive in this case, and then the
Executive advises him. The situation affords yet
another proof of The Bulletin’s long-time con-
tention that no Judge should hold the acting -
Governorsbip.
* * * *
The difficulty in the marriage-license law
of N.S. W. lies in conferring the right to marry on
“any clergyman having a congregation.” First,
what is a clergyman ? Second, what is a congre-
gation ? Any man may call himself a clergyman,
and half-a-dozen people may be a congregation.
A man may separate from his church and still
perform his clerical duties, and there is no law to
intervene. He may have a congregation of hun-
dreds one year and a mere Sunday-school class
another, and at what stage of decline can the law
step in ? In fact, this license business is a very
old N.S.W. trouble. Bishop Bailey’s was a very
big case 40 years ago. Bailey did six months’
gaol for marrying a minor, and when he came out
he was refused a license. He took the case to the
Supreme Court, and then to the Full Court, and
the refusal was sustained, but on no clear point of
law.
-* * * *
In the return presented to .N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly giving particulars of the marriages cele-
brated at the two Sydney matrimonial agencies, it
is noticeable that none of the “joinings in holy
bonds” were performed by C. of E. or R.C.
clergymen. One gentleman who celebrated
A COMMON TROUBLE.
MERCHANT (to applicant for situation): “ Your
handwriting is good enough, but can you
write shorthand?”
A PPLICANT: “ Oh, yes. But it takes me LONGER.”
many marriages at Sydney agencies is a layman,
and holds a high appointment in N.S.W. Civil
Service.
* * * 'u
In connection with the shooting of Joe
Governor, there are now turning up the usual
“ premonitions,” ko:—after the fact! Mrs. Wil-
kinson, mother of the man who shot Joe, has
frequently, it is alleged, expressed a hope “that
neither- of her sons would meet the fugitives,
because she felt sure if they did that they would
succeed in taking life”; and John Wilkinson—
the shootist—is said to have expressed his con-
fidence that he would vet shoot Joe. These are
the sort of absurdities that inevitably get about
amongst people such as those who were admitted
by the police in batches to satiate their curiosity
by viewing the corpse of Governor—and of whom
one “struck a match on the coarse skin of the
dead foot -as easily- as on a piece of sandpaper.”
The English tongue sorely lacks a word to denote
a combination of ghoul and idiot.
* * * *
At the conclusion of the coroner’s inquest
on the body of outlaw Joe Governor, shot dead
like a wild dog, “ three hearty cheers ” were given
for the Wilkinson brothers. A coroner’s jury
with a gruesome verdict on one lip and a hearty
cheer on the other ! In 1840 a funeral, wending
its way to a Dublin cemetery, met the great Dan
O Connell. The party deposited the coffin on the
roadside, cheered O’Connell as he passed, and then
picked up the corpse and went on. Pretty quick
emotional transactions !
* * * *
Parkes’s idea of a deadhouse for Australian
heroes in Centennial Park has been successively
jeered at and adopted by after Premiers —by
Dibbs, by Reid, and now by Lyne.
* * • «
N.S.W. Government has chosen wisely in
deciding that the swearing-in of the Governor-
General shall take place in Centennial Park—the
noble area of which will obviate all risk from
crushing, while the amphitheatre-like rise of the
ground all round will give a splendid view of the
proceedings. Even the expected attendance of
300,000 persons will have room galore in the
Centennial.
* * * »
N.S.W. Anglican Synod cold-shouldered
the local Old-Age Pension Bill. Some of the
members have pet schemes of their own, and, if
old and needy people are pensioned, the occupa-
tion of these ecclesiastical Othellos would be gone.
Each wants to stick to his own little sphere of in-
fluence, where ever so much hat-touching is
received for a shilling or two a week. One clergy-
man even thinks that “old men are verv well
cared for already at Parramatta and Rookwood.”
Yes the general cemetery, as well as the
biggest old-people’s home, is at Rookwood. This
is real statesmanship.
* * * #
The Australian Premiers have just asked
Judas C. to appoint a day for celebrating the end
of the war. Yet last month 608 British soldiers
actually died in S’Africa and 2800 were invalided
borne !
* * * *
Premier M‘Lean wired for the Queen’s
permission to hang medals on Yic. soldiers from
B’Africa, and Chamberlain replied that the Im-
perial authorities intend supplying gauds and
decorations ; but M‘Shiels still hankers to chip in
with his particular bit of zinc, and if there is room
on the superficial area of the Yic. soldier when
Chamberlain has done with him it is to be filled in
with a local medal.
* * * *
“ P.H.0.” on “ Women in Wine-bars ” :
I have been doing a round of the Sydney “ hodegas
and other wine-shops (some of them called “dives”).
The atmosphere of many of these bars is fetid
from the impregnation of the confined and cavern-
ous air with the mixed odours of wine, tobacco and
“ Homo.” Yet in many of these unwholesome dens young-
women work usually at least 84 hours a-week, and in
some cases much longer! Some are hound to then-
employers body and soul for 24 hours of the day, week in,
week out; a condition attached to their engagement
being that they shall remain at night with the employer.
The wages withal are so pitiably small that it’s no wonder
that those girls—not the veritable chattels of their master
—who leave the bars at 11 p.m., find it necessary to
supplement their incomes in a -manner needless to par-
ticularise. Amongst the frequenters of the wine-bars
votaries of Venus are more numerous than those of
Bacchus ; and it is principally the former who create the
evil moral atmosphere of the place, some proprietors even
expecting the girls who serve to listen smilingly to the
most disgusting ribaldry from customers. It’s a pity that
what should be our national beverage is not dispensed
amidst less ignoble surroundings.
* * * *
A Rockhampton paper tells a queer story
of long-drawn-out coincidences. Some 17 years
ago two sailors came to that town in an emigrant
vessel. On the way they fell in love with two of
the single girls, and left the vessel to get married.
Neither did marry, after all. Both joined the Q.
Marine Department, drifted apart for some years,
and finally drifted together again in Rockhamp-
ton. Early this year one was drowned in the
Eitzroy, and a few weeks ago the second met his
end m the same manner. The long arm—with a
vengeance!
Dear Bulletin.—Is it nobody’s business
to see to the condition of the lifts in Sydney ?
Many, of these—even of recent construction—are
m a highly dangerous state.—Engineer.
Some marvellously rich estates
are growing up in Westralia. For a
mere trifle, Under the now-repealed
Poison Act, the late Anthony liordern
acquired 80,000 acres in the Darling-
Ranges. Much of it, as described in a
recent official report, ought to be as
fertile as the Hunter Valley in N.S.W.
PALE BLACK.
GIN (engaged as housemaid): “Missis, you gib it blacking till I whitewash the fireplace.”
Brisbane Courier remarks sadly that the
Queensland capital is one of the few cities, if not
the only city, in the British empire where there is
no Building Act—where you can build any kind
of unsightly wooden or galvanised-iron or bark-
and-shingle hutch in a busy street, and make it
as undrained, dark, ugly, inflammable and insani-
tary as you please. Evidently the Courier doesn’t
know Sydney. Sydney has a Building Act which
applies to about one-tenth or one-fifteenth of its
area, but over all the rest, covering about three
times the population of Brisbane, the house-
builder can, if he chooses, go back to the ways of
the Middle Ages. The Building Act can certainly
be extended to the Sydney suburbs if the local
municipal authorities demand it, but they don’t.
Said municipal authorities consist largely of land-
lords, but they are too decayed in the intellect to
understand that it isn’t to their interest to allow
people to build more wood and galvanised-iron
hovels adjacent to their properties, and thus
depreciate the letting and selling value of the
latter. Nor can they understand that the increase
m the number of tenements when population is
nearly stationary helps to keep rents low, and the
selling price of property keeps down in proportion
to rents, and that the. cheap and shoddy building
system, whereby anyone can put up some kind of
a house for about £lO, favors this multiplication
of tenements.
Writer knows of one leading street in a large
Sydney suburb where three good stone-built shops
are in a chronic state of emptiness, while three
unsightly wooden dog-boxes, run up within the
last few months, are always occupied. They can
be let so as to yield 20 per cent, on cost, for a price
that wouldn’t pay interest on the more respect-
able structures, so the latter remain empty, and
they will probably stay empty while the supply
of dog-boxes lasts. Yet the aldermanic owner is
against an extension of the Building Act lest it
should compel him to repair a certain tumble-
down cottage—the only one of his buildings which
is regularly tenanted. It isn’t to be expected
that the aldermanic property-owner will approve
of a good Building Act on the ground that it will
beautify the suburbs and make them more civilised
and more healthy, but his inability to see further
than the end of his own inflamed nose, and to com-
prehend where his own interests lie, is a trifle sur-
prising.
* * * *
The Bulletin has a valuable suggestion
for Premier Lyne, who seems to experience much
difficulty in finding suitable ways of cele-
brating the inauguration of the Commonwealth.
There is going to be far too much soldier
and war-horse and military fireworks on that
auspicious occasion, and with an eye to giving the
civil section a look-in, this paper advises that the
best use be made of Jimmy Governor now that
the Government has fairly secured that elusive
and interesting coon. Why not make Jimmy the
central figure in the grand march round ? A cage
might be borrowed from Fitzgerald’s circus in
which the colored brother could be exhibited
without risk of his breaking out and biting the
police.
* * * *
Bendigo’s mayor believes that he has
booked Mr. and Mrs. York for one founda-
tion-stone, and the Solemn Asses of Society
are arranging a grand united speech-day in
which all the kids of the schools are to take
part, the ceremony to be conducted in the
presence of York and the Duchess. Already 15
Vic. municipalities are busy preparing addresses to
be fired at the Royal pair on reception-day, and
scores of two-penny-ha’penny ceremonies are
saving up for the Duke in and about Melbourne.
Evidently there is a deliberate intention abroad
in Vic. to make York earn his keep. For his own
sake it is to be hoped lie will have savee enough
to bring himself within the provisions of the Fac-
tories Act.
DIDN’T EARN IT.
"I earn £4 a week in the Government service,
sir. ”
"You mean, I suppose, that you RECEIVE it.”


HRRPy B ROS
Electro-plated Sugar and Sifter, 15s
Every Description of Table Plate in
E.P. and Sterling- Silver, same quality
as supplied the last 40 years.
SHOWROOMS—I 3 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY"
Best Electro - plated
Candlesticks, 47s pair
Ex Britannia NEW GOODS just
being opened. Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
Handsome Electro-plated Jam Dish
and Spoon, 15s.
IFA TC If MAKERS,
GOLD and SILVERSMITHS, Ac.
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Worth Knowing!
That RAFFAN’S
Bronchial Catarrh
Remedy is endorsed by Doctors to be one of
the First and Best Tonic “ Pick-me-ups ” in Mental
and Physical Breakdown. After a Single Dose you
feel a Sturdiness and Firmness of Nerve, as if some-
thing had become suddenly Unbound, and given its
Liberty. Hundreds of persons who have been in
search of some such reliable Remedy admit that the
Rapid and happy results following its use are posi-
tively marvellous. Affords immediate relief in Bron-
chitis, Catarrh and AsLhma. The preparation was
made by a London physician and sold for a Fortune.
It is now being bought by the public for 2/-, or per
post 2/6. R. RAFFAN, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s
Walk, MELBOURNE.
GOING BAREFOOT
ħ
Ladies’ Vici-Kid Shoes, 11/6,12/9,17/6.
Ladies’ Calf Lace Boots, 14/6,16/6,17/6
Add 9d postage.
Gent.’s Tan Boots, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 28/6.
Gent.’s Calf Lace Boots, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-.
Add 1/- postage.
is preferable to wearing ill-fitting Boots ; and
the wonder is that people continue buying ill-
fitting Boots. The reason is that they do not
know the sterling merits of
CALLAGHAN BOOTS,
These are fitted to the feet by exp
men and saleswomen, who have t
and devote their whole attention
fitting feet. Let your next
Callaghan fit.
leriencetl sales-
men trained in
to the art of
pair be the
395 George Street, Sydney.
Everyone who supplies goods or does work
for the Duke of York or other allied celebrations
should insist on cash down or a negotiable bond
duly signed. The general rule is that when such
visits take place crowds of busybodies arrange
programmes of one thing and another, and no one
is made legally responsible for expenses. Charles
Moore, Mayor of Sydney, stuck up £54 for music
to the Duke of Edinburgh, but the musicians
never got a ha’penny. The Mayor put it on to
others, and others on to the Mayor, and the
legally-responsible person was never found.
* » * *
It is said that for a fortnight before S.M.
Herald began cross-heading its leading articles
(on October 22) the staff, by direction, prayed
nightly that the innovation would be followed by
no harm.
A QUESTION OF PROPRIETY.
TEACHER: “There are no marriages in heaven .”
SMALL BOY : “ Well, this wants seein ’ into.
Mum sez our new baby come from heaven.”
Vulcan : Be your par. (B. 6/10/’OO (about
the woman who got a broken rib in “ saying good-
night.” I know of a lady who had three fingers
of her right hand broken by the too effusive
“shake” of a Sydney Sandow.
* • * *
Sydney train, Saturday afternoon. Sty-
lishly-dressed Johnnie handing guard half-a-sov.
“ Aw, sorry to trouble you—smallest coin I have.”
Guard (witheringly) : “You ought to change
your wages before coming on the tram, sonny.”
9 9
“ Tassy ” : Knew a medico’s wife who
tearfully extracted the false teeth from her dead
husband’s jaws, and remarked to a friend:
“P-p-poor William’s te-e-eth ! They’ll c-c-come
in n-nicely for little Willie’s some day.”
* * • *
A lately-deceased Sydney undertaker, for
a lifetime connected with the melancholy duties
of planting Australian citizens, has been liberally
paragraphed. Among the sweet things said of
him is that he “ was a genial member of most of
the sporting clu’ 3of the capital. ” Once on, now
under, the turf.
* * * •
The somnolent S.M. Herald made a new
departure t’other day—headlines to double-leaded
leaders. Bring on those blocks !
* * • •
Th it nude male-model
trouble recalls other worries
that vexed the soul of the
aspiring lady artist in the
early days, i.e., some half-
dozen years ago. The modesty
of those in authority was so
great in these mediaeval times
that when the first feminine
asked permission to join the
class that drew from the nude
they gave in only after much
difficulty. Then in a short
while their modesty raged
once more, and, having per-
mitted her to join, they veered
round and declared they could
not allow her to stay a day
longer, unless she got up a
class for ladies only. The
artist brought some dozen of
her sex as a nucleus of the
new class. Then the modest
ones draped a piece of chintz
across the room and gave the
lady artists a model all to
themselves on one side and
the gentlemen ditto ditto on
the other. As to the fact
that the lady artists had to
pass through the gentlemen’s compartment,
within sight of the forbidden model, in order to
reach their end of the room,-all parties agreed to
say nothing.
* * • •
“M. 8.5.” : The man who suggested (8.,
20/10/’00) calling the Federal capital “ Orange-
peel,” “ after the most frequent substance on the
pavements of all Australian cities,” should look
again. If the name were to be chosen in that way
Spitalfields would be more appropriate.
• * * •
“H.” : L ast night I went to see a dying
girl. On her pillow were stuck tiny medallions of
Baden-Powell and Roberts. Philosophy has no
force against these ruling passions.
“ Layman ” : “ Puyyaka says that chlo-
roform is out of date with modern doctors, it is
only once in a blue moon that any other anaesthe-
tic is used in Melb. Hospital, the objection to
ether being that it takes very much longer to
produce unconsciousness. In America simple
chloroform is never used —always ether, or a
mixture of the two, and that has been the practice
there for the last 54 years.
* * * *
Quite a number of publicans compliment
Premier Lyne on shutting up the Sydney soft-
drink shops on Sunday. They do twice the trade
on Sunday they used to do. Soft-drink shops, if
the ukase lasts, will likely open up side and back
doors also, and then all the police in the city will
be employed. Which will give the burglar a fine
chance.
» • • *
Recipe for posing in England as a distin-
guished Australian. First get money—-anyhow.
Then interview ari Australian Pre-
mier—any Premier. “ I’m takin
the wife and kids ’Ome ; can t
you make me a commissioner
of something ? I want to go
about and be thought Some-
body.” There never was a
Premier who could resist that
plea and deny the official in-
troduction asked for.
* * *
In a Yic. country town,
the other day, a young lady
aroused, at 2 a.m., _ all the
inmates of the lipuse in which
she was staying, by screaming
that there was a man in her
room. Her to
her assistance, and - found it
was her husband who had
caused the alarm. The absent-
minded girl had been married
on the previous day, and,
waking up suddenly, had for-
gotten the circumstance.
The hansom cab is com-
ing so much into favor in Adelaide
that to ask a lady to ride in one would
now no longer be construed into a reflec-
tion upon her respectability. This shows that the
Holy City is becoming civilised. Much the same
idea used to prevail in Melbourne in the old days,
but Sydney never shrunk from its hansom. There
may be a moral hanging round here somewhere !
* * * »
It will soon be possible to trace the pro-
gress of ex-priest Slattery through Australia by
the trail of smashed furniture that he leaves
behind him. The man whose wages are the price
of blood —nose-blood, that is—recently attempted
at Brisbane to expose the errors of the Scarlet
Woman who is alleged to sit on seven hills simul-
taneously, thereby manifesting a breadth of sit-
down altogether unusual. But apparently almost
everyone named Doolan was there or thereabouts,
and the policeman who is generally named
Murphy was swept off his feet, and the premises
were wrecked before Slattery had got through
half-a-dozen sentences. Judging by this, and
several previous like incidents, there isn’t a city in
Australia that a very small mob can’t take posses-
sion of just about any time it feels that way. It
is casually mentioned that, out of the 500 or 600
people who threw stones weighing up to 111 b.
apiece for about two hours, the wildly energetic
police force captured three. Which is very Aus-
tralian indeed.
• * * *
“Barney”: “20 per cent, of the total
mortality of A.M.P. members between 18 and 39
is due to phthisis ” (B. 6/10/’00). Should not a
law be made prohibiting phthisical patients from
serving in shops or living in premises connected
with shops ? For months I bought meat from a
THE LAW'S POUND OF FLESH.
“An operation was successfully performed for relieving the pressure of the
skull on the murderer’s brain.”
THE GAOL DOCTOR: “ Yes, with every attention he may possibly
live till we hang him."
N.S.W. Government has set a bad ex-
ample to the community by calmly disregarding
the recent Supreme Court injunction, forbidding
for the present the use of the Randwiek (Sydney)
range for rifle practice. Despite the fence which
the authorities have erected with the view of
stopping erratic bullets, these leaden visitors con-
tinue to arrive in the Coogee neighborhood. In
one recent instance the missile lodged in a resi-
dent’s front-door, and remains there for the in-
spection of any body concerned. The Bulletin
hopes to see Chief Justice Darley “run in” the
person responsible for the contempt with which
the court’s injunction has been treated—no matter
how high and mighty he may be.
A really
casual gentle-
man was heard
about in Melb.
Divorce Court
t’other day.
He happened
along to the
late Rev.
Kinsman’s one
evening in ’BB
and married
the lady. Af-
ter enduring
married bliss
for 18 months
he remarked
that he was
tired of it, and
could not set-
tle down with
one woman.
He wandered
off for three
years or so,
then returned,
and resumed
friendly rela-
tions for six
weeks, when
he strolled
away again.
Three years
later he oc-
curred once
more, and re-
quested the
lady to love
him again, and
on her demur-
ring he said he
was fatigued,
and would go
and have a
drink. Appa-
rently, he is
still drinking,
or has over-
come his tri-
ennial spasms
of intermitt-
ent partiality,
for he has re-
mained away
ever since.
* 9
The casual
female crop-
ped up in Bris-
bane t’other
day. Thelydy
alleged that
she casually
met a stranger
one night in
town, and he
took her home
in the tram.
Met him a
second time,
and something
happened a few minutes afterwards; also
on another casual occasion. Defendant’s
solicitor shrewdly kept his man out of
sight until he had been described ; and then the
bottom fell out of the case, as defendant turned
out to be as much like the description as George
Turner is like George Washington. Plaintiff
wailed that she must have met some man (there
was living evidence of that), and she thought
defendant must have been the man, but she
wasn’t certain, as she only saw him three times at
night, and didn’t take particular notice.
* * * *
The recent report of Mr. Hanson, Acting-
Director of N.S.W. Charities, discloses a lovely
state of things as regards the administration of
tiie Metropolitan Charities Association. Out of
a total revenue of £1112 —£656 had gone for
salaries, £32 for stationery, &c., £99 for printing,
and £66 for sundries—the total administrative ex-
penditure being £964, as against £30 spent on the
poor, or less than the amount expended in
stationery ! Presumably amongst the “sundries”
came an item of £8 6s. 8d. “ for afternoon-tea in
connection with a charity conference.” What a
howling satire upon the methods of so-called
“organised charity”!
* * * *
At a meeting of the Sydney police force,
it was elicited that, owing to the utter disorganisa-
tion of the Police Superannuation Fund, a number
of officers who are past duty are still receiving full
pay, as it has been found impossible to pension
them ; thus not only wasting the public money,
but blocking legitimate promotion in the force.
This is a scandalous state of things, which Govt,
should take instant steps to remedy. No com-
munity can afford to neglect the interests of its
police; and any uncertainty about the reward for
a long course of police service will tend to keep
oat of the force the very stamp of man which it is
most desirable to enlist.
* * * *
consumptive butcher, and bread in like circum-
stances from another shop in the same town. In-
fection is doubtless spread thus wholesale.
* • * •
A case of “ beef-measles ” —the first
observed in Australia —is reported from Adelaide.
The flesh of animals thus affected contains, it is
said, eggs of the human tape-worm.
* * • •
Writes “ C.” :—
Re Sydney Catholic Press’s new yellow dress. Yellow
and purple are the Papal colors.
But surely not in Ireland !
* • • •
The motives by which Sleath, M.L.A.,
was actuated in the recent row with General
French seem questionable. The information
which he has demanded has for some time been in
possession of Parliament, and had Sleath taken
'his feet off the table and looked up the necessary
documents he could have saved much time. Even
had the information not been in the possession of
Parliament it could always have been got conh -
dentially through the Minister for Defence. The
only question is : Whether Gen. French should
inform Sleath in open court, where all the world
can hear, about certain important military secrets
that Sleath knows already. It can do no good,
and may do infinite harm. But Sleath wanted to
go to S’Africa, and be a loud, blatant amateur
officer, and French wouldn’t let him. And now
Sleath is having his turn.
• * • *
Age matrimonial advt. (27/10/’00) :
p ENTLEMAN, young, with means, wishes to cor-
'JT respond with young lady, with view to matrimony
or otherwise. Genuine, Age Office.
David Syme is hereby informed that his respect-
able paper shouldn’t be a medium for people who
advertise for “otherwise.”
* * * *
At a Melb. inquest lately, where deceased
had succumbed from blood-poisoning supervening
on premature birth, it was elicited that the nurse
who had attended the lady—she having refused to
call in a doctor—was quite undiscoverable. A
neighbor and the daughter had seen her, but
couldn’t describe her, and the husband was under
the impression that an attendant of some sort was
fooling around the patient for nearly a fortnight,
but nobody asked her name or address. Just
before the patient died the nurse faded altoge-
ther, and hasn’t been seen or heard of since. The
best description that the police can get of her is
that she has two feet and some hair, and they are
looking for her anxiously to give evidence. It is
all so beautifully casual.
FOOTPRINTS
FOR THE "BULLETIN"
ggrgdj racks to the water’s
Hntfcrj pootprints - nought
wM&m beside!
Y/hat the sea is made
receive
•yhal the sea will hide.
Tracks t° the
Mone from the foams
Man may tread a thousand
ways,
/yjl lead bum heme.
Tracks in the sodden sands,
Wh°se and whence and
r*old blew tfie wind of pate,
j)ark Roomed the sky
Tracks to the trackless
1 deep,
veed ye wrin6 your
hands?
Qince to-morrows tide will
make
gtnooth the sands
RODERLC QUINN.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judgres in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing !
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prloea and attention as If you bought amongst the dally orowds at the counters.
6L086 T62IS have WO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
„ Sydney, November 6, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
Have you heard of the sensational divorce-
action? Well, if you haven’t, you possibly will.
It has an ecclesiastical flavor, and may yet be to
Australia what the Tilton-Beecher case was to
Yankeeland.
F.eet Ball, at Garden Island, was a great suc-
cess in the items of supper and decorations and
scented ponds and fairy lighting. But a gloom
like a wet, warm fog hung over it. There were
only 4UO people—the Sydney Four Hundred-
present. Wall-flowers were very numerous—the
wicked laymen hadn’t ceased from troubling the
military and the weary Governor stayed at rest at
Government House. He sent a message begging
to be excused attendance as it was his last
night in Sydney. Two debutantes were notice-
able. Miss Muffy Barton, bright-complexioned,
fluffy-haired; and a daughter qf Major Lee.
Our dear departed Governor is a man with an
original, if strange, taste. Instead of railing
South, as everyone with money and leisure is
doing at this season, he has expressed North.
Instead of Flemington lawn and track, and racing
hoofs, and silky hides, he is probably having a
quiet pull on Breakfast Creek, or he is sauntering
round Thursday Island making kind inquiries
about beche-de-mer and pearl-fishing. Anon he is
to go to Papua, and I fancy I see him seated
under a sago-palm or a wild nutmeg dreaming
over a volume of Whittier.
Our dear departed Governor is a very nice
young man; many considered him feeble and
tactless, _ but he was merely misplaced. It’s a
great point, for instance, in a gallery how you hang
pictures. How much more so the timing and
placing of an Australian Governor. In his native
lanes in Worcestershire, under the shadow of the
village church, Little Boy Blue is appreciated and
understood, but he is quite out of touch with us.
What we want in Governors is one who, in addition
to his title and money, would enter a horse for the
turf. Then the test of his popularity would be :
Hoes the crowd on the Flat cheer him when his
brumby wins a classic?
Our dear departed Governor came amongst us
heavily handicapped, in fact leg-ironed, by that
Kipling convict-quotation. Then followed the
blue and white tickets-of-leave. And just as we
were saying “They are nought but mistakes”
came the Cobar speech which filled the French in
Australasia with a desire to scrape "William the
Blunderer to death with pot-sherds.
Next came the Italians’ huff when His Ex.
played with the Boys’ Brigade or something of
the sort, instead of spending a pleasant afternoon
at a kind of funeral service for a murdered king.
The St. Mary’s sermon fiasco is counted by some
unto the Governor as unrighteousness, but un-
justly so. The mitred Maorilander with the
beard was the pickled-onion on that occasion.
But all these are very forgiveable lack-of-humour
sms. They might come under the head of Early
English faults.
His Ex.’s most inexplicable mistake—if it was a
mistake has been his attitude (as set forth, by
certain of his enemies) after the accident to the
little girl Morris. Nearly a year ago Maud Morris
was knocked down and hurt by his Ex.’s carriage
as it was being rapidly driven to Redfern Station.
Maud Morris was taken to Prince Alfred Hospital,
where she remained some weeks, and has off and
on been under medical treatment ever since. The
child s mother—so goes the tale —a working woman,
very poor and supporting her four young children,
does not seem to have had any practical
sympathy shown her by the Lygons. Lady Mary
called on her two days after the accident and
was very nice in word and manner. These
cost nothing, and are instinctive to well-bred
people. After some writing and interviewing of
Captain Smith, Mrs. Morris was given £2. Later
she received a further sum of £3, which amount it
was considered would fully compensate her for
the accident to her child. Finally the woman had
to agree to a settlement of £2O, procured her by a
solicitor. Yet the injured girl was her eldest and
only help amongst her children.
That is one side of the case—one side only. The
Governor’s side seems to be that the accident was
trifling, and was from the very first “ worked ” for
all that it was worth—and this not merely by the
person directly interested. Someone has said
that every decent man carries in his face a pro-
mise to pay. And if ever a man’s face carried
such a promise it is Lord Beauchamp’s.
Such a cultured-looking, seemingly-underfed
audience came to Hedda Gabler’s First Night and
searched that lady minutely (through its pince-
nez) for her moral and intellectual signifi-
cance. She isn’t a bit wicked in the
Seven-Deadly-Sins sense. You won’t find one
of her sins in the Fatal Seven except
Anger. Hedda is certainly angry much and often.
But she is virginal in the heartless, passionless;
soulless sense of the word. Miss O’Neil has put a
lot of somebody’s brains into her Gabler dressing.
At her entry you note her pale gold hair brushed
up slab and coiled tightly, flatly, on the top of her
head, not the tiniest scrap of baby curl appears on
her forehead or neck. She presents you with a
hard, cold outline of person and mind. Then her
wan, golden face and straw-coloured gown—it’s a
ghostly-golden, bloodless study. In the next act
she is still yellow, but brighter, and she dies in a
black satin robe and a deep-pink rose. By the
way, that bracelet that Miss O s Neil lost just after
it had been presented to her on her birthday by
Mr. Rankin has not yet been returned to the Aus-
tralia.
Rev. George Walters’ “Thou Fool” fooled a
packed house last week. Amateur Phillip Lytton
produced it, and McKee Rankin is said to have
been in front to see Lytton’s promise as an actor,
lhe amateur bears a strong likeness to Toby
Parton and has a voice like Bland Holt’s Baker,
and his promise was capital, despite the awful
material with which he mummed. McKee
Kan km must have admired Miss Madge Hope’s
imitation of Nance O’Neil. Miss Hope has a
beautiful face and a figure perilously approaching
Nance s proportions. And if she had acted her
part after some conception of her own she might
have scored. There was a sweet waif and a
capital policeman. Miss Vera Eyton did prettily,
iru 8 since gone with Coghill’s opera co. Miss
Mildred Aarons, and other girl and men amateurs,
had nO reason to be ashamed of their work.
Narrabri’s most gigantic intellects still wrestle
with the problem, “ Who is the woman, and what
her motive, that nightly stones a certain home-
stead ? ” Her name is probably Gladys, she has
no “boy,” and she is sick of Narrabrian mono-
tony, and she carries the stones in a long pocket
in an underskirt. Police, civilians, and mounted
troopers cannot discover her. Balzac says that if
the woman be only discreet enough no one may
discover anything against her.
A journalist friend of mine started house-
keeping with a young wife, an angel-faced servant
of thirteen, whom he had got from a charitable
institution, and twenty pedigree fowls. Upon a
night a fowl was garrotted and laid on the kitchen
doorstep. Every night for five nights a fowl was
killed in the same fashion, and this despite the
house-dog and master’s vigils. Finally the latter
hid in the fowl-house itself and so caught the
angel-faced damsel with a slip-knot at the end of
a short stick. She, the little Thug, operated far
more swiftly and quietly than when bringing
shaving-water in the morning. Tears and “ I just
like to hear people wonderin’ who done it ” was
her explanation.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Derby Day, 1900, seemed pokey without a
single lion in the Governor’s battue. Those of
the local smartest connected closely or distantly
with the Chirnside clan were absent, too, mourn-
ing poor young Calvert, killed in the Transvaal.
’Tis said, however, that even before the sad news
came a galaxy of society-stars had decided rather
than waste time cultivating ‘ small potatoes ’ in
town during present race-season, to retire to their
country-keeps, there to save up their smiles
and fizz for the Duke of York.
‘ ‘ Gov. Madden, in his very tightest light-grey
suit and big, red carnation posy, affected a
‘ Frencli-hen halo ’ —every hair frizzed on end so
as to produce the effect of a ‘wealth of curls.’
His liege lady, tamely dressed in blue muslin with
black-lace parasol, coaxed the blue-ribbon cleverly
round the Derby winner’s neck, and though Malster
is a dark horse, the color became him beautifully.
Pretty Miss Madden didn’t, look quite so much
like a dewy blush-rose as usual, owing to her white
veil, faintly tinged with blue, which threw a cold,
dignified shade over her dimpled face. Her Derby
costume, modelled perhaps on one worn by Nellie
Stewart at a charity fete the week before, was
white muslin threaded with blue baby-ribbon, and
drooping white-rush hat trimmed with pink roses
and blue bows. Sister Leslie’s pink-straw hat,
over-run with mauve grapes, went with pink mus-
lin and chiffon shoulder-scarf to match. That’s
the worst of these transparent yokes. Wearers
with delicate chests or blistery shoulders must
tote round a wraplet in case of need. A lace
shawl is just the floppy, feminine fal-lal to go
with trailing skirt and bell-sleeves, but Heaven
defend us from things to carry about! All very
well, when the chief end of Woman was to look
nice. Now that’s she’s got to fly round, tails to
hold up and sleeves dipping into things are expen-
sive luxuries.
“ White petticoats to the fore again ! Frilled
muslin ones sent home with all washing-frocks
this summer. White stockings, I guess, will
come next. Then bring on your sandals and
curls, and perhaps you’ll be satisfied when the
suburban woman, running for an early morning
train, drops out of the struggle to look as well as
the best of them, and relapses into the dowdy
working-bee she seems to be in all countries but
sunny Australia.
“Up to now, our cool, cloudy Spring has
restrained the rage for thinly-veiled shoulders and
arms out of doors. But the mania was manifest
on Saturday. At present, observers declare that
at local dances they can recognise she-Sydneyites
at a glance by the lacey patterns traced on their
backs and chests, in freckles and flesh-color, or
sunburn and snow.
“Nelly Stewart’s white, covered with raised
white silk embroidery, had under-skirt of white
chiffon flounce edged with white ribbon, pink
velvet waistband drawn through a group of big
‘ diamond ’ rear buckles, pink quilled parasol and
top-piece of white crinoline, pink roses and blue
bows. Under the drooping brim a big all-round
plait and lots of fringe peeped out, looking quite
red in the sun, and casting a garish glow on the
face underneath. Nellie must have been looking
well, for she-beholders gnashed their teeth at the
sight of her, and kept on saying what a ‘ stagey-
looking ’ creature she was, and deploring her lack
of corsets. From this last accusation you may
father that the culprit’s figure is worth looking at.
ler frock seemed moulded to it, and one’s eye
runs down to hip-line without being stopped
half-way by a waist-mark which hadn’t developed
in Eve’s day. Messrs. Musgrove and Arens
(Faust) were in attendance off and on, and
between times a few she-satellites joined the
group, but though rumor has it that our Nellie’s
heart hungers for feminine society, her demeanour
in the presence of petticoats wouldn’t lead one to.
suppose so.
l< Tenor Salvi (hair and moustache black as
ink) and Lauri were other ‘ stars ’ in sight.
Theatrical race-goers (male) wore gloves and
frock-coats, but their smartness wasn’t dazzling
enough to make you blink. Other men, as a rule,
looked shabby and scrubby in seedy boxers, etc.
Frock-coats and toppers seem ‘out’ and no
picturesque Wild-west style (shirt sleeves and
sombrero) ventures in as yet. Baronet Clarke, in
neat little brown shoes, serge suit and straw hat
worn askew, trotted round with Mrs. Lawson,
his absent wife’s cousin. This lady, whose
‘ points ’ are a handsome nose, a tall, smart figure,
and a ‘ good-comrade ’ disposition, sported a gown
which might just have scooped a big chic success,
but didn’t. It was plainly-made white serge with
sailor-collar of pale-blue velvet. Pink parasol and
sapphire and diamond ear-studs failed to save the
sartorial situation. Janet Lady Clarke, slim and
graceful in white silk-muslin and fine black lace
insertion, strolled about with brain-specialist
Maudsley, and did a few turns with George Reid,
with whom all women love to talk.
Manager Musgrove, who has a magnificent re-
putation for donations of beer and sandwiches
and “soft stuff” among the sore-throat chorus-
singers at tedious times of late rehearsal, gave
his race-party a swagger luncheon to help the
Derby dead-birds off their chests, and, in the
later noon, a strawberry scramble.
“Manager Musgrove has a new pair of white
kid gloves and a fresh flower on every night, to
shine in the glare of the box at the opera. The
other night, when ‘ Carmen ’ was aboard, only the
tip of Nellie’s hat could be seen behind Musgrove’s
shoulder. The fair one only shows herself in the
box when she has all the shoulder-covers off and
the war-paint on.
“ Agnes Jansen, the stout Swedish contralto
who made such a splendid old gipsy in ‘ Trova-
tore,’ doesn’t look a scrap bewitching as Carmen.
Her eyes and teeth show up well, and her expres-
sion is cheerful, but she has no grace, and
if I gave you a truthful estimate of her hip-
measurement, you’d say I was exaggerating.
Her first costume is something musliny and
streetish, and she sports a Collingwood curl,
plastered down her forehead, presumably to give
her the air of h ‘ bold-faced jig.’ The result calls
up recollections of a quaint translation of ‘ The
Mysteries of Paris,’with the frequent references
to a ‘leery cove.’ Madame Jansen’s ‘leery cove’
looks old enough to know better.
“ Carmen’s second frock, rich in Spangle em-
broideries, is wrecked by its low-cut corsage, as
unattractively crude in its revelations as a picture
in a physiology-book. Teutonic charmers do
nothing by halves, and their decolletage methods
are as thorough as the rest. The operatic co-
quette’s mountaineering get-up, with its round
Toreador hat, short-waisted bolero jacket and
brief bunchy skirts, is rather like the fat, bob-
tailed suits in which V.R. (unless old pictures
belie her) was wont to disfigure Highland land-
scapes in the days of her buxom bridal bliss.
However, Carmen looks much more attractive at
the finish in sequined black skirt, shimmering
red bodice, Spanish comb and black lace mantilla.
“ Max Eugene’s ‘ Escamillo ’ is a fine, big Ger-
man bull-fighter, but there’s no fire in him. One
feels that from being a respectable successful but-
cher he must have taken to the Toreador trade,
not from love of sport, but with an eye to making
money out of the carcases. By the way, girls
don t imagine from this that bull-beef is in request
for the table. Scribe learned the contrary from
the painful experience of a friend, who at her
mother’s request called at the butcher’s to order
steak and kidney. Butcher asked, ‘ Hox kidney,
Miss ? ’ The girl, misunderstanding his question,
replied, ‘No, not hog’s, bull’s.’ The man and his
assistant looked queer, and the customer, guessing
someone had blundered,’ suddenly exclaimed
that she saw ‘a St. Bernard fighting her toy-
terrier,’ and escaped from the shop.
“ Salvi working up to the murder of his false
love, is the best thing in ‘ Carmen.’
‘‘ the way, Madame Wiedemann (Mrs
Pinschoff), Professor of singing at the Conserva-
torium, achieved the success of her European
operatic career in the rolo of Carmen, and her
eldest daughter bears the name of the Spanish
gypsy as a souvenir of her mother’s bygone
triumph.
“Mrs. G. B Lewis’s one-night drama at the
Gaiety (under the Bijou) drew a friendly crowd
that more than filled the cosy house, and if the
array of the folks in front didn’t enjoy the enter-
tainment they had only themselves to upbraid.
Mrs. L. s Wreck of the Inverness ’ was the
drollest thing imaginable. The humor of it was
not so much m the misconduct of the curtain at
critical moments, or the occasional waits for the
prompter to intervene, as in the strange casual-
,ness of the plot. Somebody saved an infant from
a watery grave, and dropped it out of the narra-
tive simpiy because it didn’t happen to be the
right baby. Twenty years later the right baby was
.found, looking for his yellow-haired girl, who had
got lost m an endeavour to comfort humanity at
large. Also the blind uncle of the right babv
turned up from the 22-year-old wreck, and
another nice girl abandoned her home of luxury
(at least they said it was luxury) in order to share
starvation with this unaccountable ancient. A
third girl had a mania for fits in the street.
After recovering from a fit she picked up an un-
known baby, and took it home to die in her
garret, although she had already an im-
proper offspring of her own, after which
her next fit proved fatal, and the
author of her shame was put to confusion,
and the gentle mimstenng-angel gave orders for
the corpse to be removed. In fact, she took the
unknown child from its cradle and carried it off
to the undertaker or the coroner without asking
for a death-certificate. “ The Wreck of the In-
verness was the sort of drama that only happens
to us once m our career We take kindly to it at
* he *™®’., b ut we don t know how much we loved
it all till it has gone.
; ~ Mrs. Lewis, the authoress, played an aggressive
widow and Miss Athena Claudius assisted* her as
far as the awful plot would permit. The rest of
the trouble, excepting a song by Miss Cesca Vol-
lugi m the prologue, fell to Mrs. L.’s pupils The
girls, without exception, spoke their lines nicelv
and rose superior to stage-fright. The low-come-
was a bright young amateur.
Miss Wolstehholme would have been satisfactory
but for her skipsome walk, and Miss Una Russell
in the character of the yellow-haired vision’
showed all the intelligence and charm that her
warmest admirers had expected.
“Much nonsense is talked about Madame
Marchesi and Amy Castles, and what they have
said of one another, and how pupils are treated at
Madame’s famous academy. Even Nellie Stewart
appears to speak from hearsay only as regards the
little girl from Bendigo. Here are some plain
unvarnished facts, coming from an unquestionable
source: Marchesi was ‘disappointed in Amy
Castles, ’ as The Bulletin stated some weeks ago
because she had been led to expect a taller girl’
with a true soprano voice—‘another Melba,’ in
fact. But there was nothing seriously the matter
with Amy’s notes when she came to hand, re-
freshed by her restful sea voyage. Marchesi
never expressed a doubt of her ability to improve
the little woman into a first-class operatic mezzo if
the little woman has the necessary patience and
brains. Thus far Amy Castles is progressing
satisfactorily, although she seems rather absurdly
homesick, and suffers more than ever from the
habit of being ‘ ill ’ ere she can brace up her nerves
for any singing ordeal.
“ The tales told of Marchesi’s fees, ferocity,
and ‘ frill ’ are wild fabrications. It has been
said that she condemns young pupils (Amy Castles
them) to 12 months’ scale-practice before
allowing them to attempt songs at the Academy.
As a matter of fact no pupil is kept to ‘scales'’
for longer than five weeks. Marchesi is neither
extravagantly high in her charges, unkindly severe
m her discipline, nor lax in her attention to duty.
The old lady of 74 (she doesn’t look a day older
than 60) is the devoted friend and personal in-
structress of the girls. All of them,—the
stupidest and the brightest—get equal chances to
improve—the same chance that Melba got of
yore. Regina Nagel, it seems, rather grieved
Marchesi by going off to London six months
before her time. Her rich voice is now beauti-
fully smooth ; in fact it is perfect, but her vocali-
sation needs finishing touches, and the keen
critics of Dublin, where she made her first- public
appearance, pointed out to the new Australian
contralto that she has still a little, the all-impor-
tant little, to 1 earn as she goes along.”
“A dainty little girl, whose fair thatch and
remarkably blue eyes have done sentry-duty on
the Block for the last five or six years, has just
landed one of the matrimonial prizes of the
season.
“Few people seem to have heard of the fraeat
at a ‘ social evening,’ not long ago. It was all on
account of a certain professional scandal, whereby
a well-known identity suffered a severe shock.
At the head of the faction which brought him to
book was a diminutive personage, but somehow
the two brother practitioners had managed to
avoid a face-to-face meeting until an injudicious
hostess brought them together. Then the big
man smote the little one, and would have given
him an awful time, perhaps, if the other guests
hadn’t put a stop to the one-sided combat. Really
a lord of creation ceases to be an altogether
noble animal as soon as his angry passions rise.
We hear about a bygone age of chivalry, when
champions disdained to take mean advantages of
one another. Was there ever such an age?
Didn’t the bulky knight in ridiculous armour pre-
sume upon his avoirdupois in matters of
angry altercation with any under-sized braves
of the period, and wasn’t the gallant duel-
list always looking out for easy marks for his
superior skill ? I fancy that the fire-eater who
ordered pistols for two and coffee for one usually
felt sure of being able to sip the Mocha after the
event.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The humorous suggestion, made in all solemnity
by the dull-witted Jingoes whom the Australian
States have appointed their Premiers, to the effect
that J udas Chamberlain should have a day fixed
on which the Empire might rejoice over the
successful termination of the war, was coldly re-
ceived in England. The reply was merely that
the British Govt, did not at present contemplate
proclaiming a day for that purpose. No wonder !
J udging from present appearances, it will be time
enough to consider the question of peace-rejoicings
a few years hence. The guerilla war in the
Transvaal has begun in earnest. Thousands of
Afrikanders are still in arms and are acting, not
now against the British front, but striking side-
ways againt the thin, long-drawn lines by which
their enemies communicate with the sea. Already
tbe_ war has spread again, if the cable is to be
believed, back into Natal and Cape Colony. In
each the railway line has been cut, which means
possible distress for Pretoria and Johannesburg.
The two Boer republics are being laid waste ;
the British army at “the front” must get
its food by road or rail, or starve, and if the Boers
can still occasionally delay the bread-basket in
transit, peace isn’t in sight yet.
+
The following, from East London Dis-
patch (an Imperialistic paper) throws an interest-
ing sidelight on the wild yell for the shooting of
“neutrality oath-breakers” which has gone up
from the Jingo crowd :
Heilbron, in the Orange River Colony, has undergone
some remarkable experiences of late. Both the English
and Dutch forces have occupied it such a number of times
that the inhabitants hardly know, until they look at the
nag over the Magistrate’s Court, whether the town for
tiie day owes allegiance to Her Majesty, or is claimed by
Theron’s guerillas. Since May 23—four months ago—it
has changed its rule no less than seven times.
The diary of events as regards Heilbron is therefore as
follows :
Up to May 23—Under Dutch rule.
May 23—General Hamilton marched in, hoisted the
Union Jack, and proclaimed British rule.
May 24—British forces withdrew from the town.
May 26—Dutch re-occupation. Voss appointed Land-
drost.
June 2 (about) —General Macdonald and Highland Bri-
gade drove the Dutch out. British flag re-hoisted.
Grant appointed Resident Magistrate.
July 26—Heilbron evacuated by British. Re-occupied
by Theron. ‘
August 16—Generals Hutton and Macdonald re-estab-
lish British rule.
September 15—Heilbron again evacuated by the Bri-
tish.
September 16—Theron once more hoists Vierkleur.
Heilbron is a rather important town, and yet even,
there the British forces do not seem to be capable of
guaranteeing protection to those Boers who sub-
mit and take tne oath of allegiance to Britain, and
yet who, when the British depart and leave them
unprotected, are liable to death if they refuse to
join the Boer forces when called upon. When the
British are able to protect those who submit from
those who don’t, then, and not till then, there will
be some justification for the yell to punish oath-
breakers.


ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
for the teeth.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Citizens’Mssurance Company limited
Premier Industria'-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Existing Folicyliolclera exceed. 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
JOHN FARRELL, *
Res ident Secretary.
Hornsby Junction,
Ootober 24th, 1900.
Robert Kerr, Esq.,
Manager,
City Mutual Fire Insurance Company, Ltd.
Dear Sir. —
In acknowledging receipt of CHEQUE FOR
£127 14s. in payment of MY LOSS BY FIRE on
the 17th inst., I have to thank your Company for
THE PROMPT AND EQUITABLE MANNER
in which my claim has been settled.
Yours faithfully,
CHARLES SPENCER.
(Sgd.)
SorcTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle.with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir More!! Mackenzie; M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only sinkers.
4 * CONDY’S F LUID ’’can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Baiarc ofimitat 7j;.\
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The story goes that last financial year the
nett profit on the publication of the Age was
£42,000.
Three ex-members for Mudgee in N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly have now died at Callan Park
Asylum.
Saul Samuel’s estate was valued at
£15,103, which goes chiefly to his widow for her
life, then to his family.
The fist of Hogan, M.P., is apparently
discernible in a news clip, explanatory of the
Wroeites. Johanna Southcott
left two chief followers, John
Wroe and George Turner.
Wroe put Turner down,
and prophesied his death,
which speedily happened.
Then Wroe went all over
Europe, and several times
to America, where he had
thousands of converts. !
Several visits to Austra- 1
lia were even more fruit-
ful. No place was so kindly
as Collingwood, the Melbourne
suburb. This locality raised for
him a large sum of money,
with which he built Melbourne
House, in Yorkshire. His
chief church was at Ashton,
in England, built with
one donation of £4OOO.
He died in Collingwood.
Soufe say he’s alive—
even on this side of the
water. Fisher, the Nuna-
wading Messiah, tried to
carry on his business.
Downes Carter, the
Melbourne grog-merchant,
orating at a little bean-feast
got up in honor of a bunch of
disappearing politicians, de-
clared that he had been 40 years
before the people and it was his
“ proudest satisfaction to be able
to say that he had never changed
his politics.” Whereupon a local
cynic : “ An alert man would as
soon boast of never having
changed* his shirt in 40 years.”
In snort, after 40 years of
politics, Mr. Carter can boast
of having shown nearly all
the virtues of a milestone.
The only S.A. ex-Govs.
still in the land of the living
are Sir James Fergusson (re-
cently re-elected to the Com-
mons for a Manchester seat),
Lord Kintore and Fowell Bux-
ton. The chief local interest in
Fergusson arises from the fact that
his second wife was an Adelaide beauty. She
died in India; wife No. 3 now holds her place.
Alas ! The Age (Oct. 30, p. 6, col. 1) :
“ Mr. Murray had quoted Dr. Johnstone’s remark
of * Patriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel.’ ”
Who will recognise Boswell’s divinity under that
alias ?
At Grafton (N.S.W.) Circuit Court. Very
Milesian barrister (to witness in pig-stealing case):
“How far were you away from the pig at the
time?” Witness: “Just about as far as I am
from you.”
Governor Robe (S.A.), bachelor, Governor
Cairns (Q.), bachelor, Gov. Beauchamp (N.S.W.),
bachelor, and Gov. Strahan (Tasmania), bachelor,
were bracketed the other day as four of the least
successful of Australian Governors.
THE RELIGIOUS-INSTRUCTION
QUESTION.
THE GOOD CLERGYMAN (with a view to impart-
ing some instruction): “Now, my boy, can
you tell me anything about Adam?”
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “ Yes, ’e’s the bloke wot yer
gets sweep-tickets off.”
Dr. James Thomas Hansard, M.D., Aus-
tralia’s oldest practising medico, has just died at
Petersham, aged 91 years.
After all said about his intention to aban-
don the position, Justice Hartley Williams, it
seems, is returning to his seat on the Vic. Bene .
A leading S.A. politician on George Reid s
fiscal address at the Adelaide Town Hallit
was a marvellous performance. He spoke tor
nearly two hours, and at times he almost persuaded
even me that he meant what he said !
THE TROUBLES OF CELEBRITY.
JOCKEY : “ Can’t quite ride the weight by Satur-
day, mum. I’m doin’ my best, and, of
course, I’ll have my ’air cut again on the
morning of the race, but I’m afraid I’ll have
to carry a couple o’ pound extra.”
OWNER’S WIFE (anxiously): “Pity you haven’t
been disappointed in love lately. It would
bring you down quicker than anything.”
JOCKEY: “ That’s the worst, mum. All my gels
is as true as steel. There ain’t one of ’em
would jilt me, not if I went down on my
knees and arsked ’er to.”
“ Sir John Langdon Bony th on and Lady
Bonython, who have been paying a visit to
England and the Continent are returning to
South Australia by R.M.S. Rome”— Cable. And
this is what “democratic” daily-newspapering
brings a man to !
Spielmann, in his history of London
Punch, shows that the yarn of £5 having been
given to an outsider, for one line—“ Advice to
people about to marry: Don’t ”—is all fudge.
Mayhew, of the staff, wrote it. A Melbourne
man, J. B. Stiffe, used to claim the credit.
The difference between David Syine and
his journalistic rivals was strongly demonstrated
during the recent Vic. election campaign. The
Conservatives went to the Argus to tell what
they were going to do ; the Liberals went to the
Age to ask what they were going to do.
Prof. Marshall-Hall, it is averred, has
written, and will shortly produce, an oratorio en-
titled “Jonah and the Whale.” The music
descriptive of the dyspeptic sounds made by the
whale in the course of its abortive attempts to
digest the prophet is said to be an artistic triumph.
No wonder that Premier Lyne has been
going slow re preparations for the reception of the
Governor-General. The N.S.W. Premier means
to snatch the Commonwealth Premiership if he
can, and the reception must be so stage-managed
as to secure the whole of the limelight for W. J.L.
all the time.
Chief Justice Darley’s Longstaff picture
drew the remark that, apart from the Chiefs,
N.S.W. Judges receive very small public recog-
nition. The Chiefs are all commemorated, but
the puisne men don’t strike the imagination. And
yet some of them have been greater judges than
the occupants of the front seat.
The mordant jealousy existent between
the N.S.W. Premier and the Mayor of Sydney re
the reception of the Governor-General and the
Duke of York accounts for many things. It ac-
counts, for instance, for the idea put forward from
time to time that the incoming potentates should
land at certain places within the Colonial Secre-
tary’s jurisdiction and outside that of the Mayor.
“Lorrie” Harnett, the massive N.S.W.
Sergeant-at-Arms, is to be Sergeant-at-Arms of
the Commonwealth. That is irrevocably fixed.
Nature fixed it in giving Lorrie a grip of 40-
policeman power and calves surpassing in shapeli-
ness and bulk anything else ever seen in silk
stockings south of the equator.
When the late champion chess-player
Whistler was in Melb. years ago, he took the
prize for the ugliest man given at an entertain-
ment in St. George’s Hall. He was a genial
fellow, and enjoyed the position hugely, his corru-
gated features, as he accepted the distinction,
assuming an expansive smile that won all hearts.
Of the seven N.S.W. outlaws on each of
whose heads £lOOO was placed, Joe Governor is
the fourth to fall to the summary bullet. Of the
four, Gilbert and Hall fell to the shooting of the
police, and Morgan and Governor to the guns of
civilians. Dunn and Clarke (Thomas) were cap-
tured by the police, and Jimmy Governor by
civilians.
Monsiguor O’Brien is influentially tipped
as Cardinal Moran’s new coadjutor Bishop. A
coadjutor has right of succession. The three
names scoring highest at the local polling will be
submitted to the Pope, who may reject the three
or appoint the lowest scorer. Dr. O’Haran has a
small chance, but the post may go to a dark horse
in Ireland.
The book of the voyage of the Duke of
Clarence and Duke of York in H.M.S. Bacchante,
has a circumstantial account of the appearance of
the Flying Dutchman, between Melbourne and
Sydney. Thirteen people saw it —a red, luminous
appearance, with the figure of a brig. The man
wao first sighted it fell from the masthead same
day, and was killed.
When the late Mortimer Franklyn, of bogus
newspaper-schemes renown, reached Melbourne,
he was stranded, and hard pressed to find a
respectable address from which to issue his
speculative proposals. After casting about,
he succeeded in persuading the Age
proprietor to give him the use of a
room in his office under the pretence
that he was able to secure large
advertising orders for the paper
from America. The advts. never
turned up, but the expedient
served Franklyu’s purpose admir-
ably for a time.
Ex-Governor Beauchamp—or rather Half-
Governor Beauchamp—draws half-pay during the
six months’ holiday granted to Inm. Conse-
quently Chief-Justice Barley, now Lieut.-Gover-
nor, takes £7ooo—tiie other half of B.’s screw and
his own judicial one. And the President of the
U. States, who is placed over 70,000,000 people,
gets £lO,OOO a year.
Matthew Davies, at one of his recent elec-
tion meetings, was chaffed about the stolen Vic.
Parliamentary mace. The popular version is that
the bauble was taken for a lark to a house of
pleasure by a raffish member of the Assembly, who,
becoming alarmed on cooling down, threw it into
the Yarra or buried it in a safe place. He after-
wards died in England.
When Hopetoun was Victorian Governor,
a local anarchist sent him a copy of a ferocious
original work on the destruction of Melbourne by
fire and bomb, with trimmings of savagery which
quite outdid the deeds of Robespierre and Marat.
Lord Hopetoun sent a courteous letter of acknow-
ledgement, stating that he had read the book
“ with much interest.”
“Pukaki”: You ask (B. 14/10/00)
“ What’s Stout’s game ? ” Stout is a noble fellow
—big-hearted, big-headed, and thoroughly demo-
cratic. But he must always be talking, always
posing. In this respect he is a striking contrast
to Richmond, the only M.L. Judge who ever
rivalled him intellectually. Stout, in fact, is
about an equal mixture of Lilley and Madden.
Plain Bill Robinson, a member of Vic.
Leg. Assembly for N. Melbourne 40 years
ago, had the gloomy spectacle of this General
Election before him, as he paced Collins-street, no
man Iveeding. He is an inmate of the workhouse,
the Immigrants’ Home, and complained to Par-
liament the other week that dry bread was given
him with his tea. “ The talk of the lips tendeth
to penury,” saith the Bible.
Died a few days ago at Henra (SiQ.)
George Lionel Lukin, well - known Bananaland
P.M. and gold-warden. Mr. Lukin was born in
Tasmania, educated in London, and transplanted
to Queensland in ’63. Rose rapidly from the posi-
tion of C.P.S. to that of P.M., and gained a repu-
tation for sterling honesty and courageous impar-
tiality rarely equalled. He was brother to
Gresley Lukin, of Wellington Post (M.L.), for-
merly of Brisbane Courier.
Apropos the quarrel of Sleath, M.P.,
chairman of N.S.W. Military Inquiry Commit-
tee, with Major-General French over the latter’s
refusal to make public particulars of the de-
fences, Sleath was one time in much the same
position as French is now. He was commandant
of an army of strikers, and in that capacity was
a martinet. To men who wanted to see the in-
side works his reply always was, “If you can’t
trust your officers, sack ’em.”
The Duke of Manchester's estate in bank-
ruptcy shows debts £15,000, assets £3OOO, being
the balance of the proceeds of sale of the Kimbol-
ton farming stock. The young man’s friends have
allowed him £7O a month, but he has spent double.
The Bulletin begins to feel sympathetic towards
its old friend, “ Guinea-pig ” Manchester’s grand-
son, for it must be difficult to play a dook character
on not more than £l6BO a year, especially if one is
borrowing half the money at 40 per cent.
Beauchamp was N.S.W.’s twentieth
Governor. He was also her youngest Governor.
He also ruled for the shortest period—a month or
two less than Bligh, who was deposed. The aver-
age from 1788 would give, therefore, about five-
and-a-half years for each Governor. Of course,
lieutenant-governors filled up many gaps; but
Macquarie stayed 11 years. In modern times
Hercu.es Robinson stayed seven, Carrington five,
and Loftus six. In the last seven years N.S.W.
has put through three Governors —Duff, Hamp-
-1
den, and Beauchamp. Of all the Governors
Duff was the only one who frequently declared he
would not return to England till he completed hie
full official term—five years. He died at the end
of two.
Mr. Benjamin Short, who lately returned
to Sydney from Europe, has been giving an inter-
viewer his impressions of travel. The matters
most prominent in his recollection appear to
be the house Spurgeon died in, a W.C.T.U. Con-
vention, a gathering of parsons at Keswick, a
passing glimpse of the Queen, and a wounded
Australian soldier ! Truly a frantic round of dis-
sipation ! If the venerable Ben, however, has T
herein set forth all his little relaxations while “on
the wing,” he is probably a very safe sort of
A.M.P. director.
Some men who have no luck. A year before
that genial soul Melb. University Chancellor
Anthony Brownless (Vic.) died, he was run over
by a cab, which broke his left-leg. Had it been
his right leg it would not have mattered, because
that limb was made of cork. When news was
brought to Napoleon Bonaparte that a brave
French officer had been killed in his seventh
action, after being wounded in each of his previous
six engagements, the great soldier exclaimed, in a
fit of anger, “Damn that man ; he’s got no luck !”
Vic. Mines Department “has awarded a
certificate for bravery and presence of mind to
John Maddern, miner, recently seriously injured
by an explosion in the Star of the East mine,
Sebastopol. Maddern and a mate were working
at the 1122 ft. level when an explosion took place.
Maddern lost his eyesight, and was otherwise
badly injured, yet he crept up a swinging ladder
for 22ft., and crawled along the main drive for
half a mile to bring assistance to his mate whose
arm had been blown off, and who lay uncon-
scious.” Think of it! This man who had just
been violently blinded, did a thing to bring help
to his mate that quite equals all that has ever
been done in the hot blood of battle—and they
give him “a certificate,” which may mean no
more than a license to beg, It will be a robbery
if any wounded Transvaal volunteer gets a State
pension while one is denied Maddern.
“ Itan ” to The Bulletin re Dr. Bern-
stein, who has been called upon to resign his
small Govt, billets at Lismore (N.S.W.), because
of alleged pro-Boer sympathies and seditious
expressions:—
The Richmond River district owes to Dr. Bernstein a
debt of gratitude it can never repay, because of his self-
denying efforts to promote settlement and make Lismore
habitable. He is a Polish Jew, instinctively belligerent,
and as a young man took a burning interest in the fierce
troubles resultant on the Russian annexation of his
fatherland. For his political actions he seemed doomed
to Siberia, but managed to escape and soon found himself
in Australia. Almost a quarter of a century ago he
settled in the Big Scrub. He has been a friend of the
poor, and Lismore never had, nor has it now, a better
citizen. He has been elected by the people to every post
that they could give him and which he could find time to
accept, and has in all cases most worthily discharged his
trust. Granted that he did, under excitement, say some-
thing of the Queen that he should not have said, does
not his long-tried practical loyalty as a good citizen
stand as a set-off to his sudden indiscretion? Even if
the old man made use of “ language ” (being of foreign
birth something might surely have been allowed for his
irritation at the sickening whiskied lip-loyalty of the
hour) there is the fact that he actually offered his medi-
cal services for the front, while the horror-stricken
Jingoes who reported him to head-quarters were satisfied
to yell “ God Save the Queen,” and toot penny trumpets
over the relief of Mafeking.


THE . -
FEDERAL
SPIRIT . .
SCHNAPPS,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin.— Commenting on the
recent home-coming of some landed personage up
Coolangatta way Sydney Mail, in its best forelock-
-1 lulling manner, maundered over the good old
English style of welcoming home the master and
mistress, and remarked in a casual way that such
things on a small scale have happened before,
when some squatter has brought home a bride to
the station. Quite right—such things have
happened. On (say) Bargowlahmine station some
.10 years ago manager MTavish brought home a
new wife; and the whole of the “ peasantry and
sturdy yeomanry ’’—consisting of two white stock-
men, the storekeeper, three blackfellows and two
B_ms turned out and gave them a grand reception.
We only had a quart of rum to start with, but,
with the aid of spirits-of-wine, tobacco and strong
tea, we made it up to about a gallon of very good
grog, so that when the buggy arrived things were
a bit mixed. Just as the storekeeper began to
read an address of welcome, whilst two stockmen
held him up, Mac., seeing one of the black stock-
men winking at the bride, made a cut at him with
the buggy whip, and then the fun started. When
we woke up in the morning Brigalow Jack lay on
the floor badly tomahawked. Mao’s face was like
a frying-pan, and the missus was missing. One
of the gins had taken her to a hut about 5 miles
out, and when she came in she threatened to go
back to where she came from. Now that’s what I
call a real honest Australian “bring-in.”— Coll
Rab.
* * • *
Remarkable genuine letter (dated from a
way-back Q. region), showing how strong super-
stition is yet in the land :
Deer , I might not send this before ido get Sunday’s
male, your ticket in the twelve thousand will win, i will
give you 25/- for that ticket, i wall bet you two glasses of
ginger here it wins, the 6271 ticket‘is my birth day
tickee, i never won a pris on 6 thousand yet, I won on the
7 thousand with and . I wish you had
as many tickets in this 20/- as ine, there is no one got any
interest in my shares but you, if i win my money back, i
shall be a lucky man; my little cat here got pups and i
am not going to kill them till the Melbourne Cup is over.
Dam it, every year the Melbourne Cup comes round there
is a lot of cats for me to kill ; dam the cats, if i don’t win
i will chop them up in mince meat, this is 3 years follow-
i g°t to kill cats i can hear a squeeker down the creek
now singing out win or not win i had to kill 7 cats this
morning, i burned the last one i killed to burn the witch-
craft as the old people youse to do, stick nine pins in
there ear & bum them if we dont win we chall be bust-
up, i hope we shall win in the Caulfield, i fancy we shall
& i expect fancy is all
• • • *
Walcha Witness (N.S.W.), with its usual
attention to the public interest, prints this :
Jimmy Governor’s Hair. —Mr. S. Fowler, late of the
Witness office, brought up a lock of Jimmy Governor’s
hair a few days ago. At Nundle the murderers stole
scissors, &c., and trimmed each other’s hair. The hair
was found near a log. The specimen is on view at the
Witness office.
Talk of Boer teeth and whiskers ! Why go afield
with interesting trophies at our own door?
SHE KNEW BETTER.
THE LATEST OUT: “Shall we sit down? Here
is a splendid log.”
NATIVE LADY: “Not there, my child. If you
do you’ll probably sit up!”
Dear Bulletin. —At Ballarat railway-sta-
tion, t’other week, I heard a man say, “ ’M gun
up town f’r thush oh—s’long um cun back uh
Wendy.” Asked a bystander what language it
was. He replied, “N’glish, wuh s’rong wit 1”
Said that I’d never heard English like that before.
Then said he, “G’lord, nyer dun egspeck um er
talk like umchine, jer ? ” Have since discovered
that this is the local vernacular. Will some Bul-
LETiN-ist give me its technical name ?—Peteb K.
• • * •
“ Canip ” : Benighted in the country
t’other day I struck a selector’s place and was
hospitably entertained. Supper was served on an
extensive table, but only two places set, at one of
which my host immediately dumped himself
down. I hesitated and looked towards the
missus, but was told “ Wire in, young fellow, and
let her rip. She can feed afterwards ! ”
* * » •
“ V.” : When, some years back, in N.Q.,
a blackfellow had been kicked to death by
drunken navvies, his widow attended the post
mortem and showed great interest in the doctor’s
carvery. Presently she said “You gib it me
bone longa knee, doctor.” The doctor, three-
parts full of chain-lightning, handed over the
detached knee-caps, asking “What for you want
’em, Mary?” “I bin thinkit, doctor, after you
bury this fella I git ’nother fella Benjamin, an’
sposen Peter there he no likit, I gotum bone and
he no able to get up and come along, walk about,
walk about all the time.” Then, depositing the
keys of pedestrianism in her dilly-bag and draw-
ing her toga closer about her, the lady moved off
calmly to secure No. 2.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Re that statement (com-
mented on B, 3/11/’00) that eight men were killed
in a Transvaal hailstorm. I witnessed, in ’74, in
Milan, Italy, a hailstorm the “stones” of which
averaged the size of mature oranges. No human
lives were lost, because people got promptly under
cover, but several horses were killed during the 20
minutes the storm lasted—J.A.C.
* * * m
From Tibooburra (N.S.W.) ;
Out at Tibooburra, where an average of some hi lg
over 50 children are penned in a stone cell (caked a
school) 25ft. x 15ft., with the thermometer reading at
times 115• in the shade, Govt, has accepted tenders for
additions to the local court-house, a building not used,
on an average, three days in the month. The present
building (stone) has more than ample accommodation for
the business transacted, and the contemplated additions
are utterly unnecessary'. Why the money should not be
devoted to relieving the shamefully-packed condition of
the local school is a mystery to the inhabitants. The
P.AI. from Milparinka only attends once a fortnight, and
even then often draws a blank, for Tibooburra men,
through the drought, are too poor to get drunk, and too
discouraged to even say “ Blanky.”
* • » *
From the drought-cursed far north-west
of N.S.W. :
7in. of rain in ’99, and not one inch since March. Fresh
beef and mutton almost unknown quantities. The salt-
bush alone keeps life in the starving stock. Out of a mob
of 200 I saw 180 die within a short distance. To put a
horse in the hotel stable costs 7s. 6d. per night. If no
rain comes this month we are finally cooked ! ”
» * * *
To such large proportions lias the parcel-
post system grown out-back in these droughty
times, when ordinary team-carriage is so uncer-
tain and expensive, that N.S.W. Govt, has to pay
£2400 a year as a subsidy to the Cobar-Wilcannia
contractor, and £l7OO a year for the Wilcannia-
Tibooburra service.
Dear Bulletin, —Cycling along a level
plain between Aramac and Rockhampton I was
amused to see several emus race after me to have
a look. Others joined in as we went, until the
mob numbered over 50. They had a nasty trick
of lowering their heads and making for me with
the neck at full stretch, almost level with the
ground. I wasn’t used to emus and didn’t like
the booming noise in which they expressed their
entiments, so I made the machine go for all it
was worth, and wore my pursuers down at last.
A.bout eight miles had been covered. Solid fact !
—Kuklos.
In the late 70 s a well-known
character in Wide Bay (Q.) dis.
trict owned a dusky lady who bore
his name in an honorary sort of way
and lived with him at his fishing
camp on Fraser’s Island. When-
ever he brought the lady to town
she religiously got on a frantic spree,
and when it was time to go home
again it was no uncommon thing to
see the gentleman with the sable
dame on his back striding down to
his boat, sweet and comforting
words being sown along the high
way by two voices in active discord.
The lady would be flung into the
boat with much energy, but ten
minutes later she’d be at her oar and
her pipe. She lived many years
after her husband had married a
white wife, and passed away in the
odor of sanctity on the reputation
of having at one time been Mrs. t
* * *
They have raised a beet at
Blowalong, S.A., 36^ft long. Don’t
smile, just listen. The pump on
Jones’ block got stuffed—struck
work from age. Bill Murphy (son
of old Murphy) filled up the well
and pump with manure (stable) and
set a few beets. One struck
straight down the pump only to be
stopped at the brick bottom.
B.M. swears it would have broken
the Yankee record, 53ft, but for
the bricks. He would be proud to
know if it’s the Australian record.
Dear Bulletin,— What kind of a race is
Central Queensland rearing ? I know of more
than one bachelor-owned station on which a nice
little family of half-breeds is growing up to be a
joy and comfort to their various papas. On one
place, owned and managed by two gilded Johnnies
of the London club variety, the pair of black
housekeepers have taken it in turns for the last 4
years to increase the half - caste population.
There being on the station no conveniences for
such an interesting domestic event, last year
rooms were engaged at the pub. in the nearest
township, and a certificated nurse retained to help
the ladies through their ordeal. No doubt these
are the little things that give the necessary air of
reality to our higher civilisation and teach hum-
llityto the sisters and the cousins and the aunts
of the gentlemen who are thus not too proud to
take some savage woman—let her rear their
dusky brood.”—Buzz.
* * • *
“ Ababon ” : It may be a coincidence only,
but I have never yet met a bush-schoolmaster who
could or would speak grammatically. In this
town, the children in the playground may be
heard saying “yous,” “that bees,” “yous
them there,” “it aint,” &c., while the peda-
ls 0 # 11 ® stands by, listening quite unconcernedly.
Less drill and more grammar would, I think, effect
an improvement.
In that part of northern S. A.
where drought has temporarily
gone out of business, grasshoppers
ave taken its place. The swarms
have been so thick that trains have
been hung up—one for an hour-
and-a-half —the loco, wheels refus-
ing to grip rails made greasy by
crushed insects.
* » »
He was a “ daisy ” sample of
the newly-imported Johnnie, and
lie was superintending the surface
works at the Black Horse in Mt.
Margaret district, W.A. His
usual way of summoning a work-
man was: “Come heaji, felloh,
felloh, come he-ali. Not you, fel-
loh ” (as perhaps the wrong man
would start towards him) — “you
felloh ” and his forefinger would
indicate the desired “felloh.” A
Bananaman was one day wheel-
ing a load of concrete up a plank,
the men on top waiting for him,
when, scandalised at such loss of
time, the Johnnie called out to
the man staggering under the load :
“Wun, feiloh, wun ! ” And the
fellow “ wan,” but without his
barrow and in the direction of the
astonished boss, whom he landed
neatly under the ear, laying him
on a heap of quartz. Then he con-
tinued “ wunning” till he reached
the office, where he drew his pay
and left.
* * *
The dog-stiffener was sitting
in his turn-out, in front of the
pub., when the “’possum-peeler”
paddled up. Often being a tres-
passer on the run, the latter thought
to insure himself for another moon
by asking the former to have a
drink, but the d.-s. said his horse
would not stand. The p.-p. :
“ Well, take the bob an’ get yours
while I hold the horse, an’ I’ll ’ave
mine after.” The d.-s. goes in,
calls for his drink, and then says
to the barmaid ■ “Do you see that
’ere flunkey of mine hout there,
’oldin’ the ’orse ? When ’e comes
hin, give ’im a drink. There’s the
money for it! ” And he threw
down the p.-p.’s shilling.
“Warrego”: Recently had for fellow-
travellers in a N.Q. coach one Chinaman, one
lunatic, one prisoner of the Crown, and one
policeman in charge of the two last. At starting
we had also the principal witness against the
prisoner, but he gave up the ghost early in the
journey, so presumably the case broke down.
•«• * »
“Alex. M. ” : Re “Dixie” (B. 22/9/00).
The mistaken notion that the bloodhound is
naturally an unusually fierce dog is probably due
to the name. Like all hounds, the b. h. is uncertain
in temper, but otherwise he is not specially
savage ; though—strange to say—a cross of this
breed with the solid-tempered English mastiff
produces a particularly ferocious animal.
* * * *
An olct yam, but good : Between two
German farmers in Vic. Western District there
was bad blood, which resulted in Hans shooting
Otto’s dog. Police-court proceedings followed,
and the P.M. asked defendant if he had shot
plaintiff’s dog. “ Veil, yes,” said Hans, “ I shoot
dot tog—but let him brove it.” The magistrate
then asked plaintiff the value of the dog. “ Veil,”
said Otto, “de tarn tog vosmuddings vorth —but,
since he shood him, let him bay for. him;” “ Case
struck out ! ”
* * * *
Brother of Deceased : “So you saw my
poor brother die at Paardeberg ? ” Invalided
Soldier': “\es—the last thing the poor fellow did
was to ask for a glass of water.” B. of D.
(proudly ) : “Then, my dear sir, he was no brother
of minel”
m * * *
Quite a number of the farmers and selec-
tors out Dandaloo and Trundle
way (N.S. W.) have gone in for
tennis. Nearly every farm
sports a beaten-earth court,
and, as the players perform in
boots, some of their gambols
should be cinematographed.
Curious to see big rougli-
bearded, sun burnt men
playing thecurate-johnnie’s
game for all it’s worth !
“ Lynd ” ; lie the no-
tion that emus are dying
out. When, some time
ago, very few emu-eggs
were coming in, the offer
of Is. each promptly
glutted the market, and
sent the eggs down to the
old price of fid. Not much
dying-out about that!
* *
“ Wilgar ” : Very no-
ticeable in the Wimmera
district of Vic. is the pre-
sent scarcity of magpies.
When, 25 years ago, the
Durham diggers slew the first
gum, the warble of this bird filled the air, yet
to-day there is practically no magpie.
“Pelican” : I saw a curious lightning-
stroke on Mt. Morgan road, C.Q. An ironbark,
about 15in. in dia., had its trunk cut off about
18in. from the ground and again about 10ft. up.
The tree did not fall—it dumped on to its shat-
tered end and leaned against another tree. The
cut-out portion lay round in fragments.
A STREET SKETCH.
Emmanud Antonetti, the well-known hunchback Sydney
street-singer, who died suddenly last week.
“ Tomahawk ” : Passing through the
Northern agricultural districts of N.S.W. you find
universal amongst the cockies dungaree pants and
butcher-blue shirts or dungaree jumpers. In the
public-schools, also, half the boys are clad in the
same. What about butcher-blue for a uniform
for our Australian swaddies? —cool, cheap, and
appropriately-named. Also, when the Australian
call to arms comes, and the tillers of the soil have
to turn their ploughshares into bayonets, there will
be no time lost over uniforms, as the majority
will be ready to step into the ranks as they are.
• * * *
“The British Consul in German E.
Africa,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “reports the complete success in that
territory of Dr. Koch’s method of rendering cattle
tick-proof. He had studied the pest on the spot
and by taking ticks off coast cattle into the in-
terior.and putting the offspring of these ticks on
healthy cattle produces a mild form of the sick-
ness and immunity therefrom afterwards.”
* * * *
On Yandama station, N.W. corner of
N.S.W., they have nearly 200 miles of wire-fence
telephone circuit. Some of the oyt-stations are
40 miles distant from the head-station, and the
lines work well. The amount of wear and tear
of horseflesh saved is enormous, and other stations
are about to follow the idea.
In Fiji, in the heathen times, it, was
considered indecent for any woman to have more
than four children, and these were only allowed
to arrive at intervals of several years. When a
missionary told King Thakombau that a certain
exalted lady had nine children, Thakombau
exclaimed—well, it wouldn’t be gentlemanly to
print Thakombau’s exclamation.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN THIRST.
COCKY (hanging over fence, to smart drummer in
sulky): “And what line may you he in,
Mister? ”
S.D.: “Soft goods.”
C OCKY: “ Oh, yes, I know—lemonade and that
kinder stuff.”


TURQUOISE
and
PEARL
JEWELLERY (especially in martial
designs) is the thing at present, and
will be for some time. The combina-
tion is exquisite.
Large shipments—specially selected
by our Mr. Roberts in London—just
to hand.
Many of the designs are the most
exquisite of the century, having been
designed under the inspiration of the Paris Exhibition.
JUM
■sir r&J.
SWORD BROOCH—Turquoise and Pearls, 955.
LONDON PRICES
PLAIN FIGURES
FAIRFAX # ROB6RTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty and
the Obese. Apply to chemists for “ Regimen for the
Obese ” Card.
Published by the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
Hornsby Junction,
October 24th, 1000,
Robert Kerr, Esq.,
Manager,
City Mutual Fire Insurance Company, Ltd.
Pear Sir.—ln acknowledging receipt of CHEQUE FOR
£127 14s. in payment of MY LOSS BY FIRE on the 17fh
inst , 1 have to'thank your Company for THE PROMPT
AND EQUITABLE MANNER in which my claim has been
settled.—Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) CHARLES SPENCER.*
Franz Josef Lager Beer
The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WHISKY
AND
ORDER
BRANDY
AND
SCHWEPPE
ALBERT DORRINGTON, author of “Castro a
Last Sacrament, and Other Stories ,” just
published by THE BULLETIN. (From a draw-
ing by F. P. Mahoney.)
“ Fred. B.” on the scrub-turkey wrangle :
The s.t. is a small species of turkey-bustard and lays
not more than 3 eggs in a very primitive nest. The
mallee-hen, or lowan, is a bird of another feather. Both
“ Bushie ” and “ Mutton-Bird” (B. 18 8/’00) call the latter
a brush-turkey. In anv case, however, “ M. 8.” must
have seen double when he saw 40 of'them building a nest,
which he afterwards found full of eggs. “ Bushie,” too,
is, I think, outside the mark when he says he saw 15 at
work at one nest. I have, in N.S.W., robbed as many as
27 nests once a week, and never saw more than 4 birds
working at the biggest nests. I could always count on
getting a fresh egg in a nest once a week. The eggs,
when fresh, are of a delicate pink color, but as they get
stale they turn white. The chicken conies out of the
nest fully-fledged, and goes “on its own "at once. Have
got. as manv as 30 eggs out of a nest, but only 3 were
good. Blacks do not go out after eggs until late in the
season. They prefer the eggs with chickens in (hem.
Like ‘ Bushie,” I have wondered how a lowan di posed
of her eggs in a dry season. Have often seen nests
opened out with rubbish in the hole in centre ready for
rain that never came.
* « * •
Dear Bulletin. — To “ Moke ” (8.,
22/9/’00). People who know anything about
treating horses do not drench through the nostrils.
If the horse won’t swallow the draught after it is
poured into his mouth, a little water may be
poured into one of the nostrils to make him gulp
it down. Some pinch the windpipe. In-
experienced people .sometimes kill horses by
drenching through the nostrils, but the practice is
not common. —L.
“UP OUR CREFK.”
HILL: “ Any luck? ” JIM: “ Not a feather.”
BILL: “ Ugh I Pumpkin again to-morrow. I'll be took to the 'ospital with yellar jander yet.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A T o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
' nstQnwed:. Name and address must appear on MS.
•\ ’..S# liability is undertaken in any case re continu-
ations voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un.
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
G. M‘B.: Your suggestion proves you to be as
humorless as the M'Credie man who (as a reward for
overseeing the cleaning-out of Sydney plague-area) allowed
himself to.be publicly presented with a silver shield or
something inscribed “ Victor over the Plague. And
Premier Lyne and other magnates solemnly assisted .
Ye gods !... .H.K.H. (W. A.): One ode to Moon returned.
_\f.N. : Nice little-girlie poem-shoo !.... Perseus 11.
(Italy): You’re a productive poet, anyhow. If you were,
potatoes, you’d have a fine crop Matchbox: Empty.
.Son of Erin : But unrelated to the Muse D.P.L. :
Don’t preach !....G ; R:H. : “How beautiful the mighty,
peaceful sea ! ” How true ! And how blankly, not to s.iy
blankily, unoriginal !. . ... C.W. : You say Kruger
was a wicked old man because he subsidised the
Standard and Diggers’ News? And you talk about
the “ honest independence ” of certain other S Afri-
can papers. Which ones ? Practically the whole
S’African press was in the pay of Rhodes or Kruger
—mostlv Rhodes.. ..E.A. : You must write all names
plainly, almost print them, for there is no context to a
name.' If vou don’t—well, your MS. will fall into the
W.P.B. right away, as there is nothing so ridiculous to
those “ in the know ” as a string of mis-spelt names.....
Lizar-Ann : You lack the power of presentation needed
for such a brutal motive... .Glentair : Too much pig and
too little story. ..C.P.Q.O. : Not even poetical, license
will justify such expressions as “ you ordereth, thou
refrained.'” M‘Gee : Don’t advertise for a mate to go
prospecting. Either you may find another Butler or you
may find a man who takes you for another Butler . In
W.A., any head of a family over 18 who doesn’t already
own over'loo acres in the State ma,y take up 160 acres. He
must pay £1 ; must make farm his usual home for at least
six months each year for first five years ; must, in first two
years, erect a house worth at least £3O, or spend at
least £3O in clearing and cropping ; must fence one-fourth
and crop one eighth of land inside five years ; must
crop one-fourth and fence the whole inside seven years...
Alone : “Gohanna” will d0....J. M’T. : Bulletin never
prints serials. It wouldn’t print a serial even were same
jointly authored by Balzac, Shakespeare, and Charles
Dickens... .C.W. : This paper was the original Australian
print of its name ; the Melbourne Bulletin was an imita-
tion, which soon died and was buried in a most fitting
tomb, the capacious abdomen of Melbourne Paunch.. ..
Dogsox : We are by no means proud of the share Australia
has taken in the war. On the contrary, we are ashamed
and sorry and disgusted, and have from first to last never
for an instant concealed thp fact.... Satrap : Trouble
about the Southern Cross is that it’s such a comparatively
insignificant constellation for all the fuss that s
made over it. Also, it isn’t a real cross. Also,
South America and S’Africa have as big a hen
on it as we have... .F.C.S. : The average individual
has to spend all the money he earns in buying
what he regards as the ordinary necessaries of life.
Because shops close at six his wants don’t diminish ; he
still buys as much, though he may not buy it at the sam<
hours. The selling business is compressed into a shortei
dav, that is a11....D.0. : Refused with scorn... John
Rich (Maoriland) : Can’t spare a column for a matter that
would only be understood by a few. And your story is
simply that the woman had the use of some public pro-
perty'at a rent far below its real value, and a rich mean
man offered a) higher rent and got it. If there is anything
illegal in his methods, which doesn’t appear, why don’t
you raise a subscription locally and defend the
woman’s case ?... .W.L. : Goat yarn a rather strained
piece of humor Judas Iscariot : Hopeless
Kanga : Thanks Richard T. : We remem>
THE LATE MR. W. H. HILL,.
Photo, by the Crown Studios, Sydney.
a tale in Dickens’ “ Household Words ” of Zouaves
in Algeria, locked in a temporary gaol, who sold
the gaol to a shoemaker. They also were after liquor ..
jWO : You “ heard it yourself ! ” Perhaps—but it has
been in-and-out of the “ comic ”, papers for the last 20
vearg i Thos. M. :“I must be on tope, somehow.”
Well w T e hope so, but your screed is useless... .O.P. :No
literary value. Anything you send will be duly con-
sidered .... Gertrude M. : Very raw piece of work..
J M D • Ends rather well, but the lead-up is verbose and
ciumsy . H.M.T. : Roast-kid is “ off.” Use better paper
and leave more line-space... .Empis :We rarely use paro-
dies and we only return when stamps accompany
MS ’ .Larrikin : Please don’t run the tail of one
item on to the head of another... .T.M. : Thanks....
Reo : Thanks, but there’s not brains enough among the
whole gang to run a really-live paper. Quite easy to
make it appear that your print is partially alive if you
get a heavv subsidy based on the subscriptions collected
for you enbloc bv a political organisation. Queensland
Worker is a live'paper. (2) Bulletin runs absolutely on
its own, and takes no subsidy from anyone ; nor is its
support bought by advertising-orders Rosemount
(Melb.) : Thanks, but already in type A. 0.8. : No,
thanks... .Komai : “ Ruined ” anyhow is well known ..
Mac. V. : Point too small.. ..M.F.W. : On the whole, too
commonplace.... Marshall N. : “ Grab ’’ not up....Verra-
win • Same old incapacity... A.O. : Violent or abusive
language to inferiors is strictly forbidden by the Army
regulations, and no officer or sergeant would dare to
strike any man under him except in self-defence... .H.T.:
Too much adjectival emotion J.J.W. : Good ideas, but
not skill enough... .A. J.G.: All dead matter....Quilp
N • “Gleaner” reads flat Alan (S.A.) : A little too
slight A.G.B. (Q.) : Follow the plough, not the Muse.
Bmdee : “Camp” not interest enough A.J. : Not
up FC. : Socks par. too—well we don’t care to
say too what, but it is too right enough. ...R. Ross.:
Can’t sav. Will trv to find out what it all means
Yarrum : Don’t roll your MS. Rolled MS. often rolls into
the W.P.B Won Weir: Good situation, but more
dramatic treatment needed Long-Un : He lives in
Bondi Sydnev Buzzy : Too brutal, even if new—
which is doubtful Itan : Decline to publish any para-
graph about Alex. Hutchison (or is it Hutchinson ?), late
M.P. for Glen Innes. The Hutchinson (or Hutchison)
mestion is too complex for us... .Austral . Received
driton : Sentiments admirable; verse abominable.....
D.C. (Perth): Same old abyss G.A.P. : Not badly
versed; but uninteresting Ben Sun: “ Spiker” dull.
Hermit: Dead mediocrity Hota : Feeble item
cursed feebly Kondar : Not up to your nice name
Alex (Annandale): Gave us a curious glimpse into your
little suburban soul R.C. : You weave same old skeins
over and over . .1. Rob. :No interest H.B.S. : ’Tisn’t
made alive and seductive... J.L.F. : Can any Bulletin
reader sav, if, when British regiments were stationed in
Australia, anv native-born or “imported” residents en-
listed. . .Quilga: Not interesting enough Cranseley :
Poetically speaking, you’re a fly on Kosciusko....
(Jrowler i Moderntelv funny » but that sore of thing 1
is so hackneved that it needs to be immoderately
f unnv W.F.E. : Its first-hand interest may carry it....
R, C'■ Can’t possiblv hunt it up. If you give date we
might get you a copy... .Ohas. J.H. : Too ponderous a
block for Bulletin. .. .Tourist: Sorry can’t answer such
questions. You should write to N.S.W. railway depart-
ment O.P. : But we can’t fathom your “serious
thought.”... .Onlys : Will print that pie-story.... E. :
Same in Victoria.' It is quite common to send furniture
bv vans instead of rail from Melbourne to Ballarat and
Bendigo ... J.B. : But why doesn’t N.S.W. Govt., instead
of unmuzzling an oppressive and outworn English-made
Sunday law of 200 years ago, get Parliament to make a
new law meeting' Australian present-day conditions?
Win sneakingly loose-off the enactments of long-
dead old-world days? J.M. : Next week......
J.T.F.W. : Sydney Domain contains 90 acres:.. .R.A.T. :
Too awkward and' ill-finished... .Widgeon : Undercloth-
ing joke very old and weary... .F.M.P. : Fairly well put
together, but whollv conventional and undistinguished.
Amb. P. : Interest faint and treatment awkward
ilenrv H : Odd touches of power and pathos, but mostly
very‘flat.. .Nancy Grey: Small, pale yarn, with no
merits, and no special faults.. . .James B. : “ Cheque or
basket.” Basket an easy winner! Woh-oh (W.A.) :
Sad little bit. but not story enough. Yes, if suitable..
A. J.G. : “ One very high-toned peer’s family name is
Bugg.” You are probably misled by the fact that years
ago one Joshua Bugg changed his name by legal process
to Norfolk Howard.... Gyneth : Pretty well treated in
detail, but lacks interest as a whole. . .Bert Toon : Fairly
humorous —especially No. 2—but, upon the whole, not
workmanship enough... .D.B. : Too many weak spots.
L.Y.X. : Prose-sketch, crude in form, but has spirit
anil crisuness. Verse, flat and conventional
Tareoola: Please give title of story; it has be-
come separated from the letter sent with it......
Aoro : In America the word shoes includes ordinary
hoots. The American does not say “ boots,” unless be
means such as come up the leg. You misinterpret the
American word “ robe,” which corresponds to our rug.
Tyers : The blackfellow who was “ only married last
night ”is now a very antique wheeze Malle :.The man
who gives £lO for‘a single orchid blossom is not neces-
sarily an “ intellectual pigmy.” It is quite possible to
have no such “ weaknesses ” —and yet be an unspeakable
fool Leo: It is a common—but gross—error. “He
laid down," should be “lay”; but “he laid his hat
down ”is right... .Long-Un : “ Whosis ,s d r t is*
and inconsecutive... .Oscar S. : It is original. >
indeed.. Collaskie : Hopelessly feeble and conventional.. .
Tom C. : Will print L.D....M0r0 : Nonsense ; the n™™ l
Christians in India are under one per cent...
Rut you don’t say or even insinuate why the cheque wa
returned. We are quite in thedark.. 6.Y. 1.. Whicn
merely amounts to saying that the climate of the hills
cooler than that of the coast. Same everywhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R Ris IB ) • When we say “ received,” we don’t neces-
sarily mean accepted. And', tell us what is the Southern
Cross, and what has this paper to do with it?.... A.R.S^
As a suggestion, possibly J.H.N. : A joke of Charles
Lamb’s. ... A. Burnet: Now, who ever saw a ne* stock-
ig of that shape ?.... A.G. Kg. (Bal.): Will d^„ 9 Wor
ion. Unavailable : R.H.D., C. Eoo., “Croon, H. Wor.,
Zif, Walter R., Walter J., Prank Mob, 0.K.1 r.
Ed. Bulletin.— ln referring (20/10/’00)
to the death'of squatter i 1 ugh Macdonald you err
in stating that he was “partner with A. A.
Dan gar in Myall Creek Station in the early
days.” It was W. J. Dangar who was Mac-
donald’s partner—and not in the “early days, but
in the 80’s. —J.J.R.G.
Premier Seddon’s motion in favor of in-
corporating Fiji with Maoriland was passed by 40
votes to If. Before the passing of the motion,
Seddon read Chamberlain’s cablegram saying that
the British Govt, wasn’t prepared to make any
change in the present Fijian arrangements, but
he courageously assured the House that this
violent set-back was really rather favorable than
otherwise. Whereupon a good part of the House
smiled at the top of its voice. Russell in-
quired if they were going to have 16 Fijian niggers
in the House, but he was crushed by being called
a Little Englander and a type of the degraded
class whose subservience to Kruger had embroiled
the empire, &c. That was decisive, and the
Broiled Empire party went down badly.
A Q. trooper in S’Africa on the Average
war-yam :
We are beginning to receive Queensland papers now,
and the published letters from some of the men are
“ cautions.” Saw a sickening letter from one of the Ist
Contingent telling how Private got hold of 9 horses
at Kiorn Spruit and rescued a gun, and on going back to
rescue another was wounded. It was a pack of lies from
beginning to end—bow fellows can write such stuff beats
me Yet another man wrote an account of the Kiom
Spruit affair which read as if he had been in the thick
of it. As a matter of fact, he was with our supply wag-
gons and did not catch us up until night. We were not
actuallv in the fight that day, the nearest shell exploding
half-a-mile from where I (with others) was scouting, and
that is as near as any of the 2nd were to it. I hear also
that another of our men has written a most bloodthirsty
account of his adventures up Thaban’chu way, where we
scarcely saw any of the enemy.
Herewith appears the portrait of one of
the pioneers of Australian settlement, Mr. W. H.
Hill, who died recently, at Bondi, Sydney, aged
72. Mr. Hill’s early life was very adventurous.
He it was who, when assisting Allan Macpherson
to hold Mt. Abundance against the depredations
and assaults of the aboriginals ; was the last white
man to speak with Leichhardt at his camp, near
Mt. Inviting; and .he it was also who brought to
Sydney the lost explorer’s last despatches. Mr.
Hill has told present writer that, even at that
early stage, Leichhardt’s party showed signs of
helplessness and disorganisation. Hill was a fine
type of bushman —a “cattle-man,” pure and
simple, of the old tough stamp, that hardly knew
what fatigue meant. Some of his stories of early
“ dispersements ” were strongly interesting.
Blacks in those days, he said, if troublesome, were
“thought no more of than flies.” Hill was a
friend of Hargreaves, and was one of the earliest
on the newly-discovered fields. His Tyson re-
miniscences were specially interesting, and not
like so many recent Tyson yams, pure inventions.
Very important developments will follow
Tesla’s recent discovery of a method of transmit-
ting electrical power over long distances, practi-
cally without the waste hitherto caused by the
transformation of much of the energy into heat
through the resistance of the transmitting-wire to
the current. The conductivity of metals, it has
been found, is enormously increased by extreme
coldness, and, with an adequately cold insulation
of the wires, there is, it is stated, “practically no
limit to the distance to which electric power may
he conveyed.”
THE LATE J. W. SWEENEY , COMEDIAN.
Photo, by Herbst, Sydney.


“THE BULLETIIN,” SATURDAY
h
B** ]oVe\ 1
f !&'?»
i&sii vS'i'iSst-


Tout; J.'lvfeJus'T
H' 'toJpu'T
o*7 TJo+H* if*7 b. „ / . >.
<q ?7& Nor 3« "/eyor
*bffr Uss« or3f. KmTo
"bur tet7or .
1 1 ■■■.■■■■■ .|..«.w nr"


Spring-Time Delusions.
FACTS vs. CONJECTURE.
A Few Valuable Hints to Those Who are
Quick to Take Advantage of Timely
Suggestions.
Just now the advertising space of the average
newspaper is filled with advertisements of spring-
time medicines, blood purifiers, etc. When it is
understood as a scientific truth that the kidneys,
liver, and lungs are the only blood purifiers of the
human body, much disappointment and money
will be saved. Dizziness, palpitation, languid
feelings, headache, backache, etc., are caused by
the system being poisoned by uric acid, which the
kidneys through overwork or weakness, do not
eliminate. The troubles mentioned are but
symptoms. The cause lies deeper. Put the
kidneys and liver in working order with that
vegetable specific, Warner’s Safe Cure, and the
symptoms and attendant troubles will disappear.
With the system in first-class condition, and the
great organs of life doing the work nature in
tended them to do, most diseases are thrown off.
It is the weakened, debilitated, poisoned body
which falls an easy prey to chills, fevers,
pneumonia, consumption, Bright’s l isease, and
death. No man or woman can afford to be laid
up with a severe illness. It is the part of wisdom
to keep well. Mr. H. Fawley, miner, of Scott-
street, Newcastle, N.S.W., understands this
perfectly. On 10th September, 1000, he writes :
“About two years ago I was greatly troubled
with pains across my loins. My appetite was
very poor, and I could scarcely get any sleep at
night. I tried several well-known remedies but
got no relief. By chance I got hold of a pamphlet
and saw a letter from a miner which seemed to
suit my case. I bought three bottles of Warner’s
Safe Cure and a phial of Warner’s Safe Pills, and
am glad to say that, when I had finished taking
these, I was completely cured, and have been in
the best of health ever since. ” Mr. Fawley’s
experience can be yours also. Will you not enjoy
it?*
The Argus report of the local Christian
Endeavor proceedings was wedged between the
biography of a Melb. “ Cup candidate ” and an
account of the annual meeting of the Victorian
(betting) Club.
A case of supply and demand from Sydney
D.T.’s agony-column: —
XY.Z. —Never mind coming. I have one now.
FRED H.
Poor X. Y. Z. ! One has to be prom pt now-a-days;
the competition is so keen.
mar w®
m
? • '-w
) . j ~Hm^
;.. ■
VV .. :
*• ’• >'»¥*;*,<
■ ra
•: -<■•,
wMiSIPI
So energetic have Melb. Trades Hall leaders been
this year that they have organised no less than
27 new unions, with a membership of over 6000,
besides bringing many erstwhile “ free laborers ”
into existing unions. Also, there are now no less
than 29 trades with wages boards under the Fac
tories Act, and a minimum rate of pay fixed by
law. In which connection it is interesting to
recollect that, when the Turner Govt, proposed
to put this extension power in the hands of the
Governor-in-Council, the House of Rich Landlords
fought persistently in favor of the wages-board
system being extended by resolution of both
Houses. It was only McLean’s happy idea of
giving each House the power, independently of
the other, to extend the minimum wage, that saved
the Bill. Up to now not one of the Leg. Coun-
cillors has moved to extend the minimum wage to
any trade, and if the original idea of making the
extension dependent on the consent of both
Houses had beeh adopted, progress would pro-
bably have been nil or thereabouts.
■-- ... - / -.—
“Tcrlutu ” on the lodge-doctor war :
The Vic. doctors are rushing over each other just now
to combine against the lodges, and, as usual, they have
left it too late. Only about one in every five of them has
any clear idea of what the coming struggle really means,
the great majority foreseeing only a row with the lodges
of their own particular locality which may possibly enable
them to keep the rates of payment from getting any
lower. Doctors are essentially a non-cohesive body, and
in no profession are childish jealousies more frequently
allowed to interfere with movements directed towards the
general good. The big guns take no active part in pro-
moting union, for they have given up club-practice and
have lost all personal interest in the affair. The
Medical Defence Society potters along with occasional
blasts on its little trumpet about what it will do some
day, but meanwhile it only potters. Meetings of sub-
centres are held, and occasionally an indignant lodge-
victim airs his troubles in a professional journal,
but only words —eternal words —are the outcome. The
realisation of the hard fact that they are going to fight—
not a tinpot collection of sons of toil, but a union of
powerful political societies—organised and run on poli-
tical lines, never enters the head of the average practi-
tioner. His troubles about the lodges, if he can only
grab something from a rival, meanwhile 1 The A.N.A.
having set the example of how to sweat doctors scien-
tifically, the other lodges are quick to follow it. Small
blame to them ! Nobody pays more for a thing than he
can help, and when the seller is ass enough to take a
starvation price for a popular article he must submit to
starve if he cannot fight. The Women’s Associations
which are clamoring to be taken at rates below those of
the ordinary clubs represent the thin edge of another
wedge. The concession will, of course, be granted, and
the next move follows naturally enough—the single men
will expect to come in on similar terms. At present the
margin afforded by a certain percentage of unmarried
healthy men in a club is the only thing which keeps the
affair a little above starvation rates. The average
general practitioner ought to sit down and think very
hard indeed before he next tries to undercut a rival for a
club. This scribe has the most profound disrespect for
fie common-sense of the medical profession as a body,
and he hereby lays very large odds that unless a thorough
change is instituted in the present system, or lack of
system, of medical union, the clubs will be able, inside of
three years, to get doctors on any terms they like to offer.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropt.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling!, lie constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/* ha* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
SOI.D BY CHEMISTS AT.L THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
ItOtiSA
ĥ
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE.
Wonderful , Mysterioue, Fascinating •
I tench you to become a Hypnotist.
You can perform astonishing feats, and
produce fun by the hour. Gratifies
erery ambition, and brings health,
happiness and success in life. Cures
disease and bad habits. I send my large
elegantly illustrated lesson and full
particulars FREE TO ALL on receipt
of 2 stamps to cover postage. If you
desire this precious knowledge write at
once Address —
Prof. R. H. Barraden,
79 PITT STKEET, SYDNEY.
MYTOL
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
P.D. « TS P.D.
At the recent Paris Inter-
national Exhibition the
P.D. CORSETS
(in competition with the
World’s Corset Manufac-
turers) gained the unique
distinction of being awarded
the Highest Possible Honor!
namf.lt, •
THE GRAND PRIX!
no other similar award being
made in favor of any Corset
exhibit.
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers
everywhere.
i
Under Royal
Patronage.
ħ
FOR THE
KOKO for the Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and i liant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/8, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.Y/.
h
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
ĥ
• •
THE WORD
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
SergtsiJveeis
on which it is stamped.
fox’s fure Migo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped e ery two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp a:e not
ge .uine.
fox Jrothers E Co., £tD.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makan of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis an I Costume
Cloths. Contractors to tho English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colon'es, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
3
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
—-3
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only : —
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
326, flinders Lane, Melbourne
A^D
422, George Street, Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
Wholesale Boot Warehouse
ħ
You can have a Single
Pair at Wholesale Price,
14/6
6/6 Less than Retail Price.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
GUINEA
BOOTS
AT
14/6.
Our object is to do a very Large Trade at a very Small
Profit, and give the Public the benefit.
ALL SOUND ENGLISH BOOTS. NO BETTER MADE.
76a PITT ST., near Union Bank,
and 318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
SUITS
TN view of the close proximity of Xmas and the
Commonwealth Celebrations, we would
impress upon gentlemen the absolute necessity
of placing their orders for
SUITS TO MEASURE
as soon as possible
Our assortment of Suitings is, as usual,
IMMENSE, and as we send Patterns FREE to
any address,.if you capnot eall ip, pjease write...
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS & CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(You will be vary silly if you do not procure
your Xmas requirements at once to avoid
the rush at Xmas.)
Publications.
Allap’s Australia!?
Books.
I*
Another Good
Number for the
Children
and
an
Excellent
Number for
Pianoforte and
Violin
Players.
Price 1/- ; or Posted, lj2.
No. 17. Easy Pieces for
Little Fingers.
Little Nell lAnley
True Love Gavotte Rem
The Mocking' Bird
Hoffmann
List to the Convent Bells
Blockley
The Gipsy Countess Gloyer
Sultan’s Grand March
Blalce
God be with you Elmblad
Rocked in the Cradle of
the Deep
Charity Gloyer
Old Black Joe Anon
The Harp that once Moore
Caller Herrin’ Scotch
Barney, take Me Home
Again Perdey
I’ll take you Home Again.
The Old Rustic Bridge
Anon
Life Let Us Cherish Mozart
Hen Convention Buckley
British Grenadiers
Old English
March, Bob Roy Old Scotch
The Girl I left behind me.
Mermaid’s Song Weber
Watching for Pa Work
Rondo (op. 168) Diabclli
Daily Tasks for Little
Players Herz
No. 18.—Violin and Piano
Duets.
Largo Handel
Horae, Sweet Home Bishop
Last Rose of Summer
Moore
Forget-Me-Not (Romance)
E. L. Hime
Little Nell Linley
Harmonious Blacksmith
Handel
L’Adieu Beethoven
Serenata Braga
God be with You Elmhlad
Little Shepherdess Wilson
Grand March Blake
Rule Britannia Dr. Arne
God Save the Queen Bull
X
Contents of Nos. 1 to 52
SENT FREE for the
Asking.
Allan’s Australian Music Hooks can He obtained at all
Musicsellers throughout Australia or direct from
Proprietary Ltd.
276 & 278 Collins-st.,
M^ourne.
CONJURING
Apparatus!
Magical
Illusions!
ALL KINDS.
Illustrated Catalogue Post
Free anywhere.
h
WILL A.KTDRA.DB,
MAGIC & BOOK ARCADE,
201 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
m
Rare Books and . .
Books for the Married
IJjcti-a Special
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
k WILL ANDRADE,
*■“2ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE,
W 6
PRlCE— Single Razor, 10/6; or with Ivory Handle, 15/*
Pair Razors in Double Leather Case, 21/-; or with Ivory
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7 6 each. This
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never requires
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE STREET,
«■* —SYDNtY.
“ The Last of Six ”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By
Ernest Eavknc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
The Men of Gingerbread.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Henry Parkes at Faulconbridge
Lies sleeping sound and well;
Jack Rorertson has also gone—
Where, nobody can tell.
The Giants of the days of old
Are silent now, and dead.
Who takes their place ? Another Race —
The Men of Gingerbread.
The winged orb arises fair —
Our splendid Commonweal —
And what do they, these shapes outri
These flies upon the wheel ?
Our Sydney like a lioness
Lies drowsing by the tide —
She sees in vain her proud Domain —
Her glory and her pride—
Hacked up, and cut, and slashed away,
With savage knife and fork,
To please—good Heavens whom to please ?
To please the Duke of York.
There will be Hopetoun Avenue,
Lyne walk—and, it may be,
God only knows, but, we suppose,—
The Boulevard John See.
A traveller, in future years,
Looks round with satire fine—
“ And who,” says he, “was Mister See ?
And who was William Lyne ? ”
Old Henry Parkes at Faulconbridg*
Lies sleeping sound and well;
Jack Robertson has also gone
Where nobody can tell.
But they would turn within their graves
And curse, though they are dead,
If they could know the holy show
Made here upon this earth below
By Men of Gingerbread.
CREEVE ROE.


Sunder*
Il don
Lever
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS —“ THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, i'7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
fc's 6s, £6 6s, 17 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and Baby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooc.u
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
Saunders. a
jjf
16b , extra heavy, 25s • 18r OnM 'on a ’
heavy, 30s, 35e, J CXt "
A. Saunders.
Registered 160. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, 62 10s ;
3 Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c. Gold, simL.tr
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Ked or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget*
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 16c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s; 15c. Gold, £2.
16c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
==ifcS===t=f = = !
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £0 10s, itj, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20a
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
SB
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21a
Very Cheap and Neat.
-
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Cold 3rooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 16c. Gold, £2 6s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooeh Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs: Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Bed Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 6s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Bed or Blue
Stone, 20*. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunders.
' Nellie Stewart ” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20a
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 16c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
I
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3; Other Styles, 17s Od, 20s, 30s to SA.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
6a 6d. Very Neat.
Silver Initial Hat Pina.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial
ĥ
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 16c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £9.
Cal! and See Our Jewellery Exhibition.—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhereu
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, 1 Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Qold Oharm Envelope, withe
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d, Name Free.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £6 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 6s 6d.
ħ
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each; 15a
Gold, each 5s and 7s Cd.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or Saph-
phires, 10s 6d and 12s 6d each ; Larger
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each. Price
and Size of Diamonds.
h
Gold Crosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s; 15c. Gold,
20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Gents' or Ladies' Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
iiiill
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s i
150. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
YeryNeat and Effective.
Gent's or Ladies’ 15a Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centra
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
'Baden-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d; 15a Gold, £2 ss.
Oharm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
The Lucky “ Erin
go-Bragh ” Charm
Solid Gold, 10s.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
A. Saunders.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
Ohara), Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5,
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Purs
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,.
£2 108, £3; 15c.
Be. Gold Name Band lgc. Solid Gold Mar-
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d, quese Diamond and
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s, Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
25s ; 18c. Gold, 255, Larger Diamonds, £7
30s, 358, 40s. 10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, *
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies, 10s ; 15o.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18a
Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
4-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s :
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,.
9c, Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dumbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Latest Style.
Sold Rinfj Turquoise
and Pearls, 16s.
A. SAUNDERS
LEAOXKTG ART JEWELLER
00
h-*
Or
oo
-a
O
CD
O
CfQ
CD
U 1
CD
CD
/nearly opposite \
\Railway Station/?
SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
w
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-et., Sydney; 269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
rv'V\T'J" o
GO TO TTTIT -T ■
- IGOIjANI> for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
{§ lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post thro ay ho at
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
□^MACKENZIE'S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society
S. Harvey, Ltd.
London Bdge S.E
s c-
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted Dy
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
US'” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM
X 3VH 3? m. E 3VE E Ist t s
Massey-Harris Co., J^d.
35 BROADWAT, $
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The death of R. H. D. White and the
appointment of B. R. Wise to the Upper House
leave N.S.W. Leg. Council at the same old 75.
Sydney Daily Telegraph (per “Presi-
dent ” Carey) boldly proclaims that the Federal
capital must be at the Canoblas. Now, how has
the D. T. been thus canobbled, and what sort of
milk is there in the cocoanut ?
David Syme thought “Jack” Murray
should have been fired out of his Warrnambool
seat because of his attitude on the Boer war.
Nevertheless, the all-wool democrat beat the cant-
ing Maxwell by a serviceable majority.
The triumph of the Vic. election is Labor
man Findley, in for Melbourne City, the whilom
lair of the Langtons, Murray Smiths and Carters.
Findley truly said, “ Gentlemen, you have placed
Labor at the pinnacle with the premier constitu-
ency in Victoria.”
Proposed in Queensland to release, in
honor of the Commonwealth, several of the bush-
men imprisoned in connection with strike disturb-
ances. Not to disorganise the Q. gaol system,
The Bulletin suggests that several prominent Q.
politicians be sent to take the prisoners’ places.
Already the shifting of population makes
it time N.S.W. had another redistribution of seats.
For instance, Wentworth has declined till it has
only 1495 qualified electors, while Willoughby has
grown to have 4470. There are now 17 electorates
with less than 2000 voters, while six have over
3500.
Despite the protests of the Attorney-
General, last week (Oct. 31) President Baker, as-
sisted by the Tory majority in the-S.A. Council,
clapped the closure on Labour member M‘Gre-
gor, who was trying to delay the passage of the
Snow Tram-grab Bill. Again the same Old
majority of one.
The Adelaide Calico Jimmies energetically
boosted George Reid’s visit in the interests of the
Shoddy cause. G.H.R. gave his audience a taste
of his slimness when, at the close of his address,
he asked those in favor of a legitimate tariff to
hold up their hands. Freetraders and Protec-
tionists alike held up both hands !
In N.S.W. Assembly, last week, was cited
the case of an estate, in the Paterson district, on
which 30 tenants at will had for 30 years made
improvements. They were dispossessed at the
landlord’s whim, without any compensation, and
actually sued for the value of iron they had re-
moved from sheds they had erected at their own
expense. '
Occasionally even now the Stace manages
to get hold of some of the “unearned increment ”
of land-values. Fourteen years ago a population
settled in an utter wilderness
round the Broken Hill mines—
on country worth at the most
ss. an acre freehold. Most
of the land was promptly
purchased, under the gold-
fields regulations, for small
amounts; but a few un-
considered trifles continued
to be held under miner’s
rights. For one of these, in
a back street, £Bl6 was paid
to the Crown t’other day.
And it was in an uncer-
tain and comparatively
small mining town, where
land is worth but a very
few years’ purchase, so
that the ground-rent was
estimated at £lOO a year.
Which illustrates wdiat a
glittering revenue the
Federal Govt, may derive
in a few years if it only
hangs on to the land within
its territory—land which it
will secure for a few pounds
an acre.
Melb. AGE says that
the Victorian constituen-
cies are never fickle, and
that a member of Assem-
bly that does his duty
honestly is practically
sure of his seat for life.
All the same, the average
number of Assembly represen-
tatives who lose their seats at each
general election is 30 out of 96.
Duncan Gillies once remarked that a
man’s place in Parliament always hung
by a thread, and that if he had the chance it
would be better for him to seek his career in some
decent business avocation.
The probability of Turner’s return to
power knocks a hole in the designs of those
who strenuously urge that Lyne, as Pre-
mier of the oldest State, must be sent for to form
the provisional Ministry. As Premier during the
Convention sittings, and one of the chief de-
signers of the Constitution Act, Turner must surely
be considered at least before anti-Federal Lyne.
The Bill of Affleck, M.L.A., to extinguish
the free travelling of “distinguished” people on
N.S.W. State railways was rejected in the Assem-
bly by 31 to 15. As usual half the members were
at billiards. The only Minister who voted for
the Bill was O’Sullivan. Lyne, Crick, See and
Fegan voted against. A few Laborites supported
his resolution, but Smith, Dacey and Sleath
opposed it.
The long-established practice of providing
carriages at State expense to convey N.S. Wales
M’sP. to the Governor’s levee is a villainous
robbery of the Treasury. It is just as villainous a
robbery as the erstwhile provision by the State of
carriages to take the members of N.S.W. Bar to
the levee aforesaid. By the way, has the latter
steal really been abolished, or is it still secretly
maintained ?
The Bulletin smiles when it thinks how
soft the Jingo party was in allowing the Austra-
lian Federation to adopt the Cromwellian “Com-
monwealth ” instead of the subservient “ Do-
minion ” as a name. How tough becomes the
position of those who now yell for emphasising
Queen Victoria’s Australian overlordship by
making her “Empress” or “Queen” of the
Commonwealth !
The Truck Bill flew once again through
N.S.W. Assembly last week, probably once more
to smash its wings against the walls of the Coun-
cil. Times out of number the Council has wrecked
similar Bills, or held them till a dissolution. And
still in N.S.W. goods are every day dumped down
as wages. If the Leg. Council rejects the Bill this
time the Govt, should appoint John Norton to a
seat in that Chamber.
Auckland (M.L.) Herald and Star are
just now on the horns of a very painful dilemma.
They are, probably, the two most Jingo papers in
all Maoriland. At the same time, they are vitally
interested in the maintenance of the ’Frisco mail
service. So, between their reverence for the
Union Jack and their knowledge that the ’Frisco
boats must fly the Goose and Gridiron they are in
a pitiful state of wobble.
The Victorians proved last week to have
longer memories than was supposed. Land-
boomer Matthew Davies got only 163 votes at
Melbourne and almost lost his gladsome deposit,
and James Munro at Toorak was beaten by Duncan
Gillies. He got 1197 votes; if his opponent had
been a different kind of man he would probably
have got only 200. Also, piteous to relate, old
Bryan O’Loghlen, erstwhile Vic. Premier, couldn’t
save his deposit in his old constituency, Milesian
Port Fairy.
Ex-Premier Reid says that it is Protection
which has forced the Victorian farmer to seek a
living in the mallee scrub country. Considering
that Victoria is only about one-quarter the size of
N.S.W., that one-fourth of it is rocky and
uncultivable Alp, and that it has already got more
land under cultivation than N.S.W., some people,
not so old and silly as Reid, might think they
went into the mallee because the mallee land was
good when cleared, and the rest of the land was
already occupied. But doubtless he holds that
Freetrade would make the country larger, so that
under it the Vic. farmer wouldn’t need to go
mallee-wards.
AN IDEAL HUSBAND.
“ Didn't she marry a rich old man?”
“ Yes; but such a very old man, and such a
lovely cough! ”
Maoriland has been
making another attempt at
passing a Usury Bill,
though it seems to have
little chance this session.
The chief provisions are
that, on secured loans of
not over £2, interest must
not exceed 15 per cent. ;
on unsecured loans, 25 per
cent. Between £2 and £lO
the maximum is 12 per
cent, if secured; and 20
per cent, if unsecured.
Over £lO the figures are
10 and 15 per cent, respec-
tively. The usurers are in
strong revolt, but the mea-
sure, or one very like it, is
dead sure to pass before
long.
YV hen Labor - leader
Batchelor was taken into
the Holder (S.A.) Govt,
while still keeping a place
in the party —the first Aus-
tralian Labor- member
allowed to do so—he was
sent to the Education
Dept. But in S.A. since
Dr. Cockburn’s time the
Minister of Education is
also Minister of Agricul-
ture ; and so it happened
that a Labor-man has been
thrown most into contact
with the farmers, than
whom no class was less
sympathetic towards the
party. So far, however,
Batchelor has got along
admirably perhaps be-
cause experience of office
has modified his own views
almost as much as experi-
ence of him has modified the farmers’.
Adelaide manufacturers propose to invite
Alfred Deakin to deliver locally a counterblast to
Reid’s airy flights in the interests of so-called
Freetrade. In local politics the few Foreign-trade
men have long been but as voices crying in the
wilderness, and for years no attempt has been
made to interfere with the tariff, save for the
annual formality of the Labor-party in moving
for “a free breakfast-table.”
It is notable that almost all the original
opponents of the Federal Convention Bill in
N.S.W., from Premier Lyne down, are now in
favor of maintaining the State Governor’s salary
at a high figure. To the argument that Federa-
tion would cause a reduction in State expenditure
these politicians, in the Bill day, replied that it
would not, and, unless the country coerces them,
they will prove that they were right.
S.A. Leg. Council has latterly passed an
Early Closing Bill, a Workman’s Compensation
Bill, and a Land Values Assessment Bill, each of
which had been slaughtered year after year in the
Lethal Chamber. The Tory majority is growing
so afraid of the popular cry for a broadening of the
franchise that it is trying to placate the multitude.
Also Kingston’s presence makes a lot of differ-
ence, for “he is such a chap to worry.”
It is highly interesting to read, in a recent
Sydney Telegraph, about a great indignation
meeting of British residents at Buluwayo
(S’Africa), which unanimously resolved that the
Kaffirs should be put to forced labor—should be
enslaved, in fact, like the aboriginals in the
slavery State of Westralia. Yet, how this coun-
try did boil with grief and rage about the Boer’s
disregard for the liberty of the same Kaffir !
From Adelaide to The Bulletin :
Reid, during his first visit to Adelaide, told some local
admirers that it is not impossible that he will be sent for
to form the first Federal Cabinet, although he did not
explain how that would come about. He once declared
that the N.S.W. Premier of the day must be entrusted
with the task, but that was when he was pretty sure of
sticking to the post. Lyne, however, is believed to have
agreed to pass the request on to Barton if it comes.
The other provinces evidently don’t know Lyne.
Q. Govt, is really good to its friends.
Railway Commissioner Gray slings an altogether
irrelevant approval of private railways into his
annual report, and the Govt.—which can’t afford
to restore the retrenched salaries of female school-
teachers —generously adds £5OO to Gray’s already
fat screw. Deputy-Corn. Thallon, the depart-
ment’s real expert and active administrator —and
a non-believer in private lines —gets no increase.
Reid made this remark to a S-.A. Crown
Minister in re an aggressive Single Taxer, who
was on the railway station to welcome him to
Adelaide :
“If the lean and hungry person who met me thinks
my freetrade is any kin to his he is mistaken. His free-
trade is nothing less than downright robbery.”
As the Single Tax element was particularly
strong in its greeting of the peripatetic politician
he astutely began his Town Hall speech by pub-
licly shaking it off.
Q. Barrister Kingsbury, who downed the
late ex-Chief Justice Lilley atN. Brisbane in ’93,
and subsequently—after defeat in ’96—fed sump-
tuously on Govt, briefs, ending with an appoint-
ment worth over £lOOO a year, has just got his
brother-in-law comfortably situated in a snug Q.
Govt, billet and £BOO per annum. Said brother-
in-law is Dr. Ham —now of London—son of the
Victorian Hon. of that ilk. Queensland medicos,
who are numerous and poor, smile sadly and try
to look unconcerned.
The Lyne Govt, is pushing its valuable
Municipalities Bill along in the face of many diffi-
culties. The proviso authorising the levying of
“TOBY OB NOT TO BE? THAT IS THE QUESTION.”
rates up to 2s. Bd. in the £ is one big stumbling-
block. Yet the limit ought to be 20s. in the £ —not
2s. Bd. There is no law which says that a private in-
dividual may be made to pay his debts to the ex-
tent of 2s. Bd. in the £ on the annual value of his
property, and no more ; nor that the State shall
not take from him in direct and indirect taxation
more than 2s. Bd. in the £ of his income.
George Reid, in Adelaide :
Be Protectionists if you like, be Freetraders if you like,
but whatever you are carry out your honest convictions,
and see that the man you vote for has honest convictions,
and is not ashamed to say what they are.
Think of Georgie setting himself as a shocking
example in that self-sacrificing way ! Why didn’t
he put it in a convenient rhyme :
S.A. Register hud the gall last week io
Erint a letter from G. H. Reid thanking that
opelessly Tory rag for its “ magnificent service
to Freetrade and Liberalism /” The Regisier is
the servile organ of Chaffey Baker and the
Natural Ass. crowd and has opposed the democracy
consistently since S.A. was founded, save during a
lucid interval when Medway Day edited it. The
liberal Register is at present violently opposing
the enfranchisement of 100,000 men and women
for S.A. Leg. Council, although they poss ss
the franchise for both Houses of the Fedeial
Parliament ! *
Q. Minister Drake, the political curio,
who struggled for 15 years in the democratic
cause and turned it up just as sparkling success
was rushing into his arms, and who, but for his
pathetic apostacy, would now be expected to lead
the Q. democracy in the Federal campaign, i as
some pleasant work before him. As leader for
the Government in the Upper House he must in-
troduce and commend seven syndicate-railways—
which he honestly loathes ; a pastoral-lease-exten-
sion Bill—which he hitherto opposed ; and a
number of small, strong-smelling measures framed
in the interests of syndicates and the poor rela-
tions of his colleagues.
The Bill of Hughes, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
restricting interest on loans of £lO and under to
25 per cent., and on loans above £lO to 15 per
cent, has roused a multitude of people to make
the usual remark that interest can’t be fixed or
regulated by law. Certainly Britain has regulated
pawnbrokers’ interest for many years, and is now
trying its hand at doing the same with all money-
lenders ; and the English-speaking community of
the Isle of Man has enforced a maximum interest
rate very successfully for 200 years. Also, Britain
has taken to regulating agricultural rents in Ire-
land, and Victoria has taken to regulating not
only hours but wages as well, and as all these
things have been proved possible there is nothing
fresh or revolutionary about Hughes’s idea—in
fact, it is a rather old idea than otherwise now.
In N.S.W. Leg. Council Jack Want
carried an amendment on the Early Closing
Amendment Bill that “closed” should be
“closed for purposes of business” only. So by
this unobtrusive addition to the Bill it will be
lawful to keep a shop open and lit up till all
hours, and to get a conviction it will be necessary
to prove sale. Let the man from Japan be
consistent, and bring in a Bill to cover the ex-
pense of maintaining an army of 15,000 inspectors,
as, in order to enforce the law the way Mr. Want
has made it, it will be necessary to keep one in-
spector and several witnesses posted ontside each
shop. The whole thing is merely the last kick of
a selfish and tricky landlord gang which fears
that the enforcement of a real Early Closing Act
will compel it to put in private entrances to the
dog-boxes which it lets as “ shop and dwelling.”
Whatever you do, whoever you see,
Whichever the man you choose may be,
Remember as long as your choice is free
Have nothing whatever to do with mb.


PALING’S
STOCK
ViolioS
CorQtts
AOtobarps
Atcordeoos
CoQccrtioas
The Celebrated
“ WASHBURN”
DaojoS
GCiitarS
Strings and
Fittings for
ALL
INSTR UMENTS.
LOW€ST
PRICCS
PALING’S
DANCE MUSIC
STUDIES
SONGS
PIANOS
-
ORGANS
Have for nearly half a century held
first position , which is proof positive of
their excellence.
We have a thorough and practical
knowledge of the manufacture of Pianos
and Organs t which is a protection against
inferior goods being offered you.
Make a mental note of this for
future reference.
PALING’S NEW MABCII ALBUM, !/■
Call or Write for
CATALOGUES—FREE.
PALING’S
SOL€
PIANO
AfieNcies
STEINWAY
BRINSMEAD
EEURICH
TJEBEL
ECKE
GOES AND
KALLMANN
YIOTOE
BELLING
Cstey
OrgaQS
Our
Prices
are the
LOWEST,
Our
Grade the
HIGHEST.
W. N. PALING aC° L TI> 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYPNEY
BrisbaQc
Newcastle
M.L. Parliament has voted £6OOO to enter-
tain the Yorks, and £5OO towards the representa-
tion of M.L. at the inauguration of the Common-
wealth.
The awards at the Paris Exposition Uni-
verselle, Paris, include a gold medal to the
Independent Order of Foresters, adjudged to the
1.0. F. by the jurors in the class for Fraternal
Orders, including European.—Advt.
Wallington seems to have the hardest post
under the Commonwealth. He has arrived with
several tame Colonels and Honorables, the
steward (a most important-looking functionary),
and a large number of slaveys and understrappers.
And it seems hard that the Capting wears the
least gorgeous uniform of the lot.
The Benevolent Societies’ Fete—one of the
features of the approaching Commonwealth festivities—
should command the ready support of all. The object is
good, the price 6f tickets, Is., is reasonable, and the enter-
tainments to be provided— three concerts in Sydney Town
Hall and a monster sports meeting at the Agricultural
grounds—will appeal to all classes. Further particulars
from Mr. W. Moffitt Burns, hon. sec., 36 Oastlereagh-st.*
Thus N.S.W. Colonial Secretary See at
the memorial service to the late Lieut. White :
“ But of the nation to which we belonged, he could say
it did not seek glory or aggrandisement.”
In a word, to quote the Marquis of Salisbury,
after the war had started, badly: “We seek no
goldfields.”
“It apparently pays :—During the Vic-
torian Assembly elections a successful candidate
declares that the grit, stamina and endurance
obtained from Raffan’s Bronchial Catarrh remedy
cut no small figure in the issues.”*
Madame Melba says : “ Tea ! Oh, yes !
I drink tea ; plenty of it; it does not hurt my
throat.” It is not necessary to remark that if she
had been questioned further she would have said :
“Atcherley and Dawson’s Globe Teas are the
best.”*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
That lumbering person, Q. Attorney-Gene-
ral Rutledge, made the usual ass of himself in Par-
liament, t’other day. Questioned by Labor-
member Lesina re ex-Priest Slattery’s books, he
replied:—
' I have heard, much to my regret, that books or pam-
phlets, purporting to be written by the person named,
have been advertised for sale at the book depot men-
tioned, and have also been credibly informed that such
advertisements have been inserted in the Courier and
Telegraph without the knowledge or - sanction of the
authorities of the said book depot. I have not seen or
read any of such books or pamphlets, nor have I been
informed by any person who may have read them, or any
of them, as to the natureyjf their contents.
Now, if Rutledge has never read nor heard any-
thing about Slattery’s books and pamphlets, why
does he regret the sale of these publications at
the Wesleyan Book Depot ?
Said cherubic pastor Bevan, at Melb. Con-
gregational Union, lately, “ There is no man who
speak with more ignorance of what he talks about
than the ecclesiastic, except, perhaps, the poli-
tician.” That Melbourne reverend who was lately
holding forth about British savings-banks deposits
being a proof of the advantages of Freetrade will
please make a note.
“ Tip ” : In a late issue Sydney Catholic
Press published photos, in three positions of the
“martyr” Father Yictorine, S.J., after the
Boxers had done with him. He had refused to
apostatise. The result is something as hideous as
any madman might see in a dream. Now Father
Victorine was a brave man, an accomplished
gentleman. He would be more useful alive than
dead. His death won’t convert one Chow, but it
.has filled thousands of us with a desire to treat
the Boxers as they treated him, which of course is
naughty. As Vance Thompson, the American
critic says, “This workaday world finds the
martyr very ridiculous.”
IT’S A FACT.-2^
WEBBER'S
VITADATIO
WILL CURE YOU.
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
BILIARY CALCULI (CALL STONES).
SUFFERED MORE OR LESS FROM 1888 TO 1897.5
To Mr. S. A. Palmer.
Dear Sir, —It is with very great pleasure I testify to the
inestimable value of WEBBER’S Great Herbal Remedy,
VITADATIO.
In 1888 I had a severe attack of gall stones and con-
gestion of the liver, which confined me to my bed for some
time. The doctor who attended me said I never would
be thoroughly cured ; but I used to feel quite well
between the attacks, which recurred very often—‘some-
times two attacks in one week. In the .year 1892 I was
very ill with my long-standing trouble, and had another
medical man, and he told me that gall stones could only
be cured by operation, I which would not consent to. In
February, 1897, I received a letter from my sister in
Dunedin, New Zealand, telling me of the wonderful cures
VITADATIO had effected there, and urging me to take a
course of this medicine. As soon as I knew that VITA-
DATIO was obtainable in the colony, acting upon the
advice of my sister, I obtained six large-sized bottles of
the remedy, and am happy to inform you—and, in fact,
the world, for the matter of that —I have been free from
pain ever since and am now in perfect health.
FLORENCE BURK.
“ Walmea,” Pentland Parade,
Yarraville, Melbourne.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size , 3s 6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
r India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
*TASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
m
A
CYCL€
RUNS
EASIER -H- FASTER
»»p LONGER
when
ħ
are fitted.
PROTECT
YOURSELF
against imposition when
purchasing DUNLOP
TYRES, by examining the cover and tube
for this
NONE GENUINE WITHOUT IT.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS. LIMITED,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Trade Mark.


“ F.” Ibsenises some more :
In your issue of 20th Oct. “ E.,” who is, I presume,
identical with “ Player,” puts his own words into my
mouth. He answers a statement which I didn’t make.
Thus —“ ‘ F.’ sets a 2-col. task. Ibsen has made no addi-
tion to European literature. So?” “ E.” begins his
yarn with a false premise. I asked for proofs
of Ibsen’s influence on contemporary literature,
not for proofs of his having published plays.
Then “ E.” gives a long list of countries where Ibsen’s
plays are “ read and acted almost simultaneously.” He
alludes to a number of German dramatists as professed
disciples of Ibsen. To all of which I say “ Eats 1 ” Where
does “ E.” get his information concerning Ibsen in Hun-
gary, Poland, Italy, Russia, &c. ? Is he writing of things
which he actually knows, or is he repeating the assertions
of the little Ibsen school in London, of which that very,
very awful person, Bernard Shaw, is a leading spokesman ?
Where is the evidence that Sudermann, Hartlebin, Haupt-
mann, &e., are confessed disciples of Ibsen? I ask for
information. I kneel at the feet of this mysterious
“ E.,” who knows everything about all countries
(especially Poland, Hungary and Russia), and I ask him —
Hid he get his knowledge at second-hand from an
Ibsenolator in London ? But, when he comes to talk of
simple Jones, in England, and of Pinero and “ The Money-
Spinner,” I began to feel my feet. “ E.” tells us that
Jones admits the influence of Ibsen in “ Case of Rebellious
Susan,” “ The Masqueraders,” &c. Where does he admit
it? Australia has sampled the two plays named, and it
saw’ nothing Ibsenic in them. “ Rebellious Susan,” who
appeared about 10 years later than Jones's “ Saints and
Sinners,” is an up-to-date matron in London’s gilt-
edged society, who behaves herself quite sanely.
The heroine in “The Masqueraders” is a glorified
barmaid, afflicted with moral scruples. Ibsen’s women,
I fancy, are destitute of scruples and sanity. Then
“E.” tells you that the “Money-Spinner” is the
“ average angelic heroine,” whose one little slip enhances
her sentimental virtues. Has “E.” ever seen Mrs. Kendal
play “ The Money-Spinner ? ” The girl was a decoy and
car l-sharper for her father, who kept a gambling-hell.
She mrrried a man of the kind likely to win her maiden
heait under such circumstances — i.e., the sort of man
who embezzles easily—and she makes a plucky, affec-
tionate wife to him. She isn’t in the least angelic. She
talks with her mouth full of breakfast. So much for
“ E.’s ” assertions, or some of them.
* * * *
Now, I will make a few assertions. Ibsen in England
was at first accepted as more of a crank than a humbug
by the Intelligent Many. He is now regarded as more of
a humbug than a crank. For the publicity there given
to his plays he is mfflnly indebted to William Archer
and Bernard Shaw. Archer is regarded as a sincere
writer with an Ibsen maggot in his brain ; Ber-
nard Shaw ranks as the insincere essayist and un-
acted playwright who outshines Shakespeare in his own
decadent imagination. Archer and Shaw may be said to
“ run ” Ibsen in London, but they can’t run him far.
Be ng clever literary men, they have by constant idolatry
of their little Norwegian god naturally obtained a follow-
ing among literary men of the kind who affect to per-
ceive genius where others see it not. The “ Ibsen game ”
was given clean away, as I may say, by a pretentious
journalist in Adelaide Ceitic. “ Ibsen does not write for
the multitude ; he writes for the chosen few, the brightest
minds, and makes absolutely no concession to intellects
less alert," &c., &c. Here you have the appeal to all weak-
minded persons’ ambitions of a reputation for “ higher
intellect.” If you idolise Ibsen you can take your place
among the Chosen Few. Heaven only can say who chose
the original Chosen, but you get there all the same if you
believe in Ibsen.
* • • •
The failure of Ibsen’s plays is undeniable. They have
derived extraordinary advertisement in the past from the
contemptuous astonishment of many critics, and the con-
troversy which William Archer and his clique have labored
so hard to maintain. They commend themselves to
theatrical managers by the fact that they can be cheaply
produced, and contain, in nearly every case (I believe) a
big “star” character for the leading lady. They are
audaciously and notoriously “ improper.” And yet, with
all these commercial points in their favor, no manager in
London breathes blessings on Ibsen’s name. The Intelli-
gent Many can find no food for their intellect in “A Doll’s
House,” '“Ghosts,” “ Hedda Gabler,” “ Enemy of the
People,” &c. Ibsen has been given many chances in Lon-
don. The indefatigable Archer was directly or indirectly
responsible for the production of two or three of the
plays, it is said. Had the Ibsen “ push ” been numerous
or influential they must have achieved a considerable
success for the later productions. They have achieved
only disappointment for themselves, but they cant
afford to abandon their craze. That would mean forfeit-
ing their position as leaders of the Ohosen Few.
* * * *
“ E.” tells you to examine the British drama for 10 years
before and after the raising of the Ibsen cry in London and
note the change in the character of the works. I ask you
to read the social history of Britain in the novels
and newspapers of the last 30 years and observe the
development of the New Woman —the lady doctor, the
Woman Suffragist, the “Girl of the Period.” The
heroines of the plays by Jones and Pinero which “ E.
instances as being Ibsenish are merely New Women, of
pure American descent, I take it. America was the birth-
place of the Emancipated Female—not Norway. Let
Ibsen get all due credit, however, for having been early
in the field with his “Nbra, or a Doll’s House,” published
in 1851. “ E.” tells you that the story of Nora dates
from 1879. These are gambling times when one loses
money by wagering money on horse races. If “ E.”
wants to lose some money let him accept my wager of £5
that “ Nora” was published 20 years previous to 1879.
* * * *
Ibsen started life as a stage-manager. He was a pro-
fessional showman for 10 years, from 1852 to 1862. He
knows how to build a play. The entrances and exits of
the characters are in their right places. He understands
the art of fixing the attention of his audience upon the
point he wants to emphasise. And to his early experi-
ence as a theatrical craftsman he is indebted for most of
his success in imposing upon the Ohosen Few. The
literary “genius” in his plays is undiscoverable by the
Intelligent Many, but they can see through his method of
play-making. He mixes simple human material skilfully,
as in “Iledda Gabler”—a young bride, doting husband,
dipsomaniacal former lover of the bride, another married
woman devoted to the dipsomaniac, and a would-be
seducer of the bride —and he peppers the pie with ceru-
lean preposterousness and “ hidden meanings,” and
leaves the Ohosen Few to make what they can out of it.
The voice of the Intelligent Many has spoken. [No more
Ibsen.— Ed. B.]
m.
v i-
SYDNEY
Hotel,
Coffee
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. iV.. QUIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st.,
Telephone No. 10US.
South Melbourne,
CATERER.
Mr Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
PLANT OF tIbLE FURNISHINGS by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
auction sales.
TO SPORTING GENTLEMEN, HORSE3REEDERS & Others.
FOR DEFINITE SALE,
LIVERPOOL, N.S.W.,
Overlooking Warwick Farm Racecourse,
Having a-large frontage to GEORGE’S RIVER, and Situate
about 3 miles from LIVERPOOL RAILWAY STATION.
The Property occupied for years by Hon. A. W. LONG,
M.L.O. pF-Title, TORREN’S ACT.
Terms : ONE-THIRD cash, and the balance in 5 years at
5 per cent, interest.
THE AREA consists of 502 acres 3 roods 2f perches.
The IMPROVEMENTS, which are extensive and substan-
tial, comprise :
BRIOK-BUILT COTTAGE RESIDENCE, with slate roof,
in perfect order, containing tiled hall and verandah, 10
rooms, billiard-room, storeroom, 2 bathrooms (hot and
cold water), wineroom, dairy, storeroom, complete kit-
chen, laundry, linen-room, etc.
Gas and water laid on throughout the property.
OVERSEER’S COTTAGE of W. 8., containing 5 rooms.
EXCELLENT RANGE OF STABLES (7 stalls) and 20
Loose Boxes, all well built and finished, of hardwood
with concrete flooring. . ~ _ , ,
Large Hayshed, Implement Shed, .Pigsties, Cowsheds
(with bails), Puddling-house, Blacksmith’s Shop, Fowl-
yards, etc. , ,
Two Large Stallion Yards enclosed with 7ft. paling fence.
Three Enclosed Lounging Yards.
Water has been laid on over the Estate, and is supplied
bv 2 good Windmills and an Oil Engine.
THE TRAINING TRACK, 1\ miles long, is enclosed with
wire netting. ■
The Property is subdivided into Cultivation (lucerne,
oats, and wheat) and Grazing Paddocks, all well
watered, cleared, stumped, and securely fenced.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
Have received instructions to sell by public auc-
tion, at the Rooms, 133 Pitt-street, Sydney, at
11.30 o’clock on
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1900,
The above-described Estate.
SPORTING MEN AND BREEDERS should inspect this
property. IT WAS SPECIALLY SELECTED for its large
area, suitable soil, climate, and convenience to the prin-
cipal racecourses about Sydney, and nearness to the
market for live stock.
A VERY LARGE AMOUNT OF MONEY and a long
time of careful attention have been expended on this pro-
perty to bring it to its present attractive state, and in
addition to all this it is confidently believed that the rail-
way from
BELMORE TO LIVERPOOL
will be constructed, and this will enhance the future
value and increase the ready chances of selling this pro-
perty to advantage.
Bight
YOUR. WATCH
WON’T GO?
Why not lay it aside and invest in a new on :
here we introduce to your notice one
FAMOUS SILVER KEYLESS ‘- EV^^;, OV e I nent is
the cases of which are solid sdver. T „ f or
of the best quality, and manufactured specia y
rough handling. The balance staff pivotsr ate
the best-quality jewels, and the balance itsel
pensated. This ensures the watch keepin 0
Accurate and Reliable Time. „ lpase( j to
On receipt of the sum of £2 we shall be pleased to
Forward this Watch on Approval,
and if you are dissatisfied with the valu ch ig
return your money. Remember that this-
guaranteed 6 .years. Thus you can have
Reliable Time -for a Penny a Week. ,
The watch will be forwarded, seeureiy packe
postage free, to any part of the Australian colo
on receipt of £2.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George Street, Sydney.
AUCTION SAliics.
TO COLLIERY PROPRIETORS, SHIPOWNERS,
SQUATTERS FOR STORE STOCK & OTHERS.
Upset Price, 255. per Acre. 10>00() ACRES .
At WYONG RAILWAY STATION, N.S.W., being
portion of the well-known
ALISON ESS'TA.I’ES,
situate on the main line of RAILWAY between
SYDNEY and NEWCASTLE,
north of GOSFORD, having large road fl 'ontages besides
frontages to WYONG CREEK, TUGGERAH BEACH
LAKE, and WALLAKAH CREEK, as per plan on view,
and now for positive sale on behalf of the owners,
THE SCOTTISH WIDOWS’ FUND SOCIETY OF
EDINBURGH.
TITLE, TORRENS.
TERMS: One-third cash, balance equal amounts, 1, 2
and 3 years, at 4 per cent, interest.
HARDIE and GORMAN (in conjunction with
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd.) have been instructed
to sell by public auction at the Salerooms, 133 PITT-
STREET, Sydney, at 11.30 o’clock on
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1900.
The main portion of the ALISON ESTATE, over
10,000 ACRES, at WYONG, near NEWCASTLE.
IN ADDITION to the SURFACE VALUE of LAND
and TIMBER on this large area, together with its large
frontages on both sides of the
MAIN GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY LINE,
its large road and water frontages, special attention is
directed to the proved
MINERAL COAL SEAMS
which underlie this Estate, and which have been proved
by the sinking of TWO BORES, known as the WAL-
LARAH and WYONG Bores, and the quality of the coal
taken therefrom, and at considerable expense in other
ways.
TO MEET THE DEMAND for land in this locality in
suitable blocks, the Estate could be readily subdivided
into areas varying from 50 ACRES to 320 ACRES.
SPECULATORS should inspect with a view to pur-
chase.
NOTE—
THE AREA IS LARGE.
THE POSITION CONVENIENT OF AC-
CESS.
THE COAL SEAMS ARE VALUABLE.
THE TITLE IS SIMPLE.
THE TERMS ARE EASY,
and
THE OWNERS ARE DETERMINED TO REALISE,
even though
THE LOW UPSET PRICE
of
255. PER ACRE
only
SHOULD BE OBTAINED.
h
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF
LATEST NOVELTIES.
Our Only
Australian
Address:
90 KlN<£ STREET,
STYLES IN CUFF
LINES..
nr
Solid Gold, Extra Strong,
Japanese Good Luck, 20s.
Solid Gold and Real Opal,
17s 6d. With Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s; 15c., 355,
40s. With Monogram,
2s 6d extra.
9c., 20s ; 15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
Gold lloomerang and
Real Opal Heart, 40s pair
Federated Shield, Solid
Gold, 13s 6d ; plain, 11/6.
9c., 10s 6d, 12s 6d;
15c., 25s pair.
9c., 19s; 15c., 355;
Silver, 4s pair.
Real Amethyst or Topaz
Links, extra strong, 5/6 pair.
9c. Gold, 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
9c., Us6d, 12s 6d ; 15c., 255.
I
Good Fortune and
Enamelled Chrysanthe-
mum, 27s 6d pair.
9c. 13s 6d ; 15c., 255.
Silver, 3s pair.
9c., 17s 6d ; 15c., 35s pair.
9c., 20s; 15c., 37s 61
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
Cartridge and Torpedo Sleeve
Link, Solid Cold, 13s 6d pair.
ĥ
ħ
PATTERNS, 9c. Gold, 12s (id ; 15c. Gold, 255. Si lver > 29 6d P air -
THE ABOVE FOUR
9c., 22 1 Od ; 15c„ 87s Od.
Silver, 4e 0d pair.
Oc, >l'U 0<1! 15c, 40s ;
Silver, 4s 04 pair.
Federation Link,
Solid Gold, 25s pair.
With Name or Monogram,
Wild Roar’s Tusk, Gold
Mounted, 10s Cd, Silver, 4/6
Best Quality English Silver Plate.
HUNDREDS OF LATEST NOVELTIES—
Four-bottle Out-glass Lunch
CRUET, 17s 6d.
60 other patterns, from 12/6 each.
New Shape SUGAR SCUTTLE,
richly engraved, 21s.
Other shapes, from 15s.
Out-Glass Dinner CEUET,
Four-bottle, 30s ; Six-bottle, 40s.
Others, from 20s.
*** LATEST DESIGNS IN JAM SPOONS and BUTTER KNIVES. *** BEST QUALITY SILVER PLATE.
5s 6d each, or 12s 6d pair in a beautiful velvet case. 6s each, or 13s 6d pair in a beautiful velvet case.
Pair Richly-Engraved BUTTER KNIVES,
in beautiful velvet case, 10s.
Or 4s each out of case
Silver-mounted SHOE LIFT,
Hook and Glove Hook,
in lovely Velvet Case, 12s 6d.
- Button Hook and Shoe Lift,
% only 10s 6d. Six Patterns.
11'IJI II
a i
m-
mma
s&:
: '
Pair Silver-mounted Cut-Qlass KNIFE
BESTS (in lovely case), 15s 6d.
gipgie Snaem, 0s eaeh { •
or pair Jam or Fruit spoons (pew shell pattern;,
in handsome velvet case, 13a 6d,
(LOtth U. tt LU 111
Six Afternoon TEA SPOONS and TONGS,
in lovely velvet case, 14s.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALP ALINE
Nerve Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, the
complexion, brightening the eyes, cleariug the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plant Cover.
si
HERR kASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Jtassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
|MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
APVK€ FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza, Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s,
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
BBISBANE : 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street).
MELBO ÜBNE : 150 Bourke-street (opp, Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
N.Z., WELLINGTON ; 91 Lambton Quay.
PERTH: Hay-street (opposite IViedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next LindelTs).
BOULDER CITY ; Piesse-street. "
FREMANTLE : Henry-street.
“ F.” : The weakness of Marshall Hall is
shown in his oft-expressed delight in “shocking
the parsons.” No artist should descend to the
folly of caring a rap whether he shocks parsons or
anybody else by his assertion of the truth that is
ill him.
Wj-L. Rees, ex-M.H.R. (M.L.), is one of
the British Israel Identification cranks, and now
goes lecturing to prove that we are the Lost Ten
Tribes “ and enjoy all the temporal blessings pre-
dicted of the ten-tribed kingdom.” And when
this scribe goes home late at night, and falls at
every corner over gaunt figures eating crusts out
of the dirt-boxes—well, if we are a special race
what box do other and less richly-blessed nations
get their crusts out of ?
Pity that Lord Hopetoun, when enter-
tained by numerous gilded Australian absentees
in London, did not open his mouth in the same
strain in which he farewelled his own tenants.
He apologised to them for leaving for Australia,
holding that absenteeism is a curse, and putting
the blame on the Empire’s needs. These were
mere words, of course, but even as such they
would have badly knocked many fat Australians
who actually live in England on Australian toil,
and pay not even an absentee tax for their indul-
gence in what Hopetoun calls a curse.
The Rich Landlords of Vic. Leg. Council
often have to fork out at election time, the
propertied voters being more keen for stimulants
to patriotism than the “ ’orny-’anded.” D. Harris’
first campaign (his only contested one) cost him
£l3OO. Some years ago J, Y. M‘Donald expended
£lOOO before he learned that his return would be
unopposed ; and T. D. Wanliss, Ballarat jour-
nalist (elected on another occasion), was unsuc-
cessful against H. Gore, though his sinews of war
took the form of an outlay of £3lOO. Yet Vic-
toria prides herself on the purity of her elections !
The journalist, needless to say, did not make his
coin out of the Press ; he won it by mining and
jarrah-timber speculations.
NAVE YOU
A NAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
round d with inflammation and swollen that when you
pi e s vour finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wa'k. Yoi may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do pot, for I CAN
CURIO YOU. I dbn’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljJd. per box. Prepared by
A 1 BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents*. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look'foi, the registered trade .mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Burst of frankness from a Westralian
trooper, writing home: —
At present it looks as if a grey-haired remnant of the
British Army would 30 years hence be wandering about
the hills N.W. of- Pretoria, asking if anybody had noticed
a person named De Wet passing that way No two
men in our corps have hats or breeches alike. The only
thing we possess in common is a desire to get out of this.
h
fringes,
tffetural Curly, from 8/fo
PLAITS and TAILS,
fuln. long, 6/u. all real hoAy,
CUTTINGS & COMBI2l«a
worlccd up, yo per 02.
'Vo are the cheap&itln ItiT
for all Uair Work.
s«rui Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzgll,
no W[ 14,1 AM Stubet,
roroer of Palmer-Btreit,
SYDNEY.
Ci.b|o Tram will glop at Door
Send stamps for full Price Disk
fKHtfi t atteufcion'Kiveß to Oounlry Oid»m
ĥ
Medical,
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
GAIiITSItT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers/ at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Dsware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Dr. Boxwell’s “"SILENT PILLS.
A ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. it*?' Purchasers can rely on the fact that
thesj Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
« COMMON SENSE EAR I)HUM.”
THE
DEAF
BEAB
/'COMPLETELY restore the
. Hearing' and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
oilier remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
.post-card to-day for illustnf >d
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
220 Collins Street, Melbourne
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLQROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAKEHIEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, saya :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days' Trial,
ħ
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wt arer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by t he wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, I
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical. |
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
h
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Gefca genuine
./ pot from any Chemist.
/ Proprietor:- STEPHEN GREEN,
./210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
/_ Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
,/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
/ should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
ior my Invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
, admm ®^ lng EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
THESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran'
Melb. says : “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
1 he best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases.
Sore^yes^c 3 ’ Ulcerated Le 6s* Pimples,
USE Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
rw= mi P“ ntles of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Stores PnCeS JS ' lJd - and 2S ‘ 9 d - each ofa 'l Drug
Sole & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
sun
DEAF
SEP
Address—
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■now long standing. Arethesame
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
■■ NASTj 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.-^
I&srassyg* book
Address —L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


A Lady’s Evidence.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURED BILIOUS-
NESS AND HEADACHES.
“Havingbeen a sufferer from biliousness and
headaches, and having tried different medicines,
also doctor’s powders for the head, but getting no
relief from them, and seeing Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills advertised, I purchased a bottle, and
the first dose relieved me. My husband also uses
them. I recommend them to all my friends
suffering the same as I was. I may say I have
been using them some time, and have never known
them to fail. You may make what use you like
of this.” This is the evidence of Mrs. Noble,
Woid’s Avenue, Hurstville, N.S.W. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills positively cure biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, dyspepsia, headaches,
liver and kidney complaints, piles, pimples, and
blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
price Is. lid. per bottle or six bottles' 6s. 6d. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.*
hats, hats. hats.
Mountcastle & QuaitJs
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons.
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
for Melbourne Cup losers —
ONE QREAT CONSOLATION
Massey-Harris Bicycles
Afford reli ble means of dodging financial worry and visiting picturesque localities, with the
certainty of no hard pedalling and no repair bill.
DUMB BIRDS
the Australian hush,
You never hear a chirp or a squeak from RED BIRDS. The favorites of
SYDNEY BRANCH: 385 GEORGE STREET.
BRANCHES
ALL COLONIES.
BRANCHES
IN ALL COLONIES.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
Headquarters— 64 King 1 Street, SYDNEY.
The
Original
ixsiHJU Nosamrr iraor
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Clean Sweep (he got his
Benzine) has proved himself aptly named. He
awftv wifh n me he /, ace j. the fla f f fchis season, getting
n h 000n t P Handicap, Moonee Valley and Mef-
;n Gu . ps ' Second nag (Malster) in latter event, is
TH, sta^ le > which also started La Carabine and
ine Bride. Best price obtainable about Clean Sweep in
Sydney up to time of race was 16 to 1, as there’d been
a rush on him all day. Though a frequent starter at
m December l7 W 1“ WaS oaumeld Juvenil e Stakes (sfur.)
„* * * *
Gun : Defeat of Lancaster in Melbourne
uup should choke people off the game altogether if any-
thing can. His win in Melbourne Stakes (Saturday) made
appear an absolute “ cert.,” and had a paralysing
effect upon the betting. In Algerian’s and Ruenalf’s
years victory in Melbourne Stakes looked a good line
to go on, but each of those nags finished out of a place.
Lancaster s chance, however, seemed a heap better. It’s
interesting to note that not one of the placed horses
figured in _ Melbourne Stakes. Worth mentioning, too,
ln Helb. Cup—Alix—is the unluckiest horse
of the season, as he filled a similar position in Caufield
Cup, and was second to War God in Hotham Handicap,
Trainer (Scobie) of Clean Sweep and Malster has had a
good time. Malster annexed both A.J.C. and N.R.O.
Derbies.
* • * *
Malster’s V.R.C. Derby was the smallest since
Seagull’s in ’66, when same number (3) started. The time
(2.48) was slower than any since Nordenfeldt’s success 15
years ago. Malster’s present owner gave 810 gs. for him,
since which time the Bill of Portland—Barley colt has won
V.R.C. Hopeful Stakes, Ascot Vale Stakes, and A.J.C. and
V.R.C. Derbies, and run second in Champagne and Easter
Stakes at Randwick, and third in Caulfield Guineas. Mal-
ster was bred by the late Mr. “ Mat ” O’Shanassy.
The race for this year’s Derby would have
looked more satisfactory if it hadn’t been run in strict
accordance with the betting. Barbarossa was expected
to make an attempt to get away with a strong lead
whilst the two favorites kept close company. But the
three ran leisurely in Indian file until Kinglike overtook
Barbarossa, and then the odds-on favorite overtook King-
like, and Ikey Mo must have dropped a good bit on the
transaction. Malster was backed with great confidence
by some people.
* * • •
Ingliston is an interesting object-lesson in Aus-
tralian horse-racing. Ingliston was backed down to 10 to
1 to win Caulfield Cup, though up to then the excellence
of the horse had to be taken on trust. His public per-
formances had not been brilliant. Well, Ingliston (7.4)
won Caulfield Cup, beating Alix, Dirk Hammerhand and
others with ease. On Saturday the distinguished Inglis-
ton made his first reappearance after his victory. The
race, the Hotham Stakes, was the same distance as Caul-
field Cup. He met Alix on only 91b. worse terms than
before, m fact he was well handicapped. Alix, backed at
8 to 1, finished a good second to War God, with Dirk
Hammerhand third, whilst Ingliston, the hero of a fort-
night ago, went out at 12 to 1 and came in last.
* • • »
N.S. Wales scored three wins on opening day
(Sat.) of V.R.C. Spring Meet. Successful nags were Ibex
(Maribyrnong Plate), War God (Hotham Handicap), and
Rock Gun (Encourage Stakes). Mr. W. H. Mate owns
first-named, which was bred at Kirkham and is one of the
cheapest nags ever sold. At the dispersal of Kirkham
stud, Ibex (then a few weeks old) was put up with his dam
Angora and the two went for 40gs. Ibex is by Gossoon
(imp.) and his dam is by Maribyrnong from The
Alpaca by Kingston. Throughout past ten years the
only N.S.W. “ prads ” to gather in Maribyrnong Plate
laurels were Arihi and Lady Mostyn. Previously Acme,
lolanthe, Narina, Segenhoe, Palmyra, Nellie, Vulcan, and
Habena won. Maribyrnong Plate has never been taken
more easily than this year, and yet the time put up (1.3)
is only £sec. slower than previous '“best” shared in by
N.S.W. nags—lolanthe (’B3) and Arihi (’94). Stable-boy
Godby had the mount. Writer doesn’t know a youngster
who gives greater promise than Ibex in every way.
Strangely enough, Rock Gun was bought dirt cheap by
present owner (Mark Thompson), who gave 50gs. for him
last yearling sales.
• • •
Punters at Warwick Parm (N.S.W.), Saturday,
fell over each other to lay 5 to 2 on Tripoli for Two-Year
Old Stakes, but Numidia (same price against) beat them.
Winner is by Medallion from Algerine—a full sister to Ike
Earnshaw’s Barbarossa, and was bought by H. Dargin at
last Randwick yearling sales for 135 guineas. The win
proved a big reversal of form. At Moorefield, a week
before, Tripoli won, and Numidia failed then to get a
“ drum.”
• • * •
Collusion 'tween Sydney betting-shops and
horse-owners waxes stronger every week. Nags are even
brought up to the course now and left in as long as rules
will stand it. Still stewards and others supposed to take
note remain blind. One day lately, not long ago, mokes
owned by one man who has long been at the game went
up by train to the course, and bets were made that he’d
start one or both that time sure, but he didn’t send
either, and crowed about it on Monday. The other
Saturday another nag (a red-hot favorite in town) was
scratched on the course—and so the thing goes on week
in and week out. Why don’t the police shut up these
shops ? They’ve got the power. They did it in Mel-
bourne effectually and in one swoop. A year or more
ago Sydney stipendiaries threatened that the next batch
of tote-men brought up would go to gaol without the
option. That is the remedy, but it isn’t taken ; fining
goes on just the same. Mo ’ll come up smiling as often
as they like with fines, but one fair dose of quod would
choke him right off.
* * * *
“Old ’Un” : Have seen no mention anywhere
of the recent death, through consumption, at Goodooga,
of that once-well-known N.S.W. contractor and promi-
nent sport, Mr. “Tom” Potts. Mr Potts (associated
with Messrs. “ Teddy ” Keys and O’Donnell) owned some
crack nags once. Few liked a good bout with the gloves
better ; he backed “Gentleman’’GeorgeDawson in some
of his Australian mills, and swore by Peter Jackson.
Writer was present at Melb. A.C. when Mr. Potts (a year
or more before the memorable Jaekson-Slavin contest)
wagered £5OO even with the late “ Jack ” Dougharty that
if ever the white and black Australians met, Jackson
would win. Mr. Potts was also mixed up in N.S.W. pro-
fessional rowing a lot, particularly as ex-world’s champion
Jim Stanburv’s friend.
*" * * *
Says the Australasian man:—“Training
horses in public is now resorted to by nearly all our
trainers, and it leads to strange reversals of form. We
have at least 10 trainers now for every one in the palmy
days of John Tait, Etty de Mestre, and James Wilson, but
very few of them seem to have much confidence in their
own judgment as to when a horse is fit. Some, indeed, do
not seem capable of training a horse to run on a certain
day as old-time trainers had to do. The horse must get
his condition by racing, and racing-clubs are asked to
frame their programmes so that horses may train them-
selves in public without the risk of incurring penalties for
big races. Twenty-five years ago horses went into re-
tirement after the Sydney Oup meeting, and when they
were seen again in Aug. or Sept, they were generally fit
to race. When Savanaka started for Melb. Cup he had
not seen a racecourse for 12 months, yet he was fit to run
for a man’s life,” &c., &c. This is taking a very charitable
view of the disreputable policy which is now the general
rule. Owners are at least as much to blame as trainers,
for the practice of starting horses in races which they are
not expected; or not intended to win. It is unsports-
manlike if it is not absolutely dishonest. Horses are run
“out of their distance” with the result that outside
punters get misled as to their real capabilities for stay-
ing, or sprinting. First-class nags, with big records, are
naturally supposed to be worth backing whenever they
run, and so the sovereigns of the public give them a
market price that looks, on paper, like a guarantee of
stable support. When these popular fancies put up in-
different performances it is assumed that they have more
or less disappointed the stable, whereas the owner, who
didn’t have sixpence on his badly-beaten “ crack,” tells his
few friends, in confidence, that the gallop, under the
circumstances, was quite satisfactory, and they had better
have a bit on next month without asking any questions
or letting the truth be known. In short the “ exercise
gallop ” is intended in many cases to choke off the public
from attempting to recover the money they have lost by
backing their fancy when it wasn’t fit.
* * * »
In re Tatt’s sweep, Tuesday 30th Oct. was a
record day at Melb. G.P.O. Victorian postal notes
were forwarded by Tatt. from Hobart through the
B.N.S.W. numbering 12,343, a face value of £5,497 Bs. lOd.
—from one province for one day only ! The parcels had
to be taken from the bank to the P.O. in a cab.
* * * •
S.A. and Victoria meet this Saturday on Ade-
laide Oval in the season’s first inter-State cricket-match.
Vic. puts out her strongest team, and as Worrall and
M'Leod are playing, it is even stronger than last year.
S. A. takes the field minus Darling (who writes that he
will not handle a bat until the new year at least) and
Lyons. Probably M‘Kibbin will be included in the S.A.
eleven, which had not been finally selected at time of
writing. S.A. will most likely experiment with several
young batsmen this season, but her chief weakness is in
the bowling. “Dinny” Reedman, nearly a veteran, is
the popular tip for captain of the home eleven, but G.
Giffen, who is batting in his old form, will once again be
S.A.’s mainstay.
* * * *
Lyons will not play against Victoria this season
—the first time for over 10 years. “ Carbine ” was always
a thorn in the side of Vic., for his chief scores have been
compiled against the sometimes moderate bowling of that
State. He has made numerous centuries against Trumble
and Co., and generally for first wicket. He and Darling
still hold the first-wicket record in inter-state matches
—lB4, compiled in ’97. Lyons is retiring owing to varicose
veins, which make even club cricket painful for him.
Unlucky that S.A. should lose two of her most famous
batsmen in the same season. Giffen’s record is certainly
unique, for he played in the first match against Vic. in
'BO, and of the 22 men who played in that match he is the
only one now in big cricket.
• * » •
Rounds in all grades of Sydney local cricket
concluded Saturday. In first division Paddington won
comfortably from Redfern, Sydney accounted for Bur-
wood, Central Cumberland went under to Waverley,
Leichhardt-Balmain proved soft for N. Sydney. In other
grades S. Sydney put up 560 for eight wickets against St.
George. Hundreds were notched by Ranshaw and
Stubbin ; Ridge compiled 81. N. Sydney (2nd) made
320 for six wickets against Manly, Frank Punch (one of
the old rowing and sporting family) contributing 182 not
out. Punch’s previous innings (against Waverley) was
142, and just prior to that he ran into the eighties.
Frank pire complains bitterly that he can’t get the young
’uns to take to the boat—it’s all cricket and football with
them. Last year’s premiers in first grade (Central Cum-
berland) are at the bottom of the list so far.
• * * *
Sydney University-Petersham match in the
third-grade cricket competition last. Saturday produced
an extraordinary finish. Petersham on previous Saturday
had scored 271. On second day of match they dismissed
their opponents by about 5 p.m. for 236, thus winning on
first innings. The afternoon had turned bleak and cold,
and the Uni. skipper suggested that as there was but an
hour left for play the teams should go comfortably home,
as nothing could be gained by playing on. Petersham,
however, objected. They had been fielding all day, and
insisted on a strike. ’Varsity took the field, in rather a
bad frame of mind, but to everyone’s amazement dis-
missed all Petersham for 31. Thus they had 67 runs to
get to win and though there was only 25min. left for play
they managed by brisk batting to make them in the time.
• * * *
That light of other days, Alick Bannerman, at
mid-off in the Paddington-Redfern match, was not the
brilliant mid-off of old. Fat has the old bantam under
the whip.
* * * *
Hearne, Young, and Richardson all cut a poor
figure in the English bowling averages this year, each of
them having an average of over 20. They are beaten by
Mason and Jessop, who stand out as the best all-round
men of the year.
* » » *
Albert Trott is a breaker of records. Last year
he made one by making 1000 runs and taking 200 wickets
in the season, and this year he has repeated the feat. It
has not been mentioned, however, that in 4J months he
played 62 innings, and had close on 5000 runs scored from
his bowling—both probably records.
* * * •
Project for bringing an all-Canadian lacrosse
team to Australia is ripening and looks well. Conditions
proposed by Sydney conference have found favor with
the Canadians, who are now moving in the matter of se-
curing the wherewithal. Should they come a North
American Indian will accompany them. Sydney and
Victoria are only waiting for S.A. to approve the confer-
ence resolutions, when a definite offer will be made, and
date of visit fixed.
* * • «
The big M.L. distance-swimmer Hoey got back
to Sydney this week after doing Paris and Britain. Euro-
pean conditions were against him, so he swam not there
and returns to Maoriland suffering from severe indiges-
tion and heart-palpitation—a family trouble. Hoey says
he’ll quit swimming and stick to fruit-growing henceforth.
* • • •
Late American news tells that Australian crack
swimmer Percy Gavill was beaten by U.S. top-notcher
M‘Cusker. They were to swim best of three distances—
quarter-mile, five miles and mile M'Cusker won first,
and Cavill became exhausted in next, having to be taken
out of the water. Cavill must indeed be “off” for
M’Cusker to prevail at a quarter-mile as (both fit. and
well) latter wouldn’t be in the same street with Cavill.
Latter went away with little or no money, has had few
(if any) shows since of making much, and so may have
been poorly trained.
*.* » ’ *
Prior to last mail leaving Eng., prof. “Joey”
Nuttall, world’s champion swimmer, challenged all
comers. Gage was taken up, through the papers, by an
“unknown,” who stipulated as distances 100, 220, and
440yds. Nuttall wanted them otherwise, and negotia-
tions collapsed. Unknown explained that he was an
amateur and didn’t care to forfeit his status without big
inducement. All English fore-front non-pros, publicly
denied connection with the matter, and as Australian
Freddy Lane remained silent, scribes singled him out as
the ambitious one. Perhaps he was—the distances
named are those he likes best.
* * * *
Details of British furlong swimming supremacy
in Sept, are to hand. Race was at Birmingham, and
proved the closest thing ever seen between the world’s
100yds. record-holder (Derbyshire) and Australian F.
Lane, now on his way to Sydney. The others weren’t in
it. At 150yds. Lane was 2yds. to the good, but the Eng-
lishman gradually overhauled him afterwards, and they
dead-heated in new world’s-record time of 2.34 4-5. Pre-
vious best (2.381-5) stood in Lane’s name, and was done
when he won same event last year. There was no swim-
off, hence title is shared in by both.
Australian sculler Towns, after beaming Wray,
threw the gage down to the world, particularly Jake
Gaudaur, but the wily Canuck won’t be drawn from his
retreat at Rat Portage. Ned Hanlan’s nephew, Ed.
Durnan, looked like filling the breach when latest mail
left. A year or two ago Durnan was with the Yankee
pot-hunting section, but now occupies a high place among
the pros. Proposal is for a £2OO aside match, over a
three-mile course (with a turn), in Toronto Bay (Canada).
Towns may not take to the turn unless he thinks Durnan
a bit soft.
• • * •
Crack Australian sprinter Stan. Rowley, just
home from British championships and Paris Olympian
Games, has a woeful tale to tell of English A.A.A.’s lack
of hospitality. Nobody came near him for days though
they knew he was there, and in response to his request
for a ticket of admission to the sports, they billed him for
10s. entrance-fees. Another time he had to pay Is. at the
gate in face of fact that he was a competitor. Yankee
reps, had a heap the best of the deal with their army of
trainers and colored “ rubbers,” all paid by American
athletic bodies. They weren’t even asked to think for
themselves ; trainers did all that and instructed the nigs,
how and when to groom their men. Only difference
between a Yankee amateur and a pro. (as we understand
him) is that former doesn’t actually compete for money ;
but he gives himself up wholly and solely to training and
has every expense paid. Rowley went to Paris with the
English reps., but the A.A.A. sent not a single trainer
over with them, while the Americans had their dozens of
attendants. “ What chance had the Britishers or myself
under those conditions ? ” asks Rowley.
m * * *
Match for scratch-pulling supremacy of N.S. W.,
at Sydney Gaiety Athletic Hall Monday night, was a soft
thing for Sydneyite Larry Ryan, who had too much up
his sleeve for Victorian Jim Olancy. Conditions—best
two in three pulls, hickory stick 2ft. long and ljin dia.
Word “ Go ” had barely been given for first tug when
Clancy (apparently taken by surprise) was brought up
standing. Next pull only lasted a second or so longer
and same thing occurred. Ryan thus won the match.
’Twas a huge surprise for Clancy’s side, who thought
their man had a “ moral,” but he simply wasn’t in it a
moment. Clancy scales about 18st. and has an immense
upper structure, but dwindles away in the under-pins,
which is where the leverage comes from. Ryan weighs
somewhere about 17st., is proportionately built and owns
good, strong legs ; besides, he knows more about the
tricks of the trade than t’other man, who would perhaps
have shaped better had his own slow, steady, straining
method been adopted by the opposition. Writer never
saw a man look more sheepish than did Clancy after that
first pull. Ryan seeks a “ cut ”at anyone in Australia
for money.
* * * •
Yic. cyclist Rowlands, reported as having died
at Rutherglen, promised well, and looked a genuine
coming champion. His second to the dusky Gordon, in
Sydney in a scratch race, with Gordon all out, as well as
the fact that he won many handicaps from short marks,
indicated big possibilities. Rowlands was only 21, and is
said to have ruptured a cranial blood-vessel.
“Old Timer”: Not satisfied with the fiasco
attendant upon the resurrection of black Pluto recently,
Sydney bruising promoters exhumed another dead ’un on
Saturday night, when Nipper Peakes squared up to little-
better-than-novice Bob Turner. Nipper was decently
interred a dozen years ago and should have been allowed
to rest there. Perhaps ’twas thought that a good dead
’un was anyhow better than the duffing live ’uns of the
present time. And so it almost proved, for as long as
Peakes’s condition stood to him his coolness and skill
were more than a match for t’other who, (strong enough
and game enough) hustled and banged like one possessed
but rarely landed and then without much steam. Nipper
moved round as little as possible and only sent a punch
along when the opening was clear. He knew a heap too
much about the game for Turner and so was enabled to
stand up till the tenth round ; then, serving out a very
sultry 3 min. he had Turner going but couldn’t finish
him. After this Peakes was cold pie for the Sydneyite.
AVeakening to nothing in l°ch round, Nipper caved in.
It’ll be an out-and-out crime if he isn’t allowed to stay
buried for good now.
* * * »
Latest from Yankeedom is that the once-mar-
vellous pug.-freak Griffo is settled beyond recovery—he’s
no sooner out of gaol than he’s in again. Chicago police
were talking about sending him out here when the mail
left.
Erstwhile champion light-weight pug. of Aus-
tralia, “ Gentleman ” George Dawson (now flourishing in
Chicago), has been interviewed re Fitzsimmons, whom
he seconded and advised in his two latest battles
with Ruhlin and Sharkey. “ Fitz. is an old man, and he
is a cripple,” said Dawson. “ His hands are never right
and his arms are always out of order. He can’t straighten
his right arm now, but when the time comes for a fight
he’s always ready—age makes no difference to him. I
believe he’ll always be the greatest fighter we have seen.
No matter how old he is, if he can be gotten into condi-
tion and his arms don’t go back on him altogether, he’ll
always be a champion. In Australia, Fitz. fought differ-
ently—he was much more clever then than now. He
seems to have discarded cleverness for his present peculiar
methods ; then he was one of the most skilful boxers I
ever saw.”
* * * *
Few cyclists have any conception of the vast
number of Dunlop tyres annually turned out by the
Dunlop Tyre Co. of Australasia, Ltd. Last year, some
75,000 tyres were sold throughout the Australasian States
—proof conclusive that these tyres are popular with
Australian cyclists ;in fact,"it may safely be asserted that
nine-tenths of our cyclists ride these tyres.*
The mendacious small female with her tale of out-
rage turned up again the other day at Maclean,
N.fcJ.W. A girl, aged 13 years 8 months, told a
lodger in her father’s house that the father had
outraged her. Whereupon the lodger laid infor-
mation with the police, and the father was
arrested. Then the young lady preferred a similar
charge against the lodger. She made numerous
contradictory statements, and perjured herself
quite unconcernedly at the Police-court inquiry,
but at the end was firm in her assertion that her
father had attempted, and the lodger had com-
mitted, the offence. The girl’s mother, who was
absent at the time of the arrests, deposed that the
girl had told her the charges were all lies, but she
had made them because the police insisted on
asking her questions. The father was discharged,
and the lodger committed for trial, but the Crown
Law Officer on circuit declined to proceed with
the case, and bound accused over to appear when
called upon. The same old Australian small girl !
♦
The Taree (N.S. W.)people were virtuously
indignant “that Jimmy Governor is kept in a
small wooden cell, badly ventilated, and situated
on open ground, at Wingliam, when there is a sub-
stantial brick gaol at Taree.” Cruel thus to rob
the Taree people of their solitary chance of
achieving distinction !
“ W.” writes :
Your correspondent (Oct. 27) was inaccurate in stating
that no letters or speeches criticising the Snow tram-
grab have been admitted into the Adelaide dailies.
“ The Advertiser ” has printed columns of Proud’s in-
vectives, and has never yet refused insertion to anything
he has written and sent to the paper on the subject.
Also the meetings in favour of nationalisation, held
under his auspices, have been well reported.
Editor Bulletin. —Kindly allow me, as
one of the fraternity, to draw public attention to
the heart-breaking hours worked by Sydney deli-
very-carters. It is quite common to see carters
going home at 10 p.m. and later ; and now, coming
on Christmas, the hours will often run to mid-
night. Even as it is, our time averages 90 hours
per week! —so surely the benefits of the Act
should to some degree be extended to us. We
are not exacting, as we only ask for a maximum
of GO hours per week, with one day off in the
month. — Winkers.
Melb. City Bench fined a young woman
£2, or 14 days, lately for kissing a kharki-clad
warrior without his permission. In justice to the
damsel it should be stated that she was slightly
sober at the time.
“ Viti ” writes from Fiji :
Dear B. —The Suva people are much exercised over the
erection of a plague camp of grass huts on the swamp
adjoining their four-pub. township, and have appealed
over the matter to Joe of the eyeglass. (Plague has,
luckily, not got ashore here as yet, but it is sure to find a
landing here some day, while as for lepers, you can have
a fresh one every day.) South Sea trippers should be
reminded that a 20min. walk in the right (wrong ?) direc-
tion from Suva wharf will land them at the plague or
leper camps, prison, graveyard, or lunatic asylum. This
arid other matters, such as stopping the 'subsidy of £l5OO
to the Canadian mail-boats—against the wishes of the
residents—in consequence of which said boats ceased to
call at Fiji, and granting £lOOO out of our £BO,OOO revenue
to the big drum and banner party without consulting
anybody, has made the Crown colonists kick. Some
would like to bring Seddon in and send Sir George else-
where—as witness the latest move for federating with
Maoriland, and the sending of our respectful sympathies
to the Queen re Edinburgh’s demise through Right Hon.
Richard of Wellington—ignoring our local Ex. altogether.
Only two members of N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Labor-party, of whom W. J. Ferguson
was the more conspicuous, worked for the Com-
monwealth Bill, even at the second referendum ;
and, perversely enough, his championship of it has
now been used against him at his first Federal can-
didature ! The nominee of the Barrier Labor-
unionists will almost certainly be returned unop-
posed for the Broken Hill seat; and for that
nomination there were two candidates—Ferguson,
keen-witted and keen-tongued ; Josiah T 1 omas,
dull and prosy. Though, at the second referen-
dum, the Laborites were nominally free to go as
they pleased, Ferguson has never been foi’given
for going frankly against the majority of his
party ; and so the brainy man with some indi-
viduality goes under before a color-less automa-
ton, to whom the nomination has been given.
Hobart Mercury actually takes the
trouble to print letters from local Jingoes hoping
that over the re-election of Campbell-Bannerman
(he opposed the war) to the Commons, “ there will
be throughout the colonies such an expression of
disapproval, reprobation, condemnation, scathing
censure as shall make the recreant voters feel the
lash of outraged public opinion,” and calling upon
the Hobart “ electors to meet in force and pass
resolutions, to be cabled ’Ome, thus letting the
glorious mother-country see,” &c., &c. All which
is perfectly lovely coming from residents of such
a frowsy little outpost of the Empire as Tasmania.
The “ outraged public opinion ” of Britain’s for-
mer most squalid convict-dumping-ground is truly
a thing to tremble at. Especially is the opinion of
Hobart, the constituency which lately returned to
Parliament Captain Miles I Campbell-Banner-
man has represented Stirling for 32 years, and its
hard-headed electors probably know their man
and their own minds a little better than do the
howling descendants of Port Arthur-land.
On Friday night last a pathetic, lonely
figure might have been seen leaving a train at
Spencer-st. station, Melb. He carried a bag and
a rug, and wore a most despondent look. It was
a former Premier of Victoria, Baronet O ‘Loghlen—
he.was Attorney-General in the fiery Berry Ministry
—just back from Port Fairy, where he had lost his
seat and.his £5O deposit. No man could be more
extinct in politics than the veteran Bart. The
papers had not even commented upon his dis-
appearance. It was not so much that he was
defeated as that he dropped out, like a cinder out
of the bottom of the grate. The poor old man
seems to have quitted politics as he quitted many
other professions. He was civil engineer, then
farmer, then merchant, then barrister, and then
politician. He established one good precedent.
He was elected for Clare in the Commons while
holding the office of Vic. Attorney-General. The
Commons declared his seat vacant, as an office of
grofit in Vic. was held to be an office under the
rown.


&
a=
V- 9
/ *
LOOKING
OVER
apparently insur-
mountable obstacles
is one way to over-
come them and see
clearly.
We have, by years
of patient endeavour
against all kinds of
difficulties, suc-
ceeded in placing
ERBY™T«.
on the highest pinnacle of popular favour.
Anyone can see clearly that Derby is
not approached by any other brand for 1
Genuine Quality
DO YOU SMOKE DERBY?
18
i
as
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.,
187 PITT STREET, SYDHEY. telephime
XMAS PRCSCNTS.^-*
Hall - Marked Chased
Silver Eau-de-Cologne
Bottles.
Price, 15s to 30s.
The New Hall-Marked Silver Grecian Belt. Price 57s od.
Also in Watteau and Oherub Designs, 67s 6d.
Wo are receiving: per every Mail Steamer larg:e Selections of
SILVER GOODB suitable for Christmas Presents.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
CONSULTING OPTICIANS,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
(Opticians by special appointment to his Excellency the
late Sir Robert Duff, G.C.M.G. ; his Excellency Admiral
Bridge ; the Walker Hospital, etc., etc.)
SIGHT TESTED DAILY (GRATUITOUSLY)
by a
THOROUGHLY QUALIFIED OPHTHALMIC OPTICIAN.
SPECTACLES
At Lowest London Cash Prices.
Doctors’ Prescriptions at One-half ordinary Sydney prices.
The Celebrated Uniaxial Spectacles, 10/6.
Publications.
Shearers’ Directory
(COMPILED BY D. TEMPLE,
Founder Shearers’ Union),
Containing Addresses, Stations, all colonies ; miles from
Post Town ; number Sheep each station ; number Shearing
Stands ; Date Start Shearing ; Shearing Bates; Maps show-
ing Routes to Stations ; Shearing Tally Ready-Reckoner ;
Full Account Land System each Colony, Lands Available,
etc., etc. Send 2/6 for copy, or £1 for 10 copies, to
J. DUNN, Manager,
Salisbury Buildings, corner Bourke and Queen Streets,
MELBOURNE.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Bicycles $ Bicycle Supplies.
OIL LAUNCHES and
“SINTZ” Marine and Stationary Engines
(1-h.p. to 60-h.p.)
COMPLETED LAUNCHES A SPECIALITY.
American Component Sets to build Bicycles
complete—Latest 1900 Models.
BICYCLE SUPPLIES and LATEST NOVELTIES at
Factory Prices. Factory Agents in Australia for
“ IMPERIAL” Bicycles. Good Agents wanted where not
already represented.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Public Notice.
Re SiVLE
OF
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Notwithstanding the claims put forward by
certain persons to the exclusive control of the
Carbide business, we hereby notify the public of
New South Wales that we shall continue, as
heretofore, to execute all orders for Carbide of
Calcium, whether in large or small lots. We
shall also adopt every legal means to defend our-
selves and our customers against any claim (which
we repudiate) to the exclusive right of sale or use
of Carbide of Calcium.
OSCAR HELSTROM
(Consul for Sweden and Norway).
HENRY MARKWALD,
JAMES MARTIN & COY.
MORGAN & SMITH.
N.S.W. ACETYLENE GAS COY.
F. A. PETERS.
JOHN L. ROSENBAUM.
The most awesome of the proposals for
celebrating the Hopetoun arrival with “dignity”
is one to the effect that all N.S. W. aldermen shall
attend “ in distinguishing civic robes.”
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that grain transactions are limited. The lower values
quoted at Mark Lane (which now turn out to have been
due to labor troubles instead of depression in the trade)
have had a lowering effect locally, and 2s. 7d. to 2s. Bd.
per bushel is the best that can' be obtained for F.A.Q.
and prime s 'es respectively. Harvest prospects as
indicated last .. _k.
Sandeman’s Australian wines are becom-
ing more and more popular every day, and anyone
visiting Sydney should call at Sandeman’s, 241
Pitt-street, and sample the wines and look over
the cellars. The amount of wine that these cellars
contain, and the size of the cellars themselves, is
a revelation to a stranger. Even the thirstiest
veteran feels despondent when he is faced by the
fact that he would have to drink hard every day
for a million years or so to make any perceptible
impression on the stock.*
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
The Hose of Persia.
The Captivating Comic Opera by Sir Arthur Sullivan
and Captain Basil Hood.
MULTITUDES DELIGHTED NIGHTLY, AND CROWDS
UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADMISSION.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
Thursday. Nov. 8 and Friday, Nov. 9, “ ELIZABETH.
Saturday, Nov. 10 and Monday, Nov. 12, “MAGDA.’
Tuesday, Nov. 13 and Wed., Nov. 14, “CAMILLE.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampler.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS-
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY".
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success. Enthusiastic Reception of
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS,
The Originator of “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay.”
TOD CALLAWAY, FANNY POWERS, Mr. WILL
WHITBURN, ALBERT WHELAN, JESSIE WILLIAMS,
Ferry, the Human Frog, Arthur Sullivan, and all
our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Prolonged Applause Greets England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of PAUL’S ANIMATO-
CRAPHE, EMMONDS, EMMERSON and EMMONOS,
i THE THREE HAYTORS (Frank. Edie and Arthur),
BILLY M'CLAIN, CHAS. WALKER, Mr. HARRY
SHINE, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry MusgrOvh.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, IL TROVATORE.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, LOHENGRIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, CARMEN.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
GRAND OPENING of the BLAND HOLT SEASON
EVERY EVENING,
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
Crashing Vollies of Enthusiastic Applause Nightly.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
FITZGERA LD BROS.’
. . . HUGE COMBINED SHOWS ...
CircOS ill tyefyageric!
LOCATION :
EXHIBITION BUILDING OVAL,
MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS ATTENDANCES NIGHTLY.
The Largest Spread of Canvas ever Erected in Melbourne,
occupying full extent of the
EXHIBITION BUILDING OVAL.
A programme too vast to specify every individual attrac-
tion presented nightly. Eliciting the highest
surge of enthusiasm ever attained.
STAR ARTISTES
in Every Branch of Circus Exposition.
SHOWSv
Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Box Plan at W. H. Glen & Co., Music Warehouse,
Collins-street.
Trams to gates, and leaving for all parts after the per-
formances.
F. JONES, Press Representative.
HAL. GEORGE, Secretary.
JHE AMUSEMENT SENSATION
OF THE
CE KTXTTR Y.
GREAT and GLORIOUS SUCCESS
GREAT and GLORIOUS SUCCESS
of
WIRTH BROTHERS’
WIRTH BROTHERS’
WIRTH BROTHERS’
Rof/al Circus and Menagerie.
Rogal Circus and Menagerie.
Rogal Circus and Menagerie .
LOCATION :
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Every Evening at 8.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 3.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is.
A. MIDDLETON, Representative.
At Poverty Point.
' J. F. Runciman, the Saturday Review musical critic—
Marshall Hall’s great friend—has been seeing Lalla
Miranda in Brussels. He gives a poor account of her per-
formance as Ophelia in Ambrose Thomas’ Hamlet.
Thus : “ Alas ! Miranda went mad the other night, and,
as prima donnas always do when they go mad on the
stage, she duly sang rapid scales and arpeggios calcu-
lated to drive mad every one in the theatre; and she
could not interest the audience for a moment. ‘ Lucia ’
would give her a better chance : in truth * Hamlet ’ gave
her no chance at all. I love not artists of the Miranda
type ; but I feel a certain human pity for them when they
perspire over stuff like ‘ Hamlet ’ and at the end find the
audience indifferent.”
Owing to a break-down of the train from Timaru t’other
week Donald Macdonald reached Ashburton (M.L.) a
couple of hours late. He had made up his mind to miss
his Boer yarn at that peaceful spot and go straight on to
Christchurch, but Ashburton was not to be robbed of its
dissipation. The inhabitants turned out to meet their
brither Scot at the railway station. They implored him
to carry out his contract for the sake of the Empire, and
because all the seating space in the local hall had been
sold. Also, they hinted delicately that they would hang on
to him if he tried to escape. So the weary Mac. clothed
himself in kharki and took the platform at 10 p.m., finish-
ing his lecture on the right side of the next day. The
end of all this will be a loss to Australian journalism, pro-
bably. Macdonald, with eight or ten thousand pounds
in hand, will turn squattah and become a leading authority
on sheep and things.
“ Kalgoorlie ” : Brough appears, during his goldfields’
tour, to have been under the impression that prices of
admission could be raised ad lib. in this benighted dis-
trict. For instance, he advertised a season of 13 nights
at 7s. 6d. reserved stalls, and ss. any other portion of the
house. The 7s. 6d. was right enough for a comfortable
seat and a good view of a first-class co. in a first-class
play ; but the toilers, who, after all, are the chief support
of any show, emphatically objected to paying ss. for a
limited view from behind a sea of straw hats and ostrich
feathers. Consequently “ Niobe,” with which the co.
opened, fell flat, owing to the emptiness of the seats from
which the applause principally comes. After two nights,
the prices were reduced to 7s. 6d., 65., 45., and 35., and
matters improved wonderfully. But Brough vows, I hear,
that “ he will never come here any more.”
Lilian Tree is to make an early reappearance—pro-
bably in Brisbane
Daisy Harcourt, Rickards’ latest importation, is doing
coster-“ lydy ” songs at Adelaide Bijou. Miss ’Arcourt
is a robust golden-haired artiste, who comes on with red,
white, and blue stockings and ( inter alia) a fringe,
and promises to give, in the immortal words of Alfred
Bennett, “ great pleasure to all ” And, to give her due
credit, she does nothing rude.
Young Clive O’Hara, son of the Melb. medico, is doing
the illusionist business as “ the Great Clive ” with Ric-
kards’ show in Adelaide. He performs most of “ Dante’s ”
well-known tricks very well indeed, but his stage talk
and business badly need livening up, With both Dante
and Carl Hertz it was in no small degree the “ business ”
which made the show.
The latest war-lecturer is Uitlander Samson, of Melb.
Argus, who opened for two consecutive nights at Melb.
Athenaeum last Tuesday and threatens to repeat the
operation round the suburbs, if not restrained. Samson
gives a brief, mild, uncolored resume of the operations,
gathered from news sources ; and as he dwells lightly on
the various British repulses, and spreads himself on the
final victorious marches, he should do fairly well, if he
can persuade his lanternist to run the machine in agree-
ment with his lecture. The man with the single eye-glass
tells an interesting tale of the consternation in the office
of the great daily across the way when, after Spion Kop
had been captured and jubilant leaders thereon and notes
on the position of affairs had been set-up, at 2 a.m. a
cable came through, “ Spion Kop abandoned,” and all
was mourning and anathema, and everything had to be
Bet-up afresh.
Looks as if Williamson and Musgrove have “ interred the
tomahawk.” The latter advertised that the box-plan for
“ Oarmen ” would open next day “in order not to clash
with the booking to-day for the first night of * The Rose
of Persia.’ ”
The Corpse of N.S.W. Marine Board.
The discredited N.S.W. Marine Board, which
permitted the notorious Atacama and other simi-
lar vessels to go to sea and drown their miserable
crews, has been dead for nearly a year—super-
seded by the new Dept, of Navigation—but even
from its grave it stinks. N.S.W. Public Service
Board has just presented to Parliament its report
of an enquiry which shows that some of the most
important officers under the Marine Board—
pilots, inspectors, shipwright and engineer
surveyors—have been for years receiving open
or surreptitious “tips” from local ship-owners
and ship-agents, as a reward for special services
rendered, or possibly because the owners and
agents found it paid to keep sweet with these
officers. To quote the Public Service Board :
The perusal of the evidence produces anything but
pleasant reflections. To find that one of the most im-
portant State departments has for many years been
honeycombed with illicit practices is very disappointing
to anyone who desires, above all things, pure administra-
tion in the public service.
These “ illicit practices,” so the former heads of
the Marine Board declare, were carried on with-
out their knowledge. Yet some of the persons
inculpated defended themselves partly on the
ground that “ tipping ” was a common and recog-
nised practice. But Commander Lindeman
former Secretary to the Marine Board, says he
knew little about it; and Captain Hixson, former
President, knew no more.
He had a sort of vague recollection of Mr. Selfe en-
gineer surveyor, coming to him about the matter, and it
is very probable he said, “ Well, I don’t want to know
anything about it,” but he could not say whether he did
or whether he did not. He would not wish to be taken
as authority for the wholesale demand and receipt of fees.
He certainly would not have given a formal approval to
the practice.
On the other hand, Mr. Henry Selfe, engineer-
surveyor to the Board, now under the Navigation
Department, said that
The first fee he took into Mr. Cruickshank, who ad-
vised him to send it back ; he then saw Captain Hixson,
who, in answer to his question as to whether he should
keep it, said “ I don’t want to know anything about it.”
He kept that fee and the other two which he subsequently
received.
The Public Service Board draws special attention
to the case of Mr. Selfe,
Which seemed to show the want of a right perception of
the proprieties attaching to the important position he
holds, which stands out in such startling contrast to the
evidence given by his chief, Mr. Cruickshank. They
refer particularly to that portion of the evidence where
Mr. Selfe says, “ When I got that letter (containing a fee)
from Mr. Prosser, and saw the kindly way in which it was
worded, I considered it would be an insult to him if I did
not take the cheque. Mr. Cruickshank said, ‘ I would
not take it.’ I said, *1 cannot afford to be so beastly
virtuous as you are. I consider I have earned it, and
I shall stick to it.’ ”
With regard to the fees paid to pilots, says the
Board, “no worse result has probably accrued
than that the State has lost some fees for harbour
pilotage, which have gone into the pockets of
these officers”—and that is surely bad enough.
But, continues the Board—
It is different when the fees to the surveyor are con-
cerned. In the case of these officers any failure to pro-
perly perform their duty may lead to disaster, and loss of
life. The importance of the work entrusted to them may
be gathered from a reply made to a question during the
course of the inquiry.
Question: “It rested entirely in your hands what
should be done ; your office was not acquainted with it at
all ? ” —Mr. Selfe : “ Not at all.”
Question: “It was left in your hands whether you
called upon the (shipping) company to spend thousands
of pounds or ten pounds ? ” —Mr. Selfe : “Yes. When on
board we were entirely masters of the situation. Every-
thing was in our hands.”
Question: “ Suppose one of them (the assistant
engineer surveyors) went aboard a ship and saw that a
tube was defective in a boiler, would he have the power
to say that the tube must come out?”—Mr. W. D. Oruick-
shank : “ Yes.’
Question: “Without sending a report to you?”—Mr.
Cruickshank: “Most decidedly. They have almost
unlimited power.”
Question : “If a surveyor wished to be lenient to a
company, he might make his requisitions lighter than
another surveyor would?”—Mr. Cruickshank : “ Yes, he
could make it either way ; he could make it very hard or
very light.”
It is easy to see to what lengths the system might
lead a surveyor weak in character, or embarrassed
in finances. To such a man “tips” and the ex-
pectation of “tips” would be a temptation to let
a bad tube go, or trust a rotten boiler for one
more voyage rather than offend the shipping
companies on whom he relied for bounty.
Beyond doubt, the shipping agents got value
for their money; they would not have paid
otherwise. Question is: What value did they
get ? Even if the surveyors knew that they
did their duty without fear or favor, despite the
“tips”; their position was one that no public
servant should place himself in. And they
have got off very lightly. So many Marine
Board officers have had their palms greased that
to suspend or dismiss them would, says the Publio
Service Board, disorganise the whole Department!
Some people will incline to think that, considering
the public interests at stake, the Department
should have been re-organised. But the Public
Service Board makes a scapegoat of one engineer-
surveyor who went a little further than the others,
and asked for his tip. And he only partially loses
salary and promotion. The Bulletin draws
special attention to the conduct of the Sydney
Morning Herald in failing to print the report
which other Sydney daily papers published more
or less fully. The Herald printed only a very
short and imperfect summary, mentioning no
names; and thus doing injustice to Mr. W. D.
Cruickshank and Capts. Newton and Sangster,
who are specially mentioned as “ exceptions from
the list of those who have compromised themselves
by unauthorised practices. “These gentlemen
had a sufficiently proper sense of the obligations
attaching to the important positions they occupied
not to lower themselves by accepting gratuities
which, to use Mr. Cruickshank’s expressive
phrase, “shut a man’s mouth up.” The Herald’s
Srocedure, by whatever extraordinary reasons in-
uenced, was, in The Bulletin’s opinion, un-
worthy of a public journal with the Herald’s
claims to be honestly conducted in the public in-
terest.
Constable Smith, tried at Capetown for
“ drilling holes ” through a nigger to accelerate
his movements in the service of the Empire, has,
it is cabled, been acquitted, on the ground that he
only obeyed the order of his officer, Capt. Cox, of
the N.S.W. Lanceahs. Query : If a murder really
was committed, as the authorities allege, who is
going to be docked for it now ?


Banking. Pnblic Companies. &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—.
jOWEST interest.
EASY TERMS.
WE
h
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
njor.s.-'w-.
Noil deplete OJ|. Go., Etd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7A CASTLEEEAGH ST., *7 4
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass , Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
-TEE-s
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
-THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
B roistered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles'Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 lii shop sg ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
N'EW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wvong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The gank nf florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
j|eui Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. .. • • • • £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J A minn E;gbr 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Shipping.
THFhoward smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL I
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 10, 1 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 17,1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyonsr, Tues., Nov. 27, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong-, Tues., Nov. 27, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 10, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 13, 5 p.m,
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 17, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 10, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 17, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
„ weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
£150,000 0
±'90,000 0
£150,000 0
£6,277,747 11 3
TV Trustees, €xcc6tor&,
AND
AgSOCV Coippaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY ...
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ...
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BCVRROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at 3J per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting gompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Hank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors;
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1-500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle; —
TH* C*MM*NW**LTH *ND PR*SP*R*TY
W*LL C*M* T*G*TH*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. E. Highman, of West Broken Hill, writes on 7th
May, 1900: “I am happy to inform you that the lady’s
Watch you sent my wife about 18 months ago is a little
gem, and has kept splendid time ever since. . . . My wife
wpuld not part With it for a fiver.”
Address-THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIM€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
JDalqety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
E
American & Australian Line
by the
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of t.hia line are appointed to leave qvdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
SIERRA
MARIPOSA
Leave
Sydnej
at 1 p.in.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
Sl5B Dec. 4 Dec. 8 December 20
Dec. 25 Dec. 29 January 14
3158 Jan. 15 Jan. 19 February 4
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their Journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
KT. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via, Ports.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
[ Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Lloyd Chambers, 7 and 9
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Tjegal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&OO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
White Shirts to measure.
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value: made from
all-wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or fast
color Series ; it Is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order frrtm
any class v f material. J£3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, nery
good patterns. 12s. (id.
Dress Suits, to measure. £s*
Clerical Suits, to measure. Ss*
Biding Breeches, 255.
Biding Habits, &c,
! We supply ready made. Men’s
i capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
1 Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
r Indigo dye, 2.75.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette Suits, 30*.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ,ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s (id.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. (id. Wnite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
(is. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers, 3s. 9d. f 4s. 9d., ss. (id.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs, 2». 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. (Jd.
Sott Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. (id. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
1«.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors,
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
We like to'write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our .book, “ The Philosophy of Press,” ami
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebbleth waite.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(UMITEH).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE*
PORT ITRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY V
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
November 9.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
November 17.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Saturday,
November 10.
Jiest and Cheapest Uoate to <7 oldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets ace interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S. N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR. PASSENGER LfNE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON - Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Pas/tenr/er A eroniniodni i-o a , Attendance and
Cat sin e a n rivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
fiftpoU between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be asceitained on application,
ror Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports."
p anFo! company.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows *—
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
douching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Sydney,
Noon
Steamer.
Commander
BRITANNIA.. 6525 F. 11. Seymour ...|Nov. 17
INDIA 7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.RJDec. 1
AUSTRALIA.. 6901|1. Reeves ... ...IDee. 15
VICTORIA 6527 E. Crewe ~ .. (Dec. 29
ROME ...'55451J. Cowie, R.N.R. ...'Jan. 12
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, 138 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return > 71 10s to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWINY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
m^^^^^jj Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker $ Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HORART,
WEST AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP a.” line.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.’
___ 37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IH‘|luiraitli, Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and' From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage IVToney
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Melbourne address—467 Collto?-streeL Bydney-


The reunions of the missus and the boss
continue in the West. In ’96 there were 42‘28
females to every 100 males in Westralia; for Sept,
of this year the estimate was 5370, and the im-
provement goes on steadily month by month.
It is probable that in future M.L. Govt,
will either altogether prohibit Chinese from keep-
ing laundries, or compel them to observe the same
hours as women workers.
A man in Bowenfels district (N.S.W.)
was mainly instrumental in causing land to be
set apart for a local cemetery, measured it off,
saw about the fencing, &c., and then was the
first person to be interred therein.
Writes a Queensland contingenter:—“ We
used to laugh, when at home, at the Boer girls
over here, but I can tell you there are as nice girls
among them as any I ever saw in Queensland.
You oan tell some of the young ladies this from
me.” That hero doubtless wants to get square
with some Queensland girl who didn’t go crazy
over him in his khaki.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING
OCRS ET S
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long tvaist.
ft©
2*
-
Thom
ONS
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA KTOBLESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-> Ld-, London-
ĥ
OVER
ħ
SHOPKEEPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES
AND
200,000
ALL OVER THE WORLD
HEAD
AUSTRALASIAN
OFFICE :
335 Pin STREET,
—SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM,
GENERAL. MANAGER.
h
ORNAMCNTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South U tiles . . . \
Harbors’ Supply House >
680-2 Gsorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
asf
“MONTSERRAT"LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON ;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL*
Agents :
SYDNEY— Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell &Co.;
E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute
THIS is the only Medi-
cal Institute in Aus-
tralia with a bona
fide capital that stands
behind their guarantee and
is evidence of a faithful
performance of all their
contracts.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
JV© one should hesi-
tate to consult us, as
consultations either
by letter or in person
are given FREE OF
CHARGE .
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK POST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
V
SPECIALITIES :
Heart,
Kidney,
Liver Affections.
Rheumatism,
Sciatica,
Epilepsy,
Gout.
Gravel,
Bladder, and
Spinal Affections.
Blood tV SJein Diseases
Rupture and Riles
Cured without
Operation.
Nerve and Brain
Complications.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government Medical Boards of New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of Australia—CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY.
For privacy Patients may address ‘‘ F. <G W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth St., Sydney.


A lady who was in the Peking Legations
during the siege has contributed an account of her
fxporiencea to two Australian dailies. She says
that the Ambassadors were a weak-kneed lot, with
the exception of the Baron von Ketteler, who was
killed.
Mills, the latest addition to M.L. Cabinet,
will not increase its strength. Hogg would have
been the ablest man for the billet. He is a
staunch Radical, and has the land-settlement
question at his finger-ends. But he was barred as
an anti-Jingo.
Adelaide Electric Tramways.
SOME REASONS
Why the Bill of the British Westinghouse Electric
Manufacturing Company
AND THE
Callender’s Cable and Construction Company, Limited,
SHOULD BE THROWN OUT.
—o-<frqeos».!o
1. BECAUSE they HAVE TRESPASSED on the rights of the GOVERNMENT and the
CORPORATION by arranging to purchase certain of the Tramways within the City and Suburbs
without the previous sanction of either the Government or the Corporation, to the latter of whom
the sole right of purchase was originally granted by every private Act constituting and sanctioning
each Tramway Company, which right of purchase was by the Tramway Act of 1884 transferred to
the Government. The arrangement made for purchasing the Tramways without the express sanction
of the Government previously obtained, was therefore A DEFIANCE OF THE RIGHTS OF
THE PEOPLE and Corporation of Adelaide in the interests of certain private speculators.
2. BECAUSE the whole capital, one and a half millions sterling, of the British Westinghouse
Company is pledged in respect of its manufacturing work and other undertakings, and cannot be
alienated to the exclusive purchase and reconstruction of the Adelaide Tramways, whereas the Cor-
poration Bill, which has received no consideration from Parliament, is backed by a guaranteed capi-
tal of one and a half millions for the express purpose of the Adelaide Tramways only, which sum is
equal to the WHOLE of the present capital of the British Westinghouse Company.
3. BECAUSE the Bill of the British Westinghouse and Callender Companies is NOT THE
SHORTEST ROAD TO MUNICIPALISATION, as, although the Municipalities have at
present no right of purchase,
IT IS NOT TRUE
that even the Govt, cannot purchase the Tramways until 1904 and 1905. The Tramway Companies,
having, in defiance of the law governing the matter, offered to sell their property to private specula-
tors without the previous sanction of the Government, have forfeited any right they may claim to
retain the Tramways for the full term of seven years since the last period has elapsed when the Tram-
ways were purchasable by the Government. The Tramway Companies having declared their willing-
ness to sell to private speculators within the seven years’ term, the Government are at liberty to step
in and insist on effecting the purchase themselves, with a view to either nationalising the Trams or
handing them over to the municipalities, on such terms as they may think best. It is impossible to
suppose that Parliament would allow private speculators to usurp the functions of the Government in
this matter, and thereby rob the Citizens of Adelaide of their rights.
4. BECAUSE, although the British Westinghouse and Callender Companies’ last proposals have
been accepted by a majority of the Municipal Tramways Committee, two of the local governing
bodies there represented, viz., the Corporations of St. Peters and Norwood and Kensington, have
already withdrawn, and others are about to follow, influenced, no doubt, by the fact that FAR
BETTER PROPOSALS have been AND ARE STILL OFFERED to the Joint Municipalities,
proposals which have been accepted by the' Corporation of Adelaide, and embodied in a Bill, which
by a mere technicality has been prevented from receiving the consideration of Parliament. It is to
Parliament, therefore, that the citizens have to look to redress this injustice, and to see that no parti-
sanship or short-sightedness is allowed to stand in the way of the City and Suburbs of Adelaide re-
ceiving the benefits of the better proposals which have been offered them for seven months past.
5. BECAUSE the British Westinghouse and Callender Companies REFUSE, in their Bill,
to give the Municipalities any SHARE IN THE PROFITS, whereas the Corporation Bill, which
has received no consideration from Parliament, reserved 10 PER CENT, of the profits to the
municipalities, besides the payment of £l5OO a year for rent, and for some £5OO per annum for
licenses, a sum which is £5OO in excess of the annual contribution guaranteed by the British
Westinghouse and Callender Companies in the first ten years, and equal to that guaranteed in
the second ten years. Because whatever doubts the British Westinghouse and Callender Com-
panies may entertain, perhaps with reason, as to their ability to work the undertaking so as to
secure the municipalities receiving a substantial sum as the City’s Share of the Profits, the
guarantors of the Corporation Bill, which has received no consideration from Parliament, have
sufficient faith in their ability to make a fair profit on the million and a half they are willing to
invest, not only for themselves, but for the City also, with whom they propose to share it.
6. BECAUSE the Corporation Bill, which has received no consideration from Parliament,
but which is still available to the municipalities, does not propose to wait ten years, or till a
Greater Adelaide is formed, before placing the Tramways under municipal control, but provides
that the Tramways should be acquired from the outset in the name and on behalf of the Corpora-
tion of Adelaide, as Trustees for the whole of the local governing bodies interested, who should
control the undertaking from the outset, and should be represented on the Board of Management,
as also should the suburban municipalities, with whom the City Corporation proposed to divide
pro rata the receipts and profits derived from the undertaking.
7. BECAUSE it would be better for the Citizens to put up with the present Horse Trams for a
short period RATHER THAN BARTER THEIR RIGHTS for an inadequate rental of some
£l5OO per annum, even for the first ten years, and thereby deliver themselves over into the hands of
one particular manufacturing Company for perhaps half a century. If it is assumed by the British
Westinghouse and Callender Companies that the mere obtaining of the options of purchase and the
presenting of them, like a pistol at the head of the Citizens of Adelaide, as a threat that, unless their
proposals are agreed to, the conversion to electric traction will be delayed by them for the next five
years, this leaf, borrowed by the British Westinghouse Company from American practice, will per-
haps result in showing them that the Citizens of a British Colony are not to be so easily coerced to
their own disadvantage by any combination of capitalists whatsoever.
8. BECAUSE the British Westinghouse and Callender Companies were so anxious to complete
the conversion to electric traction in the shortest time possible that they made their arrangements
with the Tramway Companies without waiting for the consent and approval of their scheme by either
the City or Suburban Councils, whom they treated apparently as negligible quantities.
9. BECAUSE the British Westinghouse Company is NOT a Company of world-wide reputation
and experience, unless in the sense of having borrowed those characteristics from its parent, the
Westinghouse Company of America. Inasmuch as the British Westinghouse Company was, according
to “The Electrical Review,” registered on July 10, 1899, it is exactly fifteen months old, and it is to
be hoped that it will not repeat the experiment it is making at present—viz., that of masquerading in
borrowed plumes, but will modestly content itself with emulating the achievements of its foster parent
before claiming the recognition and reward which, and not till then, will be its due.
10. BECAUSE, while it is true that experience has shown that improvements in electrical science
have come from private persons and Companies so far, it is all the more advisable that the City of
Adelaide shall not confine itself to the improvements which may be made by the British Westing-
house and Callender Companies alone, and be prevented thereby from enjoying the benefit of
inventions and improvements made by all the other electrical firms, and perhaps in the end be com-
pelled to purchase, at an exorbitant figure, a system out of date and a type of plant which is obsolete.
The guarantors of the one and a-half millions sterling, which is provided for carrying out the better
proposals contained in the Corporation Bill, which has received no consideration from Parliament,
have no interest whatever in the profits to be made by the manufacture and sale of plant, but it is
their interest and business to see that all the plant used from time to time is of the highest class, the
latest type, and the most capable of producing economical results, and to that end will reserve to
themselves the liberty of purchasing the plant of that manufacturing firm which guarantees the best
results.
11. BECAUSE one of the guarantors of the Corporation Bill, which has received no considera-
tion from Parliament, is the great Exploration Company, who financed and equipped the Central
London Electric Railway, recently opened by his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, which cost
over five millions sterling, the plant for which was supplied by the General Electric Company. It is
only right that the Citizens of Adelaide should be at liberty to obtain their plant where they choose,
and should not be bound to buy from any one or two manufacturing Companies, even if they be of
the standing of the Westinghouse and Callender Companies.
12. BECAUSE the British Westinghouse and Callender Companies have no monopoly for
the expenditure of British money in Adelaide, and that any other British Company would be obliged
to spend the same, while the same amount of capital will be released for local purposes whoever pur-
chases the Adelaide Tramways.
13 BECAUSE, although the British Westinghouse and Callender Companies offer a prior right
to the shareholders only of the present Adelaide Tramways of reinvesting their capital m the new
Company the guarantors of the Corporation Bill, which has received no consideration from Parlia-
ment are prepared to follow the precedent set by the Auckland Electric Tramways Company, by
giving to the whole of the inhabitants of Adelaide, and not to the shareholders in the Tramway
Companies alone, priority of allotment in the new shares before all outsiders.
W. OEHT&T BINGHAM.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(Incorporated by Eoyal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital *•
Reserve Fund (of which £500,000 is invested in Consols, the remainder being used in the business) ..
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . •
..£1,600,000
875,000
.. £1,600,000
£4,075,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT of the DIRECTORS of the BANK of AUSTRALASIA, with the Accounts for the Half-year
to 16th April, 1900, Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-yearly General Meeting, held on Thursday, 4th
October, 1900.
R E P O R T-
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 16th April last, with the Profit Account for the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes, and for
all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half year amounted to £148,422 10s. 3d. From this sum, increased
bv £11,152 12s. 2d. brought forward from the previous half-year, the directors have appropriated £40,000 to the
reserve fund, £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises, and £15,000 for the restoration to those members of
the staff still in the service of a portion of the amount deducted from their salaries in 1895-7. The dividend declared
will absorb £72,000, and there will then remain £12,575 2s. sd. to be carried forward to next account.
As in previous half-year, the profit has been increased by recoveries from old dependencies, and, following the
course then pursued, the directors have added appreciably to the reserves.
The season has, on the whole, been satisfactory, though the rain, so much required in some parts of Queensland,
fell too late to prevent the loss of enormous numbers of stock.
Since the date of the last Report the Federation of the Australian colonies has been sanctioned by Parliament,
and will become an accomplished fact early next year, and there is reason to hope that it will lead to the benefit of
colonial trade.
The dividend declared is at the rate of 9 per cent, per annum, or £ll6s. per share for the half-year, and will be
payable, free of income-tax, in London and in the colonies on the sth October.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 24th September, 1900. W. R. ARBUTHNOT, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT from OCTOBER 16, 1899, to APRIL 16, 1900.
Undivided profit, October 16; 1899 .. .. .. .. £76,162 12 2
Less dividend, April, 1900 64,000 0 0
£11,162 12 2
Profit for the half-year to April 16,1900, after deducting rebate on bills current at balance
date (£11,398 2s. 7d.) and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts .. ..£271,142 2 2
LESS.
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the superin-
tendent’s department, and 160 branches and agencies .. .. £76,771 11 6
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, &c.. 21,965 16 9
London—
Salaries .. .. .. „ .. * .. .. 8,347 17 4
General expenses „ M M ..... M .. 3,771 12 5
£110,856 18 0
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial - _ ..£8,302 2 11
London .. .. .. .. .. _ .. .. 3,560 11 0
11,862 13 11
122,719 11 11
148,422 10 8
Total amount of unappropriated profit .. _ .. „ - £159,576 2 5
From which deduct—
For transfer to reserve fund £40,000 0 0
For reduction in cost of bank premises 20,000 0 0
For donation to staff 15,000 0 0
75,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
£84,575 2 6
BALANCE-SHEET, APRIL 16, 1900.
LIABILITIES.
Dr.
Circulation £530,761 0 0
Deposits .. .. 14,108,276 13 8
Bills payable and other liabilities.. .. 2,822,374 10 6
£17,461,412 4 2
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 875,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is in-
vested in 2f per cent.
Consols at 95, the re-
mainder being' used in
the business.)
Profit account undivided
balance 84,575 2 6
2,550,575 2 6
£20,020,987 6 7
F. M. BLOGG, Accountant.
ASSETS. Cr.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances .. £3,063,263 9 4
Loans at call and at short notice.. .. 1,885,000 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 672,482 18 0
India and colonial Governments’ securi-
ties 251,194 1 2
£5,771,940 8 6
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets 13,822,940 1 3
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand, and London 426,106 16 10
£20,020,987 6 7
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-
sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books.
London, 19th September, 1900. WELTON, JONES, and 00., Auditors.
r
184 Queen-street, Brisbane, October 25, 1900.
the Policy Holders and Agents of the
Ocean Accident and Guarantee Cor-
poration , Limited 9 of London .
Dear Sirs,
The business of this Corporation in Queensland, which has been entirely built up by me, has
now been placed under other management. The following letter will acquaint you of how I stand in
the estimation of the Corporation. I have declined the offer of a Directorship from the Ocean, and
my firm has joined forces with the New Zealand Accident Insurance Company. In the course of a
few days I purpose issuing, in pamphlet form, copy of all correspondence between the Ocean Corpora-
tion and myself, which I feel sure will be the means of securing a continuance of your business through
me, when your interests will be safeguarded as hitherto. Yours faithfully,
J. C. HASSALL.
[Copt.]
J. C. Hassall, Esq., Sydney, August 24, 1900.
Brisbane.
Dear Sir, —Confirming my recent interview with you, I have now with great regret to give
you notice that at the expiration of one month from date, it is our intention to terminate your services
as agent for Queensland.
We all very greatly appreciate the good and hard work put in by you for the Corporation during
the past three or four years, and deeply regret your determination not to be associated with us in the
future. If there is any way in which the connection between yourself and the Corporation can be
perpetuated, I shall be only too pleased to entertain any proposal from you in that direction.
I need not add what I have already told you, that the reason for our taking the step for Queensland
is to bring our organisation into uniformity in the colonies, in that our branch Manager is restricted to
the Corporation’s business only. Yours faithfully,
(Signed) J. J. ALLAN, Manager.
A formal notice is enclosed herewith.
New Zealand Accident Insurance Company.
I have this day appointed Messrs. J. C. Hassall and Company Special Agents for Queensland.
EDGAR W. WALKER,
October 25, 1900. Manager and Attorney for Queensland.
Scottish Union and National Insurance Company.
Invested Funds Exceed £4,000,000.
Caledonian Insurance Company.
The Oldest Scottish Fire Office. Founded 1805.
J. C. HASSALL, Manager for Queensland.
Mannheim Insurance Company (Marine).
J. C. HASSALL & CO., Managing Agents.
Manufacturers’ and Producers’ Agents.
J. C. HASSALL & CO.,
184 Queen-street, Brisbane. General Agents.
NOTICE TO POLICY HOLDERS.
The Business of the Scottish Metropolitan Life (and Accident) Assurance Company, Limited,
having recently been acquired by the Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation, we wish to
intimate to our Clients that we have DECLINED to accept OVERTURES made to us by the latter
Company, preferring rather to act as SPECIAL AGENTS for QUEENSLAND for the COLONIAL
MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY Limited (Accident Branch).
Burns, Philp <£ Co., Limited.


ANOTHER OBSTINATE
LIVER.
Another Effectual Cure.
Tho Cass of
Mr. E. TUCKER.
(A special report.)
In consequeuce of information received, a
reporter interviewed Mr. Edwin Tucker, of
No. 108 Wilson-street, Redfern. A cordial
reception was extended to him, when a de-
sire was expressed to let us know the follow-
ing facts :
“It is now fifteen years ago since my
physical well-being was upset for the first
time in my life,” said Mr. Tucker. “ I was
then living in Goulbum, where many friends
of mine are still located. My liver asserted-
undeniable proof that it was seriously de-
ranged, although I experienced more
anxiety from attacks of palpitation of the
heart, which I thought was diseased. It was
a common thing to be seized with sharp
spasms in my left breast, the violence of
which almost doubled me up in agony.
These fits took away my breath for a while,
leaving me gasping and in an exhausted
condition. I observed great care in regard
to food, everything that I ate and drank
being of an easily-digested character, with
a view to obviating the development of my
complaint.”
* ydur carefulness rewarded ? ”
ot in the least degree. Instead
■ the progress of the disease, my
.sufferings became more intense every day.
Pains in the stomach after meals were daily
increasing in severity. The wind arising
from the same quarter was in greater abun-
dance, belching continuing long after meals
were concluded. Vomiting often took
place, the matter generally being green and
sour in taste, which was a source of un-
pleasantness in my mouth. My tongue was
never free from a coating of an unhealthy
substance, do whatever 1 may to try and
remove it, and I often had ringing sensations
in the ears, accompanied by dizziness in the
head, which made my sight quite weak,
with black specks sometimes appearing
before my eyes. My complexion was
yellow, and, with the tbin, drawn aspect of
my face, I looked frightful. Behind the
shoulders there were continual pricking
puns, and i had a lot of trouble with my
idneys also. There was a never ending,
null, heavy, dragging pain in the lower
ortion of my back, which was particularly
i ad after lying down.”
“ How did your strength keep up 1 ”
“ Whilst I could eat a little food I was
muly strong, taking everything into con-
sideration ; but eventually my appetite left
me altogether. I used to try very hard to
take something sustaining, but my efforts
were fruitless. Things that I could have
eaten ravenously before my illness came on
were obnoxious, and the smell produced a
feeling of sickness. Sometimes I had a
feeble desire for food, but the fulness in my
sliest afterwards, besides the aggravation of
other pains, made me loathe the idea of eat-
ing for days. And I slept very indifferently
—turning from side to side in a restless
spirit of vexation, usually falling asleep
when it was time to get up. I felt more
dead than alive, with aching limbs and
leaden eyes. Just fancy a man getting up-
in that condition to go to work ! No
wonder I was always drowsy and disliked
exertion. Why, on Sundays and holidays
I made the most of my opportunities to rest,
b.ut the same old feelings of lassitude and
fatigue were always apparent. Relief from
occupation did wot diminish the acuteness
of my ailments. I believe, on the other
hand, my miseries were intensified when I
was not at business. Being too restless to
read or interest myself in anything, I spent |
the leisure time in reflecting upon the
seriousness of my illness. ”
“ Such ruminations would not benefit
you ! ”
“Of course not. But my general weak
ness took all pluck out of me. I was too
low-spirited to take a hopeful view of my
case. My future seemed dark and cheer
less, having been invalided so long. A
feeling of melancholy took possession of my
brain, and the unhappy thoughts which ran
through my aching head were enough to
distract me. Nervousness was one of tin
piost conspicuous symptoms of my disease.
Without knowing the reason, I frequently
found myself trembling most violently. 1
had shocks to the system from causes which
were so (rifling and insignificant that they
would have escaped a healthy person’s ob
servation. My health was irretrievably
lost, I thought, as every medicine I had
taken did not show any beneficial effect.
Pills also proved equally useless. Then a
friend told me to try Clements Tonic. I
told him it would be folly to waste any more
money on medicines, as they could not cure
me. His persuasive eloquence at length
prevailed, and when I had taken about two-
thirds of a bottle of Clements Tonic, I could
see I was making rapid headway towards
recovery. After taking a couple of doses I
had a really refreshing sleep—the first I had
enjoyed for weeks. The distressing agonies
of my li\ er complaint begin to ease off, and
the palpitation of my heart ceased to trouble
me. As a matter of fact, there was soon a
wonderful change in my condition. I com
menced to eat my food again with a relish,
and the disappearance of pains from the
stomach and .shoulders intimated that my
digestive organs were improving. Giddi-
ness, nervousness, and headaches submitted
before many days to the remarkable sooth
ing qualities! f Clements Tonic, and my de-
nuded frame regab ed its lost flesh and
healthy vigour.’’
“ Has your health failed yon since ? ”
“ With the exception of a had turn whilst
wor mg in tin mines at Mount Zeehan,
Tasmania, seven years ago, my health has
been grand. The dampness in the mines
accounted for a severe cold, which resulted
in distressing complications setting in. I
took on my old remedy—Clements Tonic—
and again it cured me. It is the only medi
cine that ever did’me good, and at a time,
too, when all other physics had failed.
Clements Tonic worked my complaint tight
out of my system, as 1 have not been
troubled with any of the symptoms since.
For the benefit of others, you are at liberty
to publish my statement how you like.”
STATUTORY DEC LARATION.
I, Edwin Tucker, of 108 Wilson-street, Redfern,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and t.lso
oontains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements-which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of t. er present
Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the Government of
New South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary and
Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.’’
Declared at Redfern, this 27th day of September, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
J. GABBETT BOURCHIER. J P.
MOIR’S
PURE PICKLES.
Assorted kinds in Pint Bottles.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Business Announcements.
HHHHHHHHHHHII hh h h hhhhhhhhh
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
II
II
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H’
H
H
H
II
H
II
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
II
H
H
C. Gr. HATTE’S
Display of
Springy & Summer Millinery
and Oress Fabrics
is the
• SHOW OF THE SEASON •
Ladies will find Matte’s Show Rooms a
palace of enchantment, surpassing any-
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.
The Millinery is directly imported from
the best houses of Paris and London ; and
the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
from the leading manufacturers of
England, the Continent, and America.
m" HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
' For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothing better than one of his
TWO GUINEA SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You
have a big range of materials for selec-
tions ; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
(free) ; and your orders will be faithfully
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department you will save at
least 30 per cent, by patronising
C. Gr EC A. “X' TE,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
HHHHHHHHHHHHH HHHH HHHHHHHH
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
J/Z:
Soda. Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Aie, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
jVo skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water 00.
“ Dear Sirs. —The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. Tiie Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says:—“lt is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says :—“ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says“ It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says : —“Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity."
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.*
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ocean
Accident
■ and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M'Millan, Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.,
Sydney ; L. A. Jessop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlanb ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassali, ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cipbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
iSTHMA CURE
GRIMA'ILT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Oousrhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAOLT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements
Photography
Up to Date.
KODAK
Photography
is the simplest Photography.
KODAK Cameras re-
quire no dark room for changing
the films.
Cameras are
sold at prices to suit all purses.
ss. to £7 15s.
Send Jor Illustrated Price TAst, and
■mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, V'enna,
St. Peter- ui-jr. Meson-. Pn V>e«f - \\ v
v
PILLS.
F° R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills-are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pnoox & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
A Good..
Understanding
Should always prevail .where
boots and shoes are concerned.
There’s a shoe on sale in
Australia which deserves care-
ful attention because of its
intrinsic merits. That shoe is
The “ HERZ ” Shoe.
It is the Shoe to buy because:—
The leather is of the finest
quality.
The shape is elegant, and
is never lost.
For such high-class goods
the price is just right.
It is easy and comfortable
always.
Ask for ‘ HERZ ’ Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
USB
SPOONERS
SPOONERS
V Tffi 4
i*c.TENT LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED HI OS M
t>,m*th*,- *
£1:
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
• SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Dr. Conan Doyle, the novelist, who was
with the British army in S’Africa, writes in Sept.
Strand Mao. on the poisoned-bullet lie
Among the stones lay a packet of the venomous-looking
green cartridges still unfired. They talk of poison, but I
doubt it. Verdigris would be an antiseptic rather than a
poison in a wound. It is more likely that it is some de-
composition of the wax in which the bullets are dipped.
Brother Boer is not a Bushman, after all. He 13 a tou S“:
stubborn fighter who plays a close game but does not
cheat - , ~
™n>“he T ™ e whno/ S
the howling about “ Boer atrocities.”
According to Baron Yon Richthofen the
coal-fields of China are of enormous extent and
richness. In Shansi, 20,000 sq. miles out of the
total area of 53,000 form one immense coal-held,
estimated to be equal to the world’s consumption
for thousands of years to come. Railways to this
district it is stated, will have to be tunnelled
through the coal itself. The local supplies of iron-
ore it is said, are practically inexhaustible ; and
altogether, in view of the fatness of the carcase,
it’s little wonder that the eagles are gathered
together!


FOR INFANTS
& INVALIDS
When added to diluted Cow’s Milk it produces a
complete and perfect diet for the Youngest Infant,
ADAPTED FOR USE in all climates.
MELLIN’S EMULSION
Fop COUGHS,
COLDS, and
BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlet may be obtained of GOWN & Go., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Hearne’s Bronehitis Cure.
TilE FA.3VTOTJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHB, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
ess in the Chest, any , ? on Ji, of B . rollchltl «> Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
dtli g llt; fuUind immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is "most* com-
n°ev2Wn 1 fcb'S’ ™ IC , e ’ ™ d allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption Consumption has
Z e l Com^r n cLt St ce W rS. “ " W No bourse shmdd Te wff = ff, C as, tahen at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficie^
BEIWA.RE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CORED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPI'Y BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearnr. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. —-—-,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Go'd-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was. Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MON T H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEAIfNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add mv testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough w'as so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly' prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
, "” lly ' “ d “ «**»' th ~ >" ~ *° «»•
the nlZine l vet Ch h„t S"” " li ?’ ed f ,ny son quick. I only gave him four do.es, and have some of
Quirindi N S YV 1 d g £or another bottl( -‘ in case I should want it.-D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
‘ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful mediclne.-A. B. SIMMONS, Nc. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.
both*a^wnnderfid °l di’ u"! lam 79,a ?? 1 an) K lad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria ” dfl d 1 f fel, havlng quickly cured us boih.-R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, v,a Broadford,
john b ™'“‘ “ ”>“*• - ,hß “ o,herine
V
“ 1 have found y° ur Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
1 have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
" aS ’ disappeared after tvvo doses.-C, J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
. V, 1 ,atel >: administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect The cure was
absolutely miraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.” me cme was
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
valuaffiim^di&lMrs. 0 ) 1 ” iUS ° Ure With ° Ut delay ’ aS 1 find * tobe a ,uost
G. SETTER, 6 BouSNewVouth ° Ure ‘ Th^ result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once—
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
" lh ' ' ev " 1 - ""°ST “ everybody.—S.
tout i M ff + e ' 6 i d fr °m Cbr ? nic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried vour medicine
TRELAWNEY, J Se a vern a ßive a r? ™ * direCt reSUlt ° f ,ny brief t™L-JOHN c!
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas did not do
and tW ° b °“ leS ° f “‘ ade ™ q^teTe^^oS
“ P ’ ease ® end me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter and has now-
cured a triend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.” ’ “
i Y ?i Ur Ploncb u t, ' S *^ ure bas done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I nreviouslv
n me , n,UCh 'T/ e - 1 a,n .,? atisfled tba t the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have puMed
me through a lon<* and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
Point,' T via Darlingford, r Vkt h oria.^ Ure 1 &0t frotU J '° U WaS ,nagical in its effects—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
•< .. tt “ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during 1 the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others. J
1 We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
«itr wt ci 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
e - e . n .' t ! an US to-day that he had given it to a child
ot his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses. p 4
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
VW. G Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir,-Permit me to express
Pn-f a I 6 ' 1 ? appreciaUon ot u the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect. '
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W. ebale
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY 'THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARSE, Chemist, Geelomr, Victoria.
Branch Depot : ( —'
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods* are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
food f <n>
INFANTS
9
-m
..
MS
iSSS
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
( AND
The aged.
Baedeker’s Guide this year gives the
uoago population as about 1,900,000. Not much
, 00 Canadians. Ihe Anglo-Saxon race !
“Ex-Warder,’’ writing to Sydney Daily
V q w APH ’ tneS *° prove that £ aol offences in
f’ are as numerous now as heretofore, but
V at , f wer offe J>ders are severely punished. He
doesn t prove his case, and the bit of temper he
£X” hI eS ,U ™ away V “Warders in various
sa y s ’, have ,een assaulted since the
introduction of the new system, and the culprits
got off with a few days’ cell, instead of the ‘cat ’
Hut unless a warder is killed, the ‘cat’ will not
. - If u T^ rde * is killed [t is no* the
cat that is called in. But if, as “ ex-Warder ”
contends, the assaults are only as many now as
when the cat was liberally employed, lie pavs
genuine tribute to the efficacv of the new clis6i-
pline.
A London Times actuarial correspondent’s
figures on the war. Total forces (Imperial, colo-
nial and volunteers), 5260 officers, 188,000 n.c.o’s
and men. Deaths from wounds, 380'officers, 3580
£-° S .L nd Deaths from disease, 160 officers,
DJSO others. Officers’ percentage mortality—from
wounds 7‘21, disease 3'06, total 10'27 ; n.c o’s and
from wounds I'9o, disease 318, total
o 08. In the Franco-German war of ’7O-71
where 25,960 officers and 862,800 men were en-
gaged, the percentages show—officers died of
wounds 6'55, of disease 'B9 per cent. ; and men—
of wounds 3'09, of disease 142 per cent. The
figures point out the exceeding risk to officers in
battle in S’Africa and an exceptionally high rate
of death from disease to both classes, yet medical
and ambulance aid is supposed to be far ahead of
what it was then.
Since the introduction of the electric-
trams, the Sydney staircase ’busses (ads. and deco-
rations, complete) have been straying into the
country; in the Northern-line towns you can now
h® driven down to “Circular Quay for 2d,” to
‘ Redfern Railway for 1d.,” &c.
Captain J. Reid—late of the Bengal
Artillery and Bengal Staff Corps—is opening
classes in Sydney for a comprehensive course of
instruction m the Theory of Military Art, as a
preparation lor (1) examinations for commissions
or promotions in the local forces, (2) entrance ex-
aminations for Sandhurst or Woolwich. Captain
Reid may be communicated with at Messrs.
Turner and Henderson’s, Hunter-street.
Gentle and long-suffering was that Vic.
blacksmith and ex-parson who appeared the other
day in Court to complain about his wife and the
inevitable lodger. “ They used to walk together
in the bush on Sunday afternoons,” he said. He
had been “a subject of unconsciousness” for a
time, but when his wife’s habit of going into the
lodger’s room and remaining there for as much as
20 minutes at a time had lasted for about six
weeks he became partially awake. He had also,
he said, seen the lodger leaving his wife’s room at
4 a.m., and about this time he began to think that,
possibly, something was wrong. The husband said
in Court that he wasn’t “an unaccountable sole-
eism ” or an “organ of destruction ” but admitted
that on one occasion when he was suffering from
extreme me.ital anguish Policeman 72 had assisted
him into a cab. When this very gradual indi-
vidual had become convinced that something was
wrong, and when his wife told him the lodger hr d
been ‘fondling her,” he raised “no real row or
tongue hostility ” ; he merely asked the boarder
in a cursory, incidental sort of way to find other
apartments as soon as convenient, but not to un-
duly bustle himself about it. Truly a man long-
suffering and slow to think evil.


LAZY SUMMER DAYS.
STRANGE how many people feel lazy in Summer. “Too lazy to move almost ”is a
common expression at this time of the year, and yet these men and women are
not of lazy dispositions. They are lively enough in the winter. What is the
matter, then ? Why, they are victims of “ that weary worn-out,” which is brought on
by the hot weather weakening the system. The enervating effects of the hot,
“ muggy ” Australian Summer are too well-known to need describing here ; sufficient
to say that the violent heat of Summer debilitates and weakens the human system
entirely if it is not in the most perfect order. Thus it is that people “feel ready
to drop ”at all hours of the day without the slightest apparent cause. To avoid
this lassitude one thing is necessary—the whole system, and especially the digestive
organism, must be in perfect and regular working order. For this purpose there
is no preparation so effective as Bile Beans for Biliousness. Acting in a gentle
manner, they do not (as many other purgatives do) achieve a temporary abatement
of the trouble, but eventually leave the system weaker than ever. On the con-
trary, they strengthen and build up the whole digestive organism, purify the blood
and tone up the nervous system. They have already proved themselves the very
best medicine for all Summer ailments, and are admitted to be the foremost remedy
in Australia. A course of Bile Beans will enable you to move round this Summer
with a light step and increased vitality. There will then be no lack of energy to
mar the pleasures of the Summer season.
A
%
(0/.
M
*
I
TIRED by DAY
SLEEPLESS by MIGHT
AND
_v /
The following Australian newspaper extract will illustrate the great
boon this discovery is to the medicine world.
“ The formula of Bile Beans is the result of long and thoughtful research on the part of
a medical man, who, after years of study, discovered a natural vegetable substance which he
succeeded in compounding with other ingredients, so that its effect on the digestive
organism of the human system is identical with that of the natural bile created by the liver.
Finding this to be the most natural cathartic obtainable, the public rapidly accepted it in
preference to all others. Acting on the bowels in a gentle manner, Biie Beans do not
weaken or in any way distress the patient. This is a point in which they differ materially
from nearly all laxative remedies sold to-day, as the latter usually act in a violent manner,
weakening the patient, and in many cases doing more harm than good. Bile Beans are an
undoubted specific for Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion, Debility, Female Ailments, Liver
Trouble, Costiveness, Piles, That Tired Feeling, &c. Obtainable at all chemists and store-
keepers, price 13M. per large box, or direct from the Australian Depot, 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Remember, Bile Beans are never sold in bulk, by the dozen, or hundred, but
always in sealed boxes, the band around which bears the signatures of the proprietors.
ile
f
isness
GOOD SLEEP, GOOD APPETITE, GOOD BLOOD, follow B.Bs.
The Camel in Westralia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite the perfectly natural and familiar way
in which the camel has established itself on Wes-
tralian soil, there is a peculiarity about it which
makes me feel as if I were looking at a ghost
This peculiarity is not so much its noiseless gait
as the reminder which it brings of a man I once
knew, who is now dead, and ought to be a ghost
in due course. He used to wear a very ill-used
look—a conceited, yet humble, air, which plainly
let you know that he bore injustice sublimely
because he intended to be in Heaven some day
when I was choking, for my wicked crimes, with
murky sulphur-fumes.
Well, the camel looks just like that; it is an
animal characterised by such a stupid, conceited,
uncomplainingly-resigned manner, that I never
saw it without remembering my friend, the ill-
used individual. (This manner is the camel’s
work-a-day expression; wait till it opens its
mouth and shows its jagged, ugly teeth, and you
will get some idea of the vicious part of its
nature.) I have also reflected that the camel
resembles a huge rat with the mange, an enormous
rodent with a big bubonic hump on its back.
The first camel to which I came close enough to
touch was a sick camel. It was resting on its
chest-pad, with one eye partly gouged out and its
head in an altogether battered condition. Curi-
osity tempted me to feel that famous hump. A
bushman called out to me to keep off. “You
want to look out mighty keerful, young feller,” he
said; “you’ve not got a hoss to deal with, you
know.” Naturally I wanted to know why I had
to be careful of a good, patient, docile camel—
man’s comrade of the desert. You see, I had read
all about the camel in that school-book which also
makes us wonder what we would do if we had no
cow. The bushman then started to explain that
the camel jumps up quick, catches you by the
arm or the neck, or maybe by the trousers, and
dashes you to the ground ; then proceeds to sit on
your head with its chest-pad, and finally grinds
that head to pulp. Then we got a bit further off
and studied the camel.
* * * *
After that the study of camels became an occu-
pation of mine. I mixed with the Afghan camel-
drivers, and stood and watched them coming and
goingabout Menzies with their longstringsof sixties
and. seventies. Probably there is no town in Wes-
tralia where the camel is in greater demand. It is
used for carrying purposes—some being yoked to
waggons, but most of them carrying freight on
their humps. People take rides on the camel;
men go prospecting with it. Every hour of the
day you see it shambling along, carrying the
necessaries of those living away from the railway,
in spots where the camel alone makes it possible
for Duman beings to live. Westralian camels
carry timber, machinery, food, water—in fact,
anything that may be required in that desolate
land of sand and scrub. They need no roads, but
take a bee-line to their destination, and the track
is made which only the Afghan who leads them
may know.
Each camel carries about 6cwt. or 7cwt. It is
tethered by a piece of string fastened from a nose-
peg to the saddle of the camel in front of it. The
nose-peg is made of mulga, fashioned like a chess
pawn with a squat bottom, thrust up the nostril
and passed through a hole made in the flesh. The
string is looped over the peg, and so the camels
pass on, “leading each other by the nose.” The
first camel is led by an Afghan, who plods
silently, the camels just as silently following ; the
only noise of the procession conies from a few
bullock-bells fastened to the necks of some of the
camels. It is a picture of monotony—a string of
ghosts from an Oriental clime.
There seems to be no sympathy between a camel
and its driver. You never hear a healthy bit of
swearing, such as usually accompanies a bullock-
team ; there is no cracking of whips. The camel
evidently understands two Afghan words and
nothing more. It is told to “ Hooshta ! ” and it
hooshtas —that is, sits down. Camels are excel-
lent workers, but terrible beasts for routine. If you
train a camel to carry lcwt., and then put 2cwt.
on its back, it won’t work. The camel-driver
nct ’® as ® s the load of his camel on a journey.
If he sets out with half-a-load he must finish with
half-a-load. If he knows that he must take up
freight on the way, lie will start with an equal
weight m rocks ; and throw the rocks off to pick
UP the freight. If .you overload a camel he will
hoosh-ta ’’ without being told, and nothing will
make him rise until the extra weight is taken off.
A teamster told me that he got bogged with a
load of five tons in his waggon. It was drawn by
eight camels. He kept them drawing until he
found that the harness was being broken and the
dray was straining to pieces, when he unloaded.
Now, with the load on, the camels had been draw-
ing three inches at a pull. With the load off they
still drew three inches at a pull.
* * * .
In its ordinary life the camel is a quiet beast
which does its work with very little trouble ; and
there is no danger in working it. The female is
never anything else but a patient, docile worker ;
and the bull is most of his time the same. But
the bull changes at certain seasons, and becomes
unmanageable and jealous of other bulls. To keep
the bull from fighting at these times a piece of
string is fastened from a ring in the ear to the
foreleg, and every time he attempts to bite, the
string pulls his ear. Then he becomes quiet.
The camel is tender about the nose, ear, and brain.
In fact there is very little protection to the camel’s
brain. It has no skull-bone, only a coating of
gristle. The camels seem well aware of this ;
consequently, when they fight, the aim of each
camel is to get its opponent’s head under its chest-
pad and to crush it. They fight only for jealousy.
The female is never in season. She flies from
the bull, who.catches her by the heel and throws
her. bhe resists for hours.
There is a certain amount of truth in the yarn
of a camel going days without water; but in Wes-
tralia this only happens when the camel is so
trained. If you train it to go a week without
water, it will take a drink that swells out its sides
like a barrel. If you don’t train it, it will die of
thirst as soon as any other beast. After all, there
is little to boast about in this resistance to thirst;
because brumbies and scrub cattle will do the
same as a camel. They only visit water at inter-
vals, and then take in a supply that will last them
a number of days among the ranges.
People generally suppose that the hump of the
camel is a sort of anatomical food-and-water sup-
ply. There is one thing certain : a camel in good
condition has a big hump, and a poor camel has
scarcely any hump at all. As a matter of fact,
the camel is like the seal. It lives on its own fat *
and the fat of the camel is its hump. The seal in
rutting time goes six and seven weeks without
food or water. This, as a record, leaves the camel
nowhere.
There is also truth in the idea that water can be
obtained from a camel. 1 know a man who got
some, but he didn’t drink it. He wanted a drink
badly, but he threw the camel-water away, lit a
fare, and got some sap out of a green log. To tap
a camel you insert the blade of a knifoin its flank,
and a billycanful of green, sloppy liquid comes
out; but nobody drinks it. It turns the stomach.
• • » *
I. he chest-pad of the camel is a very important
i P rotect: ‘ s the bone we call the sternum.
W hen a beast ‘ ‘ hooshtas ” you will notice it grind
the hard crust of the soil to dust in order to make
a comfortable spot to rest on. When a camel has
been resting you will notice patches of dust for
yards round. The pad is also a means of defence
or offence, as already stated. It gives the finish-
ing blow. When two bulls fight, the object of
each is to get his head over the opponent’s neck,
and when he succeeds in doing this he catches the
foreleg with his teeth and throws his foe. Then
the chest-pad comes into operation to complete
the conquest. If he can take his opponent un-
awares, he catches the hind-leg, when he can upset
the other camel with the greatest ease.
There is a very noxious slime in the camel’s
teeth, and this slime causes blood-poisoning when
any one is bitten. Bites seem to be the chief
cause of sickness in bulls, and many die ; but their
instinct guides them to those blood-purifying
plants which are indigenous to Westralia, and
often they recover. A man who is unlucky
enough to get bitten is likely to lose a limb.
I he gayest sight I’ve ever seen is a flash young
Afghan mounted on a camel. It is a con-
glomerated rainbow in motion. The man is
clothed in pure white linen, and a scarlet jacket
laced and trimmed with filigree stuff ; round his
gold-peaked hat is wound a voluminous blue
turban, and he sits on colors even brighter than
those he wears. .The rugs beneath him are of
green and orange and crimson; the bridle he
guides his beast with is similarly colored ; on the
head of the camel is a gay head-dress, and round
its knees are bright garters hung with bells which
jingle as the camel trots by. A Chinese pro-
cession is gay ; but a party of Afghans out for a
ride in regalia would eclipse it. The walk of a
camel is like a small boat in a rough sea, and its
motion sickens those out for a first ride. The trot
is easy. A camel will bolt. I heard of one bolt-
ing with a man, and then dashing him off and
crushing him with its chest-pad.
* * * *
The Afghans have made great fortunes out of
the camel in Westralia. Many of these Asiatics
are house-owners, and reap big harvests from rents
as well as from carrying. A couple have the
reputation of being millionaires ; and this is likely
enough, since very high prices are charged per
ton for carrying. The camel is a dry-weather
beast, however ; and,.of little use in rough country.
It cannot travel on boggy soil any better than
horses, and stony country appears to make it very
tender-footed. It is cheap to keep, as it subsists
largely on the salt-bush. It is a great nuisance
about a camp. The miner’s homestead rarely has
any fence about it, and when it has, the camel
breaks the fence down to get at the eatables in
the frail structure. To teach it a lesson the
miners make it “hooshta!” and then put some
boiling tar on a part not mentioned m polite
literature. The camel never returns to attack
that camp. It stands a few hundred yards off,
gazing pensively at the spot of its punishment.
The camel has come to Australia to stay. It
will live and thrive here like the rabbit and the
hare. The white man is beginning to understand
it and work it as well as the Afghan, and some
day he will rise up and tell the Afghan to go, for
he can work the camel without him. Probably
we will teach the camel to buck-jump, and we shall
run-in brumby oamels ; and it may yet be said of
the Australian youth that he dearly loves the
camel. Or the Commonwealth may hear of a
Melbourne Cup being raced for and won by a
camel, and on some stations all hands will turn
out to see Jimmy, the aboriginal, ride an outlaw
camel.
N.s.w.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
The President of the Japanese Hguse of
Peers recently visited Europe and America, and
on his return stated, in a public address, that the
one thing which especially impressed him was the
fact that the men who control affairs in Great
Britain, Germany and the United States are
sincere Christians. And yet the Japs are said to
have no sense of humor.
Dear Bulletin, —With regard to your
“Plea for the Loving Woman,” and the M.L.
lady’s gaol-cure for illegitimate child-bearing,
in the last century a woman named Polly
Baker was prosecuted in Connecticut, America,
for the fifth time—for giving birth to illegitimate
children. This is the speech which is handed
down as having been made by Polly Baker on
her own behalf: —
May it please the honorable Bench to indulge me in a
few words. I shall not trouble your honors with long
speeches. All that I humbly hope is that your Honors
will charitably move the Governor’s goodness on my be-
half that my fine may be remitted. This is the fifth time,
gentlemen, that I have been dragged before your court
on the same account,; twice I have paid heavy fines, and
twice have been brought to public punishment for want
of money to pay these fines. This may have been agree-
able to the laws, and Ido not dispute it; but since laws
are sometimes unreasonable in themselves, and therefore
repealed, and others bear too hard on the subjects in par-
ticular cases, therefore there is left a power somewhere
to dispense with the execution of them.
Abstracted from the law I cannot conceive what the
nature of my offence is. I have brought five fine children
into the world at the risk of my life. I have maintained
them well by my own industry. Can it be a crime to add
to the number of the King’s subjects, in a new country
that really wants people? I should think it a praise-
worthy, rather than a punishable action. ... I shall be
told, ’tis like, that were there no assembly in this case,
the precepts of religion are violated by my transgressions.
If mine is a religious offence, leave it to religious punish-
ment. You believe I have offended Heaven, and must
suffer eternal fire—will not that be sufficient ? . . . But
how can it be believed that Heaven is angry at my having
children when, to the little done by me toward it, God
has been pleased to add His Divine skill and workman-
ship in the formation of their bodies, and crowning it by
furnishing them with rational and immortal souls F
If you, gentlemen, must be making laws, do not turn
natSral and useful actions into crimes by your prohibi-
tions. Take into your wise consideration the great and
growing number of bachelors in the country who, by
their manner of living, leave unproduccd hundreds of
their posterity. Is not this a greater offence against the
public good than mine? . . . What shall poor young
women do, when custom hath forbid to solicit the men,
and who cannot force themselves upon husbands, when
the law takes no pains to provide them any, and yet
severely punish them if they do their duty without them
—the duty of the first great command' of Nature ?—a
duty from the steady performance of which nothing has
been able to deter me.
Compare those words with that Maoriland
lady’s utterances as reported, and decide on which
side are reason and womanhood. —Yours,
V.R.


DA.PTO (Lalie
(LIMITED-),
Illawarra),
near
SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
mmsm
MAKERS OF
“S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
it
ILLAWARRA
5J
BRAND OF.
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply io E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Led., DAPTO, N.S.W. , or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep!
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
fill your Nerves with Electricity every night while you sleep, and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S RC-INVIGORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will feel the dawn of new life in every organ of your body.
All the Nerves will be charged with renewed energy, and your heart will beat stronger with the
fladness of youthful vigor. To men who are Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless, Despondent,
,osing Memory, Wasting the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys ; who
notice a weak general collapse of all vital parts ; to such men Electricity and the Re-lnvigorator as
I apply, it will bring happiness and health. Its effect on Weak Nerves and Organs is truly
wonderful. ITS TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
I the Blood with the fire of youth, and gives new vim and confidence While if io e
man is restored. mth warmth > aild within a few weeks the full vigor of
MV €L€CTRIC BOPy B€LT
SSikTan "
made. It is guaranteed for one year without any expense for renewal, or repairs 7 a PP hance
Price -Electric Belt, 10/-; Re-in vigorator, 7/6 Bottle— 3 Bottles, £l.
AND
Dr. CLARKSON’S R E-IN VI GO RATO R
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be StronJ.
Call if you Can. If not, let
Call or
Apply •
ĥ
CUT
RATE
drug store,
Cut-Rate Price list Post Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Wreck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! Private Enterprise ! or public theft!
, commerce * or whatever is your name-
You’ve struck me with your very dirty left,
And so I leave the game.
And so, oh trade ! I pray thee step aside
Without unnecessary row or fuss.
I am the groom who’s lost his blessed bride—
The bloke who’s missed the ’bus.
Let all the waves of commerce o’er me roll
So long as one occasional roller to the bar
Shall lift me, ’fore the trade-wind of the bowl—
Steering by Martell’s star.
X am the water that does not excel,
I am the round peg in the hole that’s square,
I am the good intentions paving hell,
lam old self-neglect ! and—l don’t care !
Oh, Lord, the world and all it holds are thine !
If so, You own all mining shows that be,
And all the duffers on the Margaret line,
And all the stock that’s been the death of me.
So, Lord, I think it right to state that in Thy
Stock Exchange
(And if it isn’t Yours —who’s got the deeds?)
Slowly does manhood perish by the mange—
The mange of easy-gotten gold in change for
weeds.
Oh Lord, the canker of the Room is on them—-
They till with lying, and reap sordid fruits !
Saving Your presence, Lord, gold lust’s upon them,
And of Finance they are the prostitutes.
Thou knowest, Lord, there’s no false pride in me !
And so I pray Thee save these worthy men,
Give me their wealth—their everlasting fee—
And all their present pangs I’ll suffer then.
What was it, Lord ! that knocked Thy servant out?
The bear of “ Morgans, ” or the “ Garnet ” bull ?
But never mind the way it came about —
My glass is empty, though my cup is full.
’Tis all the same—Thine hand hath chastened me—
Thy righteous ire hath struck me in the mouth ;
For, Lord, I was too fresh —I flew too free—
I bought Kalgurlis South.
My luck is gone—l always throw the seven !
Each spec. I have doth fail—
-1 am the Only Genuine Jonah —yea and even
I’ve lost my blessed whale.
The wild ass does not bray when he hath oats,
Over his fodder the ox loweth not—
But hear my brayings when I hear the quotes
Of yesterday that sent my stock to pot.
Ob, Lord ! the wicked flourish like a green bay
horse -.
(And that quotation seems awry and wrong—
Quotations all are wrong to me, of course:
Ere they are right, how long, oh Lord, how
long!)
Send a blind boom in all the stocks I hold !
Force other people’s stocks their par beneath !
Break thou the jaws of them who would enfold,
As their collateral security, my teeth.
Ha, my once friend—Zophar the Naamathite !
From that man’s knavery to mine is far ;
I care not ! I shall drink with him to-night!
He nods ! —l’m called unto the bar !
Slumpville (Vic.)
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
“How-de-do?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The vaunted progressiveness of the nineteenth
century was never more fully exposed as a fraud
than when lately I met a lady who once had been
queen of my heart, not only at morn but also at
noontide and in the gloaming, to say nothing of
the bridge at midnight. I don’t suppose any two
people loved as did we two. I used to fall asleep
in the office thinking of her. In fact, the only
time I could not sleep was when I went to bed,
for then, in the silent watches of the night, I
realised the hopelessness of my position. She
was the daughter of a retired and deceased publi-
can, and her mother had just enough .money to
live without working. Being pecuniarily nobody,
I had been given to understand that the likes of
Gwendoline M‘Manus was not for the likes of me;
and later a letter of mine was found in Gwen’s
pocket which caused my complete banishment
from the halls of M‘Manus. We still remained
engaged, and met furtively with joy, and parted
—heaven knows how. I don’t know why I did
not carry her off, unless it was because she was
built on a liberal scale, like her late lamented
father. She had a kind, broad, beaming face and
large crimson lips which to the privileged touch
were like red velvet cushions.
The inevitable discovery of our secret meetings
soon came, through yet another letter being found
in Gwen’s pocket. It was such a sweet one, she
wrote me, she could not bear to destroy it; so at
our next tryst she did not appear, and shortly
afterwards our engagement was broken off, mainly
because she got married to someone else. He was
a Greek prince, I believe—a wiry little bone of a
man, with diamond rings on every finger and a tall
hat tilted rakishly on a mass of black, curly, well-
oiled hair. I could not, at first, understand how
he got Mrs. Mac.’s consent.
But Mr. Kouparthphysgolos, who was called
“Koupar” and finally Mr. Cooper for short,
went about matters quite simply. He adored
Gwen from the moment he saw her, and told her
mother he would settle all his possessions upon
her. This sounded rather large, as she was not
aware that they consisted of a fish-shop and two
ice-cream barrows in Melbourne. As an alterna-
tive he promised that if she did not marry him he
would shoot everybody connected with the affair,
put the bodies in a heap, and slay himself on the
summit of the pile. Gwen had never before been
courted in this volcanic fashion, and she was
frightened and pleased and interested. Moreover,
she was too large and lazy to resist violently.
I lost her, and for some weeks life was a blank,
enlivened only when wild visions came to me of
plans to make large sums of money by backing
horses, or robbing a mail-steamer, and then carry-
ing off my large, lost love. Then somehow pro-
sperity began to come my way. I Was gradually
made welcome in better society than Gwen or her
mother could have commanded. Here I met
ladies of a much more refined stamp, but their
pale faces and thin lips seemed tame and lifeless
after Gwen’s robust, plate-like face, Junoesque
body, and cushiony mouth. I wouldn’t marry,
but began to make money. In a few years Mrs.
Mac. would have welcomed me as a suitor, if I
had been twice as black as Koupar.
Well, I met Gwen unexpectedly face to face in
Bourke-street, and said as I shook hands, “ How-
de-do?” The inexpressible stupidity of the people
who have charge of our language had neglected to
"find me anything more fitting to say than that
awful banality. She also said, like an echo,
“ How-de-do ?”
Neither of us told the other how we did. I was
too much confused to know, and she was the pic-
ture of health. Such health ! The full swelling
figure of 20 had ripened into one of 40, which now
nearly filled the sidewalk and compelled her to go
into a shop edgeways. She had a tiny moustache.
She breathed heavily, and ; her ample bosom rose
and fell like a large bellows. The last time we
met that bosom was palpitating on mine, and I
had implored her to elope. I had said that surely
for love’s sweet sake we could live on bread and
water for a while until I found out where the
neigh bor’s fowls roosted. Anyhow, I was confi-
dent my earnings would buy us a loaf every day,
and, as for water —I knew where there were tons
of it. But even in those old poetic days Gwen
was a slave to four square meals a day. She
nearly fainted at the thought of bread and water,
and I had to hold her in my arms and kiss her for
five minutes before she recovered sufficiently to
say “Good-night ” and go home.
Here I was in Bourke-street, with all these
years of accumulated sentiment, and able to say
only “How-de-do?”
Had I been a Frenchman I could have said
“Mon ange! ” for that beautiful language is full of
sweet phrases which sound lovely, but do not
mean much.
Our own tongue abounds with uncouth idioms,
which sound awful but have worlds of meaning.
These were well enough in the semi-savage days
of the middle ages. I have heard my grand-
mother tell of an ancestor who came home from a
picnic one day—about the time they began to use
forks in England—so full of spear-heads and
arrows that he could not get his undershirt off on
account of the points which stuck out between his
ribs. His wife said, “Grammercy, my lord !
How fare ye?” as if he were a tram-conductor
instead of being merely a temporary arsenal, and
he replied, “Odds bodikins,” or words to that
effect. He died soon after while an eminent
surgeon was bleeding him.
However, I felt the poverty of our language
keenly. I could not say “Mon ange!” for I
have a sense of the ridiculous. To a Frenchman
love is never ridiculous, except in other people.
There are no angels of Gwen’s build ; at least if
there are I have never seen them in Michael
Angelo’s_ pictures of Heaven, and he had a circle
of acquaintances in that way.
She recovered first. “Oh, I am so pleased to
see you ; I knew you at once, you don’t look a day
older. Do come to lunch with us, and how are
you ? ”
“I am quite as well as could be expected,” I
replied, ‘ ‘ but—about ma?”
“ Oh ! poor mater will be delighted to see you.
We all heard of your success.”
Here we hailed a tram, and I took her on the
“dummy,” fearing if we went inside I should have
to push her edgeways through the door with my
head, as elephants propel their loads. Her broad
face beamed upon me as we, rode on. I could see,
when she told me Mr. “Cooper” was no more,
that I should not have to say “goodnight” out
at the gate now, even if I wanted. It seemed
from her talk that the entertaining, dressing, and
other expenses necessary to the maintenance and
exhibition of such a fine woman had taxed Mr.
Cooper’s energies till he had perished in the
struggle. Possibly eating some of his own fried
fish at threepence a slab had hastened the event.
He had left Gwen three children, besides the fish-
shop and ice-cream stands. But three swarthy
Macedonian brigands came in on bills-of-sale, so
the three daughters were the only assets she saved
out of the Greek’s estate.
We got off at a neat cottage which bore evidence
of trying to look much more “swagger” than it
really was. Three girls were idling about the
garden, and Gwen called the eldest and presented
her as “ My daughter, Meda.”
And this Andromeda was as beautiful as her
fabled namesake by the sea could possibly have
been.
She blushed divinely, too, and watched me with
eager eyes all the afternoon while I talked, and
Gwen beamed as if Time were a ’bus and had just
stopped to pick us up where we last got out. I
have always been deemed a lucky man, and began
to think it true, when I watched Meda’s enrap-
tured face, as, with closed eyes, she drew divine
music from her violin that night. Had not Fate
and Mrs. Mac. known what was best for me I
might have been starving all the days of my youth
to provide luxuries for that magnificent woman
whose large, blue, plate-like eyes were gazing at
me with growing signs of ownership. I might
have been across the Styx with Koupar, watching
his countrymen enduring their fantastic punish-
ments. By the way, I wonder why the gods did
not invent one which compelled a man to stand
at a window and look down to earth upon his
wife’s second husband spending his hard-earned
wealth ! I might have paid the piper all these
years, but shaken never a leg myself. Now .
There were many nights like this, varied by
walks in the garden, when Gwen wanted to spoon
and made excuses to get rid of the children, but I
would not have it. I loved children—of Meda’s
age.
One memorable evening, Gwen went into the
house to entertain a caller. I sent two of the girls
to buy half-a-ton of lollies. Gwen came to ask us
in to make music. It happened strangely that
Meda was not one of the children who had gone
for sweets.
Like most people who speak English, Gwen
found the poverty of the language, when under
the influence of strong emotion, somewhat trying.
When she fully grasped the situation, her first
words were : “ Well, here’s a pretty how-de-do ! ”
I never saw her angry before or since.
Meda and I live at Potts Point now. It’s awk-
ward for a man with a good memory to have such
a mother-in-law within calling distance.
PERCE ABBOTT.
Opened 14 months ago, the Nordraoh
Sanatorium, near Dunedin (M.L.), for the treat-
ment of consumption by the open-air system,
has achieved excellent results. Of 21 cases dealt
with, all but three of the patients have improved
wonderfully; some have returned to work appa-
rently quite cured; others are continuing the
open-air treatment at their homes. Sanatorium
patients live in cottages, and their doors and
windows remain open day and night, except in
stormy weather. No fires are allowed, but wraps
are largely availed of in cold weather. Exercise
consists of slow tramps up the hills as the lungs
strengthen. An astonishing thing about the
regime is the enormous amount of food consumed
—three or four times as much at each meal as
patients were previously accustomed to. Some
weaklings with one foot in the grave, who tried
the institute as a last resource, put on over a stone
in a month.
Supposing Seddon accomplishes his South
Sea annexation scheme, which includes the
granting of responsible government to Fiji, it will
be interesting to note how the q uestion of giving the
franchise to local niggers is dealt with. In the
mixed black and white government of Thakom-
bau Bex, which ruled from 71 to 74, the darkies
were allowed the right of voting for M’sP.,
though they could not exercise it much owing to
their want of knowledge. The arrangement was
nevertheless most distasteful to a large section of
the whites, who also set up their backs against a
Fijian judge sitting on the Supreme Court Bench
in imitation scarlet-and-ermine. The present
population of the islands is about 2000 whites,
108,000 Fijians, 9000 imported colored laborers
(mostly coolies from India), and SOO half-castes.


Bad Blood; Boils and Sores.
A Great Blood-Purifier and Tonic.
Almost Unbearable Heat of Summer Soon Puts
One in the Grave.
A Valuable Fever Antidote.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
iWLWJs 9
9
■ >
£
“While in West Australia one of ns had what is known as ‘Barcoo Sick-
ness,’ due to had food and water, together with the almost unbearable summer
heat of that colony. This disease soon puts a man in his grave unless he treats
it promptly. I came out of it in fine shape because I relied entirely on Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a cure.
“ Both of us have used this great remedy for boils and sores on our arms and
hands, as a blood-purifier and general tonic, and as a perfect antidote to fever
while in camp or at home. We both believe there is no remedy equal to this
grand old medicine we know so well.”
Dowling Bros., of 103 Hindley St., Adelaide, So. Australia, send us this letter
and the above photographs with permission to use. After such an experience
they can certainly call Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla “Ayer’s.” Don’t let any-
body induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so strong as
you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
AYER’S Sarsapa ri 11 a
Builds up the Whole System.
AYER’S PILLS act on the liver; they cure biliousness*
ħ
h
f>r*
2 3
INGDONAV
J.ONDOM.
mnmm id
, SRIGEBS & SPEAKERS
fer
ĥ
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MKDICAL COMMON SjEltfSlK.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, la 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, tilus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free la.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free la. The
Art or Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentagk, Sd posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties, Lore, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals. Ss 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus, Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comio Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chbvasse’S Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest soiit*.
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is Sd posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIB BOBEBT BEAB wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTEBESTING AND BABE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
s'wiHf’s
I? OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind, and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos f iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE f IRS T DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak-Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, ana
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “ facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls l|d, and 2s 9d each.
HIS GREAT MISTAKE.
’T:
*0
“You get down off that cab, sir,
black your eye.”
an’ I’ll
*’ H M
ħ
h
-
ew Woman:
Well, now,
t’ump ? ”
“ STEELE RUDD’S ” BOOK -
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
MAORiLANP : aijd Other Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shillings (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd-, Sydney and Brisbane.
ĥ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomaen,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most grentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
ħ
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORO’S MAGNESIA.
%
1 i
BQwwingtons
KH MOSS
iCORGEBOKNiNGTCN
SNOULONINNOfI
%
m
%
Reme4y f or
WINTER COUGHS,BRONCHIA, INFLUENZA.
Otsk for Bennington's


h
1 FOOT, 4d.
6 FEET, Is Bd.
10 FEET, 3s 4d.
15 FEET, ss.
& CO.,
RUBBER GIRDED HOSE
270 George-st.,
20 FEET, 6s Bd.
30 FEET, 10s.
40 FEET, 13s 4d.
60 FEET, 20s.
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman's Building, Adelaide.
h
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
+
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ĥ
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
>:';V
FORKS
‘SHOOtf-iWOHg
HHIE iLY
r
<©HE JJbBOT
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PROPRS.. SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TECS! BLOOK, W
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
@0
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. EX.DBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOllK NT it Win', SYDNEY
COpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Order* by pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ħ
George and
Market-Sts.
h
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COC O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
ONES THOUSAND HHOHLE .... v
died from Consumption in Sydney last year,, and this dire disease is spreading day by day. And no wonder. If citizens are so careless about their supply of Milk, the wonder is that there
are not more deatlis. There will be! ! • v * ■ , ,
TTEKE’S A. SHORT STORY.
A milk supplier to Sydney had three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was afraid his healthy cattle would become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another
supplier who sent his milk to the same distributors. The seller now feels annoyed to think that the Sydney purchaser had been paying for all the milk from the diseased animals for some
inonths past. THIS MILK TS BEING SOLD IN SYDNEY TO-DAY ! This is no fairy tale, but an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an individual case ;
there are man v, alas ! too many of a similar nature. . v
mSPBCTIOKT OF DAIRIES ABTD CATTLE ....
The N.S. W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every cow in every dairy thoroughly inspected, as well as the premises and utensils-used. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
arriving under standard quality is condemned. They laugh at local inspection. They lose suppliers because of their strict methods of inspection.
The Company sells milk in bulk or in bottle that is PASTEURISED. If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a premature death. Use only the milk supplied by the
F.F. &I. Coy., and they will get'healthy and strong. Strong robust people will grow the stronger. If, after this NOTE OF WARNING, you continue to use milk from cows *uf»ring
from Tuberculosis—hr, in plain words, Consumption—you deserve to die, for the fault rests with yourself.
The F.F. and I. Coy., Ltd., is the only Company who has an Inspector in its regulahemploy. If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with ua ; but if you want to rear
weaklings, or be weak, then Don’t.
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
JET. Bateson,
Manage*-.
ħ
h
ĥ
ROCK
DRILLS
IngersolS-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
“ New Ingereoll.”
CO
LU
PARKE & LACY
' '
ii
TD.
COY.
..
HXT
Blake Steam Pumps
mmSm
“ DUPLEX’’
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN «° SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
ħ
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
I f¥l+lTfcl«P
BOOKS
ETC.,
LOW PRICES.
ENGLISH, FRENCH,
GERMAN.
Largest ratal, with Model, nice.
25 miniat. 3 Sh.
APPY <Sc CO.,
65 Rue Pigalle,
PARIS, FRANCE.
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELDT.
