

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. LAMB’S RUM.
S FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GUARANTEED PURE COCOA. AKTD ZEXTIFt.A.OT OF JUr^X-T
XS. G. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining- Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
NM
SEND FOE PRICES AND PARTICULARS
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Invereli)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WIME^>
AUSTRALIA.
£ST Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-8s pm str«t, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & Co. T.a
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL. FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
and BOILERS AND PUMPS.
ECCB KT'l'itlO TUR.A.SI£I3\rG- MTA CTTTTVF:« S-A.-W*
BBDNTCXXBS, &c., &c
THORITE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
SANBEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
RACKAROCK>»
HOBART.
jJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK’S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
cM
oo
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
N
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The .Leading - Uenc oi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICf & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
“WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
Messrs. T. C. WILLIAMS COMPANY, of RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.,
have prepared for this market a
HIGH-GRADE TOBACCO
Under the Brand of
‘WEALTH OF NATIONS;’
The knowledge which the manufacturers have gained in supplying the favorite
brands of Welcome Nugget, Victory, and Diadem, enables them to confidently
recommend Wealth of, Nations
TO ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists and Stores.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDI SWAN \
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE - RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TMOHSTO
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street
WYjN YARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 21. No. 1052. J
f Saturday, April 14, IUOO.
Be,rsfered at the Genera! Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
'Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
M
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . 4 onto'ii AO cocaine or other poisonous tint;/ . . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, Isdd; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
The excellent taste of some among the public was
shown by the pictures purchased from Sydney
Society of Artists’ Sketch Exhibition. Decidedly,
the plums of the show, at the prices, were
picked. By .the way, it requires a real mental
effort to avoid the influence of the red ticket in a
picture-corner: the fact that red gold has been
paid for that red ticket—that the picture is
approved by Somebody—does its best to vitiate
ones judgment. But far more of the pictures
saoultl have been sold : there remained many which
were interesting, and cheap. The show claimed
no higher epithet than “interesting,” but it
was that. My own fancy leaned most to Mrs.
Fred Parsons “Sketch near Mittagong,” which
has depths to dream over. Sid. Long’s “Bush
Fire, Hawkesbury” made one feel that he
has the root of the manner in him : when
he has learnt to paint bitter he will surely
paint very well indeed. An 1 there were other good
examples of his talent. Florence Fuller’s “A
Breezj' Spring Morning ” was sp icially attractive ;
Dattilo Rubbo and J. S. Watkins showed good
work; and there were others. R Sidney Cocks was
again best in a favourite water-colour subject—a
low coast under a lowering sky : his rocks seemed
less effective. And there were yet others. Really :
there should have been (with a little taste, and a
little money) people enough in Sydney to buy half
the sketches hung. There were not. Never mind:
the work is its own reward.
♦
Harry Lhurston Peck, in N.Y. Bookman, was
lately discussing the ominous significance of
names. And there is no mistake about it: we are
all what our names mike us. Is not Napoleou as
necessary le Grand as Albert is the lackadaisically
Good—for nothing in particular? What man
could achieve greatness upon whom his god-
parents thrust the baptismal titles of Reginald
Frederick ? Do we not owe the inanities of modern
womankind to Maude with an e and Alyce with a
y and Gladys in conjunction with Smith? But
what a treasury of domestic virtue in the plain
Jane of our foremothers! what cooking capacity
in Susan ! how Martha swept and scrubbed ! to
what majesty might not Mary aspire ! Question:
Why are our M lto:i3 mute and inglorious ?
Answer: Because they are named Gerald Augustus
instead of plain John. For what saith the proverb:
Give a Dog a Bad Name, and Hang Him !
His name is the one thing a man never
escapes from. He can change his creed and his
tailor, he can divorce his wife, he can throw away
every atom of flesh and get a complete new body
every few years ; but he cannot drop the conse-
crated cross of the christening-font or evade the
sinister obsessions of the birth-certificate. Post
equitem sedet Eustace Algernon, and round Glara
Ysabel’s neck the noose is drawn every night
anew. Vainly the hare doubles in deference to a
legator : Maliound is always at its heels ; and long
after the individual is annihilated his name may
be enjoying tombstone immortality at sixpence a
letter, or ninepence if Old English text be per-
mitted to more tenderly assuage the ecstasies of
Grief.
A letter —
Post Office, Armidale, April 2/1900. Dear Book-
fellow,—A report is current in Queensland I am dead.
Some months ago I was very Sick with fever, from which
—according to what I heard—the report had arisen. Now
if such a report is likely to be believed by many friends, I
should consider it a favor if you -will contradict it in Bul-
letin. I have not yet recovered my true tone, and am
' forbidden to swim by the doctor, but I’m risking it—see
enclosed.—Yours very faithfully, Artiiur A. D. Bayldon.
The enclosure—
“ Last appearance of the champion back-stroke swimmer
of the world in Armidale Swimming Baths on Wed-
nesday night at 8.30, under the Mayor’s Patronage. Brass
band in attendance. Will leave the Post-office at 8 p.m.
Programme : Arthur A. D. Bayldon’s feats never before
exhibited by any other champion. 1. Floating in 3ft. of
fresh water for 15min. without a movement. 2. The
torpedo champion movement. 3. Fish side shoots. 4.
Swimming feet first under the water. 5. The pendulum
and revolving combination. 6. The corkscrew curve. 7.
Swimming under water with hands and feet strapped,
Mr. Bayldon’s greatest achievement, recognised by swim-
ming authorities as the most difficult and dangerous feat
ever attempted by a swimmer. 8. The sturgeon stroke—
the favorite quick stroke of the English quick swimmers.
9. Swimming backward with feet and one hand above
water, the body submerged. 10. The flo.ating statue—
the most graceful movement in the swimming world,
invented b3' Mr. Ba.vldor.. During the night a sensational
dive of 35ft. will be given. Mr. Bayldon will enter the
water at 8.30. Adults, Is. ; children, fid. Reserved seats
for ladies.”
And the Muie blushes—as she ought.
♦———
While still palpitating from that shock, THIS
came—
-38 Carrington-street, 3rd April, 1900. Dear Book-
fellow, —I suppose you and your family drink tea. At
present I am a firm of tea-merchants doing business at
the above address. I “ await your esteemed order” in
the cant of trade, and am learning to sign 1113'self your
obedient servant, J. Le Gay Bkeketon.
And another enclosure—
With the compliments of Brerston and Goodsell, Tea
Merchants, 38 Carrington-street, W3'nyard Square.
Packets of J ib. and lib. and tins of 61b., 121 b. or 20jb., or
in any larger quantity that may be ordered. Blend,
Is. 3d. ; Blend or Pure Ceylon, Is. 6d. ; Pure Ceylon, 2s.
If m3' blends don’t suit your palate, I’m ready to make up
a special blend to suit individual taste.—J.L.G.B.
At this the Muse, lurking moodily beneath the
table, cried with a loud voice and gave up the
ghost. She will be buried in a tea-chest, and
pure (Uvhri at 2s. pc lb. will be planted cm her
grav e. And in m unory .0: the sin l event, Breretoa
and Goodseii are authorised to “ make up a special
blend” to be called The BookfeUow’s Blend;
and all good bookfellows are exhorted to send
their esteemed orders to 38 Carrington-st.
:
In this way the Condensed Contributor revenges
herself—
“ What are you doing ? ” said the Story. “ Condensing
you,” said the Writer. “I don’t want to be con—’’
“ founded; I suppose not, so keep calm.” “ Why—”
“ Editor’s orders ; you ’re too lengthy.” “ Oh —you ’re not
condensing, Master. You ’re amputating.” “ What c.o
you know about it ? You ’re as bad as a woman. Steady 1
—now your power of speech is gone. Conversation is too
slow a method of telling things. All your thoughts are
now reduced to a few emotions.” “My speech is n’t gone.
I can still croak.” “ You don’t think anybody will listen
to that, do you ? There, you are finished. Go and ask the
editor if you will do.” “Come in,” said the editor, absently.
“I’m in,” croaked the Story, sdraggling to reach the top of
the desk. “Can’t see you. Batter come out, then I might.”
“ I’m the story.” “ That is hardly as definite as it sounds.”
“ I’m shortened. My master sent me to see if I would
do.” “ Beg pardon—ha ! I see you. There, sit on this
pile of paper. And, as you are so short, perhaps you will
also he brief?” “My imagination is gone—the ink
objected to that part of me. It didn’t care to be was ed
on anything so insubstantial. I have no regret.
The compositor said I took up too much room
and time. M3' jealousy and ficklemindedness are
gone.” “What is left of you? He might as well
have cut you in halves at once.” “I—— ” “Here!
take this to your Master.” And he wrote :- “Go
and study your dictionary in the ! a:np’ and ‘con’
columns, and condense ! condense !! condense !!! ” “ I’m
hack,” said the Story to the Writer, meekly presenting
the Editor’s message. “ Get on the table,” growled the
Writer. . . . “Now, go and see if you will do. I’m
exhausted.” “I’m back,” said the Story to the Editor.
“ Well, what are 3'ou now? ” “I can be born, married,
and buried in three lines.” “ Good 1 ” “I can cry in
half a line.” “Better.” “There is a good fml of
information left. It goes a long way in filling up
a column, when there’s nothing else to fill up.”
“ Can you laugh ?” “I can— ” “ Yes, you will do. Tell
your master to call.” Away went the Story, and leaping
into the Writer’s room, perched on the desk and said—
“ If I could speak, Master, I would tell you the kind of
dress I am going to wear next.” “What?” drearily
moaned the Writer. ‘ ‘ Have I got to dress you up now ? ”
“ No,” answered the Story, hopping about from floor to
ceiling ; “ J’m going to wear blade and white ! ”
A Transvaal war correspondent gave Lond.
Daily Chronicle a strange story of Spion Kop—
One of the Lancaster men, while in the act of firing in
a prone position, had his head taken clean off by a large
shell. To the astonishment of his comrades the headless
body quietly rose, stood upright for a few seconds, and
then fell.
This set curious people looking up records.
The British Medical Association has cases which
show that, after decapitation by the sword, the
heart has been known to beat for nine minutes,
respiratory sounds to continue for five and a-half
minutes, and movements of the larynx to take
place after the lapse of twenty-three minutes. Dr;
Stille saw a brakesman shot on a Nashville rail-
way ; the brakesman continued to extend his
hands over his brake after death. A United
States soldier in the North and South contest,
who was shot in the , act of mounting his
horse, continued after death to stand with
one foot in the stirrup and one hand grasping
his horse’s mane, until an attempt was
actually made to capture him alive. Julie
de Fontenelle- has pointed out that all the
convulsive movements of decapitated persons ex-
press anguish, and Sue and other authorities that
if a severed head is turned to the sun the eyes
close at once. There are parallels in the animal
world. Fowls, eels, and other familiar creatures
often show considerable muscular activity after
death. But science has not. yet made clear
whether, after decapitation, the head or the body
is first deprived of sensibility. In any case, the cited
reactions are ail probably unconscious—that is,
the individual practically dies with the blow, and
knows nothing, as an individual, of what comes
afterwards.
+>
Miles B. Arnold, in a Lond. weekly, says some
true things regarding the field open to Poetry—
One of Poetry’s characteristics is that it must appeal
only to the very elements of thought and feeling. Is it
not the last of the arts to treat a subject? Is not its
work done with the oldest and mast reverenced words of
a language? Those words to which generations have
knitted innumerable ties are those oftenest used by our
poets. [Consider this verse—J
“ In my garden green
Strange flowers do grow,
Of the colour of benzo-purpurine
And mauve and snow.”
Apart from the merits or demerits of the lines, no one,
I think, could find “benzo-purpurine” anything but
comic. The word is good in its way ; it has a meaning ;
but it is an upstart, and away from its proper environ-
ment is absurd. It is quite possible that benzo-purpurine
may be transformed slowly by usage and good company,
but the poet cannot use it yet. Within certain limits is
it not a true instinct that makes the minor poet write
“He quaffed again” rather than “He took another
drink”? Could anyone make a reference to an A.B.C.
restaurant ring true to a poet’s ear ?
Now, I maintain that as it is with words, so also with
ideas and emotions ; only those that have acquired time-
hallowed associations can seem right in the poet’s art.
... In poetry the introduction of anything novel and
modern in thought jars the reader because it sets going
in his mind a train of newly-acquired, unsettled and
possibly conflicting ideas. . . . Poetry is not a pioneering
art, it is retrospective. It is for the novelist and realistic
dramatist to “ grapple with present-day humanity.”
More Australian bulls. From “ Prospect
Good
Said a young relative of mine, trying to calm a woman’s
fears re snakes and lizards : “You ’ll always know a snake
when you hear one, because it makes no noise.”
An old digger described the sound made by a kangaroo
as “A kind of high whistling noise with a very flat
sound.” The same artist in confusion of ideas usually
had his knife, tobacco, spectacles, &c., tied with string to
his person, and he explained : “ You see, when I put ’em
down I don’t pick ’em up ; and then, when I find ’em,
they ’re lost.”
From “The Insect”—
Irish “ thrap” remonstratingly : “Move on wid yezj
if every wan was to sbhop how could annybody get by?
Visitor reproving her child, who is handling her hostess’s
new “ pram ” : “ E)o as I bid you ! If you can’t lave that
alone don’t touch it! ” i
Country visitor describing his perplexities when I
“bushed” at night in a large city hotel, and urgently \
seeking the open air : “ I opened fifty dures if I did wan,
and every time T wint outside I was only into another
room.”
Doolan reproves his daughter for a late return from
evening service ': “ See, begobs ! the next time you 're not
in in dacent time you ’ll sthay at home.”
Maloney, foggy within and without, loses his way:
“ An’ after ridin - all the road home, I found I was back at
Hogan’s pub.”
Finn has to sit up to meet a late train. He sets the
alarm and explains : “ I set it to keep me awake for fear
I’d go to sleep.”
Mrs. Connor describes her sister’s-children: “Faith,
they ’re monsters ; every wan of thim is as had as two."
Mr. Ryan directs the produce agent: “ Sind me word
by Dinny. A letther would be no good, for I can’t write.”
Mrs. Nagle is run down and slightly hurt by a city
wheelwoman; “I’m awfully sorry,” says the latter.
“ ’Deed, so am I,” says the victim, “ though there’s no
great harm done, hut I must have your name for all that,
so.that if I’m kilt you’ll know you kilt me.*’
A Scotch bushman shooting wild pigs told me he could
“ get two bob a head for their tails up at the homestead.”
In the London Clarion (13/l/’0) I read concerning Japi- [
nese books—“ The letters are arranged vertically, and the
foot-notes are at the top.”
L. A. M. : These are some of mother’s—
She hurried inside early one morning, crying, “ Get up,
quick ! Old Mac.’s pigs have eaten all the potatoes, and
what’s left will be destroyed if you don’t drive them
away !” -
Sinking down wearily into a chair after a day’s washing,
she slid, “Washing makes all the work, and cooking
makes the rest of it.”
Again : “There you are standing there, as big as a
mountain in my mouth ! You have nothing on earth to
do, and what there is you won’t do."
Balls are often acted, not spoken. Old Tim Ryan, on
the River, in the heat of a race shearing lambs, flung the
shears out of the porthole, and industriously crammed
the shorn lamb into the water-pot. And I have seen a
man, about to wash his feet, put the water on a high
chair and seat himself flat on the floor.
Writers sire reminded that the best sonnet
‘ ‘ Australia ” received by April 28 earns £2 ♦?.
The rhyme-scheme must be a, b, b, a, a, b, b, a. e,
d, e, c, d, e. I
A. .T. Evelyn, in Australian poetry, seems to 11
have written during the second quarter ol this
century. His talent was slight and delicate; but
many of his verses have a charm of feeling and of
melody which is good to linger over. The pre-
eeditig examples are taken from The Empire, and
Halloran’s memorial verses in the same paper
show that Evelyn died about 1857. Does anyone :
know his history ?
According to The, Saturday Review M. Brentano,
keeper of the archives of the Bastille, has finally
settled the identity of the Man in the Iron Mask.
He was Count Mattioli, minister of the Duke of
Mantua, who betrayed both his master and Louis
XIV. in arranging the transfer to France of the
post of Casal. He tried to secure double profits
by selling the plot to Spain and Austria, and was
imprisoned by the indignant Louis—lawlessly,
whence the mask. He died in 1703, and his death
certificate was made out in his own name.
At the dinner to Henry Lawson and A. H.
Fullwood, both leaving for London this month in
the hope of Better Things, the most memorable
speech was made by Lawson himself. “ When I
lose sight of the Leeuwin,” said the writer of
“Faces in the Street and tears came into his
eyes—“there will be a hole in my heart big
enough to put all Australia into.” That’s a big
heart; as well as a big hole.
R.W. writes from Townsville-
Many months ago V. J. Daley asked if anyone could !
locate a passage in which the Lord was represented as
viewing the faces of the dead, and, struck by their great
serenity, saying to Gabriel: “ Put away the trumpet.
There ’ll be no resurrection.” Perhaps this passage, by
Robert Buchanan, is what he meant —
“ When He returns and finds all sleeping here,
Some old, some young, some fair, and some not fair,
Will he stoop down and whisper in each ear,
‘ Awaken ! ’ or, for pity’s sake, forbear,
Saying ‘ How shall I meet their frozen stare
Of wonder, and their eyes so woe-begone f
How shall I comfort them in their despair,
If they cry out “ Too late ! let us sleep on !’’ ’
Perchance he will not wake us up, but when
He sees us look so happy in our rest,
Will murmur ‘ Poor dead women and dead men !
Dire was their doom and weary was their quest,
Wherefore awake them into life again?
Let them sleep on untroubled—it is best.’ ”
Ln view of his own approaching dust-.shaking-
off, and of the correspondence printed in another
column, the author of “ Pursuing Literature in
Australia” might more fitly write “Pursued by
Literature out of Australia.” Local Literature
just now is not a Grace who momentarily evades
you, but a vengeful Fury who chases you with a
whip.
The Bookfellow.
EVENING.
ovenm ff> aqd an orange blaze
The western heaven fills ;
Deep blue o’erhead : a purple haze
Dreams o’er the eastern hills.
The air is fresh, and cbol, and sweet;
The tender wave doth sigh ;
And one by one the starry fleet
Sails out into the sky. ”
Oh, look ! the moon which, pale and dim,
We gazed on yesternight,
Now lifts above our planet’s rim
A disk of yellow light.
Before I loved, my life was wan
As the moon of yesternight;
I saw thee, and like yonder moon,
My life grew warm and bright.
There glides a meteor ! Round the sun,
A dull mass it did fleet,
Until the warm earth drew it down,
And claspt it into heat.
And Love ! my life, both dark and drear,
Roll’d round without an 1 aini,
Till in thy beauty’s atmosphere
It kindled into flame.
Place o’er my heart thy white hand small !
To its true pulse’s tune
Thy lustrous hand doth heave and fall,
AIS on the sea the moon.
Oh, bend on me thine earnest eyes !
• So look, and do not move ;
And let the stars of Feeling rise
In the high heaven of love.
A. J. EVELYN.
SUNS .TS.
1.
The setting sun’s red round of light
Glows through the rifted cloud afar ;
So the fierce eye of warrior-knight
Hath glared above his vizor-bar.
Oh ! like a stag that dies at bay,
He sinks in his unconquer’d pride;
And strikes, aslant his golden rage
Into the heaven on either side.
He drops below the sphered world :
The tinted vapours o’er him wave;
Like banners gloriously unfurl’d
O’er hero going to his grave.
The great deeds of the hero burn,
And all his cloud of death is bright;
And glittering stars arise and turn
Themselves around the sunless night.
11.
The orange west is sombrely
O’erdusk’d with eve, and slowly die.
The purple lights along the sea
And pale pink tints within the sky.
And now the darken’d wave doth sigh :
It waits the stars, it waits the moon ;
For they will in its’bosom lie
All night, and they are coming soon.
And ah ! from me a light is fled:
The heart is chill within my breast;
And many purple hues are dead
In which at morn my life was blest.
And in my soul a longing lies
To hail thy forehead’s moony gleam.
The dawning of thy starry eyes,
Lady unknown ! of whom I dream.
in.
All hush’d in deep foretaste of night,
Great Nature’s heart is full of rest:
In languid length of yellow light
The sunset lolls along the west.
Still is the sea, and seems to say—
“ Come ! find in me a quiet grave."
There thickly fall the shadows gray,
And here pale sallow streaks the wave.
We gaze upon the azure steeps
’Neath which the rosy vapours lie;
And in the spirit’s deepest deeps
We feel that we can never die.
We gaze upon the beauteous whole,
Made up of sky, and land, and sea;
And stirring strong within the soul
We feel our immortality.
IV.
The slant and serried sunbeams crowd
Along the grassy lawn :
A low dense wall of sable cloud
Around the west is drawn.
Low down the lord of day is whirl’d;
The sky is hlue and bare :
The rays glance upward from the world,
And strike into the air.
Low down, behind that bank of night,
The lord of day is driven—
And lo ! a blaze of golden light
Goes flashing up the heaven.
So, when within some city’s lines
A King doth drive his oar,
The banners wave, the armour shines :
The gleam is toss’d afar.
A. J. EVELYN.
E VELVETS GRAVE.
Oh, dropping cloud, that corneth near this spot,—
Let fall thy gentlest showers his grave above;
Oh, grateful wind, that sighs and tarries not, —
Gather all sweets and shed them here, in love;
Oh, birds of gentle song, lament the lot
Of him whom Sorrow lov’d not to reprove ;
And ye, sweet flowers, of sad repining breath,
Spring o’er the Poet’s grave, regretful of his death.
Ah, stricken deer, pierced by a viewless dart, —
Ah, tender soul that could not bear the sky,—
A gust hath shatter’d that fine harp, thy heart;
No more its strings shall echo mournfully
The music which was of itself a part:—
The shatter’d strings within the darkness lie, —
Darkness and silence, void and desolate, —
Where Love sits weeping at the shadowy gate.
Up on the breezy hills at early morn,
Thou shoulast be with me wandering in the
. light,—
Marking the sun-shafts pierce the depths forlorn
Of wild ravines profound, —even as the might
Of Truth, which moves in love, and knows not
scorn,—
May make the d -pth's of rug 70 1 ID-or bright:
Or, at the noon of day, by tiiymy rill
Thou shouldst repose, and dream a poet’s fill.
Ah, me, lost brother ! with a vain regret,
I mourn thy loss, —and yet some comfort find,
lhat thou hast pass’d from all the pain, and fret,
Ajj4 toil, and hopeless anxiousness of mind, —
Which wrap a friend,—thou thought’st a foe,—
even yet
Braying with naked breast the untemper’d wind :
-He treads thy shadow with a hasty stride :
The Dead and Li ving soon rest side by side.
August, 1857.
HENRY HALLORAN.


s
ECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
' £1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1805, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynb. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
fHLOROPYHE
ValaV
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
EELTS (znd
ALPHA NCES
a trial of 80 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cme you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,>e prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NM
N
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd>, London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my Invaluable little pamphlet.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, YIO.
G
INDIGESTION.
Never fails. !
M
Per Bottle
Postage
9
WASHINGTON.H .SOUL&O?
160 PITT STREET
SYDNEY,
't'
V>^»
if
OLD
\ , /
<s?\c s . y^r
icc.uz 2Si>j
!kV >v>—__.— -sk
Dkar Sir.—Please inform your readers that X have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool /
2| per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company, Ltd.
N
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
m New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enable this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The Following will be our Charges to the Grower :
... f' Per Cent.
(including Receiving into Store, Fire
Insurance, Weighing, Lotting, Re-
packing sample bales, Advertising,
Cataloguing, etc.) —On Wools reali-
sing over 6d. per lb. the charge will be 3s. 9d. per Bale
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. 2s. 6d. per Bale
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under Is. 6d. per Bale
ON PRODUCE other than Wool—viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, <fcc., SPECIAL
RATES will be quoted on Application.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : - v l2 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes Central Whakf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SYDNE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
COMMISSION .
WAREHOUSING
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
i
ftSK FLO.®
v**
MN
COMBINES
M
PERFECTION Of QUALITY'
WITH ABSOLUTE- PURITY
IIN
so^
sett*
BV'8 V '
THE
PLUM
r
Price—SINGLE RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with ; Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRiVIGr & A.ITKEJNT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Mil
r
M EDICATOR.
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining- membrane of the nose
and adjoining- passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?* -Catarrh C(ir€ Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
a COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
THE
DEAF
HEAB
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
N
DEAF
GBP
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
NEUROZON E->-
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
; The Medical Agency:
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
pnotism
*9
m
Reader, why not he able to n*e the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hy pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
| gratify your ambitions,'and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
jiist issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in r . A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-
no* ize. It is a chance of a
life-time. Address—
n
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
G&eflma's
<vy .v)
0 t&
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS,
t softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GIUMWADE & CO., Melbourne'
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
MN
I
LTD
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
H I G'H -CRAPE FAR M IMPL CM ENTS AND
MACHINERY.


TATTERSALL’S
Address z CJare GKE3O. ADAMS, Hobart.
Adelaide O.
May 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 8,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in. the above.
Name.
Address.
£ t s
May 24
Birthday C.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo shares in above.
Name •-
Address
Birthday C. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
£O,OOO Subscribers at 6.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me—— wVia.rAQ in the above.
Name
Address.
Newcastle C. June 7.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
oS t s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


modern
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
i .'tlY
irwr,
3o0uJ3
ft
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prioes—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND OAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
* USB
Spooler's
iRQYALNAVY DBESSIRC
i FOB
i BROWN LEATHER
l BOOTS & SHOES
!: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Advt. in Wellington (N.S.W.) Times :
NOTICE.
A NY LADIES coining in my Hall after this date
A- with their under-garments hanging off and hair
deranged in any way, also ladies coming in the Hall
with aprons and hats on, I will have them expelled
from the Hall, as I believe in my Hall being respect-
able ‘ (Signed) W. HESLIN.
Bodangora, March 10,1900.
Even when her under-garments are hanging off
and she has to be expelled lest she wreck the re-
spectability of Bodangora Hall they still call her
a “lady.”
M
Gt-O TO HZBLL-
I(POLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nageo,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
AGStraliai; ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TCT LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS oombined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
JH
m
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
it3T Send for Price List. IEH
H. HILIiIEB., 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY. .
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue
■ -
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, Send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
M ELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
M ELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MEEEIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ATE DEALERS.
MELEIN’S FOOD AND
Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Samples and
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL. J
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL, i
£/\ 6iUv 3
OJl* €
'kW
; 9
< &jl 4juxQi &***••
«rS£sf !
tCH
‘KOKO
P
Eradicates Scurf and DandrifF, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the'
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly |
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the ,
Hair, i/-, 2/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARiCOPAS CO,, LTD.,
1 16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “GLOVE-FITTING”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long tvaist .
2R
T-
m
V u#
I
l»|
V 1 1
Thomsons \
the MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
| MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
I N.B.—Old Model Corsets always in stock
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD,
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-> Ld-, London
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
Loud on, E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
ZET* .A-UNT ZEt: J A.R VIS
, ttr( . n h „„ V, ad 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is In touoh with the best financial circles in the old country,
ind who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency, terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
TNJ C WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland- Messrs. CORBIE & CO., Queen „reet, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W Australia-C E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
uxr.s.
/ r.-rf-s
-\7\7-. Carriage & Saddlery IVlaixf-
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a,
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest'in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicled in* Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at me very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. — Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
N
Deliyered at any WhArf «r
N.S.W. Hail ways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Pious William’s Lay.
Bill Psalmyell was a pious youth
Who early praise did win
By walking in the paths of truth
And shunning every sin.
He kept him ever to this rule
Whatever fate befell,
And always went to Sabbath-school
And learned his lessons well.
He never played at “ headin’-em,”
Or “Nap” or “ Yankee sweat,”
But quoted some sweet Gospel gem
Which proved them Satan’s net.
The tear of joy my eye bedims,
And all my bosom stirs,
For William, though au fait at hymns
Knew naught of guileful “hers.”
And though the Gospel Mail oft would
A fund of joy supply,
The evening female never could
Attract good William’s eye.
He blushed at Fielding’s, Zola’s names,
And hid their works from sight ;
When told Don Juan’s little games
He even wept outright.
At Milton’s tale divine his eyes
O ice stole a timid look ;
But at the scene in Paradise
He blushed, and closed the book.
These for the Bible he forsook,
And turned to it with joy,
And from that high, immortal Book
Drew sweets that never cloy.
And everywhere that William went —
Like Mary’s lamb, you know— _
Be sure his little Testament
Was always bound to go.
“ My soul but throbs to gain,” said he—
“ When this poor body dies,
A home beside the Jasper Sea—
A mansion in the skies.”
Keristian William never sought
To hoard a golden pile ;
Oh no ! his spirit scorned the thought
Of things so base and vile !
He deemed not that the metal bright
Was life’s sole balm and honey ;
The only coin this godly wight
Stored up was sanctimony.
And when for bread a beggar sued,
He said : “You know ’tis true
God’s ravens brought Elijah food ;
They’ll bring it unto you ! ”
And mark what good may come to those
Who live a life devout—
Who don the Christian’s holy shoes,
And know their way about.
A banker who had heard of Bill
And his Keristian work,
Required a pious youth to fill
The post of junior clerk.
Quoth he to Bill, without delay,
“ You’re just the one I seek ” ;
And William was engaged straightway
At thirty bob a week.'
The president of that same bank
Where William was a clerk
Saw he deserved the highest rank
For his Keristian work.
“ With such religious, godly men,
Pm sure there is no fear,”
So said the president, who then
Made William his cashier.
Alas! that mankind weakly kneels
To the seductive pelf !
Alas ! that piety conceals
The native hue of self !
Good William strayed from virtue’s rank
And over Honor’s bounds :
Good William shortly eased the bank
Of twenty thousand pounds.
He slipped the peelers diligent,
He laughed the “ D’s ” to scorn,
He dusted off the continent
And left the bank to mourn.
And so my moral proves the truth
Of other pious lays :
It is that Vice meets bitter ruth,
But Virtue Always Pays !
F. H. WYSE.


Lightest Wines
Australia.
in
The Australian Widows’ fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
.. *. ONLT OFFTCE IN AUSTRALIA
_ Board op Directors :
Hon J H n*«Rn™if NWIOK ' MD -> M - L -C- Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
AcnnnnaaUAm.no, ** m A*l, 3S o,ooo Annual Inc.. m . £330 ,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
Write for Special Prospectus.] 7 „ .
* GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
W. J. Adams, Manager.
wiu, mo
TmasittK
HOTEI ->
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The Grand Centre for
Business, Comfort, or Pleasure.
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
MN
o
s\r
$
M
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
AliX> CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
TE
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING- BALLISTITE won over =£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham m April and May, 1899; or over .£lOOO more than any other powder.— Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PAR VO 2-ineh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N\S.W V Messrs. Balgety & Go. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Go.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Go.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
f
B
BB
OWN
MAKE
ARE RECOGNISED AS THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP^
N
MN
M
NM
N
9„
jiJ
LLi
COS
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 71 TONS GREATER than during 1898.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading Brand in ITS. Wales.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 21. No. 1052.
SATURDAY, APRIL 14, 1000.
Price 6d.
Hr Kinc, T see Ikat ijnu ScjuatTm
Wile raised rttt prices for bearing. IW is ftjat 2
f]r /Werner. ‘‘Mkl.youjee of our Sharers
jpi/e to Wtfj /|fHca {b sljecu' Jaigs.
f/Hgero/ T’/’er/de/zce tyusf- /f&e/t /n/r/"
-'y* s ' Cvx/c/ /fedejyccr /fa/e #?/ssp</ j
Li Ohf- %i$ iJjl otifi) fink ttrjfrflnndb m {otftfljtr, 1 fljiijft
/ rtfuin it ' ,
ilff KtfNtyl Jf((]o - U\;\j rftttlfjw, 1 Ivctci Utter cfcftwje Kjt of njij irjotto !
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 G-eorge-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
'any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, 'at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
& Co., Cornliill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2h6 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— II. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. JET. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria,, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£1 , with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the- subscription is
prepaid. There will'be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —1 fil. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
25^xzlIeZzai.
SATURDAY, APRIL 14, 1900.
The Appeal unto Caesar.
CiESAR, in this case, is the Judicial Com-
mittee of the British Privy Council. It is
the last Court of Appeal in “ colonial ” cases
—an appeal court situated 16,000 miles away,
and therefore painfully slow in its dealings,
and hideously expensive, and difficult of
access—in fact, to 99 per cent, of the people,
quite impossible of access. Also because of its
remoteness and consequent expensiveness
it is bound to remain impossible of access,
so far as 99 per cent, of the people are con-
cerned. The Australian Federal Convention,
when drafting the Commonwealth Bill, wisely
recognised that the great essentials in regard
to a Court of Appeal are that it should be
near enough and cheap enough to make it
attainable by others besides the enormously-
rich. It also recognised that until the speed
of a fast steamship can be accelerated to 600
miles an hour the British Privy Council,
however perfect in its wisdom, can’t be a
satisfactory Court of Appeal. Therefore
it devised the idea of a Federal High
Court, and over this matter the Com-
monwealth Bill seems to be fast coming
to grief. For the British Government
insists on retaining the costly and inacces-
sible Privy Council as the final court in
Australian matters, and in this respect it is
backed up by some so-called Australians like
George Republican Dibbs, who holds that
his native land, and the land which has
always supplied him with some kind of a
livelihood, is an inferior and degraded kind
of place, which can’t even manufacture its
own justice on the premises. So George
Dibbs leads the way in protesting against the
fitness of his countrymen to interpret their
own laws, and the absurdity of trusting to
his countrymen’s intelligence and sense of
honour, and the necessity of keeping them
in a state of judicial tutelage. Which, con-
sidering all these countrymen have done for
the painfully-mediocre Dibbs, is somewhat
rough.
The reasons why the Convention’s idea of
a Federal High Court sitting in Australia
should be adhered to are numerous and ob-
vious. .In several ancient English charters
“delaying justice” is specified as one of
the most heinous of crimes, and over
and over again the English people made
bitter old feudal tyrants sit up and
swear, among other things, that they would
delay justice ”no more. So far as Aus-
tralasia is concerned, the Privy Council does
delay justice ; being 16,000 miles away it
can’t help doing so. It is alleged that the
justice it serves out is pure, unbiassed and
reliable, and so it is ; but just because it is
so pure and reliable it is the worse shame
that it should be denied to 99 per cent, of
litigants. Only the very rich can avail
themselves of it. It is only available in a
very small proportion of cases, where more
than a certain sum is involved. It is only of
use to those who can afford to wait for the
necessary slow processes of a tribunal at the
far ends of the earth. And even if it could
be made cheaper, and a stupendous improve-
ment in the means of locomotion could make
it more accessible, so that it wouldn’t be
necessary to mark 3500 guineas on Isaacs’
brief when next he goes to England to
appear on behalf of the Melbourne Tramway
Co. as compensation for a compulsory
absence of six months—even if it could be
brought within three days of Australia—it
would still be wholly unsatisfactory. The
Privy Council is a court of appeal for the
Empire in general outside Great Britain,
and if, by any impossible possibility, it could
be made available to the poor litigant as well
as the rich one, it would only mean that the
Court of Appeal would be so overcrowded
with cases that it would take eight or ten
years to get a decision, and the way into the
hall of justice would be lined by the bones
of the weary ones who had died of hope
deferred.
* • * •
So, as a matter of necessity, the poor man
has no Court of Appeal. If a poor man and
a rich one litigate over a matter large enough
to be carried before the final court the poor
man has one chance and the rich man two.
Australia wants a court which will be near
enough and cheap enough to give the poor
litigant a chance, and which will have
time enough to deal with both classes.
It wants a whole court of final appeal
—surely one such court isn’t too much
for a continent and some adjacent islands
—not a mere fragment. If the present
institution doesn't give good justice, then the
system whereby litigants are dragged all that
way to be defrauded of their rights is an
infamy. If it does give good justice (and in
the main it is probably about the fairest
tribunal on earth), then the system which
puts such justice so far away that it is im-
possible. of access to the great bulk of the
community is also an infamy. The excel-
lence of the justice which is served out to
the rich makes the excellence of the justice
which is denied to the poor so much the
worse a wrong. Even if a local Court of
Appeal, near enough and cheap enough to
make it attainable by the poorer classes,
were established, it would do very little real
good unless all recourse to the Privy Council
were abolished. The distant institution—
the one whose slowness and costliness break
down the poor claimant—would still be ap-
pealed to by the rich man as a means of
delaying things till the poor man was dead,
or “ broke.” Of course, when the poor man
lost his case he might haul his rich antago-
nist before the cheaper local tribunal of
appeal. But if the local tribunal didn’t
serve out as good law as the British one it
would again be a case of good law for the
rich and an inferior class for the poor. And
if it did serve out equally good law—why
have any appeal unto Cacsar ? Why give
the rich man the option, out of pure malice,
of dragging his less wealthy antagonist to a
court a whole globe away to get no better
law, and mostly to break his heart by long
delays ?
* * * *
The question at issue, in fact, may be put in
a sentence : Even if the justice of an Austra-
lian final court would necessarily be worse
than that of an English one—if the person of
English descent in Australia is necessarily a
rogue or a fool as compared with the person
of English descent in England, and G. Dibbs
and his countrymen are to be viewed with
suspicion as a race of ignorant or unprincipled
degenerates—is it better to have a moderately
good court of final appeal available for the
many ? Or is it better to have a super-
latively good one available for the few,
and none at all for the rest ? The
Bulletin reckons it is better to put all
litigants on an equality as far as can possibly
be done, and chance the consequences. It
has no wildly-exaggerated opinion of its
own countrymen, but it doesn’t think ill
enough of them to measure them all by G.
Dibbs and the one or two other Tories who
recently protested against the proposed
Federal High Court. And it believes in
following English precedent—for once, any-
how. The English people planted their
final tribunal in their own capital not more
than 600 miles from the remotest part of
their islands—not in Kerguelen or Esse-
quibo—and if possible we should plant ours
in our own capital to be like them. They
would shriek with horror if it was proposed
that they should travel 16,000 miles for final
justice, and we should shriek also. They
have protested for centuries against the evil
policy of needlessly delaying justice, and we
should be guided by their good example and
protest too, unless the old English sense of
justice has died out in Dibbs’s country.
Dibbs and Want and M‘Laur.in claim
that the Australian would be deprived of his
sacred rights as a British subject if he were
not allowed to appeal to a judicial body
sitting in another country at the farthest end
of the globe, but had to put up with a mere
local institution. The proposition suggests
something akin to insanity. The Englishman
has to put up with a local tribunal. He has no
appeal to a judicial body in another land
at the far side of the globe. He has to put
up with the final judgment of a body com-
posed of his own countrymen, whether his
own countrymen have deteriorated or not.
And—to argue the question on grounds of
Toryism and precedent—what better is the
Australian than the Englishman that the
system which is good enough for the English-
man is not good enough for the Australian
also ?
* • * *
It is claimed that the present system fur-
nishes a “link” between “the colonies”
and the mother-land. This paper, at all
events, has serious doubts about the value of
that link. To 99 persons in 100, or, perhaps,
999 in 1000, the link only amounts to this—
that the last Court of Appeal is hopelessly
out of their reach should they ever want to
use it. So far as concerns the vast majority
in Australia there is an equally good link
between this country and France or Chili or
Japan, for they all have courts of final
appeal which are no more useless to the
average Australian litigant than the present
British Court is. For most people the alleged
link isn’t a link, but a breakage. Still if the
British Government insists that the judges
of that final tribunal shall be English
there is a way out—not much of a way,
certainly, but a way that is better t han none.
Let Britain send out judges to sit in the
Federal High Court at Australia’s expense.
They could administer as good law here as in
England, for wisdom isn’t like beer which is
liable to go bad and blow the cork out on the
voyage. So the link would still be preserved,
and yet the final source of equity and justice
would be brought within reasonably con-
venient reach of every Australian, and at
the same time brilliant but consumptive
British jurists with only one lung would be
provided with a valuable sanatorium. It
would be a bad compromise, but still it would
be a great improvement on things as they
now are.
* * * *
Yet whether the compromise be better
or worse, if the British Ministry insists on
altering the Commonweath Bill in any par-
ticular its action will be a grievous outrage
on the alleged principles of Representative
Government. The Bill is the work of the
Australian people’s elected representatives,
and it was accepted by the Australian people.
The British Government and Parliament
no more represent the Australian people
than the Turkish Government represents the
British people. The Australians have no
hand in creating one, and the British have
just as much in creating the other. How-
ever democratic may be the system whereby
the British Government is created by the
British people, that Government is, in its
veto on Australian legislation, as much an
outside despot as were the Spanish kings in
their dealings with their one-time South
American colonies—the despotism is far
milder, but the principle of self-government
is abrogated just the same. This aspect of
the case, however, is a mere casual matter.
The veto exercised, nominally by the Queen,
but really by the British Ministry—a Minis-
try which is answerable to a Parliament in
tha election of which Australia has no voice
whatever—squashes the beautiful principle
of self-government every day of its exist-
ence, and Australia is accustomed to the
situation. All the same, the action of Dibbs
and Want and M‘L auk,in in urging an
outside power—for the British Parliament
is as much an outside power to us as
the Japanese one, for the sufficient reason
that we have no more voice in creating one
than the other—to overrule the prin-
ciples of self-government in this matter
was a needless act of disloyalty to Aus-
tralia. The person who invites any
outside authority to suppress the will of
the people of his own country with a sword is
commonly called a traitor. The same name
should apply to the person who urges the
same authority to do the same thing with a
pen or any other tool, weapon, implementor
utensil. The Australian Dibbs, urging a
British Government to overrule the will of
the Australian majority in Australia, isn’t so
very distinguishable from a South African,
of British descent, inviting a Boer Govern-
ment to do something the same in Cape
Colony. Each is inviting an external
authority to sit on and thwart and humiliate
his own people.
The Great Fake.
The truly wonderful ex-Premier George Reid
has resumed writing to the Sydney papers about
his awful deficits. George R. claims, as usual,
that he never had a deficit, and raves greatly
about the aspersions cast on his financial charac-
ter. The following extract is a beautiful reminis-
cence of the shuffling George we all used to
know: —
This false and injurious imputation I am determined to
have fully exposed, if Mr. Lyne does not run away from
appointing the commission. It is arrived at not by
straightforward “book-keeping” on the part of Mr.
Lyne or the Auditor-General, but on the contrary, by
preparing statements at variance with law—statements
which Mr. Lyne must by this time know to be at variance
with the books of both the Treasury and the Audit Office
since the new system was established in 1895. It is
arrived at by violating the express provisions of statute
law both as to the finding of an old deficiency which
Mr. Lyne and the Auditor-General fasten on my
shoulders, although it existed before I took office
(the Treasury Bills Deficiency Act of 1895), and, as to the
establishment of a new system of keeping the public ac-
counts, starting from Ist July, 1895, with a clean slate
(Audit Amendment Act of 1895). All the confusion and
error which Mr. Lyne and Mr. Rennie have produced
between them have arisen from those causes. They will
not recognise the law, and they put old deficiencies oh
the clean slate, in defiance of the law ; and only by dis
figuring the clean slate of 1895-9 with tbs' old deficiency
of 1891-5 can they produce the elements of attack upon
me and upon the public credit.
* * » *
The Bulletin, for one, is pleased to say that it,
at all events, won’t “recognise the law.” Said
law—the law that Reid had the ineffable cheek
and his followers the unspeakable folly or servility
to pass through Parliament—is the cause of all the
trouble. Reid’s plea is that when he passed a
law which gave him a chance to assert that in his
accounts two and two would be five, it is a wicked
imputation on his character to say that two and
two are not five. But two and two remain four
just the same. Reid arranged : (1) that his own
deficit from 3rd August, 1894, to 30th June, 1895,
should not be charged against him, and should
not be his deficit at all, but should be put into
what he called the old “ Dibbs deficit ” ; (2) that
the year to 30th June, 1896, should not be charged
either with the unpaid accounts left over from the
previous year, or with its own unpaid accounts
which were carried forward to next year, and by
sticking to this process every year’s unpaid
accounts are now charged to next year; (3) he
faked the accounts by a new system whereby the
half-year’s interest on the public debt for, say,
Ist January to 30th June, 1896, instead of being
charged to the year ending 30th June, 1896,
according to the old practice, was charged to
the next financial year commencing Ist July,
1896 ; (4) by altering the date of the financial
year he dodged the payment, on paper, of
nearly six months’ contributions to the sinking
funds. Also he did many other strange fakes
all of which were quite legal by the law which he
himself passed. But 120 laws wouldn’t alter the
fact that the 11 months’ deficit to June, ’95, was
Reid’s own deficit, and that the interest due from
January to June, ’96, was the interest for that
half-year and not for next half-year, and that two
and two make four in the same old way.
* 4 * *
Georoe Reid in his own defence grows more
and more curious as he goes on :
The new system began on Ist July, 1895, so that on 39th
June, 1899, four years were completed. In his Budget
speech, Mr. Lyne admitted there was a credit balance on
each of those four years, as follows (Hansard, 6th Decem-
ber, 1899, p. 2990)
Credit balance, according to Mr. Lyne :—1895-6,
£274,878 ; 1896-7, £55,099 ; 1897-8, £62,364 ; 1898-9,
£44,664.
On these admissions, what becomes of the alleged de-
ficiency ?
Now, I call the Auditor-General, and quote from his
annual reports, except as to the last year, for which his
report is not available. I take for that year the figures in
Mr. Lyne’s statement :
Credit balance at eud of financial year.—lB9s-6,
Auditor-General’s report, p, 151, £349,878 ; 1896-7, ditto,
ditto, p. 136-7, £130,099 ; 1897-8, ditto, ditto, p. 152-3,
£62,363 ; 1898-9, Mr. Lyne’s Budget Speech, £147,702.
Where, on these figures, can the deficiency be traced ?
Again, if we refer to the Government Statist, and look
at Part L, “ Public Finance,” of the Statistical Register
for 1898, p. 3-4, what is the account given of the four
years, 1895-9?
1895- —Credit balance, 30th June, 1896, £300,535
1896- —Credit balance, 30th June, 1897, £84,831
1897- —Credit balance, 30th June, 1898, £92,274.
1898- —Credit balance, 30th June, 1899, £74,674.
In those pages, Mr. Coghlan obeys the law, and keeps
the accounts according to law, and makes up no returns
that mislead people who do not know the law and the
facts. Hence he shows the finances from Ist July, 1895,
under two distinct heads : (1) “ Old Deficiency Account”;
(2) “ New Account Under Audit Act Amendment Act of
1895. All the trouble arises from a mixing of the two
accounts by those who ought to know better.
By Reid’s own figures (those he quotes from the
Government Statist) he had two surpluses and
two deficits in four years. In 1896 he says he had
a surplus of £300,535. In 1897 it was reduced to
£84,831 (deficit for that year, £215,704). In 1898
it rose again to £92,274 (surplus for 1898, £7443).
and in 1899 it dropped again to £74,574 (another
deficit of £17,700). But the most joyful humor
lies in the persistence with which Reid
starts all his calculations from the begin-
ning of his famous fake at Ist July, 1895.
Apparently wild oxen won’t drag him into making
any reference to his doings for the 11 months
before that period. Yet, according to the Govern-
ment Statist (N.S.W. Statistical Register for
1896, pages 764 and 786), in the six months from Ist
January to 30'th June, 1895, Reid had a stupendous
shortage, all his own, of £383,669 which he put
away into the “Dibbs deficit” where it remains
to this day. And since then no power on earth
can make the great fakir even mention that pain-
ful epoch. All his history starts from Ist July,
1895. The Great Fake is to him what the Great
Trek is to the Boer or the Hegira to the Moham-
medan. There is nothing before that—nothing
worth mentioning at least. In fact, Ist July, 1895,
was the date of Reid’s Great Trek. On that day
he trekked right out of the multiplication table
into a wilderness of Zulu arithmetic, where he has
been adding up accounts with an assegai ever
since.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Premier Seddon’s “More Friendly
Attitude.”
The following cablegram from Maoriland Premier
Seddon recently appeared in the Sydney dailies,
with joyful headings, such as “Mr. Seddon again
Explains,” and “ A more Friendly Attitude” :
I am pleased to hear that the misunderstanding which
has arisen has been removed. You have my assurance
that there is nothing unfriendly towards your colonies in
the attitude New Zealand has taken up. Any course I
have advised only caused by looking forward to good of
colonies for years to come, and providing for emergencies
that may arise. Take, for instance, our wish that your
Federal Court of Appeal may be open to New Zealand.
There cannot be any reasonable objection to this nor to
the power to be given in the Enabling Bill for reciprocity.
I am glad to hear a conference has been agreed upon
between the Federal delegates from Australia and our
Agent-General, and 1 have every hope that the little diffi-
culties in London will be smoothed over and an arrange-
ment made which will be satisfactory to all the colonies.
This seems to be exactly the same attitude with
snuffle added to injury. Premier Seddon explains
that the alterations he wants made in the Com-
monwealth Bill are quite small and harmless and
unobjectionable. They may be so, or they may
not ; but even if they are as harmless as a glass of
boiled milk that doesn’t make the least difference
in the fact that his way of asking them his
proved Richard Seddon to be a man w.io
ought to be given his dinner in the scullery.
He didn’t request the Australian provinces
to insert the allegedly quite small and
harmless things he wanted when the Bill was in
process of manufacture, but preferred to go to the
British Government and ask it to compel Aus-
tralia to agree to these things. That isn’t a cour-
teous way to ask for anything. He knows per-
fectly well that the Commonwealth Bill is. the
result of five years’ stupendous labor. If it is


accepted by the British Government exactly as it
stands then the labor is finished. If it is altered
in any way then it isn’t the same Bill which the
five Parliaments and the five provinces accepted,
and the work of getting it through the five Parlia-
ments, and possibly (though this is uncertain) that
of getting it passed by the five communities per
medium of the Referendum, must be started again
at the cost of great delay and toil and cash. Of
course this toil may have to be done in any case,
if the British Parliament alters the Bill, but
that doesn’t in the least affect the fact that
Premier Seddon was quite ready and willing
to pull down all the stupendous work that
has been done, solely to suit his own whim
—his whim being that he chose to apply to the
British Government at the eleventh hour, instead
of to the Australian Convention somewhat earlier.
If, as he alleges, the alterations he wants are such
as Australia can’t possibly object to, his conduct is
all the more gratuitously mean and shabby. He
says in effect: “I knew you would have granted
these concessions if 1 had asked for them at first,
when they could have been granted without incon-
venience. Knowing that, I preferred to wait
until your work was finished, and then demand
that it be pulled down again so that I might get
what I could have got before without causing any
such trouble.” And if, as he alleges, they are very
small alterations, it is the more disgraceful that he
should make so much trouble over them. When
a man wants a parcel out of the bottom of a ship,
and waits till 1000 tons of cargo are put on top of
it, and then demands that the cargo be removed to
let him get his parcel, he is apt to be called an
animal frequently mentioned in Scripture, and
never once mentioned respectfully. And when,
by way of assuming a more friendly atti-
tude, he explains (1) that it is a very small
package, (2) that he knew all the time that
he wanted it and waited of deliberate and set
purpose, and (3) that he was quite sure there
would have been no objection to giving it to him,
and he made all this extra work just out of mean-
ness and cussedness and mischief —when he ex-
plains these things by way of holding out the
right hand of friendship the person addressed
often feels inclined to put some decomposed sub-
stance in the right hand of friendship as a means
of expressing feelings that are too vast for words.
■ ♦
A Matter of Broad Principle.
Dear Bulletin. —A person signing himself
“Loyalist”—a genuine, all-wool Jingo—holds
forth thus in Launceston (Tas.) Examiner
“Can’t we have our own opinion?” says one. My
answer is, “ No.” The time for individual opinion is past.
Those brave men who are fighting for the Empire and
staining the broad veldt with their blood have but one
opinion, and everyone who remains in the quiet of his or
her home should have the same opinion. The utterance
of Mr. Tucker covers the whole ground—“ We are at war ;
which side are you on ? ”
That sort of letter lays down a fine, broad general
set of principles—one that has nothing to do with
the rignts or wrongs pf this particular war. Said
principles may be enunciated thus :
(1) When our country (whatever country that maybe)
is at war with anybody on any grounds whatever, it isn’t
sufficient to hope that our country will win, and to assist
it to win if assistance is required.
(2) It is also necessary to say that our country is in the
right, whether it is or not. When it isn’t in the right it
is necessary to be a liar in order to be a real loyalist.
(3) More than that, it is necessary to think that our
country is in the right, whether it is or not. Even being
a liar isn’t sufficient. When our country isn’t in the right
it is necessary to be an ignoramus as well.
(4) Therefore, when Spain carried on a war of extermi-
nation against the Dutch Protestants, and burnt them
alive when it caught them, and when the Turks waded in
to abolish the whole Christian population of Greece, and
in all the Other horrible and unjust wars that have filled
the earth With blood and bones and infamy, every honor-
able and intelligent Spaniard or Turk, or other person
concerned, should not have protested or opposed the war
in Any way. He should have simply said, ‘ ‘ My country is
at war. The war is a just one because my country wages
it. The methods pursued are all right, because they are
my country’s methods.”
For isn’t it the duty of every loyal person to say
aiid believe that his country is always right when
it is at war ! And if he has the misfortune,
as some people have, to belong to a country
which makes war on unjust grounds, or does
it in a horribly barbarous manner, it is his
duty, not to try to reform its methods
(because he couldn’t put his country right
without first saying that his country was
wrong, which would be shameful disloyalty), but
simply to be loyal and back it up in its injustice
or barbarity. Even the Boer is bound by “ Loyal-
ist’s ” logic to hold that his country is right in this
war, whether it is or not. And seeing that it is
his duty to say that his country is right and to act
accordingly, why do the Jingo papers curse'him so
horribly for doing his duty ? —Yours, &c., T.
♦ —:
Melbourne Takes a Wash..
The prospect of the plague has stirred Melbourne
to sweep its front-doorsteps and to flush-out its
back lanes. The Yarra is beyond all hope of
cleansing, till the city is properly sewered ; but
sundry corporation tips, and the Merri Creek, the
Reilly-street and Hawthorn drains, Gardiner’s
Creek and the Moonee Ponds ditto are equally
discreditable to the local councils and their health-
officers. The worst of all these disease germinators
is Moonee Ponds Creek, which various parties
have been endeavoring to improve for over a
quarter of a century. It meanders lazily down a
gully between N. Melbourne and Footscray, and
is really a succession of slush-holes, mostly covered
with green slime. In the depths of the slush lie
and stew things that are better left unsaid
and matters which wouldn’t look well in print.
Decayed belltoppers with fantods and jim-jams
and unhealthy eels in them are about the nicest
things found in Moonee Ponds Creek. On the
adjacent banks and flats goats and cows
browse, thus enabling the local milk-vendors
to" see that the typhoid rate is pro-
perly maintained. The sanitary history of this
gutter forms an interesting story. There are
four councils concerned, and for a long time they
couldn’t agree about what should be done. When
they did, the Railway Department, which is also
interested, said it would see them further before it
would pay its share of the costs of improvement.
Then the Health Department took a hand, but
found it hadn’t power to compel action. Next the
Turne’r Ministry was deputationised so often that
at last, for very weariness, it started cleaning and
channeling the stream, but it didn’t allow enough
money to complete the job and it was thrown out
before it could vote any more. But at long last,
with the plague in view, the M‘Lean Govt, has
promised to find enough cash to finish the contract.
It is noteworthy that, among all the rich Vic-
torians who have tried, in the last quarter century,
to buy peace when they were dead or titles when
they were living by handing over big sums to put
up statues or to build more or less useless additions
to colleges, there wasn’t one who remembered that
he might buy fame, and be a public benefactor,
and save more lives than if he founded two whole
hospitals, by putting Moonee Ponds Creek in good
order at his own expense, and turning a supply of
water into it to keep it permanently clean. Yet
so many men give money to colleges, and so few
clean out a notoriously dirty creek, that the latter
device would bring twice as much fame at less than
half the oost.
A Burlesque Court of Appeal.
A bit of quaint imbecility from the Australian
Star :
Mr. Haldane, Q.C., may be thanked for a proposal
which promises to end the difficulty raised about the
Privy Council appeal. . . . This . . . lawyer and Liberal
statesman . . . proposes a court which may be of great
service to the Empire, and acceptable to all its peoples.
Instead of moving heaven and earth to maintain the
appeal to a court which is, possibly, slightly antiquated,
why not, says Mr. Haldane, erect a new court, which
shall be thoroughly representative ? Such a court would
be created by the fusion of the Judicial Committees of the
Privy Council and the House of Lords, and the amalgama-
tion of the resultant product with certain colonial Judges,
new gilt, and crowned for the position as life peers.
That sounds very feasible, and seems to promise a solu-
tion of a great difficulty; and subsequent general satisfac-
tion.
It is alleged that Alfred Deakin has expressed a
modified approval of this proposal, and if he has
Deakin doesn’t possess the brains he is popularly
credited with. The new idea has every one of the
disadvantages of the old one, and an extra one of
its own. It would still necessitate an elaborate
and wearisome alteration of the Commonwealth
Bill. It would still leave our court of final appeal
16,000 miles away, and by reason of its remote-
ness it would still be too slow and too expensive
to be of any possible use except to the richer
class of litigants. It would still be a court
which had to, hear appeals from all parts
of the empire, so that if it could be made
accessible to the poor as well as the rich
litigant it would be completely bogged by the
rush of business. And the new court with its new
name and its newly-gilt “Colonial” Judges,
would give no better justice than the old one—the
present brand of justice is good enough when one
can get at it. Also it would have one element of
foolishness which the present court is free from.
To send an Australian case to England to be
heard by English Judges is at least understand-
able. English Judges have a habit of being in
England. But to send an Australian case to
England to be heard by Australian Judges who
might as well hear it in their own country and the
case’s own country—to send the Judge to the
other end of the world and the case after him
when they both might as well remain liei'e—looks
like a bit out of a burlesque.
A Matter of Sentiment.
The news that the British naval authorities have
called tenders for carrying 2000 tons of Westport
(M.L.) coal to Albany (W.A.) and 1500 tons to
Sydney, has caused many coal-owners in their
rage to kick the waste-paper basket right into the
middle of next week. The idea of bringing Maori-
land coal to N.S.W., of all places, is felt to be
premeditated insult. Sydney Telegraph, how-
ever, makes the great mistake of taking up the
sentimental aspect of the case, in this fashion :
The reasons other than strictly commercial are con-
nected with the colonies’ recent liberal provision of men
and horses for the war in South Africa, purely voluntary
offers of help on which the question of expense was never
allowed for a moment to have the slightest influence, and
there is a feeling 1 amongst those more nearly associated
with the coal trade that a graceful return might be made
in the shape of British trade both here and at the scene
of hostilities.
This is just where the Sydney paper errs grie-
vously. Instead of bringing this aspect of the
case to the front, it should have heaped 2000 tons
of shale on top of it, and spread the tarpaulin
of reticence over the shale in order to prevent
inquiry. It is just that “recent liberal provision
of men and horses for South Africa ” that
damages N.S.W.’s cl „im. Before the war,
N.S.W. got practically all the money the
British Govt, had to spend hereabouts in the
way of coal purchases. But all the provinces
made such liberal provision of men and horses
that they all feel entitled to claim some of the
coal business in return —all of them that have
coal to sell. It is probably in recognition of
Maoriland’s liberal outpouring of men and horses
that the British Govt, feels almost boifhd to take
part of its coal trade away from N.S.W. and give
it to Maoriland by way of the “ graceful return ”
which the D.T. mentions. In fact, if Britain once
gives way to the virtue of gratitude, it will pro-
bably feel bound to take away a lot more of its
coal business from N.S.W., for Queensland and
Tasmania, as well as M.L., are coal-producing
provinces, and they all want to have their loyalty
recognised. If there had been no contingent, and
no war, and no loyalty to recognise, then N.S.W.
could go on the plain business plea that it supplies
the cheapest coal in Australia. But if it be.comes
a question of recognising Australasia’s loyal en-
thusiasm, then N.S.W.’s practical monopoly of
the business must go.
♦
Editor Bulletin, —Apropos your assertion, many
weeks ago, that the Australian gold-miner was not
a Jingo : I was present, as an approving listener,
at Holman’s meeting at Warraderry rush, N.S.W.,
which, as almost the first public occasion on which
criticism of the Jingo policy has been delibera-
tively ladled out, deserves a deal more notice than
it got from any Sydney daily. The speech was
remarkable enougli as a bitingly clean and forceful
presentment of the Peace arguments, but the
meeting was infinitely more so. The three or four
hundred men on the field all rolled up. Chair-
man and speaker talked off a perch into absolute
blackness, as a strong head wind was neutralising
the primitive lighting resources of the rush. From
the back of the crowd I could only see the speaker
when someone in the front ranks re-lit a neglected
pipe. The miners stood for an hour and a half, in
Eiteh darkness, in the stiff cold wind (and it is
eginning to be very cold of evenings up hereon
the tablelandjin a solid mass, occasionally cheering,
but mainly listening like Supreme Court judges.
Holman treated us like a jury, listening to
counsel for the defence after long presentation
of the prosecution. The miners entered into the
spirit of that relationship with more than
judicial gravity. There was only one interjection.
In answer to some grave references to English
policy, “ You couldn’t say that -at Hobart!” was
projected from the edge of the crowd like a
missile. Holman is not good at repartee—at least
I have never heard him do anything special that
way up here —but out of the depths of his indigna-
tion at the taunt there came flowing a passionate
rejoinder which crushed the interruptor. He
was not at Hobart then—surrounded by larrikins
and drunken sailors—but on a N.S.W. gold-field—
among free men —his own friends and constituents
—to whom he was responsible and by whom he
must be judged —who would hear, him to the end
before they judged him—and “ thank God,” said
Holman, “ I can say it here!” It looks little
enough on paper, but in the darkness, in those
wild surroundings and before that audience, it
was most telling. Interruption ceased then, and
Holman pursued his theme pitilessly' to the end.
I have never seen an Australian meeting devoted
wholly to foreign policy before. It was completely
.successful here, and the concluding vote of confi-
dence, and cheers for Holman, and cheers for his
chairman (a prominent local “pro-Boer” who has
been boycotted out of Grenfell) were as real as
anything I ever saw. The entire experience was
as wholesome and refreshing as a summer breeze.
—M.
■
As a sample of magnificent assurance, it would be
hard to beat the cablegram of Dibbs, Want and
MTiAUKIN to the British Government, protesting
“on behalf of the 82,000 N.S.W. voters who
opposed the Commonwealth Bill ” against the
proposed abolition of appeals to the British Privy
Council. By that cablegram the three distinctly
imply that the 82,000 “No ” voters in N.S.W. are
against the abolition, of appeals to the British
Privy Council. And the three have no means of
knowing that they, or half of them, or a tenth, or
twentieth, or a ninetieth were against the Bill on
that ground. For all they know to the contrary
there may be 40,000 of them who regard the aboli-
tion of Privy Council appeals as the Bill’s one
good feature, and 41,000 more who are quite
indifferent. It would be no more insolent a
piece of assumption if some Dutch tailor or publi-
can telegraphed the cordial sympathy of the 82,000
N.S.W. anti-Federalists to President Kruger.
The Dibbs-Want-M‘Laurin triumvirate says
that the 82,000 object to “the taking away
of our rights as British subjects to appeal to the
Privy Council.” Among the old hardshell Tories
the fact that you can’t get final justice without
going 16,000 miles, and waiting a year or two, and
spending very large sums of money, is always
called “one of our inalienable rights as British
subjects,” and the offer to bring justice 15,500 miles
nearer is called taking away one of our rights.
There are people in this world who are so wedded
to old forms and methods that if anybody pro-
posed to deprive them of the sacred right of being
robbed, or kicked, or dog-bitten, or flogged, or
having dirty water poured over them, they would
say it was an outrage and the Constitoosh’n was
thereby endangered. Even the prospective loss
of the inalienable right of being damned drives
a section of the community to fury, and its
protests against the abolition of a material
Hell are painful to listen to.
+ .
John Forrest’s anti-Federal policy of Yes-No
has fallen with an unexpected shock on his own.
strongholds of Perth and Bunbury. The first
result of it was the Goldfields Separation move-
ment, which was so enthusiastically taken up that
all the regions westward as far as the 119th deg.
of longitude, and in the extreme south a patch as
far west as the 117th deg., are demanding sever-
ance. And when this country gets Separation its
trade will go to Esperance or Albany; and Perth
and Bunbury will go up the cold, unwholesome
spout. The prospect is so awful that new build-
ing contracts in Perth are being cancelled, and
properties in Perth, Fremantle, and Bunbury are
being offered at slump prices by scared holders
who want to get out before Big-JOHN’s capacity
for putting his foot in it reduces them to ruin.
And Big-JOHN, not knowing what to do or how
to untie himself from the hard knot he has got
into, and driven hither by Hackett, and thither
by Harper, and with the Separation movement
on his chest by night and the Ooolgardie water-
scheme by day, wanders back and forward in his
mind, and asks himself where he are, and replies
wildly that he dunno.
-*■
If the Sydney daily papers could conveniently and
profitably run more than two horrors at once, we
should be hearing a lot now of an impending
general strike of coal-miners. With war and the
bubonic plague on hand, though, it would be a
waste of good material to exploit the other ; so
the troubles of Newcastle are held over until some-
thing is wiped off the slate. The chances are, how-
ever, that by that time the miners’ best argument
will have a hole in it somewhere. Their position
is, absolutely, not much worse than usual, which
certainly isn’t saying much ; but they say that but
for the cussedness of the owners, it might be a
great deal better. The selling price governs the
hewing rate ; and the men’s chief complaint is
that the owners will not seize the chance now
offered by the war, and the rush for transport,
and the call-out of so many miners in England,
and a score or so other things, to put up the sel-
ling price. The owners say they can’t ; but they
will not meet the men to tell them why. And by
that refusal to confer, the owners, whether their
case is good or bad, utterly forfeit whatever
shreds of good opinion the public had of them.
■+-
Thus “Rooinek”in Sydney Daily Telegraph :
“As was stated weeks, months ago in this column, the
side which has most men, armaments, and money—
especially the money—wins every struggle that is suffi-
ciently prolonged.”
If you say a thing often enough you may get
people to believe it, but you don’t make it any
truer, and if “ Rooinek ” repeats his alleged maxim
till doomsday, History—and British History with
the rest —will go on saying it is a preposterous lie.
To begin with—in the long struggle between the
Greeks and Persians from Marathon to Arbela,
the Persians had most men, armaments and money
all through, yet "they were beaten. The Carthagi-
nians began with the same advantages ; but Rome
crushed them. Poor little Sweden beat the big,
rich German Empire in the Thirty Years’ War.
Little Holland beat Spain, which had the best
army, with some of the best generals in Europe,
and all the wealth of the Indies to boot. That
contest was “sufficiently prolonged” in all con-
science. Less than half the present Switzerland
knocked both the Duchy of Burgundy (then the
richest monarchy in Europe) and the German
Empire out of time. In the Seven Years’ War,
little Prussia fought France, Austria, and Russia
at the same time, and beat them. “Rooinek’s”
maxim is something like Napoleon’s alleged maxim
about “big battalions.” Napoleon said Providence
was on the side of the “strongest” battalions —
quite another thing. Skill and brains count for
more than men, arms, and money all put together.
One trifling side-result of the Boer war will pro-
bably he that “New Zealand” will think seri-
ously about officially changing its senseless name—
which, by the way, was long ago changed for it
by The Bulletin, and the province re-christened
kiaoriland. Efforts in this direction have
been made previously, but the authorities fell
asleep over the proposal, and on -awakening re-
garded it as a passing dream. The subject has
been revived by Mr. J. P. Maxwell, railway ex-
pert, who writes to the New Zealand Times : -
The old Dutch name of New Holland was, I believe,
discarded about 1817. In this colony, after 60 years as a
colony and over a century of what we may call occupa-
tion, we still adhere to the name of New Zealand, which
conveys only its Dutch origin to us, while it is uncouth
in form and sound. An alteration in name has
often been discussed, without any practical re-
sult. The present time seems a suitable one
for getting rid of our Dutch brand and for adopting a
more euphonious title. There is a name we are all
familiar with, and one by which the colony is already
pretty well known, viz., Maoriland, which has the ad-
vantage of combining the aboriginal with the Saxon ; it is
also adaptable to poetry, but no one, I fear, will ever suc-
ceed in jamming “New Zealand” into a decent line of
verse, and we must be wanting in imagination to have
put up with this Dutch monstrosity of a name for so long’.
Maoriland is also more compact and more easily written,
and space would be economised by using- it!
Writer goes on to suggest a newspaper poll, and
says Govt, would likely take notice of the expres-
sion of opinion elicited. “ Colonists might then
begin the new century and record a great his-
torical event in their life with a new name.”
Dear Bulletin.— Re the proposed Sydney crema-
tion of germ-harboring rubbish, let me commend
to the municipal solons the method by which
many mines are ventilated—the furnace air-shaft.
No two things resemble each other more than the
ramifications of a sewerage-system and the work-
ings of a coal-mine; so, why not have the
destructors so placed over the sewerage-system
that they would act as furnace air-shafts ? They
would then not merely allow the germ-laden
sewer-gas to escape, but their up-draft would
suck the foulness from the sewers and burn it, as
in many coal-mines. Then the destructor-ash
could either be incorporated (where sewage
filters or farms were convenient) with the sewerage
solids for manuring purposes—or dumped into and
carried away by the sewers.— Microbe.
A correspondent puts it all down to the rabbits:
Ed. Bulletin.— Re Hr. Millen’s theory of overstocking
in relation to Western N.S. W. land (“ A Vanishing Asset,”
B. 3/10/’00). Surely one holder could be found who is not
guilty of ruining his country by overstocking—men, for
instance, who have no interest to pay, and nothing to
gain by overstocking. Yet their country at present is no
better than their neighbors’! After 27 years’ residence in
different portions of the West, I challenge Mr. Millen, or
anyone else, to point out any country there that has not
deteriorated from 30 to 75 per cent, during the last 15
years. I know station horse-paddocks that are always
saved as much as possible, and on which there have been
no sheep for 15 to 20 years, yet they are no better than
the adjoining land. This shows that the cause must be
sought for in something against which the people were
unable to contend ; and that is the rabbit pest. The only
country which retains anything like its former capacity
is in small areas which were netted when the rabbits first
appeared, and on which they were never allowed to enter.
Years ago, in Victoria, where the rainfall is much better
than here, largo areas were abandoned solely owing to the
rabbits, and it was not until the Government came to the
rescue with wire-netting and other assistance that the
land could again be profitably occupied. The N.S.W.
Govt, was altogether to blame for the present trouble,
for it introduced the bonus system—the very thing that
had been condemned in Vic. When that system failed,
as was foretold, the Govt, simply did nothing else.
O
So far this year the ambulance has been called to
a Broken Hill mine every other day, on an
average. Of men killed outright the average has
been one a week. None of the accidents have
been sensational; just a casual stone has dropped
on a casual miner, or someone has fallen down
an opening left unguarded, or something lias
gone wrong with an explosive charge. These
ones and twos get little notice taken of
them. Killed in the morning, they are gene-
rally inquested the same afternoon, and the
funeral takes place next day. Only when
four or five are shattered at once is there a stir ;
and when the public aren’t too busy dodging the
plague or shouting “Rule Britannia” they raise
funds for their widows. The ones and twos, who
count up far more, leave widows and children the
same as the others, only more of both ; but they
can compete with Ah Chow for the washing, or—
or do other things. Wanted badly then, and
getting wanted worse every month, some sort of a
pension-fund—for miners, just for a start.
♦
Just now in view of the Cecil Rhodes worship
which is rampant in Australian journalism and
elsewhere, the case of Burroughs v. Rhodes,
Jameson and others ought to be better known, in
order to appreciate what kind of a crowd the Char-
tered Co. gang really are. The matter was tried
recently before a British court, and, as reported in
the Law reports, is somewhat as follows: Bur-
roughs was a trooper in the Chartered Co.’s
Horse. His time was up just before the Jameson
raid. However, he was induced by the false
representations of Jameson and others to re-enlist
—the false representations being, inter alia, that
the women and children of Johannesberg were in
danger from the Boers, that the expedition in
which the troopers were about to engage had the
sanction of the Imperial Government, and that
they would be joined by Imperial troops when
they entered the Transvaal. On these represen-
tations Burroughs enlisted, took part in the raid,
was shot in the leg, lost his leg and was captured ;
was brought into Pretoria as a prisoner, was in
danger of losing his life for assisting in a State
burglary, and became amenable to the laws of his
own country for taking part in an attack on a
friendly State. As soon as he could get back to
England (minus a leg) he applied for help to the
Chartered Co. people and was hunted out. Then
he brought the action, claiming £3OOO damages.
Cohen, Q.C., and Lord Cecil (junior bar-
rister) argued that the J ameson crowd having been
convicted and punished as criminals, Burroughs
was particeps criminis, and, therefore, could not
recover, on the principle of the legal maxim that
an ill-doer could not profit by his own misdeed.
Judge Grantham, a well-known Jingo, could
hardly contain himself during this argument, and in
giving judgment described it as the most monstrous
argument he had ever heard advanced. He said
the learned Q.C. had referred to a case as
an authority on the maxim cited It was
a pity, said the Judge, that he did not
say what the case was, as it was rather
apropos of the one before him. He then quoted
it himself. Two highwaymen had quarrelled as
to the distribution of the plunder obtained by
them on Hounslow Heath. They brought an
equity-suit for an account and a division. The
result was that the solicitor for one of them was
fined £5O, the barristers on either side were struck
off the roll, and both the highwaymen were hanged.
He then gave judgment, against the Rhodes-
Jameson gang for the full amount claimed, with
costs.
The war-cablegram is often a humorous
and incomprehensible affair, but in a quaint way
this one puts up a record :
London, April 6.
Fifty cavalry-men of E squadron, belonging to Major-
General Lord Kitchener’s command, were guarding a farm
at Reit River on February 15, when they were surrounded
by 400 Boers.
The imprisoned troopers made a desperate resistance,
and loop-holeij the walls to use their carbines.
For three (lavs the besieged were foodless, and they
then caught and killed a goat.
All the horses died of starvation.
On the fourth day, the little garrison was completely
exhausted, and surrendered to the enemy.
These heroes had 50 horses to eat, and yet, after
being foodless for three days, they had to depend
on a goat —which makes no better victuals than a
horse. Obviously the horses were shut up with
the men; if they had been outside they wouldn’t
have died of starvation. Didn’t anyone think of
horse-steak ? And can’t one horse out of 50 hang
out without food till the fourth day ? What are
the daily papers giving us ?


THE 3XTBW POLICY OF
Tbe MCltaal Lif^loSCiraowCo.ofN^wYork
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance. 1—
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
m
o-t . . J
AGENTS—
THE TRANSVAAL WAR !
The PREMO CAMERA
IS IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CAN’T BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 Ceorge-st„
SYDNEY.
260 Collins-st. , Melbourne. 81 Quben-st., Brisbane. 65 Rundlk-st., A'iikkaide.
A
I’llflflilafi
flliHjjisfji
■'M:
The
JENNINGS^
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
FOB
Tailings, Suction Dredging,
Alluvial Mining,
Irrigating, etc.
DEMONSTRATED
TO HOLD
FIRST PLACE
FOR
HIGH EFFICIENCY
AND
REMARKABLE ECONOMY.
Sole Manufacturers for New
South Wales :
The Clyde
Engineering Coy.
(Ltd.) GRANVILLE
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Camille.”
Royal “Lady Ursula,,” “Lord Quex,”
etc.
Lyceum “ The Irishman."
Palace M’Adoo’s Georgia Minstrels.
Tivoli Rickards' Go.
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones."
Theatre Royal “When the Lamps are Lighted.’
Alexandra “ For Queen and Country.”
Bijou Rickards’Variety Co.
Robert Brough decided to give the
“Happy Life” a six nights’ run only, and “The
Physician ” was advertised to fill in the remainder
of the week. It is only a fragmentary week, any-
how, for the Good Friday Bun rises up like a
brown moon in the road, and that sombre, dark
indigestible is supposed to suspend all festivities.
Possibly Brough was right in thus cutting the
“ Happy Life ” short. ' It is a reasonably strong
piece, played admirably by a powerful combina-
tion, but it isn’t in the least happy. “ The Phy-
sician” isn’t especially happy, either, but it is
stronger and more original than its predecessor.
The intoxicated teetotaller who spends his fortune
in trying to suppress drink, and implores the pub-
lic in deadly earnest to swear off the brown
October ale, when he knows that he dare not turn
his own belltopper upside-down for fear a cataract
of snakes and jim-jams will pour out of it, is a
remarkable study. And Carne’s physician, the
strong, wise man against whom the drunken
reformer leans as a refuge from the strange
red animals that wander in his mind, is a
really great character. These are about all that
there are in the play. The girl that they both
love is only a little, commonplace, kindly vision in
a white frock and an innocent straw hat, beaming
with simple piety beside a well. She knows
nothing of life ; she isn’t tragic and she isn’t
powerfully dramatic, but she is the sort of girl
that a middle-aged and hardened co-respondent
would like to marry when he has realised that
barmaids are vanity, and ballet-girls are dust, and
that chappies and late hours and cards and cock-
tails are a weary kind of devilment at the best, and
the co-respondent business has lost its savour. And
the “Physician” has a quiet, restful, ordinary,
Story-book ending where the big world-worn man
marries the little confiding girl, and they are
happy. So many plays struggle to unusual end-
ings that a play with a usual ending is a trifle
more unusual than theother kind. After Brough is
done with the “ Physician ” the pretty, quaint little
Slav of “Lady Ursula” is to till in two nights at
ydney Royal (Saturday and Monday); then
there will be two nights of “ Lord Quex ” and
two more of the labored confusion of the “ Biix-
ton Burglary.”
* • • *
It is understood that Joseph Carne
and the Brough company part company next
month. The present scribe will deeply regret the
severance. Came is more than a fine finished
actor; lie is an unusual kind of actor as well. He
did more to replace Australia’s lost Titheradge
than any other man has done or seems likely to
do, and this country has a kindly feeling for any-
body who reminds it of that fine old favorite.
Carne looks like a man with a history—at least
the Young Female Person of this country so
decided, and when he lived at a Sydney waterside
resort she used to blew her coppers recklessly on
tram-fares merely to gaze on that inscrutable
countenance and those unfathomable eyes (that
was what she called them) on the wav out. There
is a certain class of character which Joseph C. can
do better than any other man in Australia—the
kind of character to which the masterful, reserved,
gentlemanly, battered physician of Jones’s play
belongs. He can do plenty of other things, too,
and do them admirably ; but as a proud, dignified,
man who has found out the tilings that Solomon
knew in his old age, when the glare of the Temple
was an ache in his dazzled eyes, and he loathed
the girlish giggle of liis 400th Moabitish wife,
Carne is unrivalled.
* * * sfc
“The Irishman” is to be produced on
Saturday at Sydney Lyceum, and there are
reasons for suspecting that it will be staged with
all the excellence that is usually associated with
the honored name of C. Holloway. As Friday is
a holiday it is probable that the dry and com-
bustible bishop in “ Defender of the Faith ” will
have blazed for the last time before this issue is
placed in the infected hand of the community.
The “Defender” has had a six weeks’ run, for
which the gorgeous clothing, and the combustible
character of the bishop, and the revelations as to
the ancient method of treating the insane, were
largely responsible. Probably, also, Dora Win-
ton’s singing of “Abide with Me” in Bedlam,
when she was crucified in white clothes with the
limelight on her, and her deranged mother
prowled round with much ironmongery and
couldn’t decide whether to brain her or not, kept
the drama going one extra week anyhow.
* * * *
Her Majesty's has been closed this week,
but Miss Nance O’Neil returns on Saturday to
play the soul-stirring drama of Camille.” The
company this time includes Thomas Kingston,
Harry Plimmer, and Miss Emily Hughes, so it
will probably be found a stronger aggregation than
the one which supported Miss O’Neil at the Royal.
Miss O’Neil looked very imposing there, partly
because she is really an actress of unusual capacity
and partly because even a giraffe looks a little
taller than usual when it is walking arm-in-arm
with a kitten. The arrangement is good for the
star, but it is sometimes decidedly bad for the
drama, and this time it has been arranged to give
the drama a better show.
* * * *
As already mentioned Alfred Dampier
returns to Sydney Criterion on Saturday, when
the consistently successful “Robbery Under
Anns ” will once more transpire under the gum-
tree of this bright and happy land. M‘Adoo’s
Georgia Minstrels are due at the Palace on the
same night.
* *• Ht *
Shortly after this is read by the public a
huge crowd will be pouring along to see the open-
ing of the new and glorified Sydney Tivoli. At
the Cri., whence Rickards moves this week,
Amann was on his last legs, and the only new
feature on the face of the dying season was Tom
Browne, the whistler. Thomas is a tall, chubby-
faced gent with red cheeks, and wears his hair
parted in the centre and plastered down hard on
both sides. As a whistler Browne is a man of
mark, especially when he does the “Swanee
River ” and gives his peculiar effect as if two per-
sons were whistling at once. As an imitation
trombone, flute, cello and banjo he is also a re-
markable Browne. Years ago, at Dunedin Exhibi-
tion, there _ was a whistler with one arm and one
leg, and this half-man used to toot as probably no
human being ever tooted before. Browne gets
nearer to the record of that amazing half-man
than anyone else this scribe ever heard.
* * *
This is an off week with Melbourne shows,
but on Saturday things will begin to look as in
the Saturdays of old before the Great Slump.
There have been signs that Melbourne could do
with more theatrical stuff than it was getting, and
the time has arrived for the city to increase its
weekly consumption. At the Princess’s old friend
Charles Arnold will make a second or third re-
appearance in Australia, after an absence of five
years, in his successful British character of Jones.
“ What Happened to Jones ” is said to be a pecu-
liarly funny farcical comedy which reveals Arnold
in a new bright light, and as a matter of fact it
was warmly received by the Boers a while ago
when they were not disposed to laugh at any Lon-
don comedy without great provocation, bio pre-
vious stage-play has been applauded by so many
people who didn’t know they would never live to
see another like it.
The veldt and the kopjes are strewn with the bones
Of many who witnessed “ What Happened to Jones.”
This is mentioned by way of encouraging Mel-
bournians to hurry up to the Princess’s and sample
the latest joke from South Africa, ere the uncer-
tainty of life is brought right home to them.
* * * *
The Alexandra is to break out again on
Saturday, under the enterprising management of
William Anderson, whose companies appear to be
all over the country of late. Alfred YVoods and
Miss Maud Williamson figure at the head of the
new co., and the opening drama will be a stupend-
ously warlike affair, “ For Queen and Country,”
wherein Britain’s loyal sons will humiliate Oom
Paul and avenge Majuba as much as possible. The
ad vertisement talks of storming Pretoria with 200
trained warriors and a full battery of mounted
artillery, so, judging from the recent popularity of
a drama which relieved Ladysmith with only 20
soldiers, “For Queen and Country” ought to
boom like a Long Tom cannon.
• * * •
J. C. Williamson’s designs on the Alex-
andra are not as reckless as was rumored. At the
termination of Manager Anderson’s season (seven
weeks) J.C.W. will take possession on a three
months’ lease, with option of renewals, but he is
not likely to attempt any expensive improvements
of the property until the possibilities of the
“Aleck ” as a fashionable theatre have been fairly
tested. Meanwhile Anderson’s productions of
melodrama on a big scale will have helped to
settle the question before his successor comes along.
* * m *
Dan, Tilly, and the infant proceed on their
domestic way at Melb. Royal. Also, the course
of Dan’s disguises runs smooth, and his method of
casting burglar Jim through the window of the
Den leaves nothing to be desired. “When the
Lamps are Lighted,” being a serio-comic shocker
that gives plenty of scope to the players, is easily
improved in the performance. The grief and woe
seem less tiresome than at first. H. Willard and
one or two other people have begun to appear
natural as a rule, which is a considerable ac hieve-
ment under the circumstances of the case, and the
tall young Sinclair, who takes a header into the
Thames, almost persuades one that he is about to
get wet. Whilst praising the artistic earnestness
of Sinclair’s plunge, The Bulletin must not for-
get to speak kindly of the invisible conspirator
who throws up a splash from the painted river. It
is a soulful splash.
* * * *
A “ classical sacred concert,” with tab-
leaux and talk in it, is to happen at the Royal on
Good Friday night. On the same night, at the
Town Hall, the Philharmonic Society will give a
performance of “ Elijah,” with William Pauli as
the prophet. Pauli is rather young for a prophet;
but this is a common objection to the modern
Elijahs, and Pauli has a Biblical name, anyhow.
Moreover, he is a fine singer, and the oratorio will
give him the chance to make a suitable farewell
appearance in Melbourne. There will be yet
another holy show to assist the public’s digestion
of their annual buns. At the Exhibition Building
the Ancient Druids will run a biographical Passion
Play and an incidental lecture by the Rev. Edgar,
price of admission only one shilling—a nimble,
secular shilling.
** * *
Amann, the German gentleman with the
adaptable face, is due at the Bijou on Easter
Saturday. News of Amann has trickled over to
Melbourne from. Sydney, and the arrival of Queen
Victoria’s countenance is anxiously awaited. The
Macarte Sisters are making their final efforts on
the uncomfortable wire, but Irene Franklin will
sing till further orders concerning the Golden
Gates. Everybody likes Irene. They would like
her even better if she didn’t alw'ays make a point
of introducing “Golden Gates” as her “trade-
mark,” and explaining that she will sing it to the
ladies and gentlemen with their “ kind attention.”
** * *
From San Francisco to The Bulletin :
Maggie Moore has come to ’Frisco and created a frost,
which was real mean of Maggie, for the frost was labelled
“ Australian,” and brought the land of the wattle into
theatrical disrepute. If there be one thing your genuine
San Franciscans abhor, it is the “ harrowing-up ” process.
They will stand any amount of stage idiocy if it be rushed
through and called a farce ; they will accept joyfully the
doddering, inane, domestic plot that ends in placid hap-
piness ; but morbid introspection and tragic finale they
will not endure. So, by way of cheerful catering, Maggie
offered them that lugubrious, long-drawn agony, “ The
Silence of Dean Maitland,” and S.F. declined to be
pleased. What is more, she brought her Dean with her—
Mr. Roberts, advertised as the great Australian Star.
Now, Roberts is a pretty fellow, cut out by nature
for the gentlemanly stage-lover, but hopelessly swal-
lowed up in the life-long remorse of the dreary
Dean. Two or three other Australians helped
him through his trouble, but the bulk of the co. was
made up of waifs and strays, hopeful amateurs and hope-
less professionals picked up in California, the whole being
styled, forsooth, “an Australian company,” whereat
those who love not Australia found matter for rejoicing.
Miss Madge Corcoran made a pretty Marion Everard, and
Winnie’s part was charmingly played, but at the hands of
the rest we suffered many things throughout some weary
hours. Also, a ghost arose, substantial enough to knock
Photo., Eden.
Mr. DAN. O'CONNOR, M.L.A.
Sydney’s “ Jaynial Dan ” O'Connor is again to the
fore, having been returned for Phillip division as
successor to Mr. Henry Copeland, now N.S.W.
Agent-General.
the affrighted Dean down, and altogether the audience
had a bad time. So had Roberts when the morning
papers appeared. Maggie reserved her own efforts
for “ Mrs. Quinn’s Twins,” written for her by Clifford
Robertijpn years ago, when her voice was more tuneful
and her foot lighter—an out-of-date piece, with nothing
but Maggie to account for its re-appearance. Neverthe-
less, she made a delightful, natural Irishwoman, and the
hearts of old admirers went out to her afresh. Moreover,
she had secured two admirable local twins : her pretty
piece, Osgood Moore, who had failed as Alma, proved to
be a charming Irish girl and a graceful dancer ; Miss
Madge Corcoran was a winsome heroine ; and Roberts—
Roberts, cut loose from his clerical trammels, was a
revelation. A debonair Irish squire, with a perfect
accent and a convincing manner ; and he wore his Court
clothes as one unto the manner born, a signal accomplish-
ment in a land where your actors in Court dress look like
lackeys. But the fiat, had then gone forth—the “ Austra-
lian co.” had been pronounced a failure, and Mrs. Quinn
and her twins played to empty stalls.
An old identity, a native of N.S.W.,
Thomas Tom, J.P., died suddenly at Parkes last
week aged 75. He was son of an old Western
identity, “Parson’’Torn, who lived at Guyong,
and brother of James Tom, who disputed with
Hargreaves the claim to be the first discoverer of
gold in N.S. Wales. The father was not an
ordained clergyman, but in early life, when clergy-
men were scarce, he filled the Wesleyan pulpit.
War-correspondent Donald MacDonald is
on his way back from South Africa. A rest at
Capetown after the horrors of the siege of Lady-
smith failed to restore his shattered health. The
best his friends now hope is that his splendid con-
stitution is not utterly wrecked. He is not the
man to give up unless thoroughly knocked out.
The Argus has tried to keep it a secret that he is
returning. Goodness knows why, as every one
must know he arrives in about a fortnight’s time.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Revenue returns for March, 1900 :
t, . Increase as com-
K® pared with
March, 1900. March, 1899.
Westralia.. .. £242,326 .. £41,587
Queensland .. 453,004 u 36,590
New South Wales 932,330 .. 25,948
Tasmania.. .. 90,770 .. 14,191
Decrease as com-
pared with
March, 1899.
Victoria.. .. £691,276 .. £24,136
Taking the results for the financial year so far as it has
gone (nine months of it have expired in Westralia, S.A.,
Victoria, N.S.W., and Queensland, and three months in
Tasmania), results are as under. Maoriland’s financial
year closed on 31st March, but no figures are yet avail-
able :
Increase as
compared
Revenue to with cor-
81st March, responding
1900. period to
31st March,
1899.
New South Wales (9 months).. £7,365,141 £429,630
Queensland „ .. 3,496,551 371,587
Westralia „ .. 2,079,635 279,493
South Australia „ .. 1,995,132 87,637
Victoria „ .. 6,456,017 30,696
Tasmania (3 months).. 263,455 28,072
If these are reduced to a common basis to show the
amount of the increase per inhabitant per annum, which
is the real test of the expansion, results are as follows
(population taken from Coghlan’s latest published
figures):—
Increase per
inhabitant
per annum.
Westralia .. _ „ .. £2 4 4
Queensland 0 19 10
Tasmania .. 012 9
New South Wales .. .. .. 0 8 6
South Australia 0 6 4
Victoria 0 0 8
In spite of the great increase in revenue, the
financial position of New' South Wales looks none too
beautiful. Total ordinary expenditure for the nine
months is £7,721,764, so that there is a deficit of £356,623
to pull up if the year is to end without a deficit, and there
are only three months to do it in. Still, the revenue has
increased £429,630, and the expenditure has only increased
£221,050, so the deficit is £208,580 less than it was at 31st
March, 1899, which is a promising feature. And the in-
crease of expenditure is wholly in the first quarter of the
financial year, for which quarter the Lyne Government
isn’t responsible. During the three months to 30th Sep-
tember, 1899, under the Reid Ministry, the expenditure
increased by £306,446 as compared with the corresponding
period of previous year. During Lyne’s six months of office
expenditure has been £85,395 less than for the correspond-
ing six months of previous year, so up to date Lyne comes
out remarkably well. The place where he comes out very
badly is in the loan expenditure. For the first quarter of
the financial year (Reid’s quarter) loan expenditure
diminished by £33,947, and in the last half-year (Lyne’s
half-year) it increased £260,815, as compared with corres-
ponding periods of previous year. So apparently Lyne
has been at the old miserable game of saving the ordinary
expenditure by charging more outgoings to loans, and has
been at it even worse than Reid used to be. In the past
nine months N.S. W. has gaily got through £1,722,922 of
borrowed money, so if it keeps going at that rate the
year’s addition to the public debt will be £2,297,330.
Victoria’s increase of revenue is fading away so
fast that by 30th June there will probably be none at all.
The cautious Turner anticipated a falling-off, as last year’s
figures were enormously swollen by the unexpected in-
crease in the death duties. Turner’s estimate for the
year was £7,156,225, so for nine months he expected to
receive £5,367,169, and on this basis the revenue is
£88,848 ahead. But the incautious Shiels, in his anxiety
to show that the country could afford to go on a loyal
contingent burst without having a deficit, and without
harassing any loyal person with extra taxation—that the
Lord, in fact, would send his ravens to feed the Boer-
shooter —joyfully re-estimated the revenue at £7,294,000.
This is the estimate Victoria is working on now, and at
that rate the nine months’ revenuo should be £5,470,500.
It is £14,500 behind, and getting further behind with
awful persistency. The luck of Jonah Shiels apparently
still sticks to him.
Queensland’s expenditure for the nine months
is £2,887,049, and the surplus, so far, is £609,502.
Queensland’s big surplus, however, mostly disappears
towards the end of the financial year, when its interest
bill falls due in a lump.
* * * *
The South Australian Government’s 3 per cent,
loan of £1,000,000 wasn’t violently rushed in London,
the amount offered being £1,298,700. The average price
realised was £94 10s. 9d. per £lOO. But £1 per cent, w'as
paid for underwriting the loan, and the interest starts
from Ist January, 1900, so another £1 ss. 9d. per cent, is
lost in accrued interest, and there are sundry expenses, and
the Government only gets between £9l and £92 for every
£lOO. It is really a3l per cent, loan or thereabouts, and
the 3 per cent, is only a pleasing fiction. Considering
that S.A. has always flatly refused to let the local investor
have 3 per cent, stock below £96 net, its joyous readiness
to let the British investor have it at £9l or £92 net is un-
accountable. S.A. has floated four 3 per cent, loans in
London, and the last two of them show a terrible slump.
But even at its best S.A. never got £9B per £lOO for a 3
per cent, security in London, though it has had the gall
to demand that price quite recently from the Crow'-eater
capitalist.
* • • *
The balance-sheet of the Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society of the United States is to hand, and the


jPr«uiluma!
To«J
Inixiiii*.
ExpMlA
A<MKI to
Fundd.
£ £
1892 7,190.601 l,S55,fi9$
tan
I81U 7,6(13,1 111 1.5S9.749
189? 7.511.305' 1,688,621
1896 7,737,3261 1,8W,318
1897 8,013,9631 2/549,712
1806 8,813,8981 3,087.6 Kl
1800 8,939,4701 2,302,73(1
£
3,5(6,559
9,366,110
9.(617.860
9.228.420
9,667,0(3
10,363,076
11,301,447
11,742,205
£
1.589,662
1,005.247
1,050,002
1,698,46$
1,630,021
1,773,535
1,819,404
7,173,613
£.
3,398,802
3,227.256
3,384,009
3,456,241
3,215,497
4,129.703
4.494,618
4,462.1X16
Year.
Premiums
Interest,
&e.
Total K , 'A<ld.?cl t°
Income. K um l # .
1592
5,162.280
1,213,207
6,305,553 1,575,083; 1.909,938
1803
6.flfi«,!(l2
1,311,72*
0,907,828 1,72,'i,-',71 2,147,023
1894
OAftlyViB
1,499.129
7,000.851 1,743.709; 3.539.S94
7.790.702 1,619,244 1 2.020.675
1896
ft.23S.42fl
1,65.8.330
1896
8,407,011
1,6*8,305
8,05*3,400 ) ,028,000 2,648,283
1897
0.780,209
1,813.195
2,010,3)0
8,65',1,1 no 1.728,702 2,870,983
1898
7,331,820
9,348,130 1,847,648 3,072,026
18 f9
8,073,293
2,102,087
10,775,080 2,108,304 4,038.290
m\
&
(W. ~
2ETZ-SF
5*2
ft S*
ir~in
iral)
as? rsfl
mi
?he
ZETZsmc'
Baiximore
MEM &WSO
fS#
N
Famous
Pcbaeeed
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AHD WAR OFFICE-
vmr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD. 1 '
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, & Oo„ Ltft., Liverpool, Agents! 1L Rutty & 80., Sydney,
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. W. & .T. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest huh rig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery' is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
• * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 24!) George-
street, Svdnev, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ’’brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, <tc. , &c.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
4cc., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
Inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* * * •
Mr. J. A. Wallace, tbe pioneer of tbe gold-
dredging industry in Australia, holds a long stretch of the
Sandy Creek, near Yackandandah, and intends installing
a ver’v large electrical plant to operate several dredges.
An order has just been placed with the Austral Otis
Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, to supply high-class
compound condensing engines, with Corliss valve-gear, of
400 h.p., together with boilers and flitings to operate the
first section of the plant. A duplicate plant to this will
be installed later and will work three electric dredges on
a stretch of about two miles of the creek. Each dredge
will have a capacity of about 150 cubic yards per hour.*
* • * *
Commercial World, July 1st., 1899, writes re
the Colonial Mutual Society: “To simultaneously in-
crease the business and reduce the ratio of expenditure is
therefore always regarded as a sure indication of capable
and most efficient
The Milburn Copper Corporation, conducting
operations near Milburn Creek, in the neighborhood of
Mount M‘Donald, is putting in an Ingersoll rock-drilling
plant. A 16in. Ingersoll-Sergeant straight line air com-
pressor, of the “ A ” class, with piston air inlet, and four
3Jin. drills is the first instalment, and will be supplied
from slock in Svdney. The Ingersoll Works, at Easton,
Pennsylvania, U.S.A., is sharing in the general activity
of engineering concerns throughout America, and the
local agents, Parke and Lacy Co., Ltd., are advised that;,
although working night and day, and notwithstanding
the recent large extension of premises, it is found impos-
sible to keep pace with the rush of business. There is
many months work in sight without taking another order.*
* » * *
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
* * * *
Westralian mining co.s., 10 of them, paid
£360,784 in divs. during the first three months of the
year. Add to this the L.V. Consols’ £125,000 declared,
but not pavable till May ; also the Ivanhoe’s £50,000 and
the W.F. Main Reef’s £3,526, payable April 20. The list:
Associated £37,500, Bavley’s United £15,500, H. Brown
Hill £87,500, II. Oroya £7582, Ivanhoe £50,0C0, L.V. Con-
sols £125,000, Peak Hill £25,000, Princess Royal £4000, Q.
Menzies £1650, W.F. Main Reef £7052. Of these the only
newcomer on the list is Hannan’s Oroya. L.V. Consols
has now declared divs. amounting to £1,130,000 ; the
Ivanhoe’s little lot is £418,750.
• * * *
Burbank’s, one of the few Westralian mines
which settled down to steady graft on just fair stone in
’97, still keeps going in a workmanlike way. ’98’s average
was loz. 7dwt. ; last month’s, loz. 3idwt. Annual yield
keeps steady at about 15,500oz., though, so far, things
are shaping' for more this year. The stone generally is
not big ; but lately one or two small “ makes ” of richer
stud have been broken into. Still, it has not got on the
div. list this year yet.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markv/ald
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/C S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st, Sydney.
figures compare with those of soma previous years as
follows: ___
It is only recently that the Equitable commenced to oe
an “ American Giant,” as American giants are nowadays
—it was called one in 1891 certainly, but the kind of
giant it was then would now be reckoned rather a stumpy
institution. The Equitable’s total funds are £57,907,896,
and more than half of this sum has been piled
up since 1892—therefore it is interesting to speculate
as to the possible size of the institution in, say, 1950. The
chief visible drawback about the Equitable is the heavy
expense rate, though that seems inseparable from the
kind of business mostly done by American offices. The
percentage of expenses to the total income from premiums
and interest has been as follows since 1892:
1892 .. £lB 12 0 per cent. 1896 .. £l7 7 5 per cent.
1893 .. 17 6 5 „ 1897 .. 17 12 5 „
1894 .. 18 4 2 1898 .. 17 10 2 „
1895 .. 18 6 7 „ 1899 .. 19 5 1
* • • *
The Equitable, even if it assumes that its assets
will only realise 3 per cent, per annum interest in the
future, can show a splendid surplus of nearly £8,000,000
over all liabilities. The only questionable-looking item
is that always dubious and debateable paper asset
“ Deferred premiums on policies when paid semi-
annually r>r quarterly, deductable from amount in-
sured in case of claim, £473,820.” Only two Australian
offices reckon this an asset, and one of the
two is wisely swearing off the practice. Even rejecting
this, however, the Equitable has a huge surplus and its
solvency is guaranteed by State auditors and a State
valuation of the assets. Another casual disadvantage of
the American offices is that interest rates are lower than
in Australia ; in 1899 the Equitable realised only £4 4s. 3d.
per cent, on its average funds. But the Australian rates
are falling so steadily that it is probable the local offices
will also be down to £4 4s. 3d. in a few years. In 1892 the
Equitable realised £4 6s. percent., so its interest rate has
fallen only ninepence per cent. The fall that has struck
some of the Australian offices in the same period is painful
to think of.
* * * *
Some figures regarding the Union Trustee Co.
of Australia (Melbourne) :
Profit. Dividend.
February,’92 .. £5616 .. 6 per cent. =£4428
„ ‘ ’93 .. 4307 .. 6 „ =-4428
„ ’94 .. 2797 .. 4 „ = 2953
„ ’95 .. 3648 .. 4 „ 2953
„ ’96 .. 553 .. 2 „ = 1476
„ ’97 .. 2742 .. 4 „ = 2953
„ ’9B .. 3005 .. 4 „ = 2953
’99 .. 2299 .. 4 „ = 2953
„ 1900 .. 1066 .. 1£ „ = HO7
£26,033 £26,204
The Union Trustee 00. certainly has had no very brilliant
luck of late. Just when many other companies are ris-
ing above the troubles of the boom-burst years, it shows
n tendency to fade, and things are worse with it now
than in the awful days of 1894 and 1895. The average
earnings during the last nine years have been only
£3 18s. 4d. per cent, on capital, and the dividends have
absorbed £l7l more than the earnings, thereby reducing
the profit balance from £979 to £BOB. The Union Trustee
00. never had a reserve fund, and the above £BOB with
£Bl9 investment fluctuation fund (£1627 in all) are all it
has to show after an existence of 15 years. From the
very beginning the management went in for paying about
the largest dividends that the profits would admit, and
cheerfully let the consequences go hang. They have
hung accordingly. In 1897 the co. wrote up a number of
securities from the actual purchase price to full market
value, and thereby created a reserve of £2789 to cover
depreciation of other investments. Only £Bl9 of this now
remains, the other £1970 having been absorbed. More
than a fourth of the mortgages are now represented by
foreclosed properties, though mortgages are a very
small item with the Union, so this isn’t of very
great importance. This co. lumps together commis-
sion received from the trustee business and interest on
investments, so it is impossible to say definitely what the
trustee business is worth, but one of two things is prac-
tically certain : Either the trustee business has been a
dead loss during the last five years, or the investments
have been so unremunerative that it is evident a
good deal of the shareholders’ money is lost. And as the
investments look quite sound the inference is that the
Union Oo.’s trustee business isn’t big enough to pay
expenses, and that the shareholders are keeping the
management on more as an act of charity than anything
else. The investments are debentures at 3, 3£ and 4 per
cent., bank deposits, mortgages (which should be worth
4i or 5 per cent.) and a very small amount of property,
and if the trustee business has been even paying its way
during the last five years then these investments have
only returned £2 16s. per cent, per annum. This is
obviously impossible.
The second balance-sheet (that for 1899) of the
Emu Bay Railway 00. (Tas.) is another lurid commentary
on the utter shiftlessness and ruinousness of the ways of
the private shindykits which occasionally get concessions
to build lines in Australia, and make Australia feel very
sorry for it ever after. The Emu Bay Co. isn’t quite so
awful as some, but if a Government—even the worst
Government in Australia—went railway-building in its
fashion, the deadest community in this continent would
throw it out of office straightway. To begin with, the
record is this :
1898— Loss £1395
1899 „ £5078
This is probably unavoidable, seeing that the line is still
incomplete and not in full work. But there are many
weird things in the Emu Bay Co.’s balance-sheet. Ap-
parently no less than £lOO,OOO of the capital has
disappeared without leaving any palpable assets behind,
or it never really arrived, or something, and the
balance - sheet is partly squared by this gorgeous
and most amazing good-will item, “ By rights acquired
under V.D.L. Co.’s Waratah-Zeehan Railway Act and
other concessions, £100,000.” Where the £lOO,OOO has
gone to the balance-sheet doesn’t explain, and this writer
doesn’t know, but the gall of assuming that a railway
which, so far, earns no dividend and shows a big loss is
worth £lOO,OOO above its cost price is something awful to
■contemplate. Another amazing asset is “ Registration,
law costs, obtaining leases, &e., £4691.” A third terrible
alleged property is “ Expenses on issue of debentures,
£37,373.” The Emu Bay Co., it seems, like almost every
■other private railway co. in Australasia, started without
■enough capital, or the mysterious absorption of the above-
mentioned £lOO,OOO left it without enough capital. And as
the shareholders hadn’t enough faith in their enterprise to
put up sufficient extra capital the co. floated debentures.
Up to 31st December, 1899, it had borrowed £100,150 on
debentures for 24£ years, at 5 per cent, per annum, and
the cost of raising this £100,150 was, apparently, the
appalling sum of £37,373. So the co it would seem
really got, up to end of 1899, £62,777 for its liability of
£lOO 150 and the interest is therefore at present at the
rate of almost 8 per cent. Assuming that the rest
(£99,850) of the debenture money comes in without any
further expenses, the interest will be over 0 per cent., and
allowing for the loss on repayment it will average nearly
7 per cent.
And, in addition, the co. apparently contracted
to deposit £16,000 with trustees as security for payment
of debenture interest, so it seems to have actually only got
the immediate use of less than £47,000 in return for a
liability of £100,150. Considering only the actual and
visible assets (goodwill and preliminary expenses and cost
of floating debentures aren’t assets) the Emu Bay Railway
Co. appears to stand as follows :
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital paid-up .. £298,410 Various visible
Debentures .. .. 100,150 assets £302,624
Interest on ditto.. 2,042 Deficit .. .. 148,538
Bank overdraft .. 42,675
Small debts .. ~ 7,885
£451,162 £451,162
This seems to imply that half the paid-up capital is
already lost. And the Emu Bay Railway Co. was only
registered on 2nd October, 1897.
The situation, as regards the Tasmanian people,
is this : They have to find the interest and dividends on
the Emu Bay Railway Co’s capital and debentures just as
much as if it was a State line, and they were finding the
interest on the State’s borrowings. That is to say, they
have to find it if the co. can possibly get it out of them in
fares and freights. But the State could raise the money
at 3j per cent., while the co. borrows at nearly 7 percent,
net, so with the private co. they have to find an immense
amount more than the other way. The State would never
have had to account for any mysteriously vanished
£lOO,OOO by putting a goodwill item in its balance-sheet,
for it doesn’t let money vanish like that. It would never
have borrowed at 5 per cent.—even Tasmania’s credit is
much better than that It wouldn’t have lost £37,343 in
the process of borrowing £100,150 at 5 per cent. —or even
at 3 per cent. It wouldn’t have spent £4691 in register-
ing itself and such like. Taking it all round, private rail-
way ownership is one of the lamentable curses of this mis-
guided and much-cursed country.
* * * *
The New York Life Insurance Co. presents an
imposing balance-sheet for 1899. Some of the principal
results compare with those of previous years as follows :
These are certainly stupendous figures. In eight years
the New York Life’s income has increased by £4,400,000,
and it has added nearly £22,000,000 to its accumulated
pile. Like all American companies, its assets have
been inspected and valued by an independent
State authority, and that authority certifies that
it is really and truly worth £48,652,335, and that,
assuming future interest at 4 per cent., it has
£8,525,823 more than all liabilities. Even on a 3 per cent,
basis, which is a more stringent one than is adopted by
any Australasian office, the New York Life has a very
large surplus. It is regrettable to see an office of such
high standing including in its assets such an item as
“Quarterly and semi-annual premiums not yet due,
£463,866,” for this asset is always a debateable one, but
even with it deducted, and reckoning future interest
earnings at 3 per cent., the New York Life could show a
very large surplus.
The expenses of the New York Life Cos. of late
years have been as follows, as compared with total
income:
1890 .. £2l 1 2 per cent. 1895 .. £2O 15 2 per cent,
1891 .. 20 10 2 ~ 1896 .. 20 4 6
1892 .. 24 15 0 „ 1897 .. 20 2 0
1893 .. 24 15 2 „ 1898 .. 19 15 2 „
1894 .. 23 4 7 „ 1899 .. 20 2 5 „
The amount is certainly smaller than it was six years ago,
but it is still very high according to the ideas of this
country, where the A.M.P. spends less than 9 per cent.,
and the Maoriland State Department less than 14J per
cent., and the Citizens’(in its ordinary life branch) less
than 16 per cent, of total income in working expenses.
And the New York Life only realises a moderate interest
rate on its investments, according to Australian ideas.
The 1899 rate was £4 10s. 2d. per cent, on the average
funds, which does very little to counterbalance the high
expense average. The two points on which the great
American offices keep definitely ahead are in their size
and in the most important fact that an independent State
audit guarantees their assets to he real and not over-
valued, and their solvency to be beyond dispute.
• • • •
An extraordinary general meeting of the share-
holders in the Overflow Cos. was called for Wednesday this
week to consider this resolution :—“ That a Company
(hereinafter called the New Cos.), to be registered under
the No Liability Mining Cos. Act, be formed with a capital
of £15,000, in 60,000 shares of ss. each, to purchase from
the Overflow Silver Mining Cos. No Liability (hereinafter
called the Old Cos.), the whole of its mining .leases and
other assets, for which it is proposed to pay the old co.’s
liabilities, amounting to about £1,500, more or less. That
the shares be offered in the first instance to the share-
holders of the old co. in the proportion of one share for
every two shares, whether ordinary or preference, held by
them, upon payment of Is. per share, and in case any
shares remain unapplied for by shareholders in the old
co., such shareholders will be entitled to make further
application for said surplus shares, which will be ratably
allotted to them. That should there still be any shares
unapplied for they be offered for subscription by the
public.” The Overflow shareholders are real stickers.
They know they have a splendid-looking show, and they
hang on to it like grim death ; but they don’t hang on the
right way. The Overflow, consisting of a mile and three-
quarters of lode, which can be prospected practically right
along for at least 7 dwt. gold, and which at the bottom of
the deepest hole made in it has a most promising show of
mixed metals, is an alluring proposition ; but the scrippers,
simply through the most wicked, however well-meaning,
mismanagement, have had woeful luck.
* * *
Messrs. Clarke & Cos. are the movers in the
matter Of offering the B.H. South a price for its two
southern blocks. The co. has six blocks altogether, in-
cluding 5,6, 7, and 8, all supposed to be on the main lode,
and 87 and 88, which are on the eastern slope of the hill—
the same side as the North Central is on. Block 5 was
once “ floated off,” but the co. did no good. This block
occupies the southernmost part of the Broken Hill ridge ;
in fact, it is in this block that the ridge dips into the plain
which, with an occasional outcropping here and there,
extends for miles. Whether the great lode breaks up at
this point, or what becomes of it, has never been yet
satisfactorily shown. Block 6 is further north—nearer the
Central (Sulphide Corporation). The syndicate also asks
for blocks 87 and 88.
• • * «
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S.W.): One of the slime-
tanks burst last week, carrying away several miners’ huts,
Ac., and almost drowning several people. To be drowned
in slime would at any rate be a novelty. Damage esti-
mated at £IOOO. Treatment of slimes the mine’s only
remaining trouble. Some 10,000 tons have already
accumulated. Filter-press or treatment by agitation—
which? Both are effective and economical —not more
than 6s. a ton —and if these slimes contain sdwt. there is
a lot of money in them, and the mine is one of the best
and most permanent in N.S.W.
South Tharsis (Tas.) sent 50 tons concentrates to
the Lyell smelters and shareholders are told that the
value can’t be given at present and that they will have to
be converted into briquettes before smelting, as such fine
material tends to clog the furnaces. Now what are they
giving us? Surely this little parcel of concentrates can
be safely spread over the eleven Lyell furnaces without
making them into bricks.
• * * •
Mt. Lyell alleged copper mines ! —Prince Lyell:
“ Hard quartzite, heavily mineralised, carrying large body
of pyrites and some copper.” North Crown Lyell : “ Low
formation quartz and blue schist carrying splashes yellow
copper-ore.” Lyell Peaks : “ Discovered schist forma-
tion.” Mt. Lyell Anaconda : • “ Bands of green schist
with seams of grey schist showing copper pyrites.” Mt.
Lyell Consols : “ Very unsettled and highly mineralised.”
Mt. Lyell Consolidated : “ Tunnel gone through bands of
quartzite, and grey schist showing splashes of copper
pyrites.”
# f $ *
North Mt. Lyell. “ In consequence of a rumor
that an attempt was being made to bear the London mar-
ket, Mr. J. P. Lonergan, chairman of the local board and
a large shareholder, has cabled an offer to the London
board to purchase for £250,000 the co.’s railway line (with
all rights and concessions) which is under construction
from Kelly’s Basin to the mine. This offer represents a
sum considerably in excess of the cost of the line. The
conclusion drawn from this offer is that the work has
come in for criticism in London. Up to to-day no official
reply has been received.” Just what might have been
expected from this management, which is generally
making a fool of itself either in London or in Melb. It is
now the London board’s turn to cable some offer to buy
the mine, and leave the railway, which will be a very
expensive thing to maintain anyhow, as land-slips have
already shown. The co. seems to have done nothing right
up to this very day. One of its gigantic mistakes is the
manner in which its so-called open-cut system is being
carried out.
* • * •
Mt. Lyell Proprietary. London cables to shut
down the mine and to apply for suspension of labor con-
ditions ; of course negotiations are proceeding for further
capital. Fortunately for some people many alleged
copper mines are in country inaccessible to most of those
who waste their money on them, otherwise more than
half of them would have been shut down long ago. In
fact many of them would never have been started.
* • • •
Golden Gate (Tas.): Brock, the boss shareholder,
willed that his interest should not be sold on any account.
His'executors got an Enabling Act, empowering the sale
at £l2 a share—£4oo,ooo for the mine. At this price an
option was given to a London crowd recently. Herbert
J. Daly examined. No sale resulted, and none is likely
to take place at such a price. A big mine, it has paid
enormous divs., with many more in sight; but, ’tis whis-
pered, the bottom is by no means the best part of it.
• • • •
Mt. Reid, Hercules, Tas. Copper Cos., &c. Of
these mines it is said arrangements are well forward for
the erection of smelting-plants ; that the extension of
railways has brought them in touch with Strahan, arid
that the early completion of the Emu Bay line will give
them another shipping port. What they really want i»
less zinc and more copper and silver.
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) has now paid just on
£1,700,000 in divs.
• » * •
Playford, Warden of Northern Territory gold-
fields, is down south, talking. He shifted his head-
quarters years ago from Pt. Darwin to Burrundie,
reckoning that the centre of the gold area. Mostly
Chinese in the mines, he says, even in the few European-
owned ones. Australians have nearly dropped out of
N.T. mining, even as to owning claims. Five Bull co.’s
are, however, more or less at-work. Chief of these co.’s
mines is the Eureka, whose trouble is water ; 459,000ga1.
lifted daily, and then they are only surface-scratching.
The ore wants cyaniding ; a £20,000 plant has been put
up for this treatment. He reckons there is close on
20,000 tons of ore exposed, and it runs over l£oz. Wages
(this is at Burrundie): Ah Chow, ss. to 7s. a day ; Euro-
peans, not wanted. Mr. Playford apparently does not
think much of dredging prospects, but there should be
money in sluicing.
* * * •
Still another S.A. gold mine which looked like
doing great things is rushing down the steep place. The
New Golden Record, of Waukaringa, which has both a
battery and a cyanide-plant, is unable to give either of
them work to do ; after it had exhausted itself putting up
the chemical plant it washed up 7oz. from 220 tons—and
then it gave that best. And the moral of that part of
the business is : Always get two independent assayers to
sample tailings before erecting cyanide works to treat
them. Also, as there isn’t enough reef to keep the battery
going, and as there is an overdraft, and as shareholders
forfeit when calls are made, the co. has decided to offer
the property in Europe. Probably through a fine spirit of
patriotism,’Germany is to have the first chance to pay
“ £SOOO cash and one-fourth the shares in anew co., or
£15,000 cash right out.”
* • • •
Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Cos., the one big
S.A. mining concern, has just had the most successful
half-year since the Wallaroo and Moonta amalgamated in
’9O. ’This was wholly due to the jump in copper ; but for
that the co, would have had a rather bad time. Moonta
ore, in fact, is now very poor, and the chairman admitted
at the recent half-yearly meeting that with copper at the
price which has ruled for years it could not pay to work.
Most of it—this refers only to the Moonta mine—runs only
U per cent, copper ; and that even at present prices
means only about 225. per ton. The co.’s balance-sheet
shows a profit of £85,799. But that is either too much or
too little—it depends upon the point of view. Thus, in-
cluded in the amount is the increase in the value of accu-
mulated stocks through the rise in price ; while, on the
other hand, there have been exceedingly heavy deductions
for depreciation and the purchase of machinery, together
something like £44,000. The co., which hitherto has
been most conservative, having almost a horror of the
Stock Exchange, is, alas ! becoming demoralised. It is
going to seek quotations on the Melb. and Sydney
’Changes, and even mentions London.
• • * •
Six weeks ago Westralian stocks took a sudden
but temporary jump, whereupon Moses Moss, of London
Truth, jumped to the conclusion that they were going to
the prices of six months ago. “ The recent movement in
the W.A. market shows that the ‘bears’ had their
innings, and we may now look for an all-round advance.”
He declared that colonial investors were buying heavily,
and the British he advised to hurry up ere it was too late.
Lake Views were then £ISJ, and Associateds £7, but this
was nothing to what they would be in a little while, as
“the bears had played their last card and could nolonger
stem the recovery.” Yet within a few days of this ap-
pearing, Lake Views were down to £l3 and Associateds
back to £5, around the vicinity of which they have been
hovering ever since. And what they would be but for
the tens of thousands over-sold, Heaven only knows.
* • » *
At the recent London meeting of N. Boulder
G.M. Cos., Kal., some sensational facts transpired. The
profits for year ’99 were £42,000. 10 per cent div.jvas de-
clared, and £23,000, in which was included some previous
reserve, was carried forward. This was all right so far.
But the directors claimed for their sweating trouble a
per centage not only on the amount of the divs., but also
ort the £23,000 1 “Monstrous! outrageous! never heard
such a thing ! ” from shareholders. There was a long and
angry discussion, but the directors had taken care to havf
their friends at the meeting. They proposed graciousI|
to reduce their claim of £5000 and take a percentage o|
only £18.000 of the reserve. 49 members present; voting
—25 for directors, 24 against them.
* * * *
Some official Westralian mining wires are almost
as am using as war correspondents’ messages. For instance,
from the Associated : “Alteration necessary to sulphide
mill; have stopped work. '1 his will reduce expenditure
considerably. Discharged 112 hands.” Next will proba-
bly be (not, of course, from the Associated): —“ Reef too
poor to work Stopped work. This saves £217 3s. Id.
per week. I congratulate shareholders upon the near
approach of dividends.”
* * • *
Lady Loch, which has had a couple of years of
bad time, was picking up nicely when more bad time
struck it. Last half-year its monthly outturn rose
gradually from 411oz. to 809oz. ; but in Feb. it slumped
to 364oz. despite the fact that the directors had just cir-
cularised shareholders telling them to look out for bigger
returns. “ The small yield is due to the delay caused by
the breakdown of the pump,” it was officially explained.
Lucky breakdown ! —the fall from 17£dwt., last half-year’s
average, to 12dwt. per ton had, of course, nothing to do
with the “small yield.” Still, taking the co.’s Forrest
King and Lady Loch leases, there is a fair lot of easily-
got average stone to go on with.
• * * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row's Bucmr Bittkrs.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
MERCERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT.
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
m: IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
ROWLANDS
KALYDOR
Fop the B kin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a«nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London.. Soltf
by Stores and Chemists.
SOCIETY
On Tuesday, 3rd April, day of memorable
storm and rain in Sydney, the Government am-
bulance proceeded to Canterbury, there picked up
a plague patient, drove the considerable distance
to Rockdale, picked up there another stricken one,
and then conveyed both through cataracts of
tropical rain to Woolloomooloo; whence, at 6
p.m., they were despatched by launch to quaran-
tine. According to a local medico—and most
persons of sense will agree with him—the chances
of recovery in these two cases were much lessened
by such treatment; and it is hard to see why the
houses containing the patients should not simply
have been isolated until the following morning.
* * * *
> For once the influential hush-it-up policy
has over-reached itself. When the plague first
started to spread into York and Clarence streets,
Sydney, the papers published the addresses of the
warehouses afflicted, and the reports read like
THE GREAT UNDRESSED.
SPRAWL : “ Lucky man, Brown.”
DRAWL : “ Yaas. Has all the indelicacies of the
season.”
this : “John Jones, a green-grocer whose business
is carried on at 20001 Sussex-street, was last night
found to be suffering from true plague. The
premises have been quarantined and the patient
and six contacts removed to the North Head.”
But influential people protested, so, though the
papers kept on printing the green-grocer’s address
in full, it dealt with the larger places thus:
“James Jones and Samuel Jones, employed in a
warehouse in York-street, were found to be suf-
fering from the disease and removed to the
Quarantine Station.” As the result of this sort of
thing, when the representative of a big York-
street warehouse called on one of his best customers
in Orange, the other day, he was met by the pro-
prietor and a stern countenance, and asked point-
blank if it was his place where the plague cases
had occurred. He loudly ridiculed the idea, but
could not allay the storekeeper, who remarked,
“Well, yer oughter make the papers publish
the names of all them as has got it; but some-
how I think it was your place; because they’re
so influential, and only influential coves could
have got it hushed up. "No, I won’t give an order
to-day. I’ll get the stuff from Melbourne till this
scare is over,- even if I only make exes.” And so
it is. It is said that hundreds of tons of goods av.e
being brought from Melbourne right past Sydney,
and a tremendous dislocation of trade is taking
place, all because the papers and authorities at the
request of a few big traders kept their sacred but
infected names out of the papers.
* * * *
At a recent meeting of Sydney City Coun-
cil, when an alderman wanted to know if it were
true that dereliet-dog-slaying took place on the
premises of the Town Hall itself, the Acting-
Mayor replied, in a large, vague way, that he
believed something of the sort took place some-
where about the rear of the building. It is quite
in keeping with the general smellfulness of Sydney
matters-municipal that the forlorn and casual tyke
should be brought for slaughter to the palatial
seat of city mis-government. The municipal
slaughter of humans, however, does not (except
indirectly, through aldermanic gorging and guz-
zling) take place on the premises ; but it goes on
gaily just the same.
* » * *
At least one man in Sydney has bubonic
scare badly. Owing to the absence of anti-plague
serum, he made a-special journey to Melb. to be
inoculated, and left for Sydney again immediately
after the operation. Stated that he is a leading
dentist.
* » * *
Records of 1840 show that Sydney, then
mainly George-street, was known as “the dirty
city.” The gallows was then in George-street, and
in brisk demand, and the common saying was that
the town was only good enough to be hanged in.
* * * *
Less than six months ago the Sydney
Jingo papers were saying that the filthiness of the
Boers was proof of their unfitness to rule their
country. They don’t say much about that now—•
the reports of the ravages of that pre-eminent
filth disease, bubonic plague, among themselves
take up all the space.
* * * *
The second area quarantined in Sydney—-
the small space, not a quarter of a square mile,
bounded by King, Market, and Sussex streets,
and the water-line —paid a handsome dividend of
700 tons of filth. Seven hundred more reflections
on the dirty and imbecile City Council which has
allowed Sydney to degenerate into a dirt-bin.
* * * *
Sydney’s town clerk on Sydney : “The
city, because of its peculiar configuration and the
faults of original, laying out, and because of the
great traffic therein, will in some localities always
present the hovel appearance, and thoroughly
cleansed as they may be to-day, they will be
equally bad a few months hence.” But why should
it always be so ? Sydney must be a cramped city
where even fine buildings look like hovels while it
is built as it is at present. But the French laid
out Paris afresh and rebuilt it, and London
County Council is gradually doing the -same with
London. Paris was four times the size of Sydney
when it was rebuilt. London is twelve times the
size. Why should Sydney not be laid out on a
completely new plan and rebuilt ?
* * . -> *
Premier Lyne had before him last week a
proposal to suspend Sydney Municipal Council,
and appoint instead a working sanitary commission.
It is said that a very little puff would have blown
him the way of the proposal. It is curious that
that unfortunate Council has twice been booted
out of office by the State Govt. Over 50 years
ago it was abolished by Act of Parliament, and a
body of commissioners set up instead, and 25 years
ago it went into the Insolvency Court. It is
almost as bad an example of municipal incapacity
as the history of civic government reveals. The
vice of the. body from the first day of its creation
was that, it consisted, sometimes wholly and at
others chiefly, of men directly or indirectly owning
land and house property in and around the city.
Reform or criticism which might presentlv affect
rents was crushed as heresy.
* * * *
It is to be hoped that, before any garbage-
destructor contract is finally accepted by Sydney
City Council, the Council will carefully follow up
, any scientific or other'information on the subject,
which may happen to be in the possession of
Police-Inspector General Fosbery.
* * * *
Sui’ely it cannot be true that it was not
until after attention had been called to the subject
in the newspapers that the Protestant churches
took steps to have themselves represented by
clergymen among the plague-stricken patients at
Sydney quarantine station !
* * * *
When is it to be arranged that arrestees
apparently drunk, or otherwise off their mental
balance, must be examined by a medical man
before being locked up in the police-cells ? The
other night a well-known and decent-living Sydney
citizen failed to come home. He had been arrested
for drunkenness and had spent the night in dur-
ance ; but he was not drunk —he was paralysed.
It would cost little to have a doctor at call at
each police-station.
* * * *
Rough on Rats—the Bubonic Plague.
PAT AGAIN.
O’ROURKE (on the Transvaal situation): “ n’
look phat the Oirish has done for the British —
d’ye know that more than half the people that
remain in Oireland —lave it—to go and earn
their living by dying for the spalpeens.”
The extent to which the contingenteering
fever has robbed the community of what
sense of humor it ever had is further' exemplified
by a pictorial supplement recently issued by Sin-
gleton (N.S.W.) Budget. In one top-corner
figures General Buffer, with, beneath him and
occupying quite as much space, “ Trooper Eric
Treatt, Singleton Lancers,” and in t’other corner,
beneath Lord Kitchener (and again with equal
space), appears “ Trooper Bede Moylan,” who lias
been figuring recently amongst the Letters from
the Eront. General White’s clever and soldier-
like countenance, on one side, is apparently
balanced against the callous youthfulness of
Trooper Chilcott’s phiz on the other. Cavalry-
leader French is placed over against Trumpeter
Pap worth, and, though Field-Marshal “Bobs” is
m the centre of the whole, his “ diminished head”
is overshadowed by a group of Singleton Lancer
officers—looking positively too awfully nice.
They have a happy,
domestic, pass-your-plate-
for -some - more style of
business in the Adelaide
lower courts. In the
Petty Debts nobody takes
any notice now of a man
running to and fro between
the bench (where he sits
as aJ. P.) and the witness-
box (where he appears as
a litigant), because in S.A.
one litigant or other is
nearly always a J.P., and
the S. Aus. J.P. reckons
that he doesn’t do his duty
if he doesn’t sit on the
bench when he can. But
now Inspector Sullivan,
who has been Police Prose-
cutor at Adelaide since the
year One, is developing the
habit of going on the bench
when he has finished his
cases ; and that opens up a
new vista for the foorce.
Everyone is glad that no serious conse-
quences attended the attempt on the Prince of
Wales’ life by a 15-year-old Belgo-Italian assassin,
allegedly hired. Altogether apart from his
official position, the Prince appears to be
thoroughly popular among those who know him
as a genial personage who would never willingly
do a bad turn to anyone. The Prince’s escape
affords yet another illustration of how lucky and
certain it is that the average man armed with a
pistol couldn’t hit even the biggest man at five
paces.
Albert Edward’s coolness under fire would
undoubtedly have been represented as a marvellous
case of heroism, but for the fact that all sorts and
conditions of men are taking pot luck in Africa just
now, without entertaining any doubt as to whether
the gun is loaded. As it was, the community was
spared the “thrill of horror” which might have
gone through the newspapers under ordinary cir-
cumstances. Melb. Age, it is true, seized the
opportunity for remarking that the Heir Apparent
“if permitted to take the field in person, would
match the best of his future subjects in physical
courage,” but the utter impossibility of rating him
higher than Tommy Atkins under the circum-
stances was evident even to the Age.
* • • •
“ Johnnie ” Aitken made another appeal
to Vic. Government last week on behalf of his
“ Gentleman Scouts.” This time it was suggested
that Premier M’Lean should cable to Chamberlain
offering the services of the gilded fifty to some
regular Bwitish force under the command of Bwitish
officahs, but poor Johnny was gently ticked off.
If the Noble Half Hundred insist upon dying for
the Empire there is nothing to . prevent them
joining the Bushmen’s Corps (provided they are
up to the mark) with that end in view. Any able-
bodied superior person who means business can
get killed by a Boer nowadays; so if Aitken and co.
want to cut a respectable figure they will make a
rush for the nearest kopje without delay.
A Sydney Presbyterian who has long agi-
tated to reduce the gas-rate in his suburb called
upon the manager
of a local R. C.
institution and
doffed his hat in deep
respect to that func-
tionary. “My guid
mon,” said the lielievel
in bagpipes, “ Ah has
ca’d to get yere signature
to this petition for reduc-
in’ the price of gas in ”
The functionary waved his
hand in deprecation. “ Oi’ll
not be interrupted whoile
Oi am sayin’ me prayers. The
oidea of you coming here on a matther
of business whin Oi am saying me
prayers!” “Oh, that’s it!” an-
swered Scotty, and left. A month later
the functionary smiled his affable way
into Scotty’s city office for a subscrip-
tion'to the “ cause,” and began his can-
vass in a very polite way indeed. Scotty,
unmoved, went on checking the money
entries. The reverend canvasser began
his legend afresh, and finished it with-
out result. Not to be done, he bored in
closer, and was about to fire off his story
yet again, when Tonal’ squelched him.
“Cannaye see, ye ignorant heathen,
that Ah’m sayin’ ma prayers?” Then
the functionary retired.
* * *
A refreshing incident is reported
from a seaside Melbourne suburb.
One fine afternoon lately the presiding
constable was seen to prick up his ears,
and, after glaring wildly in the direction
of the ladies’ baths, to agitate his regu-
lation-boots with quite unusual energy.
He scrambled over 50yds. of sand and
grabbed a man with a patriarchal beard
who was sitting by tne baths. The
Law hustied the stumbling
stranger along, whilst the prisoner
protested amazedly in a thin,
small voice. A crowd was waiting
on the footpath, and there the
pright officer paused and said
breathlessly : * ‘ It’s no use, me mahn—
not a bit ! I saw ye lookin’ in at the ladies
schwimmin’ there, an’ there’s witnesses here
to corroborate me shtatement. ’ The old
man chipped in stammeringly. “I tell yez
it ain’t no good ye talkin,” said the Law.
“Ye seen him, didn’t ye?” it continued,
addressing the crowd. Two women of the
type that sees everything joyfully acquiesced.
“There nhow ! ” said the Law triumphantly.
“ Ye’ll come along wid me if ye plaze.” But the
prisoner made himself heard at last. “ I tell you
I am blind,” he said; “my daughter left me to
go and buy some fruit.” The daughter arrived at
this juncture and heaped scorn on the Law as it
drifted away wearing an expression of profound
melancholy.
The people of Greymouth (M.L.) got off a
very grey-whiskered chestnut when they sent
their present of a gold brick —it only weighed 3oz.
in all, and was worth about £l2, so it wasn’t
much of a brick —to Sir George White, the de-
fender of Ladysmitl). They had engraved on one
side “This is a brick,” and on the other side
“You’re another.” The same inspiration has
been worked-off many times on many different
people. Years ago, however, a Bendigo man
made a pleasing variation of it. He sent a large
gold brick to some overwhelming tin-god of the
moment with the inscription, cut by himself in
straggling letters with a jack-knife, “You’re the
same thing as this is.” The giver of the brick
IN SHEOL; “FANCY MEETING YOU!"
died very poor, his only assets being a barrow-load
of wild-cat scrip ; and the receiver drank himself
into the horrors with the brick, and died of it.
The Greymouth people evidently intend that no
such calamity shall fall on their god. A seasoned
veteran can’t get many horrors out of £l2.
* * * *
Speaker Mason’s son, a mere lad, who has
only just left school, has been appointed one of
the officers of the Vic. battalion of the Bush
Regiment. As Parliament is not sitting, and
there is no one to criticise—the papers are docile
—the commissions have been distributed by the
flattest jobbery. Once again ;
It’s somethin’ like a fulfillin’ of prophecies
When all the fust fam’lies get all the best offices.


HURDS ISO?
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
The ZEISS Field Glass still
maintains its supremacy over
all other makers.
£3T Tiib Original Patentee.
Full particulars on application.
Watchmakers, Jewellers,
AND
Silversmiths.
M
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
PONDY’S
U E. ■■
Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
Thk Effect is magical.
Beware of Colonial Imitations
Insist on buying
“CONDY’B FLUID.”
The foil owing name & address
should be at foot of label:
Condy& Mitchell, 65, Goswell Rd., London, Eng.
NM
Nature
Does
The Rest.
“ Dr. Gregory’s Cough
Mixture ”
STIMULATES the
Secretions; Soothes
and Heals the Irritated Surfaces ; and
Loosens the Cough.
“ A VALUABLE REMEDY for Rheumatic, Diphtheritic,
Inflamed THROAT TROUBLES.” 1/6 ; per Post 2/6.
R. Raffan
PHARMACIST,
55 Elgin-st,, Carlton, Melbourne.
HATS.
HATS. HA TJL
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Advance
Australia! At
South Mel-
bo u r n e the
other day a
respectable
house - father
sailed into the
street to rescue
his son from
the hands of
a small boy of
about 14, who
had the heir
down and was
filling his ears
with dust and
street sweep -
ing s. The
youngster
stood his
ground and
squared up to
the indignant
citizen, who
went for him
in the good old
fatherly way,
with the evi-
dent intention
of bending the
boy over his
knee. The
husband and
father was
stopped with
a neat prop on
t h e nose,
which made
the good man
unwisely eager
in pursuit of
vengeance,
with the result
that a crowd
gathered and
watched a
grown man
being expertly
mauled by an
adolescent
prig of four-
teen summers,
who knew how
to hit and get
away. The
man had
picked a black
eye and a gory
nose out of the
argum e n t,
when his wife
swarmed in
and fastened
to the young
scientist like
fifteen frantic
cats. She fin-
isbed him in two minutes, and he came out of
the barney in strips, looking like a nervous wreck
brought suddenly face to face with the Day of
J udgment.
• » * *
Ballarat is just now in a shocking state of
Jingoism. The local Council’s latest freak is an
invitation to Lord Roberts to visit Ballarat after
the war and spend a week or two admiring the
obsolete cannon erected at street corners. Also,
it was suggested lately to write ’Ome and request
the gift of a few Boer guns with which to orna-
ment the Gardens and impress the visitor from
Bungaree. One prominent man wanted to import
a kopje to ornament the lake. The city chimes
. > ialed gaily the other afternoon, and the popula-
. ion whooped with joy over the supposed relief of
IT MAY BE USED MEDICINALLY.
“I've heard as how water is good for the hic-
hlooups."
Mafeldng. When they sobered up sufficiently to
enquire into things, it was found that the bells
had chimed for the marriage of the Town-Clerk.
A local fishmonger has a large sign, “ Sons of the
Sea,” 9d. each, planted over a pile of barracouta,
and a fruiterer’s notice reads :
Like the Red Nurses our peanuts are to the front, 2d.
per bag.
Verily the war against “ rats ” is just in time !
* • * *
Reading the way back wssr news in London
A CLEVER FLASH OF SILENCE.
MR. HOWLER : “ I saw you at my concert, Miss Spark. Now, all things con-
sidered, what part do you think most merited praise?”
MISS SPARK : “ Well, taking everything into consideration, I should say
the — er —interval!”
papers one is struck by the Australian cablers’ in-
ability to extract the marrow from it. We get
petty details rather than broad effects, and as to
some of the outside items that come along, who
for instance wants to know that 178 assisted spin-
ster emigrants for Queensland “have agreed to
employ their spare time during the voyage in
making, under Mrs. Tozer’s direction, camp and
hospital comforts for the colonial soldiers in South
Africa ?” Was it a mere advt. for Mrs. Tozer ?
. * ♦ •
It isn’t only “Tommy Atkins” who
leaves a lot of little things behind him. A Ben-
digo miner, killed the other day in the Koch’s
Pioneer, left ten children, the eldest 19. He,
however, forfeited his right to popular regard and
sympathy by getting married first.
* * * *
A certain free-lance pressman visited the
cashier of a daily paper, the other day, to collect
an account of £l. On finding it cut down by ss.
he made enquiries, and at last interviewed one of
the big men of the office. “ You see, Mr. Scribe,”
said the B. M., “our expenses have been so terribly
heavy of late ; when the war is over, we shall be
pleased to pay higher rates, but, at present, we are
compelled to reduce them, so as to meet our very
large and unexpected outlay. Do you know that
every time (who represents the paper in
South Africa) has his horse killed, it costs us £5O ? ”
Adelaide has had a delirious time during
the last fortnight. The two theatres are closed,
but the vacancy has been filled by a W.C.T.TJ.
convention. The spectacled, hard-visaged ladies
have mighty influence in the apostolic city, so the
dailies pander by printing columns of stuff about
barmaid-abolition, cigarette-smoking, and the
enticing subject of further raising the age of con-
sent to something under 50. This convention
comes under the heading of “ amusements ” in the
pious city, which has indeed learned to take its
pleasures sadly.
A well-known member of Vic. Legislature,
who lately visited a Paris dance-garden, was so
deeply interested in watching, from the outer
edge of a crowd, the charming evolutions of the
premiere danseuse in the cancan that he inadver-
tently fell backwards into a flowering cactus. A
friend was occupied for three days, more or less,
picking out the spikes.
Some refined humorist at Glen Innes
scratched “ Beecham’s Pills ” in huge letters upon
the enamelled side of the Australian Club’s drag
which carried the Governor across country recently.
A Tableland paper calls the idiot a black-hearted
ruffian—also “a Boer.” But that was the paper
which called Madame Spada “ the famous tenor.’
* * * *
Young Australia isn’t a hypocrite, any-
way. The other day a Vic. schoolmaster an-
nounced to his boys that there would be no school
that afternoon owing to a death in his family.
The boys responded with a ringing “Hip, hip,
hurrah ! ”
Thus the Spectator (Vic religious paper)
under “W.C.T.U.” news:—
A memorial service in commemoration of Miss Willard’s
death was held, and a most enjoyable afternoon was
spent.
Enjoyable! ,
* * * •
Re tlie murderous overworking of Sydney
’bus-horses, it is significant that, whereas the
London ’bus-horse averages five working-years,
one year is enough to do-up the miserable moke of
Sydney, which it is now arranged is in future to
draw (in a two-horse ’bus) 24 adults. This, at an
average of 10st., give Itons ; or—with an addi-
tional 30cwt. of ’bus —Tg tons per horse. Surely
an unmerciful load to haul up the long Sydney
slopes.
* • » •
The particularly Naice but indigent
scion of an Australasian family, and heir to an
hereditary title, was to be seen staggering about
a bar, the other day, loudly proclaiming Ins
identity, and endeavoring to touch utter strangers
for a long beer. At last a friend entered, and,
seizing the youth by the shoulders, bustled, him
into a corner. “Look here, Plantagenet,” he
observed, “ take a pull at yourself. You’ll be Sir
Plantagenet Yere de Vere in a few years, you
know.” The noble one lurched forward into the
middle of the crowd, “I know,” he yelled.
“ Pantageneevere my (hie) blanky title (hie)—
why, ” as a sudden gleam of reason burst through
his alcoholic craze, “if any of you chaps has got
30 bob, the blanky title’s yours.”
* • « *
A Sydney Hospital regulation adopted at
the instigation of Dr. Foreman a couple of years
ago and reading “No medical officer shall hold
office after attaining the age of 60 years, except as
a consultant,” has attracted from other Australian
hospital bodies a number of close enquiries as to
how the rule works out. So far as Sydney is con-
cerned the rule does some good and, it is alleged,
no harm.
* * • *
During 1899 over 500 deaths occurred at
the Liverpool IN.S.W.) Old Men’s Asylum ; 142
being due to consumption and 85 to cancer.
* * * *
T’other day, a fat and dignified lady of 50
summers entered the office of the swimming-bath
of a Sydney suburb. She was about to ask for a
bathing-gown, “ the widest that you have,
please,” when there rose up from a chair
inside the office a large hulking brute in
the form of a whiskered man. “Oh,”
cried the lady, “ I thought that this was a
ladies’ bath ;'you liaveit advertised outside
—‘Ladies’ Day.’ Is there no woman in
attendance?” “Yes, Madam,” replied
the man with impressive respectfulness,
“my wife and daughter are both in atten-
dance ; I am only the manager and stop
here to obey my wife or daughter should
they need me to save anybody from
drowning; or should they need me to run
and get brandy for any lady who might be
taken with cramps.” “Oh, I under-
stand,” replied the lady; and with that
she went off to select a dressing-box on the
side where the sun was shining. She
entered the box and drew the curtain.
Shortly afterwards the curtain was drawn
back, and a fat and lovely lady emerged
in pink bathing-gown with embroidered
frills. She picked her way with exact
care down the slippery steps and over
the greasy green rocks; and then
with an affable smile depositedherself
in 4ft. deep of water, and wobbled
about, and splashed, and puffed, and
kicked. Suddenly she yelled and hastily
crawled on hands and feet out of the
water, back over the greasy rocks, and
up the treacherous steps. Reaching the
top of the steps, she bowled along to the
manager’s wife, and said : “It was bad
enough when I came in to find that you
had a man in the office ; but I find that
you have also a man in the bath swimming
amongst us.” The manager’s wife looked
in great surprise and replied : “ Madam,
I beg your pardon, but there is no man in
the bath.” “ What! ” ejaculated the fat
ladv, “no man? What’s that ?” . “That,”
replied the manager’s wife, ‘‘ is one of
the local leaders of our fashionable society;
she has her hair out short, that’s all.” I
am bound to take your word,” answered
the fat lady; “nevertheless, I am not
going to be seen in the water with -
her. She is too like a man for my fancy. Oh,
bless me ! she’s doing the shark-trick ! She 11
burst her bathing-dress in a minute. And with
that the fat lady escaped to the protection of her
curtain.
* * » *
Consider what a cheerful gamble and
lottery and toss-up is the Law ! In Melbourne,
some months ago, a man attacked a woman with a
knife, and inflicted on her a very slight wound.
The arresting constable, however, charged him
with attempted murder (it probably was attempted
murder), and started him on a road which led to
a death-sentence, since commuted to 10 years’
gaol. The other day, at North Melbourne, a man
stabbed his mother much more severely in the
side, and almost killed her. But the different
kind of bobby who ran him in called it merely
assault, so he percolated through a different
stratum of the law and wound up with a sentence
of one month. He committed the heavier assault,
and jeopardised the life of his own mother but he
struck the ligl-.ter bobby. The first thing a
criminal should learn is to be judicious in the
selection of his policeman.
* * * *
One reason very commonly assigned why
a great part of Sydney Domain should be confis-
cated for railway purposes is that it is largely
used as a doss-house for very unsavory vagrants,
and that the abolition of their camp would be no
misfortune. But if Sydney can only get rid of its
sleepers-out by taking the ground from under
them it will have to abolish all its parks. And
then, when it has driven the vagrants into the
streets, it will have to abolish the streets too —in
fact, it will h ave to abolish everything.
* * • •
The sweet girl graduate mostly gets tired
or married (probably much the same thing) while
still on the lower rungs of the academic ladder.
At Melb. University “Commencement” the
other day there were 11 girl B.A.’sto 15 males ;
but while 13 males had proceeded to the M.A.
degree, only four girls had staggered up so high.
* * * *
During a smallpox scare, some years ago,
a certain Australian city ran short of lymph. Two
of the leading doctors had made a corner in it,
and there was none else procurable; but for all
that an outsider professed to have any quantity,
though he would part with none of it. His
patients were all satisfied with his vaccination,
and it was not till months after that they dis-
covered they had been “ done” with —glycerine.
* * * *
The Victorian official School Paper learn-
edly interprets the common military abbreviation
“ non-com.” as “ a short form of non-com-bat-ant,
person connected with an army, who does not
make it his business to fight.” The same sapient
orgtn informs young Victoria that “Mauser” is
pronounced “ Maw-ser.” The schoolmaster very
much “abroad”!
* * * *
“V.K.” to THE BULLETIN:—
“ Yarrum’s ” yarn of atavism (B. 3/3/’00) in the case of
a Chinese octoroon’s baby emphasises one of the many
reas >ns for the Tartar. No other colored race on earth
has so much latent vitality, force of type reproduction,
as the Mongol. Not only is he an economical factor, but
pre-eminently a danger to the Caucasian on account of
his greater virility, a tough, passive sort of virility that
you can’t kill with an axe. The Chinese and bis cousins
in their countless numbers threaten to take the world by
storm, fiooks as if Nature had, in their case, stayed the
law of evolution and bottled them up for thousands of
years for future use. And we are just now fooling around
trying to pull the cork from that same bottle out of the
Arabian Nights.
* * * *
One M.L. old-age pensioner, although
turned 96, skips blithely to the pay-office for his
monthly instalment. Its regular receipt has made
the old man feel 20 years younger, so he says.
* * * *
Ordinary female servants in N.S.W. Par-
AN “OVATION.”
HE: “ Well, what did you think of that last song?”
SHE: “ Oh, it was very good. But I think they
might have handed up the eggs more carefully
to him.”
liament House are paid £lO5 a year each, the
housekeeper £ll5, and the watchman £lB5. As
Parliament sits only about two-thirds of a year
on an average, this rate of pay for such services
was described by a judicial functionary one night
lately as tending to demoralise the labor-market.
• * * *
Disgraceful and unnecessary reminders of
the good old times are the facts that men are to be
seen any morning walking down from Melbourne
Gaol to the railway station in twos and threes
handcuffed together, and that convicted men, in
prison uniform, guarded by armed warders, often
drive drays through Melb.
In Paddington, Sydney, just on the con-
fines of the city, there is a plot of land just being
built on for the first time. Curiously enough, it
was the first piece cleared by old Absolom West,
grantee of what is now Paddington, in about the
year 1817. West got his ground because he
brewed the best beer in Australasia. Seems a large
order, but beer was only brewed then in two
places in Australasia—Sydney and Parramatta.


[Forecast for at) Indefinite Period.]
Fronj MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORP STREET.
B6siQ?&s “Fioe apd Clear’' generally, tboOgb
Storrpy” at certaip tirpeS of tbc year.
Tbc present indication points to diStOrbaoce
“A6t6ipn FaSbiopS.”
$
es
o-
8£
sr
m
N
MN
All Drapers Everywhere.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
GLOBS TEAS have wo EqnaL
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ _ Sydney, April 10, 1900.
My Dear Myek,—
Up at Govt. House, evening parties all the win-
musical evenings, religious evenings, artistic
® t venin &s> (Society evenings, and—yes—l suppose
there will be literary evenings ! It is a long time
since there has been a literary evening at Govt.
House. By the way, are they dying out ? Or is
it possible people are having them all the time,
and never asking me ? Never mind, there will be
the religious evenings!
And never mind. The last literary one I went
to is still fresh and fair in my memory. When I
want another I feast on that, and am satisfied
Oh, quite, quite satisfied. The host was a nasty
man. The hostess had views, and wasn’t taking
any smiles. One of the visitors—“ The Worm,”
the host called her, because her heart had affini-
ties for cocoons and mulberry-leaves and the silk
industry had affixed herself to the host, and was
holding forth in a rapid, disconnected way about
nothing. She annoyed him. “Talking about
worms, he said casually; “I made a remarkable
discovery the other day.” “ You did ? ” “ Yes.
You know Shakespeare— poet and dramatist.
(Poor worm! She wriggled a little at that paren-
thesis.) He says somewhere, ‘Men have died
and. worms have eaten them, but not for love. 5
Remember?” “Oh, yes, yes, certainly.” “What
play is it m? ” suddenly. ‘ ‘ Play— er—er— which ?
Isnt it Julius Caesar’—yes ‘Julius Cassar, of
course.” “Not ‘Romeo and Juliet’—Romeo
says it to Juliet, does he not?” “Yes, now I
come to think of it, so he does.”
He knew she would look it up when she got
home. But his heart was hard. His wife gave
evening parties. And he went on: “ Well, I have
found it a scientific fact that worms do eat men
because ( they love them.” “How very interest-
ing 1 Isn tit ? Mcti have died and worms have
eaten them because they loved them ” is how it ought
to go. People try to jump the fact that Shake-
speare made a mistake about those worms, and
they make out that he meant to say, “ Worm-
eaten men never died for love.” Some folks take
it, no man ever died for love. Leaving out the
worm question altogether. Do you follow me ? ”
And the Worm said, “ I do indeed. A clever
subject. I must make a note of it for my next
silk paper.” Whereupon he bowed, and went
into the obscurity of the hall to choke unseen of
his wife, who stood talking in the middle of the
room, hopelessly wrecked on the desert island of a
new metaphysical fact.
But, vice-regally speaking, those parties are an
excellent idea. Wny should we always dance
when we go Govt. Housewards ? To sit quietly in
the shadow of the red drawing-room, quite at
home, quite at ease, just dropped m (in a new frock
from London) to spend the evening informally
with the Earl and a few dear friends—ask anyone
if that isn t better than getting lost among thou-
sands of other people in the hot crush of the Govt.
Hquse balls. I think his Ex. has done the right
thing this time.
But what an Easter ! Even the Agricultural
Ball has evaporated since I wrote last. And now
there s nothing more frivolous to look forward to
than race-horses and and prize show pigs. In fact
it is quite common now to meet a woman who
isn’t getting a new dress this winter.
t t he the y are sa ying in Melbourne that
Lord Beauchamp had invited Lady Madden to do
the Easter honors at our Govt. House, accompanied
by the glittering Ruby. Sydney violently contra-
dicts this. To pass over our own fine Chief-
J usticess, who can, when occasion arises, act the
vice-regal with so superb an air, and go to Mel-
bourne for an hostess is a charge that even Sydney
won t lay at Lord Beauchamp’s door.
Indeed, I have good reason to believe that our
Governor is fast becoming furiously popular.
What do you think of this? An “unappro-
priated country lady lately wrote to a town
friend: I want yob to send me twelve yards of
black satin and twenty yards of silk fringe ”
(Ihis was for a race ball to be opened by His Ex )
Next day it was published that all Vice-Regal
engagements were cancelled. By wire, afternoon
from the country lady: “Changed my mind!
Satin only. Not having any fringe on that frock.”
By the way, you really must mind, nowadays,
whom you call “ Unappropriated.” The old Old
Maid has had ten good years added to the years
wherein she is merely a maid. The old maid of
twenty-nine is as dead as the young married
woman of seventeen who used to be such a heinous
success m the 60’s. In fact, there’s no such thing
as an old maid under forty to-day. And that
spinster is quite out of date who remarked lately :
How nice to be married and turned from an old
maid of thirty into a young married woman of
thirty-one ! ”
Many people coming home from early church last
Sunday earned in one hand the healthy spiritual
. aac i of green from Palm Sunday service, and
m the other the Sunday paper, in which they
grubbed religiously for fresh cases of plague.
Sunday s excitement was the hotel in King-street
that everybody passes going into town. I hap-
pened to pass there myself on Sunday. It was
then about lunch-time. A policeman in yellow
leather leggings—the public supposes these to be
a guard against fleas —strolled up and down out-
side. On the very front doorstep, right on King-st.,
stood a rubbish-box, overflowing. Things falling
out over the sides. That was in the middle of the
day. Coming home at sunset I passed that hotel
again, and looked out curiously. The policeman
was still there. And still there was the box of
rubbish, standing just as it had been standing all
day on the front doorstep, wafting itself on every
wind that passed. Extraordinary manoeuvres,
that hustle healthy people out of their homes
i_ a * nomen l ; ’ s notice, and leave the rub-
bish - box of an allegedly - infected house
exposed on the front street of the city half
a day. Was it because it was the Sawbath ?
And 1 suppose we must put it down to Plague
that society is trying so hard to sell its new things
ordered from “ home ” six months ago. A common
request is apropos of “My new English frock
thats too—too large for me, and do you know
anyone who wouki take it off my hands, dirt
cheap. Phis year’s box of London clothes
threatens to be an awful thorn in the side of
society. Indeed, women are fast coming to the
conclusion that far worse than having nothing to
wear is the state of having new frocks and nowhere
to wear them.
The boarding-house advt. up to date adds the
new allurement—“No Rats!”
Despite the plague-scare and the lack of gaiety
this Easter, the shops are not behindhand with
their Autumn novelties. I was in at Pitt-street
-Hordern s. the other day, and was struck with
many feminine fripperies, chief of which were a
line of fascinating silk petticoats, cut in the
newest shapes, and priced as reasonably low even
as a pound ; some beautiful square Luxeuil lace
collars not to be had anywhere else ; and of course
silks in higLly-satisfying variety. Another speci-
ality of Hordern’s this year is a line of sailor-made
coats and skirts, within the reach of the ordinary
dresser. What a change this season will be, with
every second woman—shop-girl or “Society”—
tailor-made, coated or jacketed some way or
another from the beginning of the tailor-made
epoch five years _ ago, when the double-breasted
woman with a tie and collar was something to
stare at.
i “ A Budget of Advanced Fashions ” is a little
booklet from W. T. Waters, telling about this
firm s Autumn goods, particularly to be recom-
mended to country people who do their shopping
by post, and like to see pictures of the smartest
hats and frocks before ordering them."
This week has been a wild struggle between
friends and enemies and Potts Point and under-
takers and greengrocers all mixed, and mingled,
and thrown into each other’s houses without any
introduction. In a word, our telephones have
gone raving mad. My experience is that when I
ring up anybody the answer comes back “ The X
Laundry’s speakin’.” We can’t wonder that it is
so common to hear of a healthy man solemnly
giving up his telephone now and for ever, when he
is invariably put on to an undertaker.
The only matrimonial news I can offer you this
week is the marriage of pretty little Miss Annie
Weston, one of Sydney’s belles, and Mr. Ernest
Watt, at St. Mark’s Church, Darling Point, last
Tuesday. The bridesmaids were four, Miss Beat-
rice and Miss Clive Weston, sisters of the bride,
and Miss Nora Dangar and Miss Maysie Chisholm,
all frocked alike, simply, in cream Indian-muslin-
flounced skirts, lace zouave bodices, and big hats
of turquoise-blue velvet. The bride’s going-away
frock was a blue cloth coat and skirt, lined with
cerise, and worn with toque, muff, and collar of
ermine. Need I add the wedding presents were
both but you can finish that well-worn sentence
without vie.
Another society wedding that comes off next
week is that of Miss Alice MacG-eorge, daughter
of Mrs. Frank Denison Brown, with Mr. Wick-
ham, from Wellington (N.Z.).
A great shock to her many friends in Sydney
was the death (in Tasmania, last Thursday) of
Mrs. Gr. F. Anderson, wife of Capt. Anderson,
lately of the Orient steamship Austral. Mrs. An-
derson was the eldest of the three pretty Miss
Hoskings, one of whom married Mr. B. Mac-
arthur, and is living in London. Last October
the Andersons went to live in Tasmania, the Cap-
tain giving up his sea appointment for a settled
position on land. Mrs. Anderson’s bright, sweet
manner had made hosts of friends for her, both
here and there, and they are all terribly grieved to
hear of her death and that of her infant child.
A second visit to “ Lady Dolly ” found the little
Palace Theatre cheerfully full after a run of one
week, which was a succession of excellent houses.
So good was the business that an extra three
nights were added. After that I think the chorus
would have knocked up, for the amateur hasn’t
the staying power of the professional, and I noticed
several of the caste looking very tired.
Nance O’Neill on Magda : “ Every night, when
I go home from playing Magda, I am in a state of
uncertainty. Do I marry the parson ! or do I not ?
I have never yet satisfactorily answered the prob-
lem ! ” Which is just the impression her acting of
Magda leaves with you ; you, too, go home uncer-
tain as to Magda’s future. And not only uncer-
tain, but unable to see any solution that might
ever please you.
In Newcastle, the beautiful Californian gave
them a taste, last week, of “Camille,” a play
which Sydney is not to see till next Saturday
night, at Her Majesty’s. For some reason or
other, the Newcastle houses were mere handfuls ;
the co. opening to a miserable first night’s audi-
ence, that nearly sent Nance packing back to
Sydney in disgust. And it can’t be a case of
taking coals to New.castle, either.
Apropos, Mr. and Mrs. Essie Jenyns-Wood are
back in Sydney, after a long trip abroad, bringing
with them a new baby and a little girl rapidly
growing into the image of her mother.
You know, of course, that Kingston is to play
Armand to Nance O’Neill’s Camille. It is not a
new part to him. He played it in London with
no less a person than Olga Nethersole, who was very
fond of acting Camille to the good-looking boy.
Do you remember me telling you, a long while
ago, about some photographs Olga showed an
Australian visitor, remarking joyfully as she
showed them, “These are rather— er— are they
not ? ” Those were photos, of Olga and Kingston
in Camille.
Speaking of acting, a well-known and high-
art actor lately declared that Mrs. Brough was
the most satisfying woman he had ever acted
with. Some people found her acting monotonous,
but her warmth and earnestness were always an
immense stimulus to anybody playing her lover.
On the other hand, to make stage love to Ada
Ferrar was the hardest feat this Thespian had
ever attempted. “From beginning to end she
was an icicle. When she looked at you there was
a cold wind in your eyes. When she threw her-
self into your arms it was like meeting a blast of
snow full in your face ! ”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“There is genuine grief, and also grief of the
not unselfish order, in Melb. over Earl Beau-
champ’s bereavement. The Maddens, it was said,
were going to be installed in all their glory at
Sydney Govt. House pro tem., and the widow of
Cliveden, with her lately-returned daughter, had
accepted an invitation to spend the Race-week at
Government House.
“Lord Brassey has sent on a subscription of
£5O to Melbourne Hospital with an explanation
that his failure to subscribe during his residence in
Victoria was due to an oversight. He ordered all
the subscriptions of his predecessors to be renewed,
and the instruction was not carried out. The ex-
cuse is very thin. He was frequently written to,
circularised, reminded, but no cheque was sent.
It is proposed that the Faller-off shall continue to
be nominal Governor of Victoria until the Gov.-
General is appointed. That will entitle him to go
on receiving a proportion of salary while he is in
London ; a fine income in itself. A man of sound
character would not take the money under the cir-
cumstances.
“ When Lord Dicky returns from his pleasure-
jaunt, he will have to work day and night to over-
step the mark of Private-Sec. Campbell’s devotion
and fealty to the reigning family. During the
whole of the benefit matinee at the Princess’s on
Wednesday afternoon, the Colonel, in a nutmeg
vest and Paisley tie, stood in the back of the box,
lending an attentive ear when anybody deigned
to speak. Considering it was a four-hours’ per-
formance, Col. Campbell showed untiring pati-
ence, and carried off opera-glasses and wraps with
a wonderfully well-pleased air at the final drop of
the rag. In the opposite box, the Mayoress (in grey,
like the Acting-Governor’s wife) had a party of
lady-friends, the sharp profile of Mrs. John Gavan
Duffy’s face being just visible from the greater
part of the circle. In that charmed circle, where
all the fashionable flutterers were gathered, a pert
little Sydney matron, formerly belonging to these
parts, was the most interesting object. She gazed
through an ebony-rimmed lorgnette for the greater
part of the performance, and wore a real chic
grey voile gown touched up with pink, black hat,
and milk-white furs. Her golden locks defied the
recognition of old friends, and brown eye-brows
arched above a saucy pink-and-white faee.
“ A special train to Colac is to be turned on for
the marriage of Miss Queenie Calvert and Mr.
Gordon Lyon, down at the squatting township,
next Saturday week (21st). The wedding-cards
have a time-table at the back to facilitate matters.
Melb. people have to leave town in the dewy morn
at 9.20, and the return journey brings them back
at about same hour in the evening; but such a
spectacular knot-tying should be worth it. There
is some hint that the hunting-men are going to
wear their pink coats and that bugle-notes are to
mingle with the jingle of wedding-bells.
“One of Melbourne’s most conservative and
dignified suburbs has had an elopement. Its
parson’s daughter, aged 19, has run off with a
young capitalist-expectant, aged 20 or there-
abouts. It was purely Sentiment and love of
romance which induced them to do it. No one
objected to the engagement, but they felt it was
commonplace, and ran away, and now they have
to meekly return and beg for the necessary bread
and butter, and do without wedding presents and
trousseaux and other things that go to make
ordinary marriages cheerful and delightful.
“At Toorak, t’other day, when Miss Alice
Muir, Mrs. Robert Harper’s niece, married Lieu-
tenant Rowley, R.N., her brunette bridesmaids
brightened their white net and silk by toques of
scarlet velvet and posies to match.
“A Victorian bride-elect, with money to spend,
is at present rejoicing in the safe arrival of h'er
trousseau, forwarded by smart relatives from the
Big Smoke. The apple of its owner’s eye is a
loose, wet-day pelisse of khaki cloth, with scarlet
rosette in the accompanying forage cap. An even-
ing wrap is of red and gold brocade, and a recep-
tion gown of khaki silk lined with crimson has a
long fringed scarf of the latter color, knotted
carelessly round the waist. There are red-fringed
ties and hat-bands to wear with hollands and sich,
and under-skirts, stockings, and notepaper in
khahi tints. For meeker moments of muslin and
chiffon there are black velvet throatlets and brace-
lets, and spangled snakes to coil in the hair;
while, instead of a pearl necklet, there is a long
chain of coral and pearls. Many of the skirts have
box-pleats at the back, with a welcome pocket
nestling underneath.
“A remarkable old Buck has married again
to a young wife, at the age of over 70. The
old fellow is worth approximately £50,000, and
lives in a huge mansion close to the abode of the
millionaire Paynes on Toorak road. He wrote
down the names of four desirable girls to whom he
determined to proposa Numbers one and two
declined, but number three didn’t. She gets a
honeymoon trip to Europe, a white-headed boy
who laughs at the Psalmist’s age limit, and a share
f t, S | tun ® when Cupid resigns him to the care
of Death. Some people profess to be shocked,
prospective beneficiares say it was very careless of
him.
11 "4* <^me war like-red has been rampant through-
out the cold season, and now with warm weather
khaki crops up everywhere. At the winter
wedding (London) of beauty Enid Wilson and
Lord Chesterfield the seven fair maids wore sable-
trimmed scarlet coats over their white frocks of
silk and lisse. The bride’s gown of snowy crepe
shimmering with silver, was draped with point-
lace. Her bouquet was orange-blossom, her veil
Brussels-lace, and her train of ivory-satin under
silver-gauze, was lined with ermine.
‘ ‘ Dorothy Vane was very much offended because
it was reported that her legs were bare as ‘Little
Red Riding Hood.’ Certainly her fleshings were
illusions—one could have sworn that it was her
own calf above the white socks.
Now that ‘ Red Riding Rood ’ is over, one
has time to think of all the bright Victorian girls
who helped to make it go. Carrie Moore is the
daintiest, though not the snappiest boy, on record.
Cesca Vollugi, pretty and sweet, but handicapped
by lack of go and smartness of carriage, so that
she shaped as rather a sheepish Highlander.
Annie Cubitt, in pink frock and dark curls, made
a dear little school-miss, and they’re all vouched
for as ‘ really nice girls, exemplary as so many
baa-lambs.’ All the same, unlike imported dam-
sels, they’re not pampered by local Naicest.
“Want of teeth, or brisker lungs, prevents
Archbishop Carr’s voice being heard more than 20
yards off. At a lecture for the Mayoress’s stall,
in the Town Hall, on Monday night, it was only
by dint of breathless attention, unflagging vigil-
ance, mental straining, and stringing together of
occasional clear-spoken words that anyone seated
half-way down the hall could get a notion of what
the lecture was all about. Those behind could
not have heard a word, but they sat as patient,
immovable, and stolid as the Sphinx— of course
being mostly the faithful of the diocese. Dr. Carr
is a poor lecturer. He introduces the long pulpit
pauses, and dallies like a funeral service. This
sort of thing at a lecture, when the intelli-
gence wants tickling and the fancy an excursion,
isn’t a brilliant success. It was a treat, when the
slow drawl of the Archbishop ceased, to lean back,
close the eyes and absorb in comfort the warmth
and glamor of His Waxellency’s copious speech.
One had to smile to hear the Lieut.-Governor—a
sheep long lost to the R.C. fold—calling on the
Almighty to prolong the useful and beautiful life
of the Archbishop in this sphere of usefulness and
goodness. One just imagined what that urbane
prelate conjured up in his mind at this flourish of
rhetorical piety from the unregenerate one.
“A sensation was created at a fashionable
suburban R.C. church last Sunday by the Jesuit
father declaring from the pulpit the excommuni-
cation of two former members of the congregation
now ‘ living in sin ’in the parish. This is almost
an unprecedented event locally. It is said that
the couple—or one of them—had been attending
church service and possibly partaking of sacra-
ments, else this extreme step forbidding them
entering the church while ‘living in sin’ would
not have been resorted to. One of the parties was
divorced, and the marriage is thus rendered null
and void by Holy Church ; or the position of
Claudio, who defended himself by
“ She is fast my wife save that we do the denunciation
lack of outward order ”
is his, or vice - versa. However it be, the
pair are alleged by the priest to be ‘living in
sin,’ and are a ‘public scandal.’ You can guess
how the water-sprinklers of the parish are aiscuss-
ing the case. Their prayers were exhorted for the
alleged ‘ unhappy ’ sinners that they may come
back to grace. But as they can only come back to
that state singly and separately, and at an
enormous self-sacrifice (it may be presumed) the
prayers are not very likely to ‘come off.’
11 That clever, brave and amiable surgeon, Dr.
Hopkins, is dead of fever in S. Africa. His wife
was bitterly opposed to his going, and he re-
marked to a friend a few days before his depar-
ture, ‘ It has been difficult to persuade Mrs. Hop-
kins that lamin no danger whatever in going. I
fear there is little chance of seeing service, and
even if our men get among the Boers a doctor is in
no danger.’ But the danger lay in disease and
exposure, which are killing more men than Boer
bullets.
ours affectionately.
GOULI-GOULI.
Rumored that the vacancy on N.S.W.
Civil Service Board will be tilled by either a
certain well-pushed Sydney stipendiary magis-
trate, or by a certain brainy member of the pre-
sent Parliament, who was credited with legal
ambitions. In a word, Mr. Ashton, member for
Goulburn, who would probably do justice to the
position and be popular with the service.
The case of Benjamin Bridge, lately sen-
tenced by a N.S.W. court to two years in gaol for
breaking out of prison, brings up again an old and
much-debated subject. Bridge was sentenced to
be imprisoned— i.e., it was ordered that some other
person should keep him adequately confined in a
certain public building. If he was expected to
stay there when the other person didn’t keep him
safely confined, then he was expected to imprison
himself, which wasn’t in the bond and specifica-
tion. The law doesn’t order a man either to
imprison himself, or to flog himself, or to hang
himself, and it ought to act accordingly.
The bacillus which is causing all the
present Sydney plague-trouble, is a very tiny but
active germ. Dr. Lemann, an Indian expert, says
that it would take 500,000,000 of them laid side by
side to cover an ordinary postage-stamp. He also
asserts that inoculation through abrasions or
scratches of the skin, however minute, is the
commonest method of invasion of the plague, and
attributes the high mortality therefrom among
the Hindus to the fact that they go about bare-
footed and wear little clothing, thus exposing any
scratch or cut to the incursion of the bacilli.


ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent,
or, at least, to arrest, disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa plays an important
part, acting solely as a lirst-class nourishing food
—it strengthens the system to resist, oppose, and
overcome the attacks of disease. You’ll hear
someone say, “So-and-so has a strong constitu-
tion ” ; follow that up and you’ll find that So-and-
so follows the golden rule of being temperate in all
things, and pays attention to diet and exercise.
Does he or she keep up this strong constitution by
taking medicine or swallowing pills ? No indeed !
They have discovered that prevention is better than
cure. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places a means in
the hands of everyone to build up and maintain a
sound constitution, which enables its possessor to
travel his life’s journey without the aches and
pains which are in many cases preventible. Thus
we come round again to sound common-sense
based on experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Dainty sample free on mentioning this paper.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be SURE that the address on the Label
is Leadknhall-kt., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Rudyard Kipling is all right. His position
is secure, no man can question the stability of
his reputation. He figures, miraculously dressed,
as a tailor’s dummy in a Collins-street shop.
Editor Bulletin. —Your paragraph about
the number of the Antill (N.S.W.) family at the
war does not reach the fact. There are seven of
them —two sons and five nephews of Jack An till’s
fathsr!— Jingo.
General Roberts, writing to a niece at
Geelong shortly after his arrival in Africa, spoke
of the Australians as “splendid material,’’ and
said that if his wife joined him in South Africa it
was their intention to pay a visit to Australia
after the war.
Apparently the linotype is just as affable
in its blunders as the old-time compositor. A
correspondent, writing to Melbourne Age about
Vic. dairy-expert Potts, was made to say “I
understand Mr. Potts joined the department as a
dirty expert, lecturer, etc.”
The death of Major Eddy, of the Vic.
Mounted Rifles, will set Australian life insurance
companies thinking. The Major was insured for
£2600 with two local offices, who took him for a
“ good risk ” in the full belief that his soldiering
would be restricted to Easter encampments, &c.
Startling announcement in Sydney Truth
the other Sunday—John Norton’s Truth :
WOE ! WOE ! TO THE CITY 1
IF I WERE MAYOR.
If that is how the fiery John feels, thank Heaven
he isn’t Mayor. Sydney has enough woe already.
The cool capture of a trench-full of scared
Boers by Dr. Fiaschi, of Sydney, as reported in
the press the other day, reads so much like Dr.
Homabrook’s capture of 40 Boers some time ago,
that “ Smiler ” Hales’s deprecatory opinion of the
veracity of correspondents at the front gathers
strength.
S.A, Tories still maintain their majority
in the Leg. Council. For the vacancy caused by
Jas. Martin’s death a wealthy squatter, Duncan,
with pronounced Tory views, was elected un-
opposed. S.A. democratic party is quite dis-
organised just now, mainly through Kingston’s
absence.
The late Jimmy Hoskins was out of his
element in N.S.W. Leg. Council; but in the
Assembly, where he chiefly represented gold-
HIS HUMOR.
FIRST : “ I think Brown is an awfully jolly chap.”
SECOND: “ Don’t like the fellow; entirely devoid of
pride; he swallowed ten rounds of liquors the
other night and never returned one.”
F IRST: “Ah, my boy, that’s his exquisite dry
humor.”
diggers, he pricked with good effect many of the
bubbles of Parkes, Robertson, and other swollen
politicians. His prime offence was incurable
tediousness,
N.S.W. Chief Railway Commissioner
Oliver, who goes to Paris to attend a World’s
Railway Conference, and see the Exhibition, is a
native of Hobart, where his father was in the
Imperial convict service. Subsequently Oliver,
senr., came to Sydney and joined the literary staff
of Sydney Morning Herald.
A smart and pushing Sydney newspaper-
man, who lately went to England in a semi-official
capacity, is to receive an appointment in the
N.S.W. Agent-General’s office —not one of the
present subordinates in which have ever seen
Australia. Indeed, it is more than suspected that
some of them have not yet even heard of it.
When Gov. Beauchamp recently visited a
northern N.S.W. town, the Mayor thereof, who
had to present the inevitable illuminated address,
was in a fearful state of fuss, and kept worrying a
friend next to him as to what he should do next,
until at last the latter exclaimed, “Oh, give the
and kid the picture—and let’s get home to bed ! ”
It comes as a sad shock to the pious
Jingoes of the big Methodist flock in S.A. to learn
that Hor will, M.A., one of their brainiest and
most cultured men, who a few years back spent
some time in the province, where he was much
petted by Chief Justice Way, is among the thou-
sands of England’s brainy men to denounce the
war as one based on gold-lust.
J. A. Cameron, who rode out with Mel
bourne Herald Reay to see about correspondent
Lambie after he had been shot, and who after-
wards gave what looks like a frank, honest account
of the Boers’ courtesy and kindness, is a young
N.S.W. native, who one-time struggled with a
handful of public-school children somewhere in
the Mountains. His mother, Mary Cameron, for
years in far western N.S.W., went ov*r to Perth
three or four years back, did much press work,
and died recently. It was she who introduced
her son to journalism there.
In a small way one of the unconsidered
victims of the war is Max Hirsch, the German-
Victorian freetrader. Max was once a power m
that little speck called the Victorian Freetrade
Party. He had a paper in which he published
wonderfully mixed statistics, also letters purport-
ing to be from a squatter (name and address
not given for reasons unexplained), in which
the alleged writer said that since Protection
went out in N.S.W. and the Land Tax came
in he was making something _per annum
more than he used to do. Then Max
would append a footnote to the effect
that he really hoped, after the over-
whelming evidence contained in the
alleged letter of the man who didn’t
sign his name, that protectionists
would see the advisability of imme-
diately dying out. But everybody
named Hirscli is viewed with suspicion
now, and everything he says only
rouses additional doubts about his
loyalty. When Max talks about the
advantages of Freetrade old disciples
mutter that if he says it again they’ll
call the attention of the police, and when
he preaches Single-Tax one-time suppor-
ters call him a Kruger and a blanky Boer;
and if he preached anything else, some-
body would be sure to say that if he said it
again even a law-abiding community would ha •
to stoush him. No cause can afford to have a m «■/'
named Max anything attached to it just now —in
Victoria at all events.
“Spudz”: On a visit to Melb. public
buildings, the other day, saw ex-Premier Turner
chatting in a corridor —head erect, strong-looking,
full of movement. A little later, saw Premier
M‘Lean enter building—bent nearly double, hob-
bling along with two stout sticks, his orderly
close behind as though to catch him should he
fall, and his companion straining to catch the
words addressed, perforce, to the pavement.
What does the term “sweets of office” mean, and
when does it mean it ?
Samuel Tomkinson, M.L.C. (S.A.) turned
into his 85th year last month. Many South Aus-
tralians have an idea that old Samuel is immortal,
and certainly he is the oldest and toughest practis-
ing Tory in Australia. There ought to be a retir-
ing age for legislators as well as for civil servants.
After 65 almost every man is opposed to every
kind of reform for the same unconscious reasons :
“I won’t live to see the results so what’s the
use? ” and “ Where’s the good of trying to reform
the world when I’m just going to leave it ? ”
While Mrs. Knorr, the wholesale Melb.
infanticide, lay under sentence of death, a crowd
of several hundreds of anti-capital-
punishment advocates and pro-
miscuous agitators stormed Govt.
House, and clamored for Gov.
Hopetoun. Two reporters fol-
lowed hastily and found the
crowd still waiting for H.E. and
complaining loudly at his tardi-
ness in coming out. At last, a
door opened stealthily and the
two scribes were cautiously
beckoned into the private secre-
tary’s office, where the Governor
was' waiting. “Good after-
noon, gentlemen,” he said. “ I
want you to be very particular
about the speech I delivered,
and I should feel much obliged
if you would write it now and
let me have a look at it.”
Tiie newest reporter failed to
frasp the situation. “But you
avcn t addressed the crowd
yet, your Excellency,” he ar-
gued. “ Oh yes, I did,” said
iiopetoun. ‘ ‘ You’ll remember
all right when you look at your
notes. Get some refreshment
for these gentlemen,” he added
to the liunkey, and slid out of
the room. The experienced
scribe was by this time hard
at work on Hopetoun’s speech,
and, suddenly comprehending
the case, the other man fol-
lowed suit. When the Go-
vernor returned, half-an-hour
afterwards, emh had a lovely
speech, of about half-a-colunm,
written ftut for his confirmation.
Next day, each of the people who
waited outside Government House
swore loudly that the Governor should have
addressed tiie crowd at the other door.
Said Joubert when last in England :—
I have been warned by my friends not to stay too long
as British hospitality is so insidious that it will either
undermine my health or my principles—possibly both.
Haven’t we noticed it ? Query : How long will it
take British hospitality to worm-eat the very
foundations of any Australian principles still
possessed by the Australian Federal delegates?
After all, it is perhaps safer for a representative
statesman’s country if, like the most illustrious of
the founders of the U.S. Constitution, he never
once leaves his fatherland until he dies.
“Jack ” Spooner, who represents Sydney
E. News in S’Africa, was one of the Sydney
pressmen who attended the execution of Deeming
at Melbourne Gaol. It would be hard to find a
better man than Spooner for battle, murder, and
sudden death reporting. The writer remembers
him expostulating with a prison warder who inter-
cepted his line of vision just as the doomed one
was about to be “turned off.” Remarking that
the warder’s father was “not a glazier,” he thrust
his head over the man’s obstructive shoulder and
watched Deeming’s drop with a cold, critical eye.
“Not a kick !” said Spooner.-
OLD “JIMMY” WILSON.
A sketch at Flemington.
When Melbourne’s official aspliyxiator
came out, the other day, to slay Jones the sup-
posed Broadford murderer he looked a vastly
different man from the one who, 18 months back,
i
officiated on Archer, the Strathmerton slayer.
All his former chubby cheerfulness had vanished,
His motions were languid, his face was wrinkled
and careworn, and his frame fully two stone lighter,
One would almost think he got paid by results,
iustead of being . g„ol—, gen at £2 a week.
The Australian iederal delegates attend-
ing the Royal levee in London, would have to
wear what is known as “ the diplomatic uniform
rj i j -j ta * j ill ••j.i u a
k. second-class. It is dark blue, with a broad
gold band down the pants, gold spurs, a tail coat
slashed across the breast with heavy gold fern-
frond pattern and cocked hat. Toby Barton’s form
in that rig-out should indeed have been gorgeous to
behold. Deakin has worn the garb once before in
London, and he sported it on the occasion of
Brassey’s first levee in Melbourne. “What is
your uniform?” he was then asked. “It is that
of ambassador for the Millennium,” Deakin {. ally
replied.
Less than 10 years ago, two Lon-
don brother-students in sculpture, both
honormen, desired to try their luck
abroad. One selected America, where he
almost immediately secured employment
at 60dol. a week. Fifteen months of this
and he started a studio in Boston, and
within a month had 40 pupils. He
has executed two 15,000d01. commis-
sions, also one of 14,000, and one of
10,000 besides a large number of photo-
graphic busts and works of like nature,
and has found time to make a big fortune
by dabbling in patents. The other,
equally clever as an artist, came to Syd-
ney, where he has not secured a solitary
commission, and his average earnings have
df
whose names are not at all common —as an “un-
known person.”
Dear Bulletin. —Mrs. Fraser’s case being
no longer sub judice, let me say, on behalf of her—
to my mind—much-maligned' husband that I
worked for him for a considerable time, about
seven years ago, and never knew a quieter,
more inoffensive, or more even-tempered man. If
one-tenth of what we have recently been hearing
about him is true, never was such a complete
transformation of temperament in so short a time.
—Jan.
Printed that Colonel Bull, formerly of
Castlemaine, and latterly governor of Pentridge
prison, is now residing with his daughter, Mrs.
Raymond, at Varroville, six miles from Goulburn,
N.S.W. Both he and Mrs. Bull, who will have
been married 70 years on April 17, are in good
health, the old gentleman taking his walks every
day, and Mrs. Bull her drive occasionally. They
have living 10 children, 30 grandchildren, and 30
great grandchildren.
Mr. John Connie, ex-M.L.C., who takes
the presidency of Sydney’s Y.M.C. A. vice Knight
Fairfax, was once a politician with a little bugle.
The bugle blew a few blasts in N.S.W. Leg.
Council, and then fell silent. Mr. Comrie returned
to his orchard on the Hawkesbury, where most of
his days pass in peace and prayer. He is also a
book-lover to a degree, and particularly well read
in religious directions. He has, moreover, a repute
for benevolence.
The presence of Mr. W. Curnow at
N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland’s valedictory
banquet and the prominence given to his name
among the list of guests published in the journal
Mr. Curnow edits, can be construed as the parsoni-
cally-inspired public amende for S.M. Herald’s
having years ago caused Copeland’s expulsion
from Ministerial office by the scurvy journalistic
trick of printing verbatim a speech delivered by
him when in his cups —at an Irish banquet.
Pastoralist, poet, politician, after-dinner
speaker, and diplomatic manager of ancient Leg.
Council fogies, Kenneth Mackay, dons armor for
earnest warfare as Colonel of the outgoing Bush-
men’s Contingent. A pretty rapid series of
marches into the spruits and over the kopjes of
popularity since the cloudy day whereon Edwards
Dunlop turned out liis frail paper-backed “ Stirrup
Jingles.”
R. D. Ireland, Q.C., Victorian barrister
of renown, was always a dangerous opponent. He
was once engaged in an important action at Nisi
Prius with Mr. (afterwards Judge) Fellows
against him. The latter was famous for his know-
ledge of authorities, and Ireland knew there
was in the Court library a case which would
floor him if cited. Fellows hunted high
and low for the book, but unsuccessfully.
After the hearing was over, and Ireland
had won hands-down, it was found that
the wily Q.C. had all the time been
sitting on the volume containing the
valuable precedent.
When is someone going to toma-
hawk Herkomer’s hideous alleged por-
trait of Queen Victoria in Melbourne
National Gallery ? The painting of
it was a crime, the purchase of it
(wasn’t the price £1000 or so?) was a
job, and the public exposure of it an
act of treason. Seiiously, the thing
is not worth 2/6, and sans Herkomer’s
name and the frame it wouldn’t fetch
2/6 at auction.
Barrister Detli ridge, who stood at
Purves’ light hand in defence of Mrs. Fraser
at Melb. Criminal Sessions, reached wig-and-
gown only after much tribulation. It was
while working as a watchmaker that he
studied for the bar. His father was one of
he identities of Melb. G.P.O. for a generation.
Dr. Ren wick, M.L.O., elected, last week,
Vice-Chancellor of Sydney University, was the
first student to receive the B.A. degree in that
seat of learning—43 years ago. The little medico
has been a liberal benefactor of the institution.
He figured awhile in the politics of the Lower
House, but was too forcibly dominated by Parkes
to leave any valuable Assembly reputation behind
him.
Cardinal Vaughan’s denial of Christian
burial to St. George Mivart simply means that
Mivart cannot be buried in a R.C. burial-ground
or with R.C. rites elsewhere. In such cases, some
other Christian Church (if the defunct has been
a society leader, or otherwise distinguished, the
Church of England generally appropriates the
corpse) tenders Christian burial. When a late
N.S.W. Chief-Justice died estranged from his
(R.C.) Church, the R.C. Archbishop declined to
give Christian burial, but the C.E. Archbishop
filled the social gap and let the corpse down
decently.
Treasonable item from London by Henry
Lucy (Sydney Morning Herald) :—
When Cronje set out from Pretoria he, with calm assur-
ance, said he was going straight to Capetown. He is
there to-day, but has arrived by another route, and in dif-
ferent circumstances from those he had planned. It is a
hard fate for a sturdy soldier. Happily he has fallen
into the hands of generous foes, not likely to act in the
spirit Cronje himself displayed when he was pre-
dominant at Potchefstrom. His dauntless courage, his
stubborn tenacity, his fertility of resource have commanded
the admiration of the world. If by chance he should visit
London just now he would be surprised by a popular re-
ception which would be exceeded only by that awaiting
the victorious Bobs. The wonder at his achievement is
complete by contemplation of the fact that he is a simple
farmer, who left his fields to go to the war, and who will
return to them as soon as the war is over. He is the
nearest approach to our own Cromwell modern times have
presented.
Australia’s old friend, General Maclver, of
Fourteen Flags celebrity, is still on deck, and
apparently as good as new. In London Daily
Mail of 22nd Feb. he figures in what looks like
AFFECTING A CLOSE RESERVE.
OLD LADY : “ Well, my little dear , what is your
name? ”
THE OTHER KID : “ That ain’t none o’ your
business, missus; and if Haggle Rink’s dare
tell yer ’er name, Fit give ’er a biff on the
jore.”
an illustrated half-page advt., setting out the
dear old familiar details of his gory career—how
he slew and slew and slew, and was himself nearly
slain, all over the earth. At latest he was
“ anxious to help England in the Transvaal.” The
yarn concludes :
While in Australia he made the acquaintance of Major-
Gen. French, who was then a colonel. Maclver was
invited to attend the Queensland manoeuvres, and on
that occasion the veteran of many wars was able to offer
several good military “wrinkles” to the man who has
done and is doing such excellent work in the present
campaign. The friendship between the two men still
continues, and Maclver looks forward to the time when
they will meet in South Africa.
Wonder what Major-General French has to say ?


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
SCHNAPPS.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin. —Perhaps the following
will help to explain why small settlements which
prospej in Maoriland are almost impossible in
Australia. The Seddon Govt, recently purchased
11,006 acres of the Elderslie estate, near Oamaru,
the price averaging about £8 10s. per acre. The
hardest there is just over, and here are the returns
Official) from two sections : Section 25—Oats, 126 J
uushels to the acre ; barley 80, wheat 45. Section
22a (over the whole 330 acres) —Wheat, 50 bushels
iper acre. The remainder of the figures were not
available when the mail left, but all the portions
Under crop had been correspondingly good. Is it
any wonder that the Maorilanders bless the name
of John Ballance for the introduction of a system
which enables a whole people to be collectively
prosperous, though possibly none may individually
achieve great wealth? Your Australian figures
look small potatoes alongside of these, and I have
sometimes been. considered an amiable liar for
telling such things to N.S.W. farmers, who
reckoned 20 bushels of wheat a perfect miracle.—
Maobilander.
* •
Apropos of Bigjohn Forrest’s proposal that
the Australian Governments should subscribe
£20,000 for the starving niggers in India, the
following letter, from a S.A. station-manager,
tells something about our own starving nigger :
We get none of the rain, only dust I It was quite dark
for about an hour on March 19. The dust was thick
MORE GLORY.
“ Where is he going, mat"
"To the war, dear.”
" Oh, pays better them hunting us!”
enough to bury a man in without the trouble oi grave-
digging, and wind enough to take corpse, grave and all,
to Port Augusta. The wind blew the root off the under-
ground tank on the flat; but we have found some of the
sheets, and expect to get some more in “ the five mile ”
when we have time to go to look for them. I
had to shift all the niggers, as their dogs
were giving us a lot of trouble. The rabbits
are all dead, and so the niggers’ dogs want to graze
on mutton. There are about 200 niggers with 10 dogs
each, more or less, and they were about starving when
the rations came up, and there was a dog or two adrift in
every paddock. I gave the niggers a good tuck-out when
the rations did come, served out the rugs as far as they
would go, and then shi’ted the mob to Deep Well; but
what they are going to eonl do not know, as it is im-
possible for us to kee- hem. Hope our turn for rain
will come next.
* * *
“ S.S.” : The Bunion has been put
pretty accurately by Tins Bulletin re the in-
fluence of the pay on the paytriotism of the
Australian soldier. A Melb. drummer on a recent
journey outside of Hamilton, Vic., encountered a
woman at a slip-rail. “I say, mister,” she said,
“how’s the war goin’ on?” The traveller ex-
plained that the British were on top and the
Boers having a bad time. “Then my man’s
all right,” said the woman with placid confidence.
“Do you mean to say your husband has gone to
South Africa, and left you to look after this place
alone?” “To be sure he has, an’ why wouldn’t
he? It’s worth it.” “But surely it would pay
him. better to stay here and work the land ? ”
“Divil a bit would it. We’re drawin’ real good
pay, an’ I can get a man worth two of Jim on a
farm for half the money.”
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Some time ago two men
were accused by ablockholder here (White Cliffs)
of being suspected persons, and after hearing evi-
dence, the chairman of the bench said “Six
months.” Notice of appeal was given, whereupon
the bench said, “You can’t appeal; you’re sen-
tenced,” and it took the clerk of the court some
time to make these solons understand that they
would have to take notice of intention to appeal.
The bench then made order that considerable
moneys found on accused should be used to convey
them to, and pay for their keep in, gaol. Two days
later bail was fixed at two sureties, £75 each, and
prisoners’ own recognisances, £IOO ; and again the
clerk had a stiff job to hammer into the bench’s
gd
fgdfg
Two young men went in swimming off an
anchored yaclat in Hobson’s Bay on a bright
moonlight night last month. They were having a
pleasant time, pretending to drown, to the great
distress of a black retriever dog that was also in
the swim. Suddenly a large, dark, ominous shape
swept past one youth, so close in the clear moon-
lit water that it touched his arm in passing.
There was a yell of “ Shark ! ” and men and dog
made for the boat in unspeakable funk. The
shark headed them, paused for a moment, says
one swimmer, whilst his (the bather’s) sickening
horror almost drowned him, then made his selec-
tion, cut in—and took the dog. When the two
survivors were yanked into the boat they said
nothing for five minutes, and then “Brandy!”
was moaned faintly. “All the same,” said one
hero, when he had gulped'down half a tumbler of
spirit, “ I think it was ad insult for him to
have preferred the dog ! ” This is an anti-tem-
perance story.
* * • *
A pathetic life-story of an Austrian immi-
grant family makes some little stir about Oxford
(Maoriland). Bernard Banger and his wife came
out, 25 years ago, from a primitive agricultural
region m Mid - Europe. They belonged to an
era when the Austrian peasant was even more
densely ignorant than he is now. They had no
gift for languages, and could never learn English,
and they never could fathom the mysteries of a
new legal system. But they were quiet, clean,
religious, and intensely industrious. In the early
days they contrived to buy a piece of wild bush land
far away from roads or inhabitants, and they pro-
ceeded to build a house and cultivate. Having
gone plunging into the wilderness cm their own in
search of their bit of soil, and knowing nothing of
surveyors’ marks, they naturally built on and cul-
tivated another man’s land by mistake. It was
some years before the other man happened out
that way, and then he ordered them to
quit. All the adjacent legal authorities, in-
cluding the policeman and the goat-inspec-
tor, went out and tried to explain to them
but they couldn’t understand. After a year’s
excitement they were ejected and practically
ruined. Then they plunged again, found the
wrong piece of land a second time, and proceeded
with frantic industry to clear and build. The
new place was mortgaged beyond redemption, and
the owner had left it, so again the luckless Aus-
trians had time to make it into a little paradise
before the mortgagee foreclosed and sold. The
new buyer turned them out again and they went
silently and almost uncomplainingly, believing
that an iniquitous Government had once more
confiscated their property- They built a house on
the public road and were shifted some more, as a
matter of course. Then the police interfered and
found old Banger’s own piece of land—th e one he
had lost or mislaid years ago ; traced out the boun-
daries of it, and shifted the family forcibly on to
it. All the foreigners from the nearest towns
came out and explained to the Bangers
in so many different languages that thi3
was really and truly their property that
they began to understand. So they built
a fourth house in their old age, and attacked
the scrub with the desperate energy of a bull-ant.
But all the foreigners and interpreters and police
in the neighborhood could not explain to old
Bernard Banger that he had to pay road rates. He
simply said, m the guilelessness of his heart, that
he couldn’t owe road rates for he had no road. In
his extreme old age Banger, still belting away
desperately at the primeval forest, owed about 9s.
for taxes. And the Road Board, instead of pass-
ing round the hat and subscribing the miserable
sum, and letting a useful patriarch go on improving
the country, got a Supreme Court order, and sold
the farm. It fetched £2O, and, as the costs of
recovering the 9s. were about £ll 11s., there was
£8 left for the Austrian veteran. It was explained
to the ignorant old hero that, after tearing the
scrub off three farms in succession, he had to go
once more, and he promptly put down his axe and
died as uncomprehendingly as he had lived. The
family’s goods were put over the fence one pouring
wet day on to a stranger’s patch of scrub-land, and
the stranger sent word that they could stay there as
long as they lived and no questions would be asked.
But, even before this permission arrived, they
had put up another hut, and the old woman and
her son—a silent replica of the dead father —were
already belting down the scrub and the big trees
for 16 hours a day, and making the place fertile.
The desire to struggle desperately against big
trees with a blunt axe was in the blood. At latest
advices the State still owed them the £B, for the
old lady won’t sign a receipt so as to get the
money—she thinks the receipt is some new
form of ejectment devilry. Also, she won’t take
charitable relief, nor apply for an old-age pension,
but she is still keeping the house spotlessly clean
and whacking down tne scrub with the courage of
a forlorn hope.
> * * *
“B.B.B.”: Pe Australian women marrying
Chinamen (“A.G.,” B. 24/3/’00). I knew a
Chinese trader in a country town to buy a white
girl from her wicked old father for £101). Several
children resulted from the union, all of whom
heartily despised the Chinese and married whites.
A half-bred Chow desires above anything else to
be thought pure European.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—ln asserting (8., 24/3/’00)
that the progeny of white women and Chinamen
invariably despise their parents, “ A.G.” is
wrong. I know of several such families who live
in perfect harmony. For instance, three Scotch
LOOKING AHEAD.
SQUATTER'S DAUGHTER (on Never-Never station, to traveller, who
has been refused rations): “A good wash would do you
more good than a good meal; it would remove some of the
dirt you carry about with you."
OLD BATTLER: “ An’ when I wash that horf, what chance ’ave I
of a decent burial if I peg-out bout here? ”
girls, sisters, married Chinamen in Southern
Queensland some years ago, and all had several
children. The fathers took the greatest pains to
see they were properly reared and educated, and
all grew up to be respectable members of society.
The girls in each case, after a period of domestic
service, married white men, and the lads all turned
out well. Had there not been reciprocity of
family affection such a result would be most un-
likely. Also, I know a young fellow now in South
Africa with one of the Q. contingents whose father
is Chinese. He is a fine athlete, and has such a
respect for his parents that anybody who would
venture to insult the “old man” would court a
sound thrashing. In fact, taking all through, the
Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH, up to date.
Anglo-Chinese will bear favorable comparison
with other Australians.—W.H.F.
The Pastoralists who in a moment of
aberration constituted so largely in money and
houses to the South African War fund seem likely
to be scourged with a whip of their own plaiting.
The Patriotic what-is-it has been both directly and
indirectly the means of depleting the back-blocks
of from 2000 to 3000, who at ss. per day and
rations all the year round as soldiers, earn a great
deal more than ever they earned at station-work.
The market for bush-workers has consequently
“ riz,” and that purely philanthropic institution
instituted for the good of bush-workers, viz., The
Pastoralists’ Union, has decided to raise the shear-
ing rate for the coming season, from 10 to 15 per
cent. Strange that such good should come out of
the late Jingriotio upheaval.
“E.P.” : Have never
found a N.S.W. country town
.that did not possess a Stony
Creek. I always make it a
point to ask for Stony Creek
when town, and it has
never failed yet.
• •
Old Pat Regan was mighty
careful in counting his sheep.
The jumbucks were made walk
slowly through a narrow race,
and as they passed, each one
was told off with a tap from
Pat’s “ shillaley.” One day a
refractory wether rushed past
the old chap before he could
administer tne usual thwack.
The tapping process, however,
had become so essential to the
counting that Pat had the
sheep brought back. “Oi
haven’t hit him wid me shtick
yet,” he gravely explained.
• *
“ Dubbo ” : I can corro-
borate “Wong” (B. 24/3/’00)
re the contractite power of
snakes, provided the hole the
snake is escaping into is only
slightly larger than its girth.
The reptile can then defy dis-
lodgment by 10 times its own
strength ; but, if the hole has
a much bigger diameter than
the snake, the pull-out is easy.
Have never seen the carpet-
snake strike with its mouth
closed.
• •
“ Nemo When is legis-
lation going to reach the farm-
helot? Writer knows of one
who is obliged to be up at 4.30
a.m. after horses, and whose
tum-in time is generally 11
p.m., with orders to “keep an
eye all night that the cattle
don’t get at the wheat.”
* *
“ Eller ” : Be frogs suicid-
ing (B. 17/3/’00). I have known
parrakeets put an end to M emselves by tearing
their own throats.
* » Y *
“0.P.”: Wanted information about the
Australian porcupine. Does female lay eggs, and,
if so, where are they to be found ? If otherwise,
are the young bom with quills on, do they suck,
and where do they get to in their infancy ? Have
seen hundreds full and three-quarter grown, but
never an infant. Also, want to know about a
small, tough, half-inch, brown-grey egg-like en-
closure commonly found on the bark of trees. Has
a grub inside, and a temporarily-secured lid for
his especial exit at the proper time.


Saturday, March 24th, was the 258th
anniversary of the discovery of Maoriland by a
Dutchman.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
RINGS
And the relief of Kimberley
are intimately connected.
M
NM
N
The price of diamonds is regulated by the output of the African mines.
During 1809 the De Beers syndicate raised the price four times, and to-day the gems are higher
than ever. They cannot fall in price for 12 months from the nature of the mining.
“ We bought before the rise ” largely, and are now offering Gem Rings and Diamond Ornaments
at less than ordinary London prices.
. . . We are Ring Manufacturers, and so save all intermediate profits . . .
* FAIRFAX and ROBERTS,
PLAIN FIGURE
CASH PRICES.
Vice-Regal Jewellers
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents,.and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phil]ip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager
Fare-well, Dreamers!
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
An upstairs room in the Hotel Victoria, with
some 40 of Sydney’s artists, musicians, literary
people sprawling round the dinner-tables in an
atmosphere of wine and cigars. It is a way of
saying Farewell to Henry Lawson and A. Henry
Fullwood —a poet and a painter—leaving Aus-
tralia for the Older Lands. Farewell!
In the chairman’s seat Livingstone Hopkins.
Round the room faces in the smoke—tired faces,
bright faces, young faces, old faces, eager faces,
anxious faces —no happy faces. For they are the
faces of men who in doubt and misgiving, with
many failures and few rewards, lost in trivial
tasks or wasted in petty pleasures, yet constant
in inconsistency, though evil report and good
follow the Dream.
And the Dream of the artist, however small his
talent and weak his wooing, is fatal to the calm
old content men knew in times when Thoughts
were less than Things. For it is never realised in
this world or in any other that we wot of.
Look round!—some of the faces bear the burden
lightly. That trim little Italian with the gay eye
and curly beard is Dattilo Rubbo—he whistles
Verdi as he paints the picture which everybody
praises and so often nobody buys. Never. mind !
Next year —ah, you will see ! Over there is solid-
faced, painstaking Lister—engineer and painter—
year in and year out achieving his regular tally
of honest, excellent work. Go to him and hear
him speak. “ That year,” he says, “ I made more
out of pictures than I spent in frames. That was
a lucky year.” The musician who meets you on
your way back says: “At all events, my pupils
are prospering—in London. Forme? Bah! Do
you know that in the last few years—months—l
nave sung two hundred times for nothing. Think
of it, my dear fellow ! Two hundred polishings
of shoes and dress - suits ! Art spent, music
bought, cabs hired ! For nothing! A man
must keep his name before the public, and ‘ as it
is a charitable object, we feel sure you will not
object to giving your services gratuitously.’ ‘My
services ! • It is my life. Well, my pupils—did
you see how they spoke of in London ? For
me—Bah ! ”
But these are not the tragedies. See that man
yonder —with the bright, jolly face. “ Not a care
in the world ! ” Do you know that he has had no
dinner—no decent meal—for a week, in order to
buy the boots he is wearing ? The old ones were
really too much broken if it had been wet! And
at home his wife and children are sitting in a
carpetless house, with one bed for five of them,
debating whether the butcher in the next street is
likely to give to-morrow’s chops on credit (from
this street’s butcher, alas ! there is no more hope).
And that man is an artist—a mediocrity, no
doubt, but with the power to conceive and execute
beautiful things, things to be prized. Yes, he is
spendthrift yes, he does not persevere; yes,
with despair at his heart, he drinks too much.
Never mind ! Wljen I know what that man is
—how he lives—what he does—what he might do ;
and when I read of this or that successful
draper or ironmonger profiting so many thou-
sands a week; —why, I feel I would gladly
make one of a gang of artistic anarchists to
wring the draper’s neck. Grossly unreasonable,
of course ; but wouldn’t you ? . . . And see how
he is laughing ! What is Tragedy ? Call it Farce
and laugh—“ Ha, ha, ha ! ” And the weary little
wife at home, watering her one little piece of
maidenhair fern in the candle-box —“ Ha, ha, ha,
ha, ha ! ”
_ Hush !. . . the chairman is speaking. That
little elderly painter, with the French manner—a
flavour of happy days in Paris studios that will
haunt him till he dies—is to propose Fullwood’s
health. “A good fellow, Fullwood” —there, on
WILLIS GAUZE, Female Impersonator, with
McAdoo’s Georgia Minstrels.
the right of the chairman, with the blue-grey eyes
and the pointed beard, and his tie flowing in
harmony, with the Bohemian tradition. He is glad
to see you ; he is sorry to go; but there is no
reward in Australia for the artist —“ not even for
the” —shrug!—“first-rate artist. As for us—”
shrug !
We sing “For he is a jolly good fellow!” and
somebody proposes the health of Lawson—“still
the man who has best represented Australia in
literature.” The carefully-dressed little fellow with
the big brow and sparkling eyes is Dorrington the
THAT ABSENT-MINDED BEGGAR AGAIN.
BRISBANE SOCIETY UP-TO-DATE YOUNG MAN: “I say, old chap, heard one of those ripping
Patriotic songs last night.”
ACQUAINTANCE: “ Yaas; which was it?”
YOUNG MAN: Oh—ah—that one of Robert Kipling's, composed by Williamson and Musgrove,
dontcherknow !”
story-writer—a man who will be better heard of
yet. He wants to support the toast. The care-
lessly-dressed man with the carelessly-brushed
hair and the slouch is poet Quinn—fee wants to
support the toast. Everybody wants to support
the toast.
Lawson makes his maiden speech in reply—-he
is tallish and leanish, with heavy dark hair falling
flat on a high, narrow forehead, a mouth that
twitches this way and that in the humour of the
moment, and those great dark eyes —woman’s
eyes, dog’s eyes—full of sympathy and emotion.
He is exalted beyond himself, and looks the most
distinguished man in the room. He has been
much helped in Australia—has made many friends
—yet .. . well, there may be a bigger chance in
London. . . . His eyes are filling—there is a
lump in his throat—he “ will never forget that
night. And when the last landmark at the Leeu-
win fades out of sight there will be a hole in my
heart big enough to put all Australia into.”
11 p.m.—The meeting, is melting—it thawed
long ago. Songs—recitations —-old Tom Rain-
ford’s song the best of all; a fine old fellow, this
basso of 70 years.
Midnight.—A last bottle of whisky, and “ Auld
Lang Syne.” Fullwood is gone—he sails next
day : Lawson is standing on a chair, and we join
hands round him and clutch his hands. Victor
Daley—that thickish fellow with the ruddy-brown
face and the shock of brown-black hair is Daley—
and his is really a Bohemian tie—Victor D iley is
writing a farewell verse —it runs like this
Forty hearts all tried and true !
Forty friends to welcome you /
Come you back in sun or rain ■
Forty friends you'll find again!
Daley signs the sentiment on paper hastily pro-
vided by the hotel-keeper—everybody signs after
Daley.
1 a.m.—The last gathering of a faithful few to
escort Lawson to his ferry-boat. They form a
triumphal arch with elevated umbrellas and walk-
ing-sticks. Lawson walks under it beaming—his
wife is waiting at home to hear all about it. ‘ ‘ And
God bless you all! ”
Farewell, Fullwood ! Farewell, Lawson ! Fare-
well, Dreamers ! Farewell!
A.G.S.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Walter R. : “Pallia” is probably “pakeha,”
stranger, and, by extended meaning, European.
“ Wahina ”is no donbt wahine, wife. Hine is Maori for
woman ; ohine, young woman ; ohineroa, stately young
woman. “ Katalooe ”is not Maori at all. There is no
“1” in Maori and no“oo”in the same syllable. Can’t
suggest any translation of the phrase... .R. M‘N : “It
may not be poetry, but I’ll be d- if it’s not common
sense ! ” Right, Robert!—but why put it in verse-form
at all? Ounctator: What is it—fact or fiction? If
fiction, it’s no good. If fact—when did it happen?
where’s the corroborative detail? and how could we print
it, anyway ?—before ventilation in Parliament Camiro :
The story where the writer wakes up and behold it was a
dream is a very tired device. What’s the good of waking
up? Sylvia S. : Morbid and unwholesome—which
doesn’t matter much ; and rather dull—which matters
everything Julien D. : The tragedy is mostly omitted ;
the place where the blank is should be the best part of
the story Het Thule: Gruesome, and it isn’t a new
gruesom mess either. In fact it is a very old grue
W.H.S. : Miles is a wide-awake man in a fast-asleep land
and some other day when the Flyspeck isn’t looking he
may get back into the Ministry again G.S. : Nonsense !
Why, under some of the wharves, sewerage matter, putrid
dogs, cats, rats, &c., decayed grain, and garbage, were
five and six feet deep ; while in some of the houses
there was no water-closet; the sink in the yard serving
all domestic purposes. A “ reasonably clean ” city
indeed! H.M. : Surely you don’t want to pass
that sillv old yarn about Kruger sending Leyds to
England' (and Levds going there) to see if there were
any more. British available, off on us. Leyds is a
man of the world and knows something. And the
Australians who take such jokes in dead earnest
are excited about “Boer ignorance and credulity”
Pascoe : You call it “an Enigma,” but it is only the
ordinary marriage of an ordinary male and the usual
kind of a female Jeanne F. Young: It is all right to
say “ the Hare system is so simple that we seldom have
informal votes,” and back up the statement by something
that happened at a meeting in Canada. At Launceston
(Tas.) a month ago there were 117 informal votes out of
2270—about lin every 15. The Launceston results can
be verified by everybody ; the doings of a Trades Union
meeting in Canada have to be taken on trust Clancy
Bros. : The reason was that “ Banjo ” used the name of
Clancy as that of the typical bushman. Vile “ Clancy of
the Overflow.”.. ..Charles: Tell us—how did The Bulletin
“ fall-in over the Dean case ?” The Bulletin’s point was
not that Dean was innocent, but that (like the Mt. Rennie
prisoners) he wasn’t fairly tried. And how did The
Bulletin “ fall-in ” over G. Republican Dibbs’ change of
front? And how has it “ fallen-in ” over the Boer war?
We want to know. The Bulletin has fought scores of
what the ignorant and cock-eyed would call losing
battles, but those were the battles it is proudest
o f_the battles on which it rests its reputation
A.K.O. : In America you can go anywhere in a city for
one tram-fare, by means of the transfer system. Mel-
bourne adopted this plan years ago ; you can there ride
many miles for one fare M.P.W. : If you but knew
how much there is in the appearance of MS. 3’ou would
never send along slovenly copy in the expectation of its
being printed 0.A.: “ The excellent plant of Messrs.
So and So." “Plant" is indeed a good name for an
undertaker’s gear... .Mel: Johnnie aforesaid is practically
ruh'ed by drink. Why not leave him to work out his own
destruction, unmolested by spiteful pars? Tee Jay:
Very rudimentary sketches Neyal: Some of the con-
versation of the loose-haired, short-frocked girl is too
“ steep.” G.R.A. : Hardly worth while A. Conway :
“ Snow,” old situation, and dialect compounded of
Yankee, Cornish, and East-Anglian. Other yarn, not
weight enough J.B.H. : Yes ; provided they are neat
—and new. That “ marry-the-girl ” yarn is a world-wide
chestnut Ron : The Rule of Love would be all very
well, if all men were amenable to it, but the vast major-
ity are not. Might is still practically right; and, in any
case, the state of things you aspire after is probably im-
possible to human nature Carlo R. : Too magniloquent
and long-winded for Bulletin .. ..Fax: Make a par only
Margaret 0.: Received. May possibly touch up for print.
II. A.: Thanks; we knew the yarn was not original
Manly: Interesting but awful.. ..Mumsie : Good little
Sunday tract, and quite harmless H.E.: As you say,
your story is only “tol-lol.” F.G.H.: Rather a raw
yarn of cruelty to a dumb animal John 0.: Do you
seriously expect us to believe all that Berrigan ;
Berrigan never did us any harm, so we won’t jibe at it....
Bah: We say the same thing that your pen-name is
Mick Mac: Some skill, but not quite satisfactory
Domestic : “ Politics,” may trim-up and use ; other not
interest enough 10 x 30: It’s of no consequence
Finn; Rather prosy, and too much “Oirish"in it
M.8.l Too trifling... Zebra: Dreadful piece of literary
confusion J.J.W.: Thanks; but subject dropped
Jan.: May be true enough, but to print your statements
about the lady would mean libel on a large scale
L.P.: “Loo” fair material, but not strong enough
Louie L.: Vor. unsuitable Eugenie: “In Times”
clever, but too long-drawn-out and too light for us. You
could easily find a publisher—especially if you had it
typed Helen Ingham: Not bright enough Jo:
Sorry L.B.G. too domestic for Bulletin Litus:
That wife-deserter was a mere isolated monstrosity ; if we
printed the story we would be charged with setting him
up as a type ; which he certainly isn’t Scribbler : Too
light weight E.8.H.: “As Ex.” has not enough skill or
interest Matchbox: Good idea, but telling too
amateurish. Try it again Lady Gay (Lond.) : Quite
unsuitable James S. : Rather dull verses Gobung:
they are supposed to pay a little.... A Bulletin Reader :
The Daily Mail’s yarn was printed as an interesting
assertion. The Bulletin didn’t vouch for the truth of it
and gave it merely as the Mail’s assertion I). Libra
(or it might be “ Da Tilun ” or “ Di Jitirn ” or “ Or Silua ”
or almost anything) : Rather an old idea... .Non Compos:
Poems that require a glossary are barred W.M.F. :
Weak echoes Guy T. :No value... .Louis M. : “ Ada-
vale ” long and flat N. Treble: It will never crawl
again G.Q. : Prefer local scenes and people as story-
material C.O.G. : Rhyme says nothing at a 11... J.K. :
Received.. ..Argonaut: Not up Fox: Quite desper-
ately dull Joss-gone-bung: Sorry, Joss; but she’s a
duffer Domestic : Too JohnC.: Possibly “ Missed ”:
others returned P.B. :“ Physiology ” idea won’t bear
extended treatment,.. .Fern : Dead.... Opawe : Declined.
R.B.R.: You have more cheek than capacity
H.R.H. : Can’t see it.
Inspiriting item from the pen of Private
Doff, second Vic. contingenteer :
.. . The authorities are very sharp. One man got
15 years for being found asleep at his post, and another
was shot for divulging intelligence regarding' General
Buller.
H. W. Massingham, the brainy young
English journalist, has, since leaving the
Chronicle (from which he was hunted for lus
brilliant anti-Jingo crusade) gone over to the
Morning Leader, and has galvanised that half-
penny slieet into life and energy. Jt will become
a powerful rival of the Daily Mail —the Mail
being a half-penny morning paper of enormous
circulation, run with Cecil Rhodes’ money and
Alfred Harmsworth’s brains on Jingo lines.
Massingham has taken Charles Williams, that
fine old war-dog, over with him, and they have
taken with them the backbone of the Chronicle,
for that once great and fearless journal is but a
shadow of its former self.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir,—The paragraph
in Bulletin of 31st March referring to the
N.S.W. Mounted Rifles’ visit to. England, con-
tains the statement that I spent £lO,OOO on the
expenses of the detachment. This is quite in-
correct. The money to defray the expenses of
the men was contributed by the officers, non-
commissioned officers, men of the regiment, and
their friends. Each officer who accompanied the
detachment, of course, paid his own expenses.—
Yours, H. B. Las setter. [The paragraph in
question stated that Col. Lassetter’s trip cost him
£lO,OOO and was not intented in the least to reflect
on any of the other members of the detachment.
A very popular N.S.W. military captain is re-
sponsible for the statement’s accuracy. — Ed. Bul-
letin.}
THE LATE “BILL” KELSO.
At a recent Loudon stamp-sale a “ Queens-
land 2d. blue ” fetched £l9, and a “ N.S.W.
Sydney-view Id. red ” brought £9 ss.
“ J.C.G. ’ : Re removing intrusives from
the eye (B. 17/3/’oo)'.' I know a foundry-operative
in Brisbane, to whom fellow-employes always
resort in such cases (frequent in foundries) for
relief. He uses a pocket-knife , and is invariably
successful.


tHE BT3BONIO ?I>A(JtJSL
To -the Editor of the Herald.
Sir,-*Now that the minds of most people are
oonoerned as to how to prevent the bubonio plague
from gaining, a footing in this colony, and the
several local councils are offering bonuses for the (
destruction of rats, does it not seem somewhat of
an anomaly that the counoils should continue to
charge the Dog Rate when these animals are one
of the most merciless foes of the rodent ? I think
the least the councils concerned could do would be
to abate the tax on any dog of known rat-lallin|
proclivities till all danger from this dreaded
disease is past.— l am, etc.. Schemes.
See. 4*
K *»*>»*&
t+Jio S?
\rj#F Yssr I owfe ybw'
I ’1
LEGAL STAGNATION-
CIRCUIT COURTS UNUSED.
The tn!e of rapidly diminishing litigation
on the civil side of the Supreme Court,
•which is unmistakably told by the cause
lists for the Melbourne »'ttm««y >»
singly emphasised by therecards of the cir
cuit courts. , .» . •
}n 13 ctfcnit towne seven oivil eases w«r«
ried in the year.
• mfy la*
Sdcep ]} ra.\ifm > dy>
% s(f6p& 5007 w'jjUe
(6W^»s)
of mUB ‘
[SOW
porter.
Ojitjrjwo, K°f
see»7s ,-j? V*L-
*SC-
SI
A DISCHARGED LUNATIC’S
CONDUCT.-
WARRAGUL, Wednesday.
' .Yesterday morning Constable Steedmaa
saw a man with two fingers recently sever-
ed from his right hahd, which, he said,
had been done by accident when cutting
tobacco with fln axe on a log. Subsequent*,
.ly, vhowever. the man said it wat a sacrifice
ha had been told t«J make, for "his right
Wj having offended him, he had cut
<?¥• A . dJficharge from the Kew Lunatic:
Asylum, dated Monday Inst, was found on«
nim. lhe man came to Dronin in the early
tram that morning, and the local magis-'
trates, before whom he was brought Jater
in the day, committed him to the asylum-
again, fhey said they thought that in* 4
.quizes should be made into the case, as
the man was pronounced by the doctor*
'who examined him to be suffering from
[religiousjnania in a high degree. _
MN
bogged and benighted. •
• THd members of the £jn( g &vot *
tee have eompjetely f rlval routes.!
to pieroe the Mallee alo g TJltima on Friday <
to Mildura. The party 1®* -tacre of
morning, intondin^mai'O 4 ' 16 blit
miles The roads were in
not nntil veiy late that rug heavy ram- L
a very soft state, owing oartv still far from 1
Night fell, and thesffindtherainthevl
shelter W !
reached.
ii
e Mye.
X 1",
mSdJ, A
T jer ? I
/ffou 3 (vj?o
I)cet7 :
"ily T7ose offei;4eA rye ,
I eat - if off, dsll.”
aloony 'ttfcy cowffleg"
MELBOURNIAN A.


THE PLAGUE.
ear not the foul disease, though it rage along the qaayß^^
Oh, faint heart, be at ease ;
Wash and pray !
Bathe in the early morn, when the day is newly born,
Weak soul, be not .forlorn, '
Pray and wash !
When the east is growing red slide quickly out of bed.
And swiftly wash your head,
Wash and pray !
And wken day is nearly done, and westward slopes the sun
And the stars come one by one,
Pray and wash I
Oh, quickly soak your feet when the night is falling fleet,
And the evening star goes downward the dull sky-rim to meett
And the parrot crieth sadly in the fields of golden wheat,
Wash and pray
•Wash your socks-oh, wash them soon, and your mangled .shirt
And vourToilar ’neath the beams of the cold white crescent moon,
Pray and wash!
There is but one gospel true and I preach it unto you,
When the plague comes like the spectre that haunts the sombre
yew !
And its bony feet are on the street and tread them night and day
Wash and pray 1 -
But more especially wash this earthly tenement of jjlay
Wash and pray !
R. McN.
THE BUBONIC PLAGUE.—WASH AND PRAY!


A. SAUNDERS’
They are “Lovely,” and Prices Bight.
A. Saunders,
BUTTEKS, as above, 15s 6d
size, 20s.
Guaranteed Quality.
A. Saunders.
OAKE BASKET, chased, 18s 6d; plain, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, £ 2, and £2 10s.
We guarantee the quality. Send tor Illustration.
A. Saunders.
EGO CRUET, 4 Cups, tri! t inside, and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated on hard
■White Metal. 21s, 255. 30s, and 355.
Almost Half-price.
CRUETS, 4-bottle. Square
Bottles, 30s. Similar, 21s, 255, 355.
A. Saunders.
OAK BISCUIT, pure Silver*
plated Mounts, 16s 6d;
Fluted Bands, 20s;
Shield only, l‘2s 6d.
BREAKFAST CRUETS,
Pure Silver-plated, 8s fid.
Other styles, 10s fid, 12s fid, 15s, 20s.
TRY US.
Four o’clock TEA SET, with COVERS, gilt inside, pure
Silver-plated. 20 years’ guaranteed.
£2 10s ; worth £4 4s. Other styles, 355, £2.
LADIES— KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR DISPLAY.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE.
Pure Silver-plated Rim and Knife, 21a.
Other styles, 255, 30s, £2.
Useful and Handsome Present*
A. Saunders.
Hot Water TEA KETTLE, 33s 6d ;
Embossed, ,02. Others charge £2 10*
and £3 for same article.
We guarantee the quality.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated SUGAR SCUTTLE,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders’
Four o’clock TEASPOONS and TONGS,
15s, 20s, 255.
Spoons, without case, ss, 7s 6d half-dozen.
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255.
With Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Handsome and Useful Presents.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30s.
Other patterns, 12 0,15 s, 20s, 255, 355, 12.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
SP °DeSert d 3s F - o Tea S is S P oons and Fo,ks - 4s half-dozen.
Knives ’ 6s and ss ed haif - c, ° zen;
BUTTER KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, Ss, 4s.
tavt Pearl Handle, 3s 6d ; extra mounted, 6s 6d.
JAM SPOONS, same price. Two in case, 7s 6d and 10s.
ENTREE DISHES, 4 pieces, pure Silver-plated, £2 17s 6d.
Others charge you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES nowadays want to see a Display and Assort-
ment worth seeing. The Old-Time Prices and Small
Stocks are a thing of the past. LADIES, we can show
you £20,000 worth of Jewellery and Silver-plate—a
display seldom seen like it.
A PERSONAL VISIT ONLY WILL CONVINCE YOU OF THE
MAGNITUDE OF OUR STOCK. DO COME.
A. SAUNDERS, Jeweller,
WILL
PROVE IT.
815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite Railway Station).
OWL
CUT RATE
Consulting and
Ip
<0
)RUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
!THE CELEBRATED EUCIIASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, -81.; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REIN VIGORA TOR.
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood, and brain tonic that tnedicalsoiencecan pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, kc. , &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting front dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most Wonderful me'dicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion —Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering- people as Dr. Clarkson's
Re nvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases, bright’s diV-ase is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
vigorator and destroy the earliest germs < t th- maUuy
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder ai*-'. kiCruv
affections has proved a wonderful success, a* on- te*-s.
monials attest. The slightest irritation of
may poison the blood and charge it with urk. &,*<:. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congeat.oii, giddiness
lassitude. See., if not taken in time, • takens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way Blight’s Disease and
kindred trouble]
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sicn of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by thp Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
Price—One bottle, 7s6d ; three bottles, 20s,
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea.
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
o
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST PREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors. —By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charmsof the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
E .ectro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the pa°t trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured.”
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt '. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life I
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
So
-M—9x~. Hughes’s Jb'itsepilep. •
This Celebrated: RKMKD \ FOIt ETMf,KPSY AND FITS has proved to he one of the wonders of the ave
successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the hi chest praise of ail who ha*e seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pyramid. Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CORING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinat. <>ac-ter of
INWA RD or OITTYV A liD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. 6d. per l>ox or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address s
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Country Tri»l Order respectfully Solicited..


earne’
THE FAMOUS REMEiDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allay in" irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
M
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,-I aw writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago 1 began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
bad been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASK.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as! cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort..
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Tow n, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Via.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure; Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
ohitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old,- also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trenfc,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I hid sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and 1
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank mv son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since wruieii bj r the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llemvellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extraot runs as follows r—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than 1 have for years. 1
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was attain successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He fells me this
week he can make nothin)? out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. 1 have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance. •
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte hasheen
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much- The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday 1
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did no) rpquire any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.-
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
** Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
, most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
>e removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
descriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
mt, I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
md difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
he fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —1 remain, Sir,
,'ours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
"Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.— Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
8n»dl bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
1 remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethauga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“Mr. W. O. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which 1 suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period 1 was scarcely ever free front
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressingthat for nights in succession 1 had to sit up.
1 write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in ntv ease every other treatment had failed. For a .year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicipe 1 was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and 1 steadily improved as 1 continued the treatment,
until 1 became, as 1 am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Astlima.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASK,
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Oharleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, 1 was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine 1 quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slight est return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: —“ I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO
EXCEPTION
TO THIS RULE.
w.
Small Size, 2s
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. ForwaM by Port to any AM™, wh™ obtoinM
Locally.
LADIES !
—— '"ur Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Koyal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
New South Wales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply House f
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO
THE QUEEN.
Ask for
Wbi&ky a t)d
‘Scb^cppc’
SCHWEPPES
Ask for
Brafydy ai)d
‘S<;l)W€pp€
SO PA WATER, &c-
ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
SUPPLIED TO
SSSiEXioXtiMo: C3o. of* iLustra-lia
1 (LIMITED),
DA.PTO (T .nice Xllawarra), near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
• • • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OB’
FINE SILVER.
■ «• •. - *
I
Hga|gjaj
Pop
PS
■■■
-kit
fH
m
M
m
m
tfa&j.
■£i&
■
ws*
>‘V
m
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD Is not only highly nutritions,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER'S FOOD I$ told In Tint by Chomloto, bo., ovorymhoro.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.*
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
, AND
THE AGED.


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
IS
BEFORE ALL.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk qtripe
Mattalasse and other » Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOT7NTCASTLE 8s SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATH ONAGER
...0n...
Mr. Fraijk ScQior,
Of 216 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
The Enormous Success of Khakis !
THE NEW IMPERIAL WAR LOAN
Oversubscribed twenty times is nothing to the success of
KHAKI BLEND TEA
AND TUB
CONTINGENT CANTEENS.
These are oversold in every town in N.S.W. Orders are
waiting on every hand. We are working overtime to keep
pace with the UNPRECEDENTED DEMAND, and ask
the indulgence of customers for slight delays.
Granuma and Billy Tea
Still to the front, like true Australians.
JAMES INCUS & GO. LIMITED,
MERCHANTS, MILLERS, AND MANUFACTURERS,
Sydney, Brisbane and Hobart.
Important Anno-uncemcnt to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sylney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pieturer,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
(3T“ Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
I
mm
c
SKILFULLY FITTED SPECTACLES.
All Sights. All Prices. Send for Sight Tester, “Free.”
Field and Opera Glasses, Telescopes, Microscopes, Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers, Hydrometers, Levels, Compasses, Rain Gauge*, Wind-
Gauges, Ear Trumpets. Prescription Orders skilfully fitted. SIGHT TESTED FREE.
Geo. C. Pen boss, 119 Pitt-street
(between Herald \
and G.P.O. /J
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Poor ignorant Boers. They ask help
from the God of the Jews !
“ Of course, you will begin your article—
‘ Much as we deplore the Raid,’ ” said Mr. Rhodes,
with a twinkle, to a recent Sydney press-inter-
viewer (E. News). The history of the whole
South African business lay in that twinkle!
George Turner’s excited promise that
every Victorian who voted at the Federation-poll
would receive an ornamental certificate, or pipe-
light, by way of commemoration is likely to be a
lost bathos. after all. It was Turner’s one attempt
to deviate into the flowery paths of poetry, and he
gambolled there about as cheerfully as a stout
elephant Premier M‘Lean has stopped the
dismal proceeding on account of the expense
(stated as £2300 or over), and it will probably
remain stopped. At least there are loud hopes to
fiiat effect.
HER TROUBLE.
FREDDIE: “But your new blouse doesn’t go with
the color of your hair.”
FREDA: " Oh, that’s nothing; I'm tired of yellow
hair, anyhow.”
Et tu Brute ! CaDled that, speaking at
the Savage Club, Mr. C. C. Kingston said Aus-
tralia would give her last shilling to the Mother-
land. Extravagant promises have often been
made at the somewhat irresponsible Savage Club
—generally late at night.
What do the cable people take us for
when they endeavor to convey the impression
that all Gape Colony is yelling out for Britain to
annex the Boer Republics ? Australia knows
perfectly well that Cape Colony has in power an
Afrikander Bond Ministry. And that Ministry Un-
doubtedly represents the majority of the votqrs.
Question for the clergy, who can always
supply a reason for any national trouble : Has the
bubonic plague been sent to Australia by Heaven
as punishment of the country’s action in taking
part in a wicked war, forced upon the British
nation by the machinations of unscrupulous
avarice? Now, gentlemen, don’t all speak at
once.
The latest movement of the Chillagoe
Railway Cos. lies in the direction of extending its
private enterprise line from Mareeba via Atherton
to Mt. Garnet. The Philp Govt, has given various
indications of its pliability, and as the proposed
extension would run through scrub-land rich in
cedar, walnut, pine and beech, thence through fine
pastoral country, the chances are it would pay
splendidly. As for the State running the line and
scooping the profit—well, the State doesn’t count
just now.
After all the assurances that the unswerv-
ing loyalty of “the colonies” had awakened a
feeling of profound affection, &c., the British
Government’s apparent readiness to wreck Aus-
tralian Eederation rather than give up the right
to drag “colonial” litigants all the way to Eng-
land for a final hearing is disappointing. Appa-
rently when it comes to a matter of hard business,
contingents don’t make much difference.
Seditious statement of J. Spooner, South
African war-correspondent of Sydney E. News :—
Most of the Boer prisoners I have seen do not at all
agree with the general idea of the Boer. He is usually
well-dressed, not particularly bloodthirsty-looking, and
certainly clean. In fact, an officer who was in charge of
the prison-ship at Capetown told me that the harbor-
master was always grumbling because they used so much
water. Some of the prisoners are very well off. One
offered £30,000 as bail, but was refused, of course.
Right Hon. J. Bryce, M.P., historian and
publicist, whose judgments were so often approv-
ingly quoted during the Federal campaign
I can remember no case within the last 40 years in
which the real facts regarding a grave crisis have been so
far from adequately conveyed to the British public by the
press. Were these facts known, and their significance
grasped, a strong reaction against the views how so gener-
ally entertained could not fail to set in forthwith.
About the war, of course.
A small, perhaps, but aggressively-obtru-
sive line of re venue-waste indulged by N.S.W.
Govt.-system is the manner of advertising Govt,
notices in the Sydney dailies. The proclamation
shutting Port Jackson and opening other waters
to net-fishing, for instance, would, if commercial
principles ruled, have been amply exhibited in an
inch or two of space, but pounds upon pounds
were thrown away by smothering the useful facts
with such blasts as “ I, William, Earl Beauchamp,
Knight Commander of the Most Distinguished,”
and so on for 14 wholly useless lines of utter rot,
with a similar tag at the end. In other words,
pounds are thrown away where shillings would
give the information in better fashion.
Now is the time to test the strength of
those silken bonds. The latest proposal of the
London mint authorities is that it is advisable to
abolish the melting-houses of the Australian
mints, so that all bullion must be first sent to
London, and then returned for coining pur-
poses. This is practically equivalent to
abolishing the Australian mints altogether,
and it indicates the Imperial feeling with
regard to the long-demanded right to coin
silver. The way the Imperial Treasury
milks Australia over the coinage of silver
will be appreciated when it is considered
that, at the present price of that metal,
the minting of one million’s worth
means a profit of at least £350,000.
Australia sells a mass of its locally-
produced silver in England for a little
over £600,000, and buys it back for
£1,000,000. But this country has been
graciously permitted to coin gold thus
far, because gold coinage isn’t a paying
spec.
Aspirants to appointment in the
Hansard gallery of the Federal Parliament
have begun to move in search of testimonials.
Some representatives of provinces now with-
out a Govt. Hansard (e.g. S.A.) will try to
economise by throwing the reporting on the
press or leasing it out on terms to one or an-
other paper, but members in favor of reports
by Govt, officials are almost certain to be in
the majority. It is singular that although
Hansard, an English private printer’s name,
means in Australia a Parliamentary report by
a Govt.-paid staff, the Imperial Govt, never
had and has not such a staff of reporters. House
of Commons’ Hansard is a private printer’s
speculation.
Ex-Premier Kingston cables from London
that his return to S.A. in time to canvass the
Southern District for the Leg. Council is impos-
sible, and his only chance is therefore a manifesto.
The two sitting members are Attorney-General
Gordon and J. L. Stirling, Tory leader, and it is
the latter whom Kingston wants to defeat.
Stirling is a powerful opponent, and, if Kingston
succeeds, it will be a remarkable illustration of his
hold upon the people.
“ Australia is prepared to give her last
shilling to the motherland.”—Kingston.
S. K. Hocking, novelist and parson, was
the accepted Liberal candidate for a Cornish seat.
But, upon his taking the chairmanship of the
“ Stop-the-War ” Executive, the Jingoes of that
part began a howl; whereupon the chairman of
his committee wrote urging him to modify his
views. And then Hocking :
lam absolutely opposed to this war. I consider it a
crime. I cannot take my opinions from any constituency
or alter thfem to suit any body of electors. I believe with
John Morley, John Burns, A. It. Wallace, Sir E Glarke,
Sir W. Lawson, W. S. Caine, Leonard Courtney, Dr. Clif-
ford and thousands of others that this war is the blackest
crime of the century, engineered by a set of profligates,
and brought to a head by the Mephistopheles of all
Ministers.
While the chairman was wondering what had
struck him Hocking resigned his candidature.
THY BRIGHT SMILE HAUNTS ME STILL.
The Enquiry Clerk or press-agent to be
added to N. S. W. Agent-General’s staff in London
has had his duties thus defined :
“To guard N.S.W. interests, as far as the newspaper
press is concerned, to give all information possible re-
garding the resources of the province to the British press,
and to obtain as much recognition from the newspapers
as possible.”
The definition is Statist Coghlan’s and has been
adopted by Premier Lyne whose late-it promise is
that he will appoint a suitable person in England to
the post. Naturally pressure has been applied to
the Premier to appoint to the duty one of several
present Sydney candidates, but he fears that a
man fresh from Australia would not influence the
English press so immediately as a competent man
sometime resident in London. James Bon wick’s
name has received favor and were he younger and
more recently from Australia he would probably
be invited to take the post.
WHAT WONDER SHE SMILED!
"Oh, I say, Cholly, that pretty girt on the sofa is
smiling at us. Why don’t you introduce me,
and we’ll sit beside her? ”
“ Well, there’s scarcely room for one thing, and she
can’t make room for another thing! ”
The Westralian Separatists propose to call
the new province “ Auralia”—which is a dreadful
title to start business with.
One M.P. in a Southern province recently
found a neat method of vote-catching. Agents of
this tricky politician freely laid voters £1 to Is.
that the tricky one would not be returned,
which, as a matter of fact, was the general
opinion. The candidate’s representative
booky had to pay out a good many pounds;
but the unpopular M.P. got in again,
and the enlightened elector celebrated
his return in beer.
If the advanced jingo ever gets
his wish, and Australia agrees to
contribute handsomely towards the
maintenance of the Imperial army and
navy, it will, indirectly, be a pretty
cold day for the British exporter. Aus-
tralia has so much money to spend
every year—the value of its exports of
gold, silver, wool and sundries. It spends
a great part of it in paying interest on
external debts, mostly in England. It
spends the rest in buying goods, mostly in
England. And if it agrees to contribute
towards the maintenance of the British
army and navy, it has so much less with
which to buy English goods or to pay
English interest. Therefore it must either
be a worse customer to the English exporter
or it must pay the English investor less
interest.
“The Janissaries of the Jews" was not the
only striking thing in John Bums’ anti-war speech
in the Commons. He was talking of Chamber-
lain’s speech :
It was the language of the pothouse and the spirit of
the prize ring.
The Speaker : The expression that another hon. mem-
ber “ used the language of the pothouse” is hardly con-
sistent with the dignify of the debate.
Burns : I will withdraw “pothouse” and substitute
“ Stock Exchange.”
Roberts, M.P., who goes to S’africa with
the Bushmen’s Contingent, intends to hang on to
his seat for Gladstone, if S.A. Parliament grants
the necessary leave. Roberts holds an officer’s
commission, and the nice point arises as to
whether, through thus accepting an “office of
profit under the Crown,” his seat is not liable to
be forfeited. Legal authorities say “yes,” and the
Ass. party may move in the matter, for Roberts
poses as a democrat.
N.S.W. Labor and Socialistic orators who
travelled miles of platform to back up Dibbs,
M'Laurin, Want & Cos. in an attempt to slaughter
the Commonwealth Bill have now reason to fore-
swear parochial sack. The cable forwarded to
England the other day by the three hard-mouthed
Antis prayed that appeal to the Privy Council
may be continued, and represented that the cable-
senders are the mouthpiece of 82,000 voters. If
there was one section of the Commonwealth Bill
that Laborists and Socialists approved more than
another it was that one setting up a local High
Court of Appeal for the Federation ; and to be
appropriated by the grotesquely-Jingo M’Laurin-
Dibbs-Want party as portion of the 82,000 who
will wear political weeds unless the venerable
Privy Council is preserved in its integrity for
their use should teach them to choose better com-
pany next time. For this occasion they should
cable the fact that they are wrongly included in
the 82,000, and that the one wish of their lives is
to live under their own Australian-interpreted
laws. Else they have been, and are, tools.
Writes a Bulletin correspondent from 'the
spot: —
At last one N.S.W. country audience has had a chance
of expressing an opinion upon the war and Australia’s
share in it, uncomplicated by extraneous Absent-Minded
Beggary and enthusiasm about a flag. The true inward-
ness of that Grenfell gathering that presented the “ pro-
Boer ” Holman with a purse of sovereigns wants a good
deal of unfolding yet. For Grenfell is the place where a
great “ outburst of patriotism” was reported some weeks
ago —said outburst consisting of the howling of the chorus
of “ Sons of the Sea ” by about 30 youngsters, and where
the Jingo crowd have muttered for months of the hooting
and dead cats that awaited their errant and eloquent
member on his first appearance. But the Jingo crowd in
Grenfell consists principally of certain bank-clerks and the
local correspondents of the four Sydney dailies, who were
reduced to a state of violent suppression at a big public
meeting. That meeting -was one of the biggest Grenfell
had ever seen (far bigger than one held in the same hall
to hear Mines-Minister Fegan three days before), and the
most orderly and most enthusiastic Grenfell had ever
seen. Holman spoke somewhat laboredly, and seemed
weighted down with an undue need of verifying every-
thing he said by reference to some outside authority. He
quoted a good deal from the English Hansard, and in-
flicted a long historical resume of the facts leading up to
the war upon his hearers. It was not an emotional
effort, and suggested, to some extent, the methods of a
man engaged with great earnestness in proving that
the angles of an equilateral triangle were equal.
But every word of it went home. Gold-miners are tha
least affected by the ordinary hogwash of politics of any
section of the population, and a Grenfell meeting consists
mainly of gold-miners—and of gold-miners of the oldest
and the best type. The bulk of them had never heard tha
case against the war given with anything like fulness, and
Holman’s striking exposition of the contrast between the
facts as they occurred and were discussed in the House of
Commons and the facts as represented in the Australian
press practically captured the whole meeting.
To give her final bob to Bull
Australia is willing,
But, Charley, when we’ve paid in full
The tidy lot of splosh we owe
For this and that to Bull and Co.
Where will she get the shilling ?
Of course, on second thoughts, we own
She’ll float another British loan !
THE LIARS.
FD
Melb.
ARISTIPPER.


The
LEGION of
HONOUR
is the Highest distinction that can be conferred on a Pianoforte
Manufacturer. This great honour has been awarded to the old and
progressive English firm of
JOHN
BRiNSNIEAD
& SONS
ESTABLISHED IN THE REIQN OF
KIND WILLIAM THE FOURTH.
BRIIMSMEAD PIANOS
BRIISBSMEAD PIANOS
BRINSMEAD PIANOS
for grand tone quality
for best construction
for great durability
PALING’S
AGENTS
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSIC
VIOLINS
CORNETS * BANJOS * GUITARS
And every other known Musical Instrument,
MANDOLINS
ACCORDEONS
CONCERTINAS
ALL GOODS AT
LOWEST PRICES
N
MN
CALL OR WRITE
FOR CATALOGUES
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 George Street, SYDNEY. ■*- Brisbane and Newcastle.
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
0
0
National
Cash Register
. . . WILL . . .
Save and Make for You
in a Few Years.
You don’t understand why 1
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. ITS MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
Rational Cash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
'.V. aaggagM—■BMP
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Jlti interesting Book for nothing.
Just issued. An interesting Booklet giving an
account of Arthur Richardson's Remarkable Cycle
Ride around Australia.
YOU ARE INVITED TO SEND FOR A COPY.
Which will be posted gratis upon receipt of application.
a
i
wvt
A#
£
is
vv-
The Story of -=t=a
A REMARKABLE RIDE
By A- RICHARDSON, Perth.
If
you
want
Tyres
that are capable of withstanding hard riding on
rough roads, then ride
s
T I F
L
X
E
MN
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
The Dunlap Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch ,N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
Lowest interest.
EAST TERMS.
WE
M
NM
N
MN
M
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
zcg-.s/w.
IDont deplete o.s|. C«-, [M*
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., *7/±
‘ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City Mutual [if®
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.-S*
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. oj London.
(Fidelity Guarantees. Finp. Luabhty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. llassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Crapy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
LoQdoi) & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New lr°a u nch: Vales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
directors— John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
file Qank of north Queensland
LI M IT El).
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... *,700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... *350,000
CITY MUTUAL EIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. • LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Sett ements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 165 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon J F Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765- assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,143,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
ravelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, April 14, 1 p.m.
-Gabo, Tuesday, April 17, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., April 21, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, April 17, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, April 17, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, April 14, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., April 17, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 21, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, April 14, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 21, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT i 1
GERALDTON t
CAIRNS. &e. (
fLass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets inti ivhangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwrailh, M'Eaoharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jb« Trustees, CxectitorS,
AND
AgSOCV Cpfi?pa!)y Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
ON and AFTER TUESDAY, 17th APRIL
instant the Business of the Sydney Branch
of the above Bank will be conducted in the
Equitable By aiding,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12/Wi £3.163,938 10 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Emhling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thorn ley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nn!l, R. M. M‘Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
Xiondon OJjice: 1 litshopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW COUTH WALES!
BYDNKY - 27 » GROUGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. It. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of .Yew South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald .James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great' Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
D . S .MAI R
SP
m
WATCH ING SPECIALSST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2 6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
T3EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. UST Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address : 684 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and, Company, Ltd.,
_ AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
3158 'May
4000 June
3158 July
Leave
Auckland,
9 May 14
6 June 11
4 July 9'
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 111 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
.— —■
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls # Sappl)irsS
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
n. B€NJAMIN aod SONS,
285 a Little Collins St--. Melbourne-
NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION
A RECORD—We sold
5000 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14kt. GOLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Payment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED, FULL-
s
[ -J
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT, SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong; and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
Gent’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect little gem:
They give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money |is
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
V
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AND FROM—
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports v
K 1
S.S. Rocklon, Saturday,
April 14.
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Tuesday, April 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Saturday,
April 14.
lie st <£• Cheapest, It ante to Goldfields,
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INJ. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOVVN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passetit/er A ceoinmodution, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE - A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE -B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, Parker g go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOKAKT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cirrent Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. iTns I Commander. iLeave Sydney.
•GUTHRIE ... 2500. W. G. M'Arthur ... April 21
AUSTRALIAN ... 8000 P. T. Helms ... April 28
EASTERN ... 3600 W. Ellis June 16
AIRLIE ... '2500 St. John George 'July 12
* Not calling at Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitl.-street., Sydney.
Hliluiraith,|l) < Eacharn& C°-
PROP. LiD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Prcpr eta y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
j Messageries Maritimes
! SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract »iththe
I French Government., calling at MKLIJOUBNK, APE-
j LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
j PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
I etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS ‘ (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
| steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
fi Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


“S.S.” Have kept an eye on the news-
paper returns of miners killed in Victoria since
■ ‘ our boys ” began to take a band in the South
African worry, and find that three or four Vic.
miners perish in the face to one Vic. soldier who
falls at the front; but there is no fund for the
“absent-minded beggar” who takes his life in his
hand in shaft, and winze, and stope, and no
pension for his widow and the other little things
he leaves behind him; neither does the mob
assemble to yell when he goes down the shaft, nor
the papers print columns about his heroism and
his manly beauty and the rest. “Let me like a
soldier fall!” You bet—it pays best that way.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
The so-called Anglo-Saxon isn’t violently
conversational —not even the Anglo-Saxon woman.
When two of her meet in a shop they generally
say inquiringly, “Shopping?” Or if they meet
in a ferry-boat half-way across the harbor they
inquire, “GJ-oing across?” just to make dead
sure that the other woman isn’t going overboard.
And it’s ten to one that when two women meet in
Charon’s ferry-boat, both of them will say in-
quiringly, “Dead?”
Captive balloons are the latest thing in
Paris as plague-preventives when dealing with
clothes. When the French washerlady has done
her little lot, she attaches the flapping garments
to the above vehicle, and up they go to dry in the
clean, frosty air where the dust from the next-
door neighbor’s rubbish-hole and the casual flea
from the dubious rat may not penetrate. Now
that every element is tainted—the fish in the sea,
the rat on the earth, and the flea just above it,
one must get as near to Heaven as possible to
avoid slipping in altogether.
Missing Friends.
Henry Godfrey and william Godfrey, sons of
CHARLES GODFREY, late of the city of Birming-
ham, England, Licensed Victualler, deceased, if alive,
should at once communicate with the undersubscribed,
when each of them will be informed of the extent of his
interest under his father’s will. If either or both of the
abovenamed are dead, any information relating to the
time and place of death, and the whereabouts of surviving
children (if any), should be communicated without delay
to JOHNSONS BARCLAY & LOWE,
36 Waterloo-street, Birmingham, England, Solicitors of
the Executors of the said Charles Godfrey, deceased.
A Chinaman gives, in a Chinese paper, his
impfessions of Maorilanders: —
They live months without eating a mouthful of rice ;
they eat bullocks and sheep in enormous quantities with
knives and prongs. They never enjoy themselves by
sitting on their ancestors’ graves, but jump around and
kick balls as if paid for it, and they have no dignity, for
they may be found walking with women.
For what you are about to re-
CEIVE, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
EVIDENCE THAT CONVINCES.
Clements Tonic is a Scientific Specific.
A TEUTSFUL EABEATIVE.
Hope and Succour for the Afflicted.
The case of
MRS. MARIA HAPGOOD.
Reported Jor the “ Marrickville Express.”)
The reporter had no difficulty in finding
ne residence of Mrs. Maria Hapgood at
' o. 60 Shepherd-street, Marrickville, as it
s not far from the Enmore tram terminus,
this lady, a well-known resident, was
<>usily attending her well-kept flower
garden, in which she takes a great pride,
in answer to an enquiry as to whether she
had not greatly benefited by the use of
Clements Tonic, and would she object to
giving her experience, Mrs. Hapgood
replied :
“Certainly not; I owe so much to that
remedy for all the good it has done to me
and mine that the least I can do is to give
my testimony, and I recommend it ia every
case that I think suitable. ”
“ How did your own sickness arise ?”
“I do not know the cause, but three
years ago I began to experience a number
of distressing symptoms. My digestion was
seriously impaired, so that my food eauaed
me pain and distress At night I could not
rest, my sleep was broken and irregular.
Then 1 had a terrible pain in the back
across the shoulders, and I was nearly
crippled by neuralgic pains in my hands
and wrists, so that it was with the greatest
difficulty I coma struggle through my
housework. But there was worse to come.
There was a painful enlargement in my
throat, and the back of my tongue became
so swollen as neatly to fill my mouth, and
joined to these troubles I had great depres-
sion of spirits. I did not seem to care how
things went. I went to a friend, a chemist,
and he recommended me a much puffed and
advertised remedy, also a mixture of his
own compounding ; but though I took them
both as directed neither did me any good.
My husband insisted on my going'to our
family doctor, of whom he had a very high
opinion.”
“ What did the doctor say ?”
“'He gave n e no hope or encouragement,
and though I told him all my symptoms, he
did not tell me his opinion of my case or
what was the matter with me Of course
he gave me a prescription, which I had
made up and took without any benefit
whatever. Then it chanced that I came
across one of the pamphlets of Clements
Tonic, and although 1 could see no case
there just like my own, it appeared to me
Clements Tonic would he likely to do me
good. When I oalled on a chemist to
purchase a bottle of Clements Tonic he
strongly advised me not to do so, and urged
me to take what he called ‘ my own tonic. ’
I knew better, he only wanted the extra
fiofit; I had been had that way before, so
was resolute in my determination and
insisted on having the genuine article—
Clements Tonic.”
“ And what happened ?”
“To my great surprise, I derived great
benefit at once ; and I may say that, practi-
cally, that one bottle cured me. All my
distressing symptoms disappeared as though
by magic, the pains in the back, across the
shoulders, the indigestion, the want of
appetite, the neuralgia in the hands and
wrists, even the painful swelling in the
throat and mouth Mere subdued, and I
knew at once I had found a master for my
trouble. I had been worn, weak, and
miserable ; but now my good spirits and
energy returned; it was the most sudden
transformation 1 ever heard of. I said one
bottle cured me, but let me add I have
taken more than that. This sickness I tell
you of was three years ago, and I find by
keeping a bottle of Clements Tonic in the
house and taking a dose at. the least sign of
my ailment returning it is effectually warded
off and my naturally good health preserved
I noticed when I was sick that my distress-
ing symptoms were largely aggravated by
the hot weather, and it is now during hot
spells that I keep on my guard and protect
my health as I have told you, and you may
judge how my health is restored. You
have seen my brother and heard his case, so
you can understand the faith I have in
Clements Tonic, and why I have persistently
recommended it to my friends.”
"And you are wining that this testimony
should be made public !'
“If it is of value do wi.atyou think, best,
you have my full permission; lam only too
pleased to assist any sufferer oit the road to
recovery and point out the genuine remedy
against the host of quack medicines new «e
freely advertised. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Maria Hapgood, of 60 Shvpherd-streei, Marrick-
ville, in the Colony of Hew South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three folios
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way ; and I make this solemn
declaration voluntarily, and without receiving
any payment, conscientiously believing the wane
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the reign of
her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the mor»
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and
made in the various departments of the Government
of New South Waist, and to substitute Declarations
in lieu thereof, i*i the suppression of voluntar r
and extra-judicial Oaths aa^hTtlffdavits.’*
Declared at Marrickville this 15th day o r ''-j
1899, before me,
JOSHUA J. FARR, J.F ,
Cora Lvnn.” Marrickvule.
SILVER Hall-Marked MATCH-
BOX, 9s. 6d.
Other Shapes, from 4s. 6d.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY,
Directly opposite . .
Civil Service Stores.
> -
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
of tbc iDQSt Up-to-datg PgScriptiop —^
_So6VgpirS of tl>g Sotitb Africap War.
CHASED SILVER PIN TEA'S,
• 6s. 6d.
Large Variety of other Shapes,
from 7s. 6d.
GENTS’. SIGNET RING,
par excellence, 9-carat,
from 19s. to 255. ; 15-
carat, 325. 6d. to 40s.
With crest or monogram,
2s. 6d. extra.
tfc®EF(tS
80
%
SWORD OF VICTORY BEOOCH. The Sword fits
into a sheath adorned with three Amethyst or
Garnet Hearts. 15s.
LORD KITCHENER.
SILVER PHOTO. FRAMES, with photos, of
leading- Generals now at the front. Price 4s. 6d.
Birds set with Beal Pearls, Amethyst or Topaz
centre, 9-carat, 18s 6d.; 16-carat, 325. Gd.
SOVEREIGN PURSE, to
hold 5 sovs., Silver,
plain, 7s. 6d.; engraved
Bs. 6d. Rolled Gold,
to wear 20 years, 15s.
9-carat Gold, 40s.
ss
mm
SILVER-MOUNTED LEATHER PURSES, latest shapes and
sizes, Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., etc.
THE VERY LATEST GEM-SET GOLD CABLE BANGLE,
355., 405., 505., etc
SILVER-MOUNTED SNAKE SCENT BOTTLES’
11s. 6d., 13s. 6d., 215., 275. 6d.
Other styles from ss.
SILVER BUTTON-HOOK and SHOE-
HORN, in Leather Case: Our Special
Line. 9s. 6d.
WATCH BRACELET, Gun Metal, 375. 6d. and 40s. ; Gold, £4.
JjUCKY medallion
SOUVENIR OF SYDNEY
Lady Macquarie’s Chair
Sydney Post Office
Sydney Town Hall.
Enamelled, 2s. 6d.


THE ONE BICYCLE
Which has for many years continued
to largely increase in popularity, in
spite of competition in pnce, is
The ||)assey'||arris Bicycle.
There must be a good reason for this.
The Victorian and Queensland Govts,
discovered it befo e adopting it for
their postal services. They have
always been worth their price. This
year more so than ever.
N.S.W. Branch-
-385 CEORCE STRET, opp. strand Aroads.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. has reprinted
in booklet form an account of Richardson’s ride around
Australia. In this booklet a cyclist can find a good excuse
for going anywhere on any sort of day provided that the
bicycle he rides is fitted with Dunlop tyres.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
iQfkiCQza CoOgb-
An invention which should commend i tself
to householders, the Primus kerosene bath-heater,
which instantly heats a flow of water up to HOdeg.,
is being introduced by Messrs. Brandt Bros., lamp
manufacturers, Sydney and Melbourne, price 755.,
also a primus room-warmer, 15s. They announce
they can alter any buggy lamp to burn acetylene
gas without interfering with candle. Their newly
patented portable acetylene lamp with two burners
for inside and outside, price 605., is to be exhibited
at the Imperial Institute, London.*
Premier Seddon intends pulverising J. G.
Grey, chief of M.L. Parliamentary Hansard
staff, when Parliament opens. “King Dick”
wrote Grey asking if he was the author of a
caustic article in New York Times re the despatch
of “colonial” troops to the.war. Grey owned
up, and gave vent to some exasperating senti-
ments. He has made a special study of the
Transvaal question, he says, and is of opinion
that the war can only be looked upon as one of the
most unrighteous in history; that the British
nation has been deluded by a band of grasping
boodlers, and that unscrupulous greed lies at the
bottom of the tragedy now being enacted. Grey
goes on to say that he has viewed with sorrow.and
alarm the progress of the Jingo wave which has
inundated Maoriland, and the maddened rush of
much-needed population from its shores. Hi
thought he was living in a free country, and per
tinently asks the Premier if it is possible that he
has been laboring under a delusion, and that he
is now to realise that freedom of thought and
speech in M.L. is nothing but a sham. Seddon
fairly gasped on receipt of this mutinous missive,
and wrathfully declared that he’d ask Parliament
to settle once and for all the extent of a public
servant’s liberty to utter sentiments opposed to
those of the majority.
XX X X X X. XL X. XL XL, XL X X X X
NM
Sied Sail’d Quality 6preeket.
Found oi\ly on
1900 Model
Red Birds.
Another feature in improved bicycle construction, first introduced by us,
is the Cycloidal Sprocket. Notice the way the chain fits! No friction.
No wear! No lost power! Compare it with other block and roller chains
after a few months’ use, and while you will find one worn and useless, the Red Bird gear will be in
perfect order.
Our chain is made with a tempered pin, nickel steel plates and blocks. We make them ourselves,
as no part of our cycles is trusted to parts makers. For this reason Red Birds rim easier and last
longer. They’re right because they’re built right at the start.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed by
Cbe Goold Bicycle Co., Ctd
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents - everywhere.
Australasian Branches
64 King-ST., Sydney, Hlad Office in Australia.
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st. , Wellington N.Z.
Pricks :
£lO, £l5, £2O, and £3O.
“ We will take your old mount la exchange
at a liberal valuation.”
THE
GrOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD.
Saleroom—64 KING STREET, BYDNEY,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) Autumn meeting (Satur-
day) sustained its reputation as a paradise for Mo. Not
one first favorite got home. Ball was set rolling by alO
to 1 (and any amount of it) chance—Autocrat—landing
the Park Stakes. Jenny Moore (Clarendon Handicap) and
Portland Light (Nursery Handicap) followed, with the
same odds plentiful. Old Wyalong secured the big money
(Autumn Handicap) and Jenny Moore the Welter, start-
ing at s’s—there being two better favorites in each
instance. Manganese and Yellow and Black (first and
second in Rosehill Cup last week) were heavily supported
for the final event, but neither- got a “ shop.” Long
journey from the “’Oxboro” to Sydney supplies ample
opportunity for backers to chew the cud over the rotten-
ness of their end of the game. On this occasion, the
stony faces of professional punters relaxed thoroughly.
Ikey was extra jubilant—great was the harvest.
• * * *
“ Tout ” : Backing ’em is a great game. Owner
of Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap winner (Wyalong),
Saturday, had a sov. on his own nag and two" on the
second—Surbiton.
* * * ♦
“ Gun ”: For the first time for perhaps 30 years
“ Jack ” Mayo’s colors were not seen in Hawkesbury
Handicap last Saturday. The crack Maitland (N.S.W.)
trainer has appropriated so many of these events that he
was popularly credited with having a mortgage over them.
* » * «
“Filbert”: The all-prevailing subject is Don-
caster Handicap. Auld Lang Syne can be well recom-
mended on her Spring running at Randwick, her recent
third when only half fit in Rosehill Shorts Handicap, and
her subsequent good track work. Of other events on
opening day (Saturday) of A.J.C. Autumn meeting, First
Hurdle Race may be won by The Deemster, a Queens-
lander, who jumps in fine style, and is fairly fast; or
Rackstraw, a country performer both over hurdles and
on the flat. For the Autumn Stakes, w.f.a., Paul Pry looks
a good thing, whilst Hautesse should about win Two Year
Old Maiden Stakes. The Leger can only be looked upon
as a match between Parthian and Merriwee (if he starts)
and will settle the moot question as to former’s
supremacy. Without questioning the excellence of
last V.R.O. Derby and Melb. Cup winner, on
recent performances, present looks, and track work, ,
Parthian should once again prove Merriwee’s master.
Concluding race on first day (Highweight Handicap) has
an entry of over 50, of whom a likely trio are My Queen,
Duke.of Kent and Hall Caine. One of the important
events at Easter Monday’s racing at Randwick will be
Champagne Stakes, for tWo-year-olds. Malster’s recent
V.R.C. Hopeful Stakes and Ascot Vale Stakes victories
entitle him to most respect, whilst Haulette would appear
on paper to be next best. Sydney Cup is run over a
stayer’s course, and, therefore, hardest to beat, all things
considered, will be Vocalist, who possesses good stamina
and speed, as shown by his easy win of Tattersall’s Club
Cup. Most danger may be apprehended from Hi Hi, who
has improved with age, and is favored by a light weight.
At a recent Sydney suburban race-meet hap-
pened something but seldom to be seen. For the last
race so many successive scratchings took place that
finally but two competitors were left. In the ordinary
course of things this would be a matter of Congratulation
amongst the metallicians. But in this case it seems to
have evoked the ire of some of them. One representative
was seen to jump the fence, enclosing the flat, and make
his way towards the grand stand. Not many minutes
passed ere it was posted : • All bets declared off.
The reason for this extraordinary proceeding was said to
be, that bookie had laid the two horses, which were left in,
for longer odds than he would have done had he known
that there would be only two runners. Poor soul ! The
public runs every kind.of risk of scratchings and other
combinations not to be mentioned here. But Mr. Booky
has only to go to the stewards if anything is unpleasant,
and he will meet with obsequious attention to his wishes.
A novel and admirable solution of difficulties, but
scarcely reassuring to the public. Shades of Lillie
Bridge 1
* * * ♦
In a prominent Sydney paper are the following
lines to be read under the heading of “ Late Sporting
“ Unless sweep inducements alter owners’ intentions, a
number of Doncaster candidates, entered in Rosehill Cup,
will not sport silk at Rosehill.” How considerate of the
paper to take such interest in the weal of the public !
And how grateful the public ought to be towards its
quasi-benefactor 1 It is, of course, only to the advantage
of everybody that the paper draws attention to the fact
that you will not have any show for your sweep-
ticket if you do not pay a good, big lump sum to
the horse-owner. The great- maritime powers paid in by-
gone days a tribute to the Moors to escape
being robbed. They were unable to get at them a.;d fol-
low them into their holes, so they did the next best thing
and paid tribute. The same thing exactly goes on to-day.
For want of unanimity among the public it has been im-
possible to reach the robbers in their fastnesses, so the
public, as a rule, does as the Poyvers—it prefers being
robbed in part to being robbed of all. And to keep this
last possibility up before the public eye, what is more
handy than the Press? “The Press, gentlemen, the
Press 1 ”
* • • *
. The death of the bluff and good-natured Mr.
John Hourigan, at the age of 75, removes a widely-popular
Sydney turf figure. Mr. Hourigan, though well off, did
not own horses, but there was no better-known racecourse-
habitue, and he followed the game from pure love of
sport. His obsequies were numerously attended.
• m * *
“ Snablats ” is the latest and vilest .addition
that silly craze in turf-nomenclature of bestowing upon
nags the names of their sires spelt backwards. This in-
fliction figured in the list of runners at Moree (N.S.W.)
R.C. races recently.
* * • »
Re the death of Sydney trainer “Bill” Kelso,
and his sack-racing capabilities. Said that Larry Foley
once bet Kelso that he couldn’t, while enveloped in a bag,
get fromsomewhere near Centennial Park gates, Woollahra,
to the Cliff Hotel, Bondi, inside half an hour, and Kelso
won easily.
* * * *
A good spec, would be to go halves with Mrs.
Fraser in Tatt.’s big-sweep tickets. Her luck is so certain
that anybody should be glad to trade with her—Mrs.
Fraser to pay nothing ; the prizes to be halved. N.B.—
No shooting accidents to be involved.
* * * *
Two Northern mares just now in Sydney are
real top-notchers when the word is given. Both won in
their own province with “ impossible ” weights.
They are remarking in Melbourne that patriot-
ism is the last refuge of a distinguished bookmaker.
And he worked the oracle, too.
« * * m
Winner of Dunedin (M.L.) Cup, Mr. Gordon’s
colt Advance, only had three to settle, Saint Ilario being
the most formidable. Punters went bald-headed for Ad-
vance, as out of £l9Ol toted £1044 went on him. He
carried 8.7, and cut the mile and a half in 2.37. Advance
and Screw Gun will make Sea Horse move in the Century
Stakes at Auckland R.C. meeting this month. All three
are same age.
* * * *
Although the horse-sweep is not tolerated in
moral M.L.—thousands a year are thus drafted to Tatt. —
the popular art-union gamble swings along merrily and
unhindered. One recent prize-winner was indignant on
receiving as a “ work of art ” a quaint pencil-drawing of
a wheelbarrow. He was a new-chum, and was much
mollified when the sec., after pointing out that they had
to formally comply with the precious Law, handed him
40 golden representations of St. George and the Dragon.
* * * *
When, as often happens, there is an absolute
“moral” in a two-horse race, and people don’t invest,
knowing that they won’t get their money back if they
support the foregone conclusion, it is comparatively easy
for an owner to strike a big cheque. A cute turfite
operated at a M.L. meet a while back. He distributed
£IOO among books all over the country, and sent his
certainty to the post. No investments on machine ; but
just before flag-fall he rushed in and planked £1 on his
own neddy and £6 on the no-chancer. Result (after
deducting tote’s 10 per cent.), £6 6s. div., though proper
price was about 20 to lon Outside pencillers paid
according to tote, and he netted £630.
* * * *
A versatile skewbald, competing at a recent
minor (M.L.) meet, unexpectedly sneaked home in an
“all-over-bar-shouting” hurdle event, and then went out
and finished in front of a surprised crowd of riders in a
trot.
* * * »
After his Wanganui victories, M.L. colt Ad-
vance was taken to Dunedin, where a “gift” awaited
him, weights for Dunedin Cup (1.) miles) being very un-
wisely declared before Wanganui meeting. With 8.7 he
made “no race ” of it, running the distance in 2.37. Only
three ventured to start against him, and Stead’s maiden
colt, St. Ilario (St. Leger—Cissy) finished second. Ad-
vance’s next appearance will be' at Easter in Auckland
Century Stakes of lOOOsovs., w.f.a., 1£ miles, in which he
■will, through penalties, have to carry 9st. A thousand
pities that Seahorse is wrong, for a “go” between these
two would have been worth a pilgrimage to witness.
* * * *
“Old Timer” : Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) has
a novice tourney for 8-stoners, and Metrop. A.O. one with
an Bst. 71b. limit, in progress just now. Entrants totalled
120—most of them after the “ crown ” given to beaten
men in the initial round ; this to induce a big entry.
Referee Dan M’Donald, who officiates at both places
(writer wouldn’t mind wagering that each “club” is
being run in the same interests), is a ’cute man and has
dropped to the “ green ’uns* ” little game, with the result
that they are being disqualified wholesale—“ no fight, no
money 1 ” says the official named ; hence “crowns” won’t
have to be paid out quite so freely as hitherto. Fre-
quency of 8 and 8.7 competitions, as Well as the fact that
they always fill well, would indicate to the uninformed
mind that the pug. instinct is more pronounced in would-
be bruisers of that poundage, but this is wrong ; truth is
that the limit is elastic, and, judging by the appearance
of some of the competitors, can be stretched a couple of
stone Consequently middle and lightweights rose up
under the impression that the “ feathers ” and “ ban-
tams” would be cold-pie for them ; this class of stoush-
vendor wouldn’t dream of shaping up to men in his own
weight section. Saw that game little 8-stoner, “ Warri-
gal ” —a clean-built, good-looking Bananaland aboriginal
—give away close on 201 b. as well as a lot in reach and
height, and make things very hot right through five fast,
slogging rounds last Saturday night, but weight won the
day—“ Warrigal ” had to cry ago at last. The darkey
has figured in at least half-a-dozen of these affairs, and
has always been similarly handicapped. Under existent
conditions he and a lot more like him promise to remain
novices till they qualify for old-age pensions.
* * • *
“Old Timer”: Saw Cribb-Broughton farce at
Sydney Gaiety Theatre Monday night. Seldom was so
sorry an exhibition seen in a ring before. Broughton—
lathy, slabby, weedy—had no hope from the word go ; he
was powerless to punish in the slightest degree ; he had a
wild, woebegone look about the face, and, over a head
absolutely devoid of the faintest sign of hair, wore a black
bandage which made him look more like a hospital con-
valescent than anything else —indeed, his condition, ere
the first round closed, indicated that another 3min. of
similar exertion would create need for an ambulance
waggon. If ever there was a case in a boxing-ring
that called for the intervention of the 5.P.0.A., it
was Broughton. Cribb bashed and banged him about
without the semblance of opposition, while.the crowd
hooted and jeered, until soon after the opening of the
second round one of Broughton’s seconds threw up the
rag. Hoots and boohoos—long and loud—came from the
600 or 600 onlookers, many of whom demanded return of
their money. It was the most disgraceful thing writer
has seen in a life-long experience, and those who brought
it about have given the present pug. boom a “black eye”
that it will take a long time to recover from. Affairs
like this should be given a wide berth by the public.
* * * *
“ Steve ” : Went to a much-boomed “ champion-
ship boxing contest ” the other night, and came awav dis-
gusted. If it was boxing, neither contestant showed
more than fifth-rate form. If it was fighting —well, a
championship was won with a teaspoonful of claret and
half a black eye, and without a single clean knock-down
in 13 Queensberry rounds. Also, the heroes had four men
apiece to rake the lather off them in the third round.
Writer didn’t know whether the affair looked more a
paper-chase, a game of dominoes, or a “ dawnce ” —with
about 60 clinches in the 13 rounds 1 The modern prize-
fighter goes to battle with as manj‘ adjuncts as a fine
lady—fans, sponges, whisky, ice, and the rest ; and it
wouldn’t surprise me to see soon added to the list smell-
ing-bottles and manicure-sets.
• • * *
Present boxing-boom has extehded to Broken
Hill (N.S.W.), where, in the days of Goddard, Owen Sulli-
van and 00., there was plenty money for good men and no
hall big enough to hold the crowd that wanted to see
them. Mat. Michie and Jack M’Kell recently had a
“ cut ” for the lightweight championship of the “ Barrier,”
and Michie won on points. Now local promoters are look-
ing for “ Starlight ” to box Queensland Archer and “ Nick”
Duggan to meet Michie. Billy Mitchell knocked out
Ooates, last week, in the second round of a match for the
bantam-weight championship.
• * * *
Sydney bruiser and ex-Pirate Club footballer
Jack Conlon (whose victories over Dan O’Connell and Jack
Gaggin, awhile back, sent his stock up rocket-like, only to
be brought down with a thud, as a result of meeting 11.4
premier Mick Dunn, and.engaging in a return match with
Wyalong (N.S.W.) Jack Gaggin), fights Victorian Joe
Cullen at Golden Gate A.C. to-night (Saturday), after a
long spell from the game. Monday next will see the Vic.
heavyweight Fred Preston and Mick Dunn come together
at Metrop. A.C., Sydney. Dunn, though giving away
nearly 3st., thinks he’ll settle the big fellow.
* * * *
“ Viator” : Stated that “ Snowy ” Sturgeon (Q.)
will be matched with Otto Cribb. “ Snowy,” in private
life is that rare bird amongst pugs.—a mild and un-
assuming youth ; but in the ring, quite another kind of
person. Fights at lOst. about, and takes care of his
health. Writer saw him win two bouts against heavy
odds.
* * * *
A boastful dark-skinned pug. fell in up south a
while ago. He used to stand on the block and bow to
and ogle all and sundry of the other sex on the off
chance; twice delivered sweeping bows and expansive
smiles to a lady relative of the chief of police. Next day
whilst Sambo was doffing his cady it accidentally struck
a small policeman who bobbed up under his aim. The
charge, assaulting the police, was withdrawn on condition
that he “ got ” before nightfall.
* • • *
Whilom Melbourne “Sewerage Champion”
Billy Edwards has been heard from. He is over in “ the
States ” and, attracted by the Sydney pug boom, promises
to he here shortly. Edwards did well in South Africa
and England, but two Yankees, “ Mysterious ” Billy-
Smith and the “ Barbadoes Demon’’—Chunky Joe Wal-
cott—broke him up. Edwards was ill-advised in flying at
such high game so soon. He tells his tale of woe : —“ I
had one referee (Frank Herald) deliberately hold me down
while he counted me out in my fight with Jim Burge in
Brooklyn ; if the money is against you your name is
‘mud’ here. A club manager got us in the ring ; then
left with all the gate-receipts. We got wind of it and re-
fused to fight; then the crowd broke loose and you should
have seen that club when they got through.
Outdoor* athletics*in N.S.W. have been going
from bad to worse as public attractions for some years.
The following suggested remedies were to have been con-
sidered at the annual meeting of the N.S.W. A.A.A. on
Wednesday night:—That the term “ Harrier” be dropped
—it is a misnomer as things are ; that the Association, as
at present constituted (excepting ’Varsity A.C., Public
Schools and Great Public Schools A.A.A.) disband and
that four clubs on an electoral basis be formed in Sydney
and suburbs ; that no other bodies but these be allowed to
affiliate. Also that provision be made for amateurs outside
the Metropolitan Clubs’ limits to come in as individuals.
The fund for sending top-notch mother-province
sprinter, Stan. Rowley (he holds the Australian champion-
ship) to compete in international supremacy events in
London and World’s Olympian Games at Paris during
July next, is swelling so well that it is more than likely
he’ll leave Melbourne for ’Oine 21st inst. Rowley is en-
gaged to meet W. Shea, G. Moir, and A. Jones (Victoria’s
three best) over 100 metres (110yds.) on 21st.
* * • *
German strong-boy Pagel, who beat Harry
Dunn at Sydney St. Patrick’s Day Sports last year, wants
to meet the Melb. Hindoo wrestler Gunga Brahm any-
where and, failing him, any other man in Australia for
£SO or £IOO a-side. Pagel is only 27 and writer knows
positively he is the strongest man in the business here-
abouts.
• • • *
Sydney bowling trouble has been temporarily
squelched till the Victorians, who are expected this week,
go home again. Then it will be revived, and, if what
some malcontents say proves correct, more coals heaped
on. Requisitionists who wanted the selection committee
bundled out of office withdrew their document, and the
other side consequently claims a climb-down. But this is
not admitted ; those who signed the paper aver that the
association officials’ unconstitutional methods of dealing
with the matter left no other action open to them.
Meanwhile the fire is only smouldering. The home team
objected to shapes well, and gives the lie to the pessimistic
section with whom the wish is alleged to be father to the
thought.
* * * •
N.S.W. Bowling Association’s championship
rink-tourney completed its second stage Saturday. There
are now eight quartettes left in, made up of —City, 2 ;
Annandale, Redfern, Ashfield, Balmain, and Waverley,
one each. City got away with first and second honors
last year, and looks like repeating the performance.
Numerically, City is about the weakest of all the clubs
affiliated, and yet in playing ability it is unequalled. It
holds all the N.S.W. premierships, and just now threatens
to hang on to them.
• * * •
Camberwell crack, Mr. Jas. Pullar, met the
M.O.C. top-notcher, Mr. R. S. Inglis, in the final of Vic.
Bowling Association’s Champion of Champions tourney,
and won by 31 to 20. The contest took place on Fitzroy
green. Mr. Pullar has put up a record for the Cabbage-
garden by winning the supremacy of the V.B.A. twice in
succession, the premiership of his own club and the
Champion of Champions competition already referred to.
* * - * *
Sydney Amateur Sailing Club hibernates for a
few months now —its season ended Saturday with a 16ft.
rating race —a scratch event. Mr. J. O. Fairfax’s Fay got
home first easily—4min. 2secs. ahead of Yankee. Bunyip
was third, 49sec. further behind.
* » • *
Sydney Sailing Club closed its season last Satur-
day with an event that was really a match between the
22-footers Effie and Plover for the Fogg-Talbot prize. In
three previous races these boats had scored equal points.
Effie conceded 2mins. and crossed the line lmin. 4secs. in
front. Plover has gathered in a heap of seconds during
the season but not one first.
* * * *
Re squabble at ’Ome between N.S.W. scullers
Towns (Hunter Rive.) and Wray (Shoalhaven). Late
English files indicate that the pair were no nearer coming
together than ever. Towns still stuck out for the Thames
course, while Wray insisted upon the Tyne. Latter has
right on his side, and explains that the fact of his sup-
porters being North countrymen prevents him giving
way. Conditions attached to the emblem of British row-
ing supremacy (the Sportsman Cup) enjoin that races
must be decided on the Thames and Tyne alternately—
the last took place on the Thames. When Perkins and
Bubear contended for the title (7th Feb., ’B7) both lived
in the South, yet the Cup trustees compelled them to
row on the Tyne to comply with the conditions. Same
thing in ’95, when Englishman Harding and Australian
Tom Sullivan met. Wray reminds Towns that on the day
(Ist May, ’9B) he (Towns) beat Barry for the English
championship, Towns promised to race on the Tyne.
Wray put up £SO as an earnest, but Towns never covered
it. “Unavoidable circumstances” caused a postpone-
ment of negotiations, and Wray “ had to go to America.”
Returning, Wray asked Towns to make his promise good,
hence the Thames or Tyne wrangle.
* * * *
S. A. Cycling League netted over £2OO from its
first meeting on Adelaide Oval on the new'track, which
is pronounced by all riders the best in Australia. How
long the revival of interest will last in S.A. is a question.
The vagaries of one or two prominent bikers have already
led to much talk of stiff riding on the last day of the
meeting.
» * * «
Crack cyclist Walne, purposes going to England
shortly, thence to Paris for the Olympian Games. He
intends making the trip entirely “on his own.” Wants
no exes., but seeks endorsement as Australia’s accredited
rep. The necessary credentials should be forthcoming,
as Walne is quite speedy enough, and no move has been
made in the direction of sending anyone else.
* * ♦ *
Macpherson, who dropped out of interprovincial
cricket five or six years back, is now playing almost as
well as ever. Playing for Mudgee recently his scores for
three successive Saturdays were 103, 90 and 74—a1l not
out —though, of course, it wasn’t against such bowling as
Noble’s, Howell’s or M'Beth’s. He was left out of big
cricket because he would get himself out through trying
to copy Gregory’s leg-stroke. If Mac. were in Sydney
now, he would be recognised as equal to Jansen and
several other promising colts, but when a country-player
leaves big cricket he leaves it once for all.
*. * * *
Central Cumberland got away with Sydney
premiership cricket competition, holding four points more
(12) than North Sydney and South Sydney. Waverley
was third (6), while Paddington and Redfern were
bracketed together with 2 each. 0.0. has won the honor
for the first time by first-class all-round play, to which
every member of the team contributed. The aid of
Howell, Pye, and Farquhar was certainly a big factor, but
they didn’t do it all. Neither E. Sydney nor Glebe won
a match.
David Syme has discovered a solution of
the Imperial Federation difficulty, and is so
pleased with himself that he prints the inspiration
in “caps.”:—
One method suggests itself to us, and only one, and it
is this—to provide that representatives' from the
COLONIES SHOULD SIT IN THE HOUSE OK COMMONS WITn FULL
RIGHTS OF SPEECH ON EVERY QUESTION, BUT WITHOUT THE
RIGHT OF VOTING ON ANY.
Thk Bulletin’s idea of Imperial Federation is to
send D. Syme and The Age to London, and let
them take possession of the Empire in the natural
course of events.
It is interesting to readG. W. Steevenson
the various British Generals and officers who
served in the Soudan, and consider his eulogies in
the light of recent events. Thus :—
Colonel Broadwood, a rapid, adroit and daring leader :
long-legged, light, built for a horseman, never tired,
never more than half asleep, never surprised, he is the
ideal of a cavalry general.
The “never surprised” stands badly in need of
correction since the affair of Koorn Spruit
the other day; and as to the “never more than
half asleep,” it looks as if somebody had been only
half awake when the Boers captured the seven
guns and 300 men more or less.
“David G.” ; If, as Frederic the Great
wrote, the commander who allows himself to be
surprised deserves to be hanged, what is to be said
for Colonel Broadwood, who, with plenty of
cavalry at his disposal, allowed himself to be
caught at Reddersberg in full daylight? The
whole story has not come out yet. The Boers
were allowed to carry off the 7 guns and 80
waggons they had seized, arid it took a division of
regular British infantry, and another of cavalry—
in all some 15,000 men—to get the relics of Broad-
wood’s column out of their clutches. Also, they
were allowed to cut off the water-supply from
Bloemfontein. A bombardment of Bloemfontein
is not at all off the cards,
A.n inspired article in-one of the Sydney
dailies points out that owing to the long Govt,
delays and tergiversations regarding the Pacific
cable, Australia is placed unreservedly in the
hands of the monopolistic Eastern Extension Co.
So it is ; —and all the more reason for getting out
of the monopoly’s hands as quickly as possible.
The Pacific Cable Board in London recommends
refusal of the conditions on which the Eastern Ex-
tension Co. bases its offer of a Cape cable—seeing
that these are designed to ruin the Pacific cable and
preserve the monopoly. And as for hints that
the co. may do terrible things unless it
gets its own way, the co. isn’t game. Any
attempt to mulct Australia would be followed by
British reprisals; and the whole Australian busi-
ness, is a fleabite to the Eastern Extension Co.
when compared with its interests in Britairi. So
it will take precious good care not to go too far
with the veiled threats now being circulated to
alarm the ignorant.
Fourteen counsel learned in the law and
17 solicitors appeared before the N.S.W. Chief-
Judge in Equity, last week, in a matter connected
with the estate of the late James Tyson. “ Where
the carcase is,” &c.
Something like an apolbgy recently
appeared in a W.A. paper :—
"“I , of -, in the colony of Western Aus-
tralia, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as
follows: —
“ l. That every statement made by in the evi-
dence tendered by her at the hearing of a certain inform-
ation laid against me for indecent assault on the prosecu-
tion of the said in the Police Court at was
true, and that my statements at the said Court, in so far
as they conflicted with her statements, were absolutely
false and incorrect.
“ 2. That I have never had any intimate or improper
relations with her in my life, nor has she ever permitted
me or encouraged me to attempt such conduct.
“3. That I was not invited or encouraged to enter her
room as alleged by me at the said hearing and there
denied by her.
“ 4. That on the day of the drive referred to at the said
hearing the said — had only one glass of beer and one
cup of tea, and that I have never seen her in any way
under the influence of liquor.
“ 5. That I make this declaration voluntarily, and not
by reason of any duress or other influence, but solely to
right a wrong which I feel has been done to an innocent
party, namely the said .


WORTH ITS WEIGHT
IN GOLD.
=4
OLD
\o
cP
EVERY CAKE
A NUGGET
Wool. —Extreme quietude has been the
prevailing feature during the past week, and the
amount of business transacted by private treaty is
so small as to give no indication of the course of
values. Buyers show no inclination to operate,
and, generally speaking, the tone of the market is
weak and depressed. A further fall in the price
of “ tops,” amounting to l|d. per lb., is reported
from Bradford. This is a serious drop, and
present appearances indicate that the downward
course of prices for wool, which started in Janu-
ary, has not yet been arrested. The prospects,
therefore, for the next auction sales, to be held in
the local market on the 25th and 26th inst., and
also in London on the 8th prox;, are far from en-
couraging, and, certainly, no improvement i
values can be looked for. Sydney, April 10, 190
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd. *
i
>
PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VAJAJE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK (SRIMLEY
Sole DistribCitiog AgeOt
for ACiStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-205 Clarence Street, Sydney.
pother great llictorg I Competition Silenced.
COMPLETE DEFEAT OF ALL FURNISHING GUIDES by the
FURNISHING : MADE : EAST : GUIDE
. . . Jost Published by . . .
A. HALL & COMPANY.
72 Pages.
500 Illustrations.
Posted Free to Parties Furnishing
in Town or Country.
The Most Useful and Complete Guide
ever published in Australasia.
Clear and Descriptive. Every Requisite for Complete or Part Furnishing.
’ ■>*-C="
A. HALL and COMPANY
The Universal House Furnishers,
561 |
563 j
George Street, Sydney
in
0 0
0 0
COUNTRY ORDERS PACKED FREE. CLOSE 1 p.m. SATURDAYS.
NOW READY AT ALL BOOKSELLERS, STATIONERS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
ON THE TRACK: NEW STORIES.
By HENRY LAWSON, author of “While the Billy Boils.”
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/3 (Commonwealth Series).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Publishers, 89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
N
MN
Cures While
You 51eep
Whooping' Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Golds.
CRISSOH.TENE when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm,
less to the youngest child, bold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
A white man was working for a Chinaman
in Boggabri (N.S.W.) for 7s. a week and his
vegetables. When the Chow was asked why he
didn’t employ one of his own countrymen, he
replied, “No fear—him wantee one pong ! ”
0.
hr
w
The Grip
In that tickling cough of
yours there lurks a
crouching tiger! It’s
ready to spring just
the moment you’re off
your guard. Damp
feet, a little more ex-
posure, moist air, or
some little change,
and you are down with
pneumonia. Take no
chances with such a
dangerous foe.
You may not have
the Grip hard, but there is
always danger of pneumonia.
ehem
Pectoral
is the great preventive of serious lung
disease. It’s a prompt and certain
cure for tlio Grip. Your hacking
cough stops at once, the soreness in
your chest passes away.* Your escape
from pneumonia is complete.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing over the chest one
o t Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
by Dr. J. C. Ayer A Co.. Lowell. Blass.. U. S. A.
Stock-broker George Meudell, who is
standing for the vacant seat at Grenville, Vic.,
has introduced the phonograph as an election-
agent. As he can’t speak at every place in the
constituency, he has delivered a speech into the
’phone, which will be taken round the district and
fired off ten times a day. Electors, it is presumed,
will be allowed to ask questions of the machine —
with results quite as satisfactory as those usually
put to candidates in person. And as for pledges
given by phonographs—well, are they not im-
printed on wax ? Still, George Meudell is clearly
an original man.
YOU CAN ’ T PUT THE OCEAN INTO A TEA-CUP
neither can we record all the novel points of the
“IMPERIAL BICYCLE”
in this advt. Full lines for 1900 now open.
Agents wanted where not represented already in Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand. Before buying a new wheel,
drop us a post-card for catalogue and factory prices.
Machines soiled, all of well-known makes, fitted new
Dunlop tyres, selling for a song ; have a list of them, too.
Repairs, Sundries, Dunlop Tyres-
THE “DUOK” BRAKE FITS ANY BICYCLE.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole General Agents in Australasia for “ IMPERIAL ”
Bicycles.
FrfOß the person who is not a millionaire, there is
1 ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,"
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pos>
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
At Poverty Point.
Handsome Olga Nethersole is said to have an assured
fortune in the dramatic version of Daudet’s “Sapho,”
which she let go at Wallack’s Theatre, New York, a few
weeks back. Rmnor gave it credit in advance for being
an awfully naughty play. Then, just as New York was
preparing to feel shocked at “ the disgusting thing ” Olga
Nethersole fell sick, and sassiety had to postpone its
shock for a fortnight, during which time the health of
the patient “ gave much cause for alarm.” New York, in
fact, began to fear that the outrage on decency would
not be committed after all. With such a boomsome start
“ Sapho ” couldn’t fail to score a big success. Its moral
tone is generally deplored, and seats are booked six
weeks in advance, and Miss N. gets high praise for her
powerfully amorous appeal to her “ boy ” in the third act.
Somehow, the spiciest bits always seem to come in third
acts. Then Olga has been tried and acquitted on the
charge of producing an indecent play, which is a stupend-
ous advt.
Olga Nethersole, she of the goggly eyes and luscious kiss
—yum, yum ! —has been acquitted at New York on the
charge of producing an indecent play—“ Sapho,” to wit.
“ When the curtain fell upon Jean and Fanny at the top
of the spiral staircase, presumably in Fanny’s room, there
were calls for the twain. The curtain rose, but they did
not appear. Miss Nethersole was anxious not to spoil the
illusion.” Clement Scott (still in the States) protests :
“ We do not want these mock Magdalenes to come flaunt-
ing on the stage to ‘ fill the blood with devil’s leaps and
poison half the young.’ ” The local chief-of-police, it
seems, was quite pleased with the play: the prosecutor
was a private person. Yum, yum! Also Advt.
When the beauteous Maud Jeffries was here with Wilson
Barrett’s co. she threatened to grow fat, and people who
knew Barrett’s artistic tastes prophesied that she and the
Barrett co. would part company before —well, before many
years. Now it is announced she is severing from Barrett
in June. She has made no definite plans for the future,
but may visit either America or Australia. The fascinat-
ing Lillah McCarthy (who was “ second lead ” during the
Australian tour) will now be promoted to the heroine’s
parts. “ Mr. Barrett,” it is remarked, “ has had rather a
brilliant succession of feminine stars associated with him.
Miss Eastlake, the golden-haired favorite of London play-
goers 15 years, or more, ago, was succeeded by Miss Wini-
fred Emery, who later on climbed into fame from the role
of understudy to Ellen Terry. Then came, nine years ago,
Miss Jeffries. How long will Miss M'Oarthy’s reign last ? ”
It would seem that the scrumptious Maud “ would in any
case have to leave Mr. Barrett’s company for some months,
as she has a certain very complicated business matter to
attend to in America. It is concerned with some thou-
sands of acres of cotton plantations in the Mississippi
Valley, which have belonged to her family for many years.
The title is disputed, and her presence on the spot is con-
sequently necessary. Being entirely uncertain as to the
time the litigation will occupy, Miss Jeffries has con-
sidered it best to resign her engagement, at any rate for
the autumn season.”
After the Castles boom at least a dozen Australian
nightingales were going to fly north ; but so far only two
or three have had wing-feathers enough. The last to go
so far is Miss Lulu Gillespie, of Adelaide (a niece of
Premier Kingston) who travels under the wing of her
Australian music-master, Albert Fairbairn. Also, by the
way, he is her husband.
The squeamish patriotism now indulged in by sections of
the community is remarkable for the curious phases that
are sometimes presented. An advt. last week of “ a grand
patriotic concert ” at Sydney Town Hall, announced that
a patriotic cantata by Hugo Alpen would be repeated, to
be followed by Mons. Aug. Wiegand on-the piano. Master
R. Riemenschneider was to represent Young Australia
with a patriotic song, the Meistersingers were to come
along with their little lot, while it was given out that
Nicholas J. Gehde (composer of “ Sons of New Britannia”)
was to be accompanist to the whole show. What are
those individuals who are always carping about the
foreigners in the land going to say to this? Probably
another Boer plot, carried out by pro-Boers at the insti-
gation of Leyas 1
W. J. Turner, one-time a figure in Melbourne’s musical
world, died of brain-softening last week. Turner was a
traveller or warehouseman in the wholesale “ rags ” line
before he called himself a professional musician, and,
although he played organ solos and piano accompaniments,
nobody took him very seriously as an entertainer. His
talent was much less evident than his self-confidence on
the platform. But as a concert-manager “W. J.” long
held his own against all-comers. Ada Crossley, Lalla
Miranda, Gladstone Wright, and many other good artists,
were members of the co. that Turner got together at Melb.
Exhibition-building, some 10 years back. The concerts
yielded little grist to the co., no matter whether they
were on salary or sharing-terms, yet the “ conductor ”
somehow persuaded them to battle on under his banner.
Of late years, Turner’s concerts got to be few and far
between, and the man himself seemed to “ lose his head,”
in the physical sense of the term.
Ada Ferrar, when last heard of, whs playing Hermia in
" A Midsummer Night’s Dream ” at London Lyceum,
under the management of an aspiring actor named Benson.
Engagements at the Lyceum, unfortunately, are not the
solid things they were when Irving ran the house. Ben-
son’s season is only an eight weeks’ matter.
*• Fax ” : Somebody speaks of Irene Franklin, at Melb.
Bijou, as “ a petite American person.” She’s a rather tall
girl and not small-boned for her height, judging from her
figure in a green frock. Irene’s feet are large, as dainty
’Murkan feet go, nor has she small hands. But they are
very pretty hands, and her wrist play is the strongest
point in the young,stranger’s likeable performance.
Melbourne is suffering from a sudden influx of-negroes,
all of whom have managed to secure particularly fine
stylish girls. They parade the main streets in couples,
and the envious glances cast on the women by others of
their sex proclaim that there are many would-be Desde-
monas in quite unsuspected circles. A Melb. policeman
relates that when the Fisk Jubilee Singers were here, he
found the lane at the rear of the stage blocked up with
attractive young women. “What ever are all you girls
waiting for ?” he asked. “We’re waiting for our boys,”
was the smiling reply of a charming blonde. The enquirer
looked up at the programme. “What!” he asked,
incredulously, “ The Coons? ” And as the girls nodded ;
he inquired, “ Can’t you find enough white boys, without
taking up those black fellows ? ” The assemblage tossed
its golden curls contemptuously—“ Pooh ! ” the spokes-
woman proudly retorted, “.any girl can find a white boy,
bat it takes a pretty clever girl to mash a black One."
There are persistent rumors of a case of
plague in a certain high-placed Sydney family,
and that such is officially known, but patient has
not been removed, and only a state of semi-
q[uarantine has been established. If there is noth-
ing in this rumor it should be officially contra-
dicted. If there is, then the officials responsible,
no matter who they may be, should be biffed
right out of the public service.
At long last there are signs of a munici-
e -owned electric-lighting system in Sydney.
s ago, the City Council got an Act of Parlia-
ment authorising it to light Sydney and its
suburbs, and it lias lain insensible on top of the
precious document ever since. It is proposed to
float the inevitable loan, and experts reckon that
the work can be made to pay even by selling electri-
city at a rate which will be equal to gas at 3s. per
1000ft. In fact, though the matter has only got
so far as deciding to call for tenders, it is already
being estimated that, by making no serious effort
to pay off the debt incurred for the electric-light-
ing plant, but just letting the liability stand, it
may be possible to cut down the charge to some-
thing about equal to gas at 2s. 4d. or 2s. 2d. per
1000ft.
Ex-Premier Reid remarks, correctly
enough, that if the British Government insists on
altering the clauses in the Commonwealth Bill
dealing with Privy Council appeals, it may as well
be invited, at the same time, to put in the pro-
posed new clause allowing Westralia to maintain
its separate tariff for five years. There is not a
farthing’s-worth of evidence that the said conces-
sion will make John Forrest any less treacherous
a wobbler than he is now, but if the labor of put-
ting another amended Bill through has to be faced
in any case, the concession may as' well be made
by way of experiment. At the same time, there
is so little hope in the experiment that nobody
save a fool or an enemy would propose going
through the weary process of amendment merely
to propitiate Wobbler John.
“ Banjo ” writes to his daily papers : —
After disposing of Cronje Lord Roberts came round to
the hospital to see the wounded Canadians, and he again
expressed his delight at the style of the tents. “ Splen-
did hospital,” he said to Lieutenant Martin. “ Where
did you say it came from?” “New South Wales,” said
the doctor. “ Ha—that’s Adelaide, isn’t it” said the
little General. Comment is useless ! Adelaide, indeed.
When it was quickly but firmly explained to him that the
hospital came from a much better place than Adelaide,
he said to one of his staff —“ Ha ! Make a note of that.
Make a note where the hospital comes from.”
And that’s all they know about us, the best and
most intelligent of them, after all the fuss ! Yet
Lord Roberts is personally not unconnected with
Australia: two of his wife’s sisters reside in the
Yic. Western district —one the wife of Ven. Arch-
deacon Beamish, of Warrnambool.
Melbourne Age repeats the indignant
statement that “President Steyn ordered several ,
Englishmen who were Free State bur//tiers to be
shot because they refused to fight against the
British troops,” and Brisbane Telegraph cries
out for a terrible r-r-revenge, and calls these indi-
viduals “Martyrs for England,” and alludes to
the episode as “ Cruel Murder.” To any unbiassed
person it looks like the execution of several Boer
deserters by ordinary process of law. When
these individuals became Free State burghers,
and it is expressly stated that they were such,
they necessarily forswore and turned their backs
on England, and swore to be true citizens of the
Orange State, to obey its laws, and fight in its
quarrels when called on, against their own
country or any other country. In short, they
ceased to be English, or to have any English
rights whatever. And when the levy en masse
of the capable male population came they proved
traitors and deserters to their new country —and
were executed. You can’t eat your cake and have
it too, but that is what the Transvaal “fran-
chise” brigade desired.
London went fairly mad over the relief of
Ladysmith. The most serious outbreak of lunacy
occurred at the Bank of England where “the
Governor and principal officials assembled at half
past four in the private drawing-office and sang
the National Anthem, while the clerks from all
the offices attended with flags and banners .” To
anyone who has ever seen one Bank of England
Governor blow his nose during business hours
there is something awful in the mere thought of
him meeting together to sing at 4.30 p.m.
precisely. And the assemblage of clerks armed
with flags and banners !


Sock shootmg«
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
.
OASHMORB GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
HacMiani’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines .
SOLE AGENTS—
PI'IEID BROS. * ilCt. [M.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. . Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
» WORDS OF WiSDOM.- This Fr?e Book about
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address: ®
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlu constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
FER BRAVAIS
Invaluable in all
cases oi anaemia and
general debility.
FER BRAVAIS
Highly recommended
for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“ma* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
'nin BY CHEMISTS ATX THE WOULD OVEB.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Laiayette-
“ i'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10a. 0(1.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st,, Sydney
CHEAP AND PASH lON ABLE TAILORENG<
("'I Gh .HATTE, eTKing-street, Newtown (near Sydneyj
vys has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring,Department, which is now one
Of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the ooiony, Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hatte’s suits of Indigo serge,
all-wool tweeds,and sergerettes (with extra pair oftrousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
Woollens, comprising vicunas, West of England, Sootchand
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6. and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent poolcetß, silk-faoed
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastio coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
sefpem/iamMa
MIGHTY
( REGISTERED )
Freshly prepared FroruHie Famous Africa; KOLA NUTS
(_ COLA ACUMINATA )
A SUSTAINING &
STIMULATING TONIC
WITHOUT INTOXICATION
The Greatest Putkme-up a Appetiser known.
It makes you. eat and makes you strong
*-» —» It cures Inctiyestio/i —-
WHEN OllT OF SORTS Take a drii?kcf A|pl£
IT SAVES- DOCTORS BILLS
ALL fjOTELS & REFRESHMENT ROOMS with SOOfl WATER 6Vglass
ALL CHEMISTS Q/q, and Pec; Bottlet
'PJ)a.t'nfa.cy 337 George Si Ntjar/y opp O Post Office
asaL 6>fT£R 6ft Birrca
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering HJJ)RASY a
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure, ft
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TRY ELLIS’S
(Registered) Simple Foot Gear.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOB TAPE
MEASURE.
•
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
SM ,
an ordinary tape measure determine the width
’ ’ round the joints AA. round the instep 88, round heel
00, round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and
width of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Out the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
whereyou are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view o’f introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
M
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
TO MEASURE
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed witliin
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS & CO., 68S George St.,
Sydney . . BRICKFIELD HILL.
NM
N
FRINGES,
IfetoroTCurljr, from 3/a each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
SWn. long, r/ii. all real bale.
CUTTIKIiS & XOMBISG3
(•OTJted nr, V' l per oz.
W# are the ifirnpestln Aw
trolla for all IJnii Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W.H.’Wigzell,
1)0 W l u,I AM Strbf.t,
earner of Palmer-etrcet,
SYDNEY.
Cable Trnm will stop at Door.,
Send stamps for full Price List."'’
Frampt attention jri ven to Country Order*
MN
6 DOW JiIDGE’S ’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
'
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia. •
Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ AHenburys”
The “ AHenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Alfenfourys” Malted Food No. 3
“ For Infants over six months of aRe.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids,, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 485, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
m.
roji
mS I
VS.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. -A.- <f^XTTICT,
lower domain.
Medical.
m
•T-.
>.j!&
:t
rj/^*
Extracts from a few of the
I many grateful letters in
praise of “ l)r. Pierce’s Mag-
netic Elastic Truss,” re-
ceived during the year 1899:
RUPTURE CURED.—
“ The Truss I received from
you in August, 1898, has
cured me of my rupture, so
that I can do any work with-
out the Truss now.” G.
I TURNER, Felsham, Suffolk,
September 1(1, 1899.
I RUPTURE CURED.—" I
received your Truss at the
beginning of Augnst, and am
glad to say that, by the
blessing of God, it has cured
my rupture in rather less
than two months. I was
told that rupture could be
I cured only by an operation,
but'in two months I was
) cJred of that which had
been a terrible worry to me
for over two years.”—A. R.
STOYLE, Banjoewangle,
Java, November 29. 1899.
RUPTURE CURED.—" I
commenced to wear your
Truss, May, ’9B, and kept on
Itill Christmas. It is now
Feb. 13, 1899, and I have felt
nothing of the rupture since.
1 had been ruptured for 20
years, and had worn steel
trusses, but had to give
them up, not receiving any
benefit from them, and
thinking my case hopeless.”
—T. W. CHAPMAN, Rams-
gate.
| RUPTURE CURED.—" I
have given the Truss a good
I trial, and am pleased to say
it has cured me, as I have
not had it on now in five
weeks. I was down on your
Truss when I sent for it; but
it is the best Truss money
can buy, and I do not know
how to thank you for the
good is has done me.”—
JAMES GUEST, 3 Willow
| Place, Leeds, Yorks.
RUPTURE CURED.—" I
have recommended Dr.
Pierce’s Truss to everyone
that I know is ruptured, and
tell all what good it has done
me, for I have now left off
my truss these four months.
It made a man of me, for no
matter how hard I work the
i rupture never comes down.”
1 —D. HURCOMBE, Pill
Point, Milford Haven, South
RUPTURE CURED.—“ I
had a Double ‘B.’ Magnetic
Elastic Truss from you some
years ago, which cured the
Rupture on the right side in
a few months —a rupture
of thirtv years’ standing.”
GEORGE BYRNE, Supt.
Lighthouse, Double Island
Point, Queensland* Australia.
RUPTURE RELIEVED
" I am thankful to tell you I
have not had any pain what-
ever since wearins your
Truss. Have never nad a
truss to equal it for ease and comfort, and can truly say
it has done me more good than I ever thought pos-
sible.” —EMILY ARNOLD, 1 Sedan Cottages, Dorchester-
road, Weymouth.
If Ruptured, secure Dr. PIERCE’S WONDERFUL
TRUSS without delay. It is different from all others,
and it does the work ! Call at our Sydney address, and
examine this great invention, or send Stamp for Free
“ BOOKLET No. 1.”
uiismnra i. soie * ci.
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
—OH
MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 MARKET STREET, SAN FRANCISCO.,
U.S.A.
AIR CIRLS AND - GRAY HORSES!
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
M
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RlCH & CO. LTD.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Slack, RedL, and. Blue. 3s 6c3L per gall. in. Melb. and Sydney; 3a Od per gall, in
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Brisbane.


Nl"RaSSn)(iSS€i) 5 S AlfaliQc Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have heen before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOB, EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A. Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
1
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1808.
To Hbrr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers* as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Hbrr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attaok of sciatio. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was; thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended- them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
to Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Bxood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, *O9.
Hbrr Rassmussbn, Sydney.—Dear Sir, —Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribbrt.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
r
OST OPT|
..f'ijiPiifTii T i FIT iiTTWi' ! 1 n \ 11( umlh i in 1 11 IiTKTTI li) HI tMI I
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting in for i n ati on,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A ualine VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondenoy, Melanoholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s od.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
NM
Herr Rassmussen, (Jp-to-Date Herbalist
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
I
MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-lo' own Tailor, of 827 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Mi
Declaration,
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, ol 327 Elizabeth
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, dc
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hkrr Rass
mussbn’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the Sami’
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS. Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearand
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant ours
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Loughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier— A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is fid.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo >derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr ftassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., 801060
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS ;
N
MN
M


At a Burial.*
Tenderly down the hill we bore them,
Riddled with bullets, shattered with shell;
Never a cry was lifted o’er them,
Never a tear above them fell.
Friendly came the Boers beside them,
Muttered, “ Poor fellows, so worn and thin !”
Helped us to hollow the trench to hide them,
Helped us to carefully lay them in.
Hornily-handed, rough of faces,
All their battle-wrath passed away ;
It seemed the hearts of the sundered races
Were one in love of the dead that day.
Solemnly, then, we read the verses,
“ Ashes to ashes ! dust to dust!”
We gave our mates to the last of nurses—
The pitiful dust in whose peace we trust.
Kindly up there stepped a foeman,
Stepped to the grave and prayed a prayer; »
Never a son of a British woman
But felt the breath of the Lord was there.
Faithfully, humbly, did he prav it—
Prayed to the Father of foe and friend
To look from Heaven at last and stay it,
Make of this terrible war an end.
Plaintively then uprose their chorus—
A hymn to the God of the warless years ;
The tender heart of a girl came o’er us ;
We sobbed, and turned from the grave in tears.
* It will be remembered that an English surgeon,
writing a description of the burial of English soldiers at
Ladysmith, tells how the Boers prayed for these and sang.
The English were deeply moved thereby. In Westmins-
ter Gazette appear the above verses by H. D. Rawnsley
that relate the story again.
Before landing at Kingstown the Queen asked for a sprig
of shamrock, and wore one plucked from the Victoria
Wharf. The journey from Kingstown to Dublin and
through the streets of the capital was marked by a display
of extraordinary and uninterrupted enthusiasm. Her
Majesty’s progress was described as a long triumph.—
Cable.
’Twas a noisy day for Erin when Her Majesty the Queen
Passed in triumph through the streets of Dublin town :
She wore a kind expression and a sprig of shamrock
green—
Which reminds one that the “ green ” is rather brown.
It was honey and molasses
For the pleasure-loving masses
(Shure, a fine, imposing show had been prepared),
And our aged Sov’reign Lady
Thought, when Mickey waved his “cadey,”
“lam glad to find how easily he’s ‘ squared ’ ” 1
All the illustrated papers had their “ specials ” on the job,
O, what fervent demonstrations we shall see
In the works of art intended to delight the honest snob
With his grovelsome ideas of Loyaltee.
There’ll be sketches unveracious
Of the Monarch looking gracious
Whilst the greatness of her goodness is declared,
- But they’ll give no indication
Of her inward jubilation
At the thought of how the Micks are being “ squared.”
THE WHISKY OF THE WISE
Is the title bestowed on “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) by many hotelkeepers. They remark that
the more brainy customers, veterans who think
twice before ordering, say—“ Mine is ‘ D.C.L.’ ”*
“ How is Fred ?” was a cant query among
Capetown stockjobbers for some time after the
Spion Kop affair. A German “bear” got a
warning telegram, “Fred is ill,” from his con-
federate in Natal on the strength of local rumour
that the Kop had been abandoned. The press
censor passed the message without the least
suspicion of the fact that Fred’s illness signified
another British check, and the Capetown Deutschor
sold a lot of Rand stocks before the inevitable
slump.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre-s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have .tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WII.L. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 jd. per b or. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents; ELLIOTT' BUGS., Sydney’. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Tenders.
Electric lighting plant.
Borough of Lambton, N.S.W.
FOE SALE by Tender, closing NOON 30th Inst, at
R. G-. Watkins & Coy’s Office,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Usual 10 per cent. Deposit. The Plant consists of
2 20 H.P. High Pressure Tubular Boilers
2 20 H.P. Compound Horizontal Engines
2 Thomson & Houstons Alternators and Exciters.
Switch Board, Transformers, Lamps and Fittings, com-
prising a Complete Electric Lighting Outfit.
• •
By Order of the Mortgagees,
R. G. Watkins & Co.,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
From whom all Particulars may be Obtained.
Publications.
jjr<>nasr>iv>s ~ '
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop &00., Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8 sharp. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
EASTER SATURDAY, 14th APRIL.
Camille
Miss NANCE O’NEIL
Mr. M'KEE RANKIN
Camille
As Presented by SARAH BERNHARDT.
Dressed in the Costumes of the Period of 1840.
Plan, Nicholson’s. f2T~ PRiCES-55., 3s„ 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGH.
Return to Sydney, for EIGHT WEEKS only, of the
BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), Last Night of THE PHYSICIAN.
Saturday and Monday, April 14 and 16,
THE ADVENTURE OF LADY URSULA.
Tuesday and Wednesday, THE GAY LORD QUEX.
Matinee Every Thursday, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. .-. Box Plan at Elry’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGIIT (Thursday, April 12) LAST NIGIIT of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in an Entirely New, Original, Sensational, Patriotic,
Romantic Drama, entitled
DEFENDER OF THE FAITH.
SATURDAY, April 14—THE IRISHMAN.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.46.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
The new tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and MONDAY.
First Appearance in Australia of the Greatest Company
of Stars ever brought together.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
Mr. TOM BROWNE. THE NEWSKYS.
JAS. BAIN. THE MINTONS. FRANCIE ADLER.
And all our Great Company.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FIRST APPEARANCE in MELBOURNE of the
Great Ludwig Amann
The Greatest Facial
Artist of the day.
Mr. TOD CALL AW AY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
Prof. ALMOND, Champion Specialty Dancer.
IRENE FRANKLIN, America’s Piquant Comedienne.
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Prof. DAVY’S
MARIONETTES, POPE and SAYLES, E. SULLIVAN,
DORA TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ... GREAT EASTER ATTRACTION .. .
COMMENCING SATURDAY, 14th APRIL.
Mr. Orpheus M. Me Ado o’s
GENUINE GEORGIA MINSTRELS and ORIGINAL
ALABAMA CAKEWALKERS.
30 BIG, BRIGHT, BRILLIANT STARS! 30
Including 1 FERRY, THE HUMAN FROG.
PRICES : 35., 25., and Is Plan at Paling’s,
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
T~ Iheatre royal, melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
EASTER ATTRACTION!
Johnny Sheridan and Gracie White-ford
IN ..
“When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Special Matinee —EASTER MONDAY, at 2.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices —35., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Plaoe,
Collins Street E. f
o Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M‘CLELLAND
(nee BOLGER).
Fair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. Cd.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’ TH EATRE, MEL BOURNE.
D»“ Commence NEXT SATURDAY, April 14.
. . . AUSTRALIAN TOUR . . .
CHARLES ARM OLD
And His English Comedy Company.
840 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London.
“What Happened to Jones.”
Preceded by “ AN EMPTY STOCKING.”
IP IT HURTS YOU TO LAUGH, •
DON’T SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the sole management of Mr. William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, 14th April, EASTER SATURDAY
First Time in Australia of Stanley Neville’s
Great Military and Spectacular Drama,
FOR QUEEN AND COUNTRY.
Depicting Stirring Incidents in the Present War.
Mr. Alfred Woods, Miss Maud Williamson,
and a Powerful Dramatic Organisation.
200 trained soldiers, 20 military horses, complete battery
of mounted artillery. Prices, 3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and 6d.
Plan at Allan’s. Gen. Bus. Man., Mr. CHAS ENDE.
■pHEATRE ROYAL, ADELAIDE.
As the present LEASE of the above THEATRE
expires on SEPTEMBER 30, 1900, and recognising that
sufficient time must be given for future arrangements,
Mr. ARTHUR CHAPMAN wishes to intimate that he
is now open to treat with Responsible Managers for
LEASE of the above, to commence from OCTOBER
1, 1900.
Full particulars on application to him at INSURANCE
CHAMBERS, No. 8, Pirie-street, ADELAIDE.
Medical.
D R UN K E N N ESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. DOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly .in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabetli-st.reet, SYDNEY.
]re you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdommsil Obesity a Special 'y!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALING REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
90 King St., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
>Watch Manufacturers,
N
90 King St, Sydney
.
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
>Art Jewellers, &c.
Set with 19 Parisian Pearls or Turquoise or assorted
Pearls and Turquoise.
MN
SPECIAL
VALUE,
10s 8d each
IiAT'ESi NOVELTY
SwORJ>
Brooch
Gold Plated on
Solid Silver,
and
Beautifully Finished
Lovely Gold BANGLE, set with 16 First Water Diamonds
and 16 Rubies or Sapphires, £l7 10s.
15c. Gold Gem-set BANGLE, 1 Lovely Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires, 52s' 6d.
Magnificent Diamond and Opal BANGLE, set with
9 First Quality Opals and 16 Diamonds, £2O.
7 ~ ~ ~ and 12 ~ £lBlos.
Magnificent BROOCH, 15c. Gold, set with 5 Diamonds
2 Rubies, Sapphires, or Opals, 70s.
I J255S
SOLID GOLD NECK CHAINS, 16in. long.
Pattern No. 12 3 4
9e. Gold 9s 15s 15s 15s
15c. ~ 13s 6d 23s 6d 22s 6d 24s
SOLID GOLD LONG MUFF CHAINS, 54in. long.
Pattern No. 1 » 2 3 4
32/6 to 50/- 67/6 to 80/- 82/6 to 95/- 75/-to 6/5/0.
Gold Lucky Wish Bone Merry Thought
BROOCH, with 2 Pearl and Turquoise
Love Birds, 14s 6d ; with one Pearl
and Turquoise Love Bird, 11s 6d.
Solid Gold Cross, Mizpah and Ivy, 12s 6d.
6 Different Patterns.
New Gold Bar BitOOOH, set with Beal
Amethyst, Special Value, 12s 6d.
Pearl and Ruby or Sapphire, 9c. Gold,
12s 6d ; 15c., 21s.
Gold Lucky Bell and Chain Brooch, 10s.
Latest Design.
15c. Gold BROOCH, 1 Diamond and 2
Rubies or Sapphires, 425.
15c. Combination Brooch,
Pendant, and Hair Orna-
ment, set with 33 Lovely
Pearls, 57s 6d and 72s 6d.
MN
Gold, 9s.
Raised Centre.
Silver, 2s 6d.
Raised Centre.
15c. BROOCH,
Forget-me-not, set
I with 6 Whole Pearls
and 6 Turquoise, 32s 6d
Solid Gold Tie & Heart
Brooch, ss. Without
Heart, 3s 6d.
Gold Lucky WISH BONE
(Merry Thought),
with Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
Pearl Centre, 18s 6d each.
Plain Gold Wish Bone.
9a, 6s 6d; smaller, 4s 6d.
15c., 10s; smaller, 7s.
Our Gold Novelty BROOCH, 17s 6d, with
' octogon Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
New Gold Bird BROOCH,"Bs.
600 Other Patterns.
The New Century Gold BROOCH,
Latest London Novelty, 10s 6d.
M
Solid Gold.
1 Bell, 10s 6d.
3 Bells, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver.
1 Bell, 3s 6d.
3 Bells, 4s 6d.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21s.
UNAPPROACHABLE FOR VALUE ”
((
N
LATEST XMAS
NOVELTY TWIN
BROOCH,
Pearl Set Bird and
Heart, 15s.
50 other Patterns.
Same Style, with Piain
Gold Bird and
Pearl-set Heart,
12s 6d.
Our New Gold Bamboo BANGLES, 22s fid ; Broader, 32s 6d;
Children’s Size, 14s. Hundreds of other Patterns.
Plain and Richly Engraved BRACELETS.
Solid Gold, 18s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, to 40s.
OUR LATEST PATRIOTIC BROOCH
Solid Gold Sword, with Red, White and Blue Enamel
Union Jack Flag’, 20s.
Registered.
BROOCHES.
Sterling Silver, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
MN
15c. Gold
and
13 First
Quality
Pearls, 255.
Latest
Novelty
Lyre and
Treble Clef
Brooch.
15c. Double
BROOCH,
with Chain
and Treble
Clef, 455.
EXTRA
STRONG
and
FINELY
FINISHED
Real Amethyst or Topaz or Obsidion
Links. Extra strong ss, smaller 4s pr.
iit Cold, 14s pr. With nr
Monogram
monogram.
50 other Patterns


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Not a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4*6; post, /10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
The mists, or direct from the
COLOXIVL RK PRKS R NT ATI VE FOB THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J.E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
I Cure Fits
You are I
notasked
*to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. 1 am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
Warner’s
M
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE
'REE
PAMPHLET
f ROM
H H. WARNER & C? LIP
MELBOURNE, AUST.
“ Food for Thought/'
A NYTHING which causes a drain on the nerves helps to
make a SUSPENSORY necessary. Excessive mental
effort, prolonged and exhaustive physical exercise, over-
indulgence in any way, dissipation, irregularity of diet,
loss of sleep, anything which produces fatigue has its
first effect on the vital organs. A sick man, or a tired
mstn, has not much vital vigor, the strain tells on the
most delicate nerves first, fatigue there produces fatigue
everywhere. Fatigue of the vital organs leaves a man
with little energy, with little strength to work or think.
The connection between the brain and the vital organs
is most direct. Excessive mental work affects the vital
power, and abuse of the vital power affects the brain—a
strain on one is a strain on both. A SUSPENSORY stops
one strain on one. It is not a big strain, but it is there
all the time : it is one little strain multiplied by the
number of seconds in the day. It is a continual drag,
which empties the store of vitality just as a reservoir may
be emptied drop by drop.
We have been saying “A” SUSPENSORY. What we
really mean is an
0 OLD
P POINT
C COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
0-p
mjer&blm*
Chic3s
m
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2—0.P.C., Lisle Sack, Elastic Band* .. .. 57-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ •• •• 7 /-
N 0.4 „ „ „ Silk „ .. •• 91-
No. 5 „ Fancy „ „ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes —Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
ID* - Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.B.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Clarence-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HEALTH and strength
■ * may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, iiver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated r
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 10/- and 201- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address :—HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
The Life of the System.
NM
Visitors to the old country
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSpilOfL
Under Ifayal Rtfrorcage.
LOTiDOfISW.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
HOTEL
N
One of the FINEST examples
OF MODERN OAK CARVING EXTANT
Self-contained Suites •
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
This is the Latest Typ
THIS MACHINE
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
Carnage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—EREE.
A Iso on Sale —
1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cineinatographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kinto-copes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EPlSOM ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
|J'„ ,r. A 7. (HdersJiaw, Manager. Nearly opposite G.P.O.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIA,
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
SPARKLING
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared w th i his
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY &
LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street,
Sydney.
B Ho
Vc
K 3
iiUitnam
fX
Qfi
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
m
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired oi STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
, ELECTRICAL! APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
: LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. |
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and (
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, ai’e Tight, comfortable, and|
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. I
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
3 0
2 0
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
atta jhments 3
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
* A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84 Cleri-
cal Suils to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35 -
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupplyßeacty-madeMen’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Fatnous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
\
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothinpr in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 26. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent ’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
A MUS KMENT for ODD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in'' vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments). Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J.fj and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES ...and..
—— ■ ■ Jheir Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for AT. The New En-
quire Within, r, o receipts, 7s. (id. for ss. <3d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, 10 vols.,
£7 10s. for t'2 15s. The History of Australian BuAhranfr-
insr. Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh streec, Sydney.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
x L X. XT S T R A. T B D
Address, PRIVATE,
WITH numerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE,
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MN
M
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
NM
N
FRENCH •
• NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Editions.
Post Free, 1 3, 2'-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 9X3,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MN
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
Medical.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at Cd., 1/- and 1 6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Oalvert & Co., Manchester.


NOTE
WELL
THIS
MARK.
-V
m
■\
i;--s
&S!
s§
83*
I
-.-ante
si
%
SI
-r:
3rtp
it
ft s
2s--W
i
-r»
•r-i
-i>-
Kt?
w^iii^ ll *’'w..
a
■' S'
m
•i>-.
S*
m
m
m
m
Zy//,
m
m.
Mm
'fa
?//?//,
m
■m.
wm
m
m
V.V.‘vi
mil
ipj§||
The word FOX is a GUARANTEE of Soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all Worsted Coatings,
Vicunas, Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume Cloths,
on which it is Stamped.
FOX BROTHERS & Co., Ltd., mt>
«*> Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAHD.
Trade FOX Mark
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas, Serges, Tweeds, Tennis, and Costume Cloths.
Contractors to the English Admiralty, War Office, Ma Office, Crown Colonies, and Metropolitan police.
THEIR Mills are capable of an annual production of 2,000,000 yards of material, and find employment for 1,200 hands. Reliable
records show that the business at Wellington was founded early in the eighteenth century, and the present Company have in
their possession a balance sheet dated 1733.
FOXS’ PURE INDIGO.
As the result of many years of experience, FOXE PURE INDIGO DYE is recognised as the best in the Market. The superiority of Pure Indigo over other
dyes may be briefly summed up as follows :
FASTNESS OF THE DYE.—lndigotine, the colouring principle of Indigo, is insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and dilute acids, and alkalies either hot or
cold, hence its extreme fastness for all conditions of ordinary wear and tear. It is also quite fast to Sunlight, and for an all-round dye there is nothing supe ior to
it. There is no need to point out the advantage there is in a perfectly fast dye, as compared with one which may be fast to light, but will not stand perspiration, or
washing, or vice versa.
STRENGTH AND HANDLE.—CIoth dyed Pure Indigo is stronger and tougher than the same cloth dyed in other ways, owing to the dye bath being at
a comparatively low temperature, and the absence of any injurious chemicals or mordaunts. In almost ail other dyes, the cloth is first boiled in the mordaunt and
then in the dye for some hours altogether. This always impoverishes the wool fibre, and destroys much of its natural lustre and softness, whereas the Indigo Vat
with its soft, mellow liquor, adds to the fulness and richness of the fabric. Indigo Dyeing being a mechanical process rather than a chemical one, actually feeds the cioth.
nil standard cloths are stamped every two yards on the back,
FOX FITRE ISTDIGO,
. . and without this stamp are not Genuine.
These Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Australian Colonies.
for yourselves that the Serge is stamped—FOX PURE INDIGO, —as many dealers for the sake of an
extra profit try to sell inferior-dyed cloths, remarking “that they are just as good as Pure Indigo.”
Y*
H»u
»111 l
FOX BROS. Sc Co., Ltd.,
carry out every process themselves, from buying the W ool to making
and selling the Goods, and can therefore guarantee the soundness of the
material and quality of the dye.
FOX BROS. Sc Co., Ltd.,
being the largest Government Serge Contr ctor in England, can
recommend their Pure Indigo Government Se.ges for real hard wear.
Their Pure Indigo Dress Serges have everla ting wear. Can be
cleaned again and again, then turned and made up equal to new. Their
Tennis Cloths are quiet in style, and most comfortab’e as Suitings.
FOX BROS. Sc Co., Hitct.,
have during the past year brought out an entirely novel Elastic Worsted
Cloth (made from Colonial Wool), registered in England as “ FOBRO. ’
“ FOBRO ” has special qualities as follows : Elasticity and Porosity,
but being woven by a special process will not fray or ravel, no matter
how it is cut. With these special qualities it is particularly adapted for
Shooting, Cycling, Walking, Etc.
Au.traUaoAgonto to, too WhotoMoto Tr,da only-
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, & 422, George St., Sydney.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buver of all other Australian gems.*
M
0
i
FOR
® M O
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS
Possess the peculiar properties of acting on the bowels without
purging or otherwise weakening the patient. This is because
the substance that relaxes the bowels has about the same action
as the natural bile. BILE BEANS are purely Vege-
table, and a course of them will probably successfully oust
the most chronic cases of Liver and Stomach Troubles, Piles,
Indigestion, Chronic Headache, Biliousness, Influenza, Rheu-
matism, Constipation, and a host of other ailments that owe
their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation, and digestion.
These Beans are placed on *the market in such a form that
anyone can take them without medical supervision, and as the
price is so very low there are few homes that cannot afford
to always have a box on the shelf for emergency.
Are obtainable at all Chemists and Storekeepers. Price, 13|d. per
large box. Or from the Australian Depot, The Bile Bean Manfg.
Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney, who will forward (post paid) on receipt
of price.
/
THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY !
Is a first-class TONIC and BLOOD PURIFIER,
and is undoubtedly
THE GREATEST WONDER OF THE AGE!
CLERKS AND BUSINESS MEN.
If you suffer from collapse of the nervous system, due perhaps to heavy strain
and pressure of business, read the following 1 Testimonial: —
S. A. Palmer, . . . . , ,
Dear Sir —About 18 months ago I was forced to give up my position, owing to an attack ot
Congestion of the Brain, caused by EXCESSIVE STUDY AND WORK. For some time I
was very ill and was under the care of four of the best doctors in New Zealand. I found that,
although I had recovered from the Cerebral Congestion THE NERVOUS SYSTEM had received
such a'shock and had become so weakened that my medical advisers informed me that I would
have to take perfect rest for a long time, and that it would be from two to three YEARS before I
would thoroughly regain my strength and be what I had been prior to my breakdown. Knowing
of the wonderful results which had followed the taking of VITADATIO, I resolved to go in for a
course of it, and after drinking about 12 LARGE BOTTLES of the MEDICINE, I rejoice to
be able to say that lam now WELL AND STRONG again, and enjoy the best of health. I feel
that I cannot but let young men who struggle through the weary days of their office work, feeling
so weak and ill that life has very few pleasures for them, know what your medicine has done for
me. To all such I earnestly recommend VITADATIO, as lam perfectly sure it will thoroughly
tone up the system and drive all impurities out of the blood.
Yours very sincerely,
“ Linthorpe,” Newtown, EDWIN C. SERVICE.
Sydney, Dec. 16th, 1899 •
Another Voluntary Testimonial to “Vitadatio.”
A. OTJIRIE! OIF 1 GOUT.
Glenelg, S.A., 15th Feb., 1900.
Mr S A. Palmer, Sole Distributor for W. Webber’s “ Vitadatio.”
Dear Sir,—l thought I would drop you a line to let you know what VITADATIO has done
for me ' MY TROUBLE WAS GOUT. Well, I tried a lot of different remedies without good
results’ but after taking five bottles of VITADATIO I can safely say it has cured me, and I can
recommend VITADATIO to anyone suffering from gout as a certain cure.
Gratefully yours,
St. Leonards.
JNO. WILLIAMS.
The prich of this wonderful Remedy is ss. Od. and 3s. 6d. per bottle. Obtainable from all
Medicine Vendors in Australasia.
Head Institute: 47 Bourke-st, Melbourne;
And at 184 Pitt-st., Sydney; 116 Queen-st, Brisbane;
238 Rundle-st., Adelaide; 481 Hay-st, Perth; and
39 Manners-st, Wellington, N.Z.
“Camel, Thou art Meek and
Mild!”
[FOR THE BULLEIN]
After considerable groaning, swearing and vexa-
tion of spirit, our camels were hobbled, and
shuffled off with grunts of relief. In a few
moments the salmon gums came and went as the
fitful flames of our fire curled round the “billy.”
“Tinned-dog” and damper were snatched from
the tucker-box and we were ready to assimilate,
when both of us abruptly started to our feet at
hearing the clank of a muffled bell striking against
hobble chains, suspended on the necks of camels
stalking quietly towards our fire.
Leading them was a white-bagged Afghan, who
halted at the fire and begged that he might camp
near us. We agreed, compelling him to drive his
camels in the contrary direction ours had taken,
for at that season these male beasts were not lamb-
like, and already ours had been chewed quite
enough by divers pugnacious bulls, which had
coursed our weaklings merrily through the mulga,
with an accompaniment of jangling bells and
bubbling roars.
The leading camel of the Afghan’s team was a
huge bull, tricked out in bright-dyed goat hair-
cloth, and shell-encrusted garters. Throwing his
head high in the air—his bladder dribbling from
his foam-covered mouth —he danced and reared.
The sight of it was disturbing.
Nose lines unfastened, hobbles adjusted, bells
swinging, there ensued a little pandemonium, for
the leader charged the others furiously, scattering
them with marvellous celerity. That done, he
started back to the fire, and was received with
vehement disapproval; he pondered a while as we
energetically banged him with assorted missiles,
then reluctantly retired to scare up diversion else-
where.
That camel kept the Afghan and a nigger he
had with him fully engaged while we ate our
damper and drank our tea unruffled —the camel
gurgling horrible threats every time the Afghan
found it necessary to administer to his wants, with
a slip-rail, screecning barbarous falsetto oaths the
while. Then, having perspired copiously, the
Afghan would resume his munching at the fire.
His journeys were frequent, but the last had
come. A resounding screech of agony succeeded
by repeated yells made me instantly remember
seeing a victim of an enraged bull-camel; and,
filled with alarm, rushed towards the place the
yells proceeded from.
Like a meteor-gleam flashed a white streak ; a
streaming bread-cloth shimmered in the wake of
the yelling heathen as, with mighty plunges, the
camel bounded after the unhappy Asiatic—the
hobbles jingling and the bell one perpetual clatter.
The Afghan reached a tree, and was now sobbing
with pure fright—my mate was valiant with a
rifle, ensconced in a fork of a tree. I had picked
up a dead gum limb, and approached the
camel, who steadily pursued his man round
and round. I had heard yarns* about eye-
ing beasts and soothing them, too; I didn’t
hanker to sooth this one—save with my timber;
and I did contrive to bring it with all the force I
could muster on his forehead. Crash went the
broken stick, and the camel flung back his head,
then thrust it forward and came for me. I didn’t
wait, but skipped, shrieking, over the landscape
till I also reached a tree with a thankfulness that
was extensive but fleeting, for with his long neck
the brute dexterously ousted me and forced me
out on an open flat with a dried watercourse inter-
secting it. I was a fair runner, but, though the
camel was hobbled, in a few seconds his loathsome
breath was on me. I dodged to one side and the
ungainly brute lurched on, while I made for the
timber again, and then, with a groan of terror,
tumbled into the unseen watercourse, and experi-
enced that “ freezing ” sensation as his big fore pad
thumped my shoulder. Another second and I was
stumblipg over box-bush at the base of a clump of
gimlet-mallee and yelling to my mate to shoot.
He, safely perched aloft, advised me to do those
things which I gladly would have done if I could,
and m answer I cursed him as we coursed round
the bushes, beseeching him at times to drop the
rifle. Expedients flashed across my mind, none
feasible, until happily I gained another clump of
“gimlet,” the radiating stems of which prevented
the near approach of my enemy. Charge after
charge he made, but meeting the strong poles with
his shoulders he could not reach me, while I
reached him, hard and often, with a stick.
Then I suppose he heard the bells of our camels
and charged towards them, leaving me free to get
my revolver, with which I made my mate drop
the rifle, and swore I’d shoot him if he came down.
The Afghan was weeping; and after some hard
swearing he went off to bring more Afghans to
help catch the refractory brute. Presently hear-
ing roars, clanging bells and gurglings, I knew
our camels were being patronised, and I made
towards the noise with the rifle ; but the sounds
were further and further off.
I dropped on to my blankets and fell asleep.
When I woke there were a number of Afghans
about, and the serang observed : “ Quiet camille !
he not hurt anyone—ver’ quiet, Meesta ! ” I told
him he’d better go out and led the “ quiet”
in !
My mate had come from the tree and was talk-
ing in that large, breezy style common to his type
in addressing supposed inferiors, when more
gehenna broke out in the scrub and out came our
camels across the clearing, straight for us. We
guessed who was following and the survival of our
simian arboreal instincts was well exemplified by
the agility with which we got up the nearest trees.
Then said Ito the serang, “ ver’ quiet camille; he
not hurt; good camille ! ”
It was cold up there, with my shirt fluttering in
the night breeze, so I clambered down, swearing
at myself for being such a funk, and picked up the
rifle for a pot-shot at that camel, but the Afghans
flooded me whilst I kicked my protestations.
At dawn the Afghans—each armed with a six-
foot sapling—surrounded the brute; but no one
went within an acre of him until after many false
alarms and yells to “Oushta!” they got a long
rope doubled round his legs and threw him. Then
amidst much screeching, roaring, froth and dust,
they civilized him with their saplings, and once
the nose-line was fastened, he became tractable,
though a week later I saw him again in the Afghan
camp, tied down, and being vigorously admonished
w**h saddle-straps !
O. THOOSER.
Thirsty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The wide downs stretching northward were grey
as a dead face, and the timber, which marked the
creek, looked like a black wound upon it. The in-
sistent winds blew over it as the winds blow at sea;
yet, unlike the sea breezes, they did not refresh.
In every continent the desert and the horse
breed their type. Dan Maher —lean and wiry, high-
nosed and keen-eyed, with the thin straight lips
of the roughrider—was of it. Dan Maher who,
out of wind and sun under a coolibah, sat think-
ing. Yet his perception of trivial things was
closer than usual. Not a yellow bloom from the
sebbanias fell on the black water before him that
he did not see ; he did not miss the slightest eddy
of wind that, breaking through the tall cane:grass,
stirred those already shed, while all the time his
pulses hammered one refrain in his brain: “I
will not die thirsty ! ”
Long ago he recalled how his horse, wheeling on
a claypan where cattle had camped, came down
and broke his thigh. The fever of thirst and pain
was in his blood now as then. Yard by yard he
crawled the weary road again for water —that ten-
mile drag, where every tussock was a struggle and
the rises of the downs were mountains to be
overcome. And then the miserable shade of the
lightwood, two miles from his goal, where he had
almost given up —five years ago ! Yet every limb,
almost every leaf, was in his vision still. He had
taken out his revolver then as now, but was with-
held from “ chucking up the sponge” by that one
thought—he would not die thirsty. And at last,
having won the miserable three days’ supply, how
he had defended it against crow and plover
and pigeon ! Then came the recurring thought,
“I won’t die thirsty now, and nothing else shall
drink with me,” with the same grm of self-
contempt and pain.
A tiger-snake on the opposite bank crawled
along the soft mud left by the vanishing water,
hnd thrust its head and neck down crab-hole after
crab-hole in search of food. As Dan idly sighted
the Dean and Adams on its crimson markings,
he wondered whether the snake ate crabs, or was
only looking for a stray frog; but the central
thought never left him.
His horse, tied close by, which, fly-tortured and
restless, had been pounding the grass to powder
with its hoofs, now stood motionless with head-up
and pointed ears facing the west, the bes't of
sentinels. Maher sprang up and looked at the
sun. “An hoipr high”—then under it with
shaded eyes, atid saw her coming. He went
slowly forward to meet the woman he thirsted
for. The wind, falling with the sun, allowed the
dust to rise a little, and formed a golden halo.
She saw him, and struck into a canter, but, when
Maher threw the reins over his horse’s head and
put his foot in the stirrup, she pulled again into a
walk.
Once more he went towards her, and caught
her rein without a word.
“You let go my horse, Dan Maher, or it will
be the worse for you.”
He looked her over, every curve and line, with-
out answering. How he wanted her ! He knew
her, coarse and greedy and vain, and had a certain
scorn of her, but more of himself. Still, how
thirsty he was!
“Get down, Lizzie,” he said at last—“l want
to ask you something.”
She hesitated, looked in his face, and slipped
from the saddle. “ Well, what is it ? ”
He tied the two horses to a sheep-bitten bush
beside them. “Is it true you’re going to marry
Bob Stirrat ? ”
“ I’m going to marry Mr. Stirrat, sheep over-
seer, your boss. And what about it ? ”
He almost pitied her ; she was so unconcerned.
“ You promised me 1 ” he said, and caught her in
his arms.
She writhed in his grasp, pushed against his
breast, and struck him in the face with her hands.
“I’ll get you the sack. You’ll see! How dare
you ? I’m for your master, I am. Oh, Dan ! the
horses have broken away ! ” she panted.
“ We want them no more, Lizzie.”
Then she knew ! “ Oh’! for God’s sake, no,
Dan ! Dear Dan, I always liked you best. Oh,
Dan ! Dan ! not your poor Lizzie, and she fawned
on lurr> - and held up her quivering lips to his.
The crow that, startled by the first report, flew
cawing away, did not get so far but that it heard
the second ; and Mr. Bob Stirrat, overseer, also
saw two puffs of smoke against the dark creek
timber, and swore that travellers would burn the
run out before the rains.
R. A. FAIRLY.
Paddy Mack.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Ladies and gentlemen, this is my friend Paddy
Mack—l might say everybody’s friend Paddy
Mack. He has been digging off and on for over
30 years. He is a fossicker—a genuine out-and-
out digger. He owns a big heart and a big bushy
beard, and his name is a proverb among the dig-
ging fraternity—a keynote for many a merry tale.
Little “ Tassy ” knows him, and Maoriland, Croy-
don, Kimberley, the Palmer, and the Towers;
so does the New Guinea coast, also the Golden
West. In fact, everybody knows him.
And Paddy has struck it to-day ! There’s never
a digger from Cape York to Coolgardie but will
be glad to know of it, will be proud to know of it.
Seven thousand pounds! I’ll give him six months
to get quit of it. For six months he may cast off
his plum-duff-pattern pants ; his blue-black frowsy
flannel, with the Home Rule patches up the back;
his shirt with the herring-bone stitches—such a
shirt! —Joseph’s (or was it Jacob’s ?) coat was a
fool to it; his boots bound in greenhide; his
hat that appears to have crossed Australia in a
dust-storm. Yes ! I’ll give them all a six months’
holiday. But we must not lose sight of them, for
surely they will be needed again. Come now, ye
barmaids! Come, all hard-up cronies. Salvation
majors, boozers, parsons, priests, Hospital Satur-
day people, and kindred cattle. Make hay while
the sun shines ! This is my friend Paddy Mack.
What are ye drinlcin’ ?
Christmas has come and gone. There’s a pub.
on the top of the hill; there’s a store at the foot.
There’s a fine spanking, team on the road. Many
a heart is made glad. There are stars at the
throats of the maids, on their fingers, are rings.
But here in his shaft, with his, plum-pudding
pants and his pipe and his shirt ; with his grim
happy face and his great bushy beard and a smile
on his face like the moon when she’s young, here,
ladies and gentlemen, is my friend Paddy Mack.
DAVID AMBROSE.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
ladies’ Tailoring
Season-—l9OO-^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Bady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
KEFBSLJQBE
mscAis
St F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
SOAP MAZERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
N
MN
(TRADE MARK)
LiraSE-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE
The Basis of which is “ MONTSERRAT ” LIME=FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and
a trial It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before t
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery writes so far back as 1617, in a ships
“ I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiete in tne o 1
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
A&EIVTS;
SYDNEY Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E, Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE-D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Island Lover.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The rumbling breaker recoils and doubles
Its pliant shape for the crashing blow;
The rock-shelf shakes, and the white froth bubbles
Up on the reef like a wreath of snow;
We are alone, and the loud world’s troubles
Are far away and are long ago.
The bold hibiscus red in your tresses
Flings me a challenge of frank desire;
Like incense-wafts from the wildernesses
The drowsy scent of a sandal fire ;
A wistful, wandering zephyr presses
The strings of some seolian lyre.
The South was bride and the North was lover
When you were born, with a kiss from each;
Your breast is white as the snows that cover
The great, drear plains where the wild fowl
screech;
Your locks are black as the swift-winged plover
That whistle out on the sea-lapped beach !
Oh, soft caresses ! the trades are turning—
Another sunset, and then good-bye !
Oh, clinging kisses ! your lips are learning
Love’s luring language, and night is nigh.
But ah ! to-morrow . . . not teardrops burning,
Salt dews of sorrow that never dry.
And then—next year, when the land-crab traces
Weird cross-stitch patterns upon the sand,
I shall be longing for your embi-aces
And I shall seek you ; and when I land
Meet but a bevy of strange young faces
And know the meaning—and understand.
Oh, dainty blossom that buds and flowers
And fades away at the noonday’s height!
Oh, butterfly that wastes bright hours
Of wanton freedom and dies at night!
Oh, foolish heart that the wild god dowers
With one short semblance of love’s delight!
Oh, Tuahina ! that youth’s full measure
Should pass away like a summer eve !
That just the one gift that women treasure
Should be so stinted, so poor, and leave
A taste of sweetness, a note of pleasure
And . . . grey-hued twilight to mourn and
grieve !
Fate is the breath, and you are the feather;
Time is the reaper, and you the rye ;
And yet, and yet, we have loved together,
And I am living, and you must die.
Oh, Tuahina ! I wonder whether
You are the loser, or I, or I.
I feel as old as the seas that sever
This summer isle fi’om the busy West;
I feel as if I were damned for ever
To live, and wander in search of Rest—
To walk the cycles in vain endeavor
With sickened heart on an endless quest.
I feel as old as the grey palms weaving
Their leafage into a mazy mesh ;
That year for year see a new vine cleaving
Around them, fondling, and frail and fresh.
What of Thy justice, Lord, that is leaving
Love to the taint of withering flesh ?
And for an answer the gulls are screaming
With mocking laughter across the main.
I sometimes fancy that we are dreaming,
And shall awaken and see again
After this night of hoping and scheming,
And God will smile —and perhaps explain.
VON KOTZE.
The King of Sydney Domain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The King of Sydney Domain is a man of caste.
He stands 6ft. in his bare soles : his frock-coat is
a miracle of string and patches. We meet him
daily. He sits for hours under Mrs. Macquarie’s
Chair with the sea-wind in his white mane, his
deep-set eyes fixed on the ships that pass and go
down. He will smoke anything, and is a perfect
glutton for matches ; I believe he swops them for
sheets of brown paper—the blankets of the Domain.
The King has a past; he unfolded it yesterday in
exchange for a match.
“ Yer never had anythin’ ter do wiv boardin’-
houses, sir, eh? Well, I’ve bin froo ’em all.
“ The Dermain boys call me Barnacle Bill ’coz
I’m a born sticker. I made up me mind at a early
age never tew pay me board. Nobody ever bat-
tened on me. The game o’ knowin’ how tew live
is full of pints. Old age is agen me now. I’ve
lost the sparkil of me youth an’ me clothes. If I
had me clothes now nothin’ wud keep me out of a
boardin’-house. Stinker Jones turned dawg an’
pinched me portmanto two years ago. It wuz me
Waterloo. I’ve been destitoot since. Yes, sir, I
enjiy a heasy chair an’ a cigar better that these
cold rocks. Put yer ear on the ground an’ listen
tew the water drip. When yer hear that in the
night it makes yer think of nice warm boardin’-
houses an’ hot curry.”
He smiled loosely and drew a murky handker-
chief across his lips after the manner of the fat
gentlemen in the swell restaurants. “But,” he
continued, “ landladies are a hard lot, sir. Some
of ’em are as strong as three Jews, an’ as sharp as
that French feller Voltaire. It’s dealin’ wiv
battlers like me what kills all that is nice an’ soft
in ’em. They get narrer-minded an’ want tew be
paid reg’lar. If she ain’t narrer-minded an’ allows
herself to be ruled by low female emotions, it’s any
odds on the bailiff. I never had much to do wiv
bailiffs ; I cud have been one onst, but I ain’t
crool or hard enough tew fire lirrle widders inter
the cold street.
“ The bailiff is a nasty beast wiv a pipe an’ a
torn macintosh. This is how he starts business :
‘ ’Ow are yer, gor’ damn yer ? Where’s the
sticks, missus ? Eny kids ? ’Ow many ? Where’s
yer bloke ? Hout of work, I s’pose. Well, so ’elp
me ! Where’s the bloomin’ furniture ? Ain’t yer
goin’ ter shout, missis, afore I breaks up the ’appy
’otne ? ’ Then he sits down on the meat-safe, an’
sez fings to the pore lirrle widder. k
• * *
“I hate bein’ in a boardin’-house wiv theatrical
pipple. They deal out Shakespeare an’ stink the
place wiv fish-suppers. The low-comedy man
drops live crayfish inter the pianner. When the
lirrle girl boarder starts to play a hymn you can
hear a thing wiv nine legs walkin’ up the varia-
tions.
“Crayfish ain’t judges of moosio. I onst saw
one feelin’ his way out of the pedal-holes when
somebody struck up ‘ The Man that Broke the
Bank at Monty Carlo.’
“Me favorite toon’s "Ome, Sweet ’Ome,’ es-
pishully when it’s played on a boardin’-house
pianner what goes foo! whoof! in the soft parts.
An’ the lirrle girl boarders never seem tew notice
it; they jest tinkle-pinkie along while muvver
does a prime sniff in the corner. I ’ave never
complained about the bad insterments. One lady
sez to me onst—she had the loveliest nose I ever
see on a woman —Lord, it uster whistle in
the middle of the night when I wuz makin’ up me
' mind to do a slant! —she sez to me, ‘ Mister Prim-
rose, ’ave you eny objection to the pianner ? It
cost poor Mister Higgins ninety guineas on the
day we wuz married.’ ‘Ma’am,’ I sez politely
(she was a terror for bein’ paid reg’lar), ‘ your
pianner is still in the fashion, slightly meller wiv
age, but if you’ll excuse me, ma’am, it’s growin’
whiskers in the top notes.’ She didn’t know
wever ter bring out the pancake or make me stuff-
up for the three weeks I owed.”
At this point the King produced a pipe with an
enormous bowl charred like the rim of Vesuvius
which he tapped against his heel without looking
at me. I passed the match and a well-filled
tobacco-poucn. His innocent surprise was a study
in tragedy and burlesque.
A gun boomed across the Cove ; a jaunty yacht
with a crew of larrikins shook her white skirts
under the cannon-flanked ribs of the Royal
Arthur. The King sighed as the tobacco-smoke
built haloes over his white head.
“Ah, sir, me bones craves for a heasy chair, or
a soft bed wiv blankets. It’s me own fault, me
own fault. I’ve frown away chance arter chance;
an’ now in me lars days there aint so much as a
sup o’ wine or beer.”
I hinted delicately that cash would be sudden if
necessary. He took the proffered coin, placing it
with religious care somewhere in the depths of his
hat.
Puff . . . puff . . . puff. ...
“One night I wuz in the back room talkin’ to
the ladies. It wuzn’t much of a house, but I had
a good heap of clothes in me portmanto, an’
wuzn’t no trouble shiftin’ ’em when pay-day came
—jest frew ’em out the back winder, takin’ me
chance of hittin’ the dawg or the slavey. Then
I’d walk out, pick ’em up, an’ there I wuz ready
for another place. Everybody sez me profile wuz
like Sir ’Enery Parkes’s. I ’ad a bute of a frock-
coat—a real bute, an’ me black top-hat shone like a
nigger’s heel. Nobody wud ever sispect me of
doin’ a slant. But I’d made up me mind never
ter pay me board —never ! Nobody ever battened
on me. I wuz a squatter in one ’ouse, a lecturer in
another, a benivolent lecturer what had been to
the ’Oly Land an’ Bathsheba—that wuz me lars
charicter, the lecturer from Bathsheba. Me frock-
coat, me fat portmanto, an’ me steady eye, filled
the lirrle ladies wiv confidence. P’raps I wuz a
bit of a glutton over me porridge, but 1 alwus con-
ducted meself like a gentleman.
“ Well, one night 1 wuz sittin’ in the back room
givin’ the East what for, an’ all the ladies wus
sittin’ round me sayin’, ‘ Ho’ow verra naice ! ’ when-
ever I’d rip out a hunger of a lie about Jerusalem
the ’oly city, an’ Bathsheba; an’ just as me caravan
wuz crossin’ inter Galilee pursood by Bedowins,
we heerd a vice callin’ among the clothes-lines.
The vice sez, ‘ Bill! Bill! ’ an’ stopped. I stiffened
in me chair. ‘What’s that?’ sez the landlady,
lookin’ at me. ‘ It’s Stinker Jones, ma’am,’ I sez.
Y’see, Stinker an’ me hadn’t bin friends for a long
time, an’ I thought he wuz cornin’ to show me up.
I perceeded cautiously. ‘ It’s Stinker,’ I sez again ;
‘a low drunken feller what hasn’t a shirt to his back.
Ler him be.’ ‘Oh!’ sez the landlady, ‘then it
was Stinker who took my 12 dorkin’ hens. I
know his vice.’ I ler her say no more. ‘ Leave
him to me, ma’am ! ’ I sez quietly ; an’ wiv that I
■went out to Stinker. He hit me in the chest
afore I wuz ready, but I collared him by the
pants an’ frew him hard at the tank. ‘ Don’t you
dare hit me like that agin, Bill,’ he sez, sparrin’
wild ; ‘ don’t you dare hit me like that agin ! ’
‘ Where’s them 12 dorkin’ hens ? ’ I sez; ‘ where’s
the pore wuman’s poletry ? ’ ‘Eor Gorsake, Bill,
lemme go, an’ I won’t m’lest yer,’ he sez ; ‘ leinme
go, Bill.’ I ler him go. I wuz on me dignity. I
ler him go. But afore he went I ixplained a few
things, an’ he sez : ‘Yes, Bill, I’ll do anythin’ for
yer.’ Then I ler him go.
“ The ladies in the house called me a hero; but a
man like what’s bin collared by Bedowins don’t
want credit fer throwin’ a pore man like Stinker
at a tank. ‘ Don’t praise me, ladies! ’ I sez ;
‘ I’ll alius protect yer hearth and home while me
strength lasts.’ But I wuz in a fix in that house.
They uster bolt the back gate arter eleven, an’ it
wuz too high fer me ter climb wiv me portmanto.
So I resolved to git it out the front door. This is
how it happened. At the end of the monf—l
alwuz pay monfly—the landlady tapped me very
firmly. ‘Will you oblige me now, Mister Prim-
rose,’ she sez, “ wiv your board-money ? ’ I never
heerd a woman say noiv like her afore. I pulled
out me brass watch, gave her me lecturer’s cough,
went to the door an’ come back. ‘ Excuse me,
ma'am, while I go upstairs an’ get a five-poun’-
note out of me portmanto. Everybody in the
house heard what I said, an’ they all waited
behind the drawin’-room door ter see me come
down an’ give the landlady her money. Pipple
are very cur’ous about money matters in boardin’
houses. There is times when everybody sispects
everybody. But the breath of suspicion had never
been blown on me name —thank Gawd !
“I went upstairs slowly; I wuz sparrin’ fer
time. I dumped me port across the floor and pre-
tended ter rummage fer the fiver. ‘ He’s a verra
long time,’ sez somebody; ‘let’s go up.’ The
landlady sez : ‘ What nominee ! I’d trust Mister
Primrose wiv me live.’ Jest then a familar voice
rushed in the front door an’ shouted upstairs,
* Bill, Bill, yer mother’s dead an’ left yer a for-
tune ! ’ I collared me port wiv both arms an’
rushed downstairs. ‘Out of me way, ladies!’ I
shouts. - Stand away, me mother’s left it me at
larst! ’ an’ out I went like a bloomin’ tornader.
Stinker jined me round the corner. Me conscience
hurt me a bit though. I couldn’t forgit how
the ladies had sat at me feet an’ looked into me
face. So I wrote the landlady a note: ‘ Deer
ma’am, —What Stinker Jones said about mother
wuzn’t true. I’m a pore man yet. Me trouble is
killin’ me. I owe you 3£ 155.. Pleas don’t forgit
that I defended your home; so I my
account squares us —fightin’ berglar, 3£ 15s.—Bill
Peimhose.’
“ But Stinker turned dawg on me at lars. He
wuz waitin’ outside a boardin’-’ouse for me onst
tew collar me port, when I frew it over the veran-
dah. I frew if over. He picked it up an’ scooted
—me after him. How he did run ! —yer couldn’t
see him fer distance. ‘ Stop, Stinker !’ I shouted.
‘ Stop, fer Heaven sake! ’ He never stopped,
never till he got to a pawnshop. Turned dawg on
me arter knowin’ him fer years. That wuz me
Waterloo.”
The King of Sydney Domain gazed sadly sea-
ward. All that—l reflected—for sixpence and
nine matches, I left the King alone with his
emotions.
ALBA DORION.
“Scotty the Wrinkler ” holds forth:—
Dear B.—Melb. Weekly Times (24/3/’00) on “the
rifle club movement ” :
Sir Frederick Sargood points out that “(a) the Boers
have never been noted for long range shooting, and have
been constantly beaten in competitions with members of
the home volunteer force, while as a matter of fact in
peace time they are chary of wasting ammunition, and
hence never fire at game at more than 200 or 300yds.,
and (b) during the present war is it not a fact that the
serious losses they have inflicted upon our troops have
invariably been at short ranges.”
Any sane man is “ chary of wasting ammunition.”
Shooting game at more than “ 200 or 300yds.” is
bosh. The vital parts of a deer (and I suppose a
springbok or gemsbok is a deer) are the same as if
you put for a target a pint flask, a well-rope 3ft.
long in a horizontal line, and a tea-cup below
them. That represents the head, spine and heart.
A broken hind-leg does not give you the deer.
Many a black-buck have I sent off with a swinger.
Shot through the bowels they’ll gallop
five miles, and it takes good man, good
horse, and good country to get up with
them. Sportsmen (including Boers) stalk game
such as blackbuck, sambur, chinkara, para,
oorial, marklioor, ibex, etc., up to where
they can plug them vitally. I remember the
crack shot of the 82nd, with a Whitworth rifle
and all sorts of sights, never got half as many
horns as I and my three chums brought down with
a double-barrelled Enfield, a single Express, and a
16-bore fowling-piece ! Fellows talk of sniping at
1000yds. Now take a good pea-rifle (I’ll lend you
one) at 50yds. That’s the 20th part of 1000. Mark
on a sheet of paper a man 3|in. high and half-an-
inch wide. Pot him, if you please, vitally. The
long ranges are only for firing at masses, and a
company is very small not only in height but in
width at half-a-mile. The Rifle Club movement
is new, affords a means of getting free ammunition
for kangarooing, slaughtering bullocks, making a.
noise, and playing Kriegspiel. What is wanted is
to teach the handling of fire-arms without danger,
the reasons of the different loadings and sightings,
the saving (not the wasting) of ammunition, and
the mechanism of lock, stock and barrel.


The Best Family Medicine
Is one that will Purify the Blood, Strengthen the Nerves,
Aid Oigestion, and Make the Blood Rich and Red.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
0?
m
I
7M
%
V,
7/
a,
W
m
¥
/
**l wish to say to every one that I have used a great deal of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in my family. I believe it is the best family medicine there is
in the world.
“Once, while I was on a vessel trading to the Bast Indies and also while I
was living in Calcutta, I Used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for impurities in my blood,
and with the best results. I always took a stock of it with ,me when I went on
my voyages. I could not feel safe without it. For eruptions of the skin, boils,
and such affections it is a quick and sure cure. I recommend it to everybody
suffering from impurities in the blood, showing itself in any way whatsoever.”
This is what Mr. W. A. Lindsay (whose portrait, with that of his wife and
child, is here given), of Stanthorpe, Queensland, Australia, thinks of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. Because of the multitude of stich cases, the people call Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine."
Because some other preparation may be called a sarsaparilla is not the
slightest reason that it is anything like “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. If you wish
these quick results, these safe results, these sure results, you must insist upon
getting “Ayer’s.” Make a particular point of this.
M
The
That* Cures.
It Removes Disease by Purifying the Blood.
—
Ayer’s Pills Aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
jp
. -Jr;-,
' /A\.\
v \' V
: ■ m
PLAIN HOMC TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SEJMSIE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young-and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable i cresting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a siq or guide to the action of men and
women both in and out m marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and w'ishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the’imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post, Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love,Dress,etc. Isod post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-To-Date Comic -Reciter (newest), isod post free.
How to Head Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own. Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR? 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*Q DEFY COMPKTITIOKT.
WINES Best '* SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEAM’S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RKLTEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WQJS.ITH A
GUIIEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society; and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beeeham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Bold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
i3Vtr*onT-A.iMT !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
NM
N
m
P£xru*a
m
Hhln&l
oh avenue
DON.
INVALUABLE TO
L SMGEBS & SPEAKERS
M
NM
eP
rt
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OF
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “ Dear Sirs. —I experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of your
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bonnington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Bro oilman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
HOTEL
80
•fisriav'l HCMT
oraiua s-avai
w_ o. & go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 IfOIMv NlUlil,.!’, SYDNEY
lOpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders try post irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
IXT- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
J S OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
8 There-'is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of.these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity tb'eir beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied, for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nk\v Oxford-bt., London. Fur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Mammatt’s
N
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark
MN
40U
M
<SHE J^BBOT
J- & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
AI , SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
TI3: E MIKTER’S great waktt
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
“ Koerstz Patent Klondyke Quartz Crushers.”
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, capable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to’the finest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5. No. 3 with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6O. • • 5
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No. 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON 9 SOLE AGENT.
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes.
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
NM
The No. 2 Miner’s “Klondyke” Crusher, Price £3O.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
BUTTER • • •
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
Sydney
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND PRICES.
60 Clarence Street.
Have in Stock for Immediate Delivery
KNOWLES PUMPS for eveiy kind of service
ENGINES, BOILERS, COMPRESSORS, DRILLS,
CRUSHING ROLLS,
CONCENTRATORS, HUNTINGTON MILLS,
—AND—
All kinds of General Machinery and
Engineer Fittings and Supplies.
Blake Steam Pumps
m
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
Estimates given for Complete
Pumping Plants, including
Boilers, Piping, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia
Blake Duplex
Pump.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
0 SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
i
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
