

MeE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY,
PIG STOUT.
USE
9
ALTED COCOA
GUARAKrXEBD FITRE COCOA. -A.3XT X> EXTRACT OF MALT.
R. Gr. WATKINS 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
JEFFRH
Roller. Steel and Special CHAINS
WINS!
WINS !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
Kits' Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-« ntt street, SYDNEY.
sole Agents for The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating Conveying Macliinery . . .
Detachable Chain Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
Grain Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
SAN DEBIAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED QB, OCEBS.
ft*
Hfell
fflal
a
HOBART.
—jssfs*
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLiyS GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in .Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
CO
9
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
m
-^PiONEER
LEATHER
BELT! MG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed -for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by the N.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C, LUDOWtoT& sok LTD.,
13L*7 "SSTonr-li.: Stores©*;,
SYDNEY. \
BRANCHED; Brisbane', Queensland; W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S^Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is J
m
per- Post Is. 3d.
“ WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
' V. *
Messes. T. C. WILLIAMS COMPANY, op RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, TJ.S.A.,
have,prepared for this market a
HIGH-GRADE TOBACCO
Under the Brand of
“WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
The knowledge which the manufacturers have gained .in supplying the favorite
brands of Welcome Nugget, Victory," and Diadem; - enables them to confidently
recommend Wealth of Nations
TO ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists and Stores.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan -
m
EDISV/AN,
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIEE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
.tjßjpri im
United Electric Light
00., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildfnes, Edward-st., Brisbane.
- : U ——■
TEACHER’S “ HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTS)
}
Flixmmer Love «3z Co.
AJ4& George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vo] 21.—N0. 1044. J
[Saturday, February 17, 1900.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT,
the VOICE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure,
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The' Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe Ofjme of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
SUITABLE FOB 01.
AND YOUNG
HUDSON’S
Contain NO cocaine or other /<ot.*on o „, s . *
Sold by all Chemists. ls. 6d. Orjrom the HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
TAILOR, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT—s.
THE RED PAGE.
“Father.”
Morning-. He wakes and sighs ;
He sees the empty day
Before him : his wife’s eyes
Are closed. Ah, sleep away,
Poor little slave-wife, sleep
Your troubl es f°r an hour 1
Black Care his tryst will keep—
He can who has the power.
Scant is the morning meal;
A cup of tea—a crust—
Does he the trouble feel ?
Not he. What must be must
The children rise with cheers
Good God! but it is hard.
He eats his crust and hears
Their laughter in the yard.
Says Tom : “ We ’ll have some meat
And pie and gravy brown,
And lots of tilings to eat—
When Dad comes back from town."
’ Sa .V? Jack :“ We ’ll have a meal
About this afternoon ;
And sausages and veal—
I hope he ’ll come back soon."
But Eileen, pale of face,
Says, “ I will kiss my Dear
And in his coat I ’ll place
A rose—the reddest here.”
A rose was in his coat ;
He stepped forth quick and smart *
■ A rose was in his coat,
A sharp thorn in his heart
The Posts were filled somehow,
Yet all the Firms were kind ;
“ We have no opening now—
We ’ll keep your name in mind."
He knew that no remote
Chance waited him the while
A rose was in his coat;
And on his lace a smile.
But Disillusion’s fruits
Are very hard to chew ;
His heart was in his boots ;
His boots were broken too.
And dry hour after hour
He tramps the city streets,
The soul within him sour. . .
And then ... a friend he meets.
“ Old man, you look a shell—
You ’re feeling bad, I think.”
“I’m feeling none too well.”
“ Oh, come-and-have-a-drink !"
The drink was in his throat,
When suddenly he spied
The red rose in his coat . . .
The heart within him died.
“Batter the streets, and wait,
And on the corners stand,
Where always cynic Fate
Comes round with empty hand"—
So to himself he spake . . .
(The rose still kept its red)
“ Good God ! am I awake V
Or am I only dead ? ”
Evening. No use to roam
The cold streets any more ;
At last he wanders home .
The wife is at the door.
Her eyes he could not shirk—
Her tender, anxious eyes ;
“ My dear, did you get work ? ’
“ To-morrow,” he replies.
The kids, with stomachs slack,
Poor starving cherubim,
Dream—“ Father’s coming back
To bring the Town with him.”
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
" What is Literature?"
Dear Bookeellow, — We remember that one of
your judgments ran, “It is all very fine and large,
but it isn’t Literature .” And often you seem
express the same thought in other words. No
what is Literature? — Yours, A Bush woman.
"\"\7"HAT is Truth ? said jesting Pilate
f \ — and did he jest '#— 1 “ and woul
not stay for an answer ” —and die
he not stay? The jest and the has
are Bacon’s imagination merely. They le
the poor Nazarene “prophet” to th
judgment-hall led him, as one in
agines, unwashed and dishevelled, wear
for sleep, but with the fever of “pro
phecy ” burning fiercely in his eye
And the educated Roman—fresh and clea
from. his bed and his bath, leisurely digesi
ing his breakfast, eyeing the other with tl
large tolerance of the man of the work
pitying him and honouring him as one mus
always honour the sincere—opposed discip
lined intellect to the vaguenesses of “ pre
phetic” emotion. “Every one that is o
the Truth heareth my voice,” said Jesus.
“ What is Truth ? ” asked Pilate gently.
And Jesus had no reply.
Did it flash in upon Jesus, gazing at th
suave Governor, that there is no abstrac
Truth which can be limited and defined'
that one always' argues from and t
one’s own conception ? that this mai
looking at him, the type of anothe
temperament, the embodiment of anothe
race, another civilisation, might hav
a creed and canons of Truth whicj
he, Jesus, did not comprehend, could neve
assimilate, yet none the less Truth—fo
Pilate ? Did he realise how slight is any
man’s hold upon the Universe ? how litth
any individual can understand of the infinite
mass ? how far the problems set before ii
transcend the capacity of this brain of yes-
terday’s growth ?
Or was Jesus merely silent, as we are all
silent or superficial—in face of a request
to reduce the Abstract to the Concrete
at two seconds’ notice ? in face of the
urbane request for “ a Definition ” ?
In either case, Jesus was silent—as Pilate
would have been silent had Jesus posed the
question. Pilate waited courteously for the
reply which did not come ; and, liking Jesus
all the better because it did not come, tried
hard to save the victim from the mob. ’ And
the mob wa,s a ravening beast, as often.
“What is Literature?” It is an easier
question, because it refers to a thing which
is the creation of the human mind—which
does dwell in a temple made with hands—
which can be corrupted by moth and rust—
which can be borrowed by women who never
I”" rn . lfc ;, • Literature is indeed not a
se re , e , i ,ufc i fc cannot be entirely
separated from the concrete. Destroy the
books which enshrine it, and you destroy
Wbh H? LUlt u another book can be writtein
librarwn } f rnUlg uf the Alexandrian
library Literature was burnt, though not to
on a V 5 f V6ry b° ri ' owe r’s thumb-mark
literature! 8 * * «“
dicdon r ary^-“'~ bUtSee “ g °° d
fancy preserved in writing. g ana
That is good ; but it is not designed to satisfy
A Bush woman.” Again
st^or la ( fvr° f Wntillgs distinguished for beauty of
in distfneti f S1 ° n ’ a • P ° e^ ry ’ essays - or history,
w\X*h ! fmm . scientific treatises and works
hich contain positive knowledge; belles-lettres.
lhat is better; but still unhelpful—for,
till ’ wi b( f S , the question as a dictionary
Will t, 1 ; 1,S f beau , ty of style or expression ?
■ r bu f u, A of style or expression by itself
constitute literature ? It will not.—Close
the dictionary : dive into the expanse.
fei.nlm t “ re is - J he human mind’s effective mani-
testation in written language.
That is put forward as the best definition
f * !?!/ % F °, r , if yeu like, read
m \h U V°T hU - Everything, you see, is
in the adjecttve. Artistic would be more
satisfying, in one sense ; but what is artistic ?
where is your criterion of art or of beauty ?
i , beauty must be construed in terms of
strength— it is a mode of strength, as heat
von T ; ° m r fclou - When you
nn»lii d £ llminate the taste-cavil, the
quality-cavil, but you refer it to a quantity-
£”S>le 18 m ° ro intel f igible ' “°»>
l nr^ 0 T lnuch ’ a ” d how many, and for how
S °wl f b °f ' lnpress ’ and *nd
nil i What of active energy does it dis-
engage ? What is its equivalent in thought-
raysj m emotion-volts ? What is its force,
its effect? Estimate that, find that, judge
that, and you will know its universal value
as literature.
, Th / 8 standard of force is the ultimate
standard. Pastes differ with individuals,
countries, and eras ; but three and two are
hve, and twice five are ten, everywhere in
the universe.
4<TT be i n cnl l inevitably adjusts itself.
Uncle fom s Cabin ” impressed many, and
much ; but for how long? Catullus has
moved much, and long • but how many ? We
argue that Catullus writes better literature
than Mrs. Beecher Stowe—beciiuse people
of taste people of “culture,” people of
learning, prefer Catullus. Well, if it is
so, in the long run Catullus’s total force of
achieved impressions will outweigh Mrs.
Beecher Stowe’s. Her work dies ; his lives
through the ages. His mind’s “effective
manifestation ” surpasses hers.
. Style is a requisite of literature ; but wha
is style ? Merely an aid to effect. Individua
tastes may prefer the florid or the simple
but florid style, as simple, is only valuabl
in so far as it impresses, gives force. Havin
defined literature as the mind’s effectiv
manifestation in written language, you cai
proceed to define the things which go to mak
effect, and style is one of them. But style
and thought, and emotion, and interest, anc
melody, and picture—-these are only factor
in the total. The total is force. In the las
resort literature must be judged, like every
thing else, by the force it develops the
quantity of latent energy which it makes
active.
Then you must wait ten thousand years
to judge what is literature 1 ” Yes ; and
longer than that. But you can make pro-
visional judgments as y.,u go along, you
know. If the literary effect of Mrs Stowe
is at this century-end equivalent to 10*, and
the literary effect of Catullus is equivalent
to only 7*, you can still calculate on the
future and defend your preference of
Catullus or of Mrs. Stowe. Nobody does,
of course ; but that is the only way to do it
which will hold logic- water. As between
any human mind, as agent, and the whole
multitude of human minds, as subjects,
the only fixed standard of measurement pos-
sible is a standard of how much force
exerted, on how many, for how long. All
the other standards shift with time, and
place, and individuals, and circumstances.
So that, for humanity,
Literature is the human mind’s effective mani-
festation in written language.
But, for the individual appraiser, there is a
standard much more satisfactory, much more
easily applied. Truth, my dearBusHWOMAN,
is what you believe. Literature is—what
you like. Admire the corollary : What I
like is Literature.
The new American verse-writer, Edwin Mar
ham, is ludicrously over-praised; but there ;
some pith in him, if no mettle. Some stanz
from his latest-published piece—
THE MUSE OF BROTHERHOOD
I am in the Expectancy that runs ;
My feet are in the Future, whirled afar
On wings of light. If I have any sons,
Let them arise and follow to my star.
Some momentary touches of my fire
Have warmed the barren ages with a beam I
There is no peak beyond my swift desire,
There is no beauty deeper than my dream.
I made an end of life’s stupendous jest—
The merry waste of fortunes by the Few,
While the thin faces of the poor are pressed
Against the panes—a hungry whirlwind crew.
I come to' lift the soul-destroying weight,
To heal the hurt, to end the foolish loss,
To take the toiler from his brutal fate—
The toiler hanging on the Labour-Cross.
I bring to Earth the feel of home again,
That men may nestle on her warm, still breast;
I bring to wronged, humiliated men
The sacred right to labour and to rest.
I bring to men the fine ideal stuff
The young gods took to build the spheres of old :
ihe fire I send on men is great enough
To burn the iron kingdoms into gold.
I hold the way until the bright heavens bend—
Until the New Republic shall arise,
And quick young deities again descend,
Bringing the gifts of God with joyous cries.
Then the stimulus lessens—
And at the first break of my Social Song
A hush will fall upon the foolish strife,
As though a joyous god, serene and strong
Shined suddenly before the steps of life.
Cold hearts that falter are my only bar :
Heroes that seek my ever-fading goal
Must take their reckoning from the central star,
And follow the equator : I am Soul.
There are some silly stanzas like—
My love is higher than heavens where Taurus wheels
My love is deeper than the pillared skies : ’
High as the peak in Heaven where Milton kneels
Deep as that grave in Hell where Caesar lies.
And the preacher closes —
Wise Greeley touched the star of my desire,
Great Lincoln knelt before my hidden flame :
It was from me they drew their sacred fire—
I am Religion by her deeper name.
Lincoln and Greeley were all very well in their
way; but ■No Poet who knows his business
localises his poetry.
. Mrs. C. L. Bayly, of Manly, Sydney, has an
interesting album-memento of explorer Leich-
hardt in the lines reproduced on this page from
Leichhardts script. They were written before
his last disastrous expedition in 1847— being pre-
sumably borrowed from some German poet—and
the text goes—
Willst Du zu Deinem Zweck gelangen ?
So gieb Dein Denken keinem preis :
Nicht satz Nachtigull gefangen,
Wenn sie verschwiege, was sie weiss !
Which might run in English—
And hast thou some fair end to win ?
See that thou blab to none thy thought •
The nightingale would not sit caught
If she had kept her dream within.
Yet Leichhardt sits caught by the Australian
desert—snared so well that the place and manner
ot his death are unknown. And, maybe, had he
given more precise details of what lie dreamt of
doing, aid might have reached him alive. The
chief mischief of maxims is due to circumstance-
altered cases : what is very good advice for a
nightingale may be very bad advice to an ex-
plorer.
Sample of virulent Ruskiuese commended by
The Book-Lover, of Melb. It is “ a description of
Turners picture ‘The Slave Ship.’ For those
who have not seen this magnificent work it may
be explained that the slaver is evidently in
of sinking from the effects of a storm, and
tha,t the crew are throwing overboard the slaves
to lighten the ship.”
It is sunset on the Atlantic after prolonged
storm ; the torn and streaming rain clouds are
moving in scarlet lines to lose themselves in the
hollow of the night. The whole surface of the
sea included in the picture is divided into two
ridges of enormous swell, not high or local, but
a low broad heading of the whole ocean, like
the shifting of its bosom by deep-drawn sobs
after the torture of the storm. Between these
two ridges the fire of the sunset falls along the
trough of the sea, dyeing it with an awful but
glorious light, the intense and lurid splendour
which burns like gold and bathes like blood.
Along this fiery path and valley the tossing
waves by which the swell of the sea is restlessly
divided lift themselves in dark, indefinite, fan-
tastic forms, each casting a faint afld ghastly
shadow behind it along the illuihined foam. Pur-
ple and blue, the lurid shadows of the hollow
breakers are cast upon the mist of the night,
which gathers cold and low, advancing like the
shadow of death upon the guilty ship as it labours
amidst the lightning of the sea, its thin masts
written upon the sky in lines of blood, girded
with condemnation in that fearful hue which
signs the sky with horror, and mixes its flaming
flood with the sunlight, and, cast far along th?
desolate heave of the sepulchral waves incarna
dines the multitudinous sea. ’ na ‘
There, you see, you have an example of the fire
workery with which Ruskin astonishes weak
minds, and as a whole it is a shining examnlo
of bad style. Pass the gaudy exaggeration • and
remark that the picture is lost in polysyllable*
you have to read the passage twice to grasp its
meaning and then you don’t see Turner’s picture
you only see Ruskin’s language. But this
style, twopence coloured, will always hit the
undiscnnnnating audience where it feebly lives
Ruskin has done much better than that His
mmd moved in such a welter of words and image
that he is always best when simplest. Ruskin’s
simplicity is the highest colour which style can
take without degenerating into a rainbow poster.
The Bookfellow '
A Payan Creed.
[This translates Albert Fleury’s “ Credo Paien» ~
printed from Mercure de France on Nov. 11. The v’prsirm
is melodious, and tolerably faithful. Several other version,
are acknowledged.] lons
In thine embrace is my supreme belief.
Men call thee one eternal lie, and say
Thy rose-deck’d hands have but the blossoms
slam
To steal their beauty : that yon limpid eye
Does but reflect my own long-vanish’d dream
Itself a void of nothingness and night.
They say the soft words sounding from thy lips
But draw their magic from my charmed will •
That empty night re-echoes with the sighs
I hat sob around thy bed, where lies
A soul more empty still.
Thy world-old history has to me been told :
The wake of reeking hands behind thy path
I he heroes foully butchered at thy fane,
Thy victories in sobbing chant of death’
Proclaimed : the blood of martyrs spilt for thee
Men point me out that face where vengeance stays
Writhing, a murder’d flower between its lips :
I know the weeping stream of human pain
Where dash d the fever’d, hosts around thv
shrine. 3
Natheless to me thy falsify is truth.
When gentle eve descends from hill to plain
And. panting earth exhales her heated breath
Through woods where deep’ning shadows lengthen
out :
Their cups of love the modest flowrets ope,
A breathless shiver thrills the evening air ’
And thy vast temple rises to the stars.
My creed thy snowy arms that lull to peace
Our fever’d heat; that soothe our sobs and give
To fondest dreams a sweet reality,
Thine arms that fragrant breathe of bliss to come.
My creed th,)’ soft maternal lap, the. spring
And haven sure of hope and memory,
Whereto the eternal longing of our race
All quiv’ring ever beat. , %
My creed thy; tender breasts where I have laid
Ere now, with brow o’ercast with some black
dream,
So vast a load of sadness that I fear’d :
Yet slept my sorrow ’neath their ling’ring touch.
My creed thy Woman’s eyes, of blue or black,
The mirror true where I my soul have found :
Thy glance a book of such great destinies,
Such ranks of heroes who have trod thy path,
That in thy faoe their march has left engrained'
A glory sheen of dazzling radiance.
E ich hero’s look thy look has caught and kept
So true that he on whom it rests may rise
Dauntless to conquer, fearless e’en to die
A loving votary at thy temple gate.
My creed thy promised lips : a balmy spring
Clear welling m a parehed desert track,
T hat steeps our senses in delirious ease.
Thy kiss my god that slays me.
My creed thy words. Despite the lore of years
IN o .shade of falsehood have I seen thee cast.
jLhy word is truth : all else is naught.j thy word
Alone consoles the melanehqly hour.
Though old the syllables thy vision tells
The tone my inmost soul slow penetrates,
Sweet pipe of Autumn, whisper’d song of eve.
i hy word is truth : [ wish no other creed,
For so it sheds sweet balm upon my soul
Wrapping the heart in deepest rest and ease.
When night expanding fills the utmost space,
Trembling with heavy scent of far-off love
Where mighty roads in dark-blue splendour roll;
\V lien dawn the hi 1 i-tops silvers, o’er with streaks
And darts of everchanting light, from out
The forest ever springs the Feast Divine
Of thee, thy body, eyes and all thy flesh
That world on world may stretch its arms to thee.
For here from East and West come one and all
With brows intent and eyes upraised to thee, ’
The mailed warrior and the cloister’d priest!
Each crown of glory, each bright halo sheen’
At thine imperial nod have faded dim.
Thy folded arms on Nature’s couch repos’d
Have broke the golden arms of deities :
Heroes have found thy smile their glory palm :
Priests leave their idols shatter’d at thy feet,
And from eternity’s most distant past
No mass outweigh’d thy body’s offering.
Hear how sonorous organ-pipes of eve
Make deepest forests tremble with thy fame,
The bourne of every human pilgrim path.
Display thy naked beauty at the door
Of our desire ; forthwith the ancient shrines
Of other gods in incense melt to thee :
Creation fades : thy flesh e’en pales the sun.
From out the far horizon’s purple shade
A siren song spreads on from leaf to leaf :
Earth quivers : and from out the depth of eve
Thou showest queen serene.
No more the stars I see above : no more
The glory of the heavy-scented night:
Thou art my perfume, thou my only light:
Thy beauty only can my eye behold :
Thy flesh alone can be my holy creed.
ADONIS.


SECOND-HAND
AND
MEW FURNITURE
(Beat Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
' £1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Huucer-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHtEA, &»., bears ou
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLUS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1896, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
HOMOEOPATH 1C TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS OF ENERGY, etc.
Has cured Thousands for the BLOOD, SKIN, NERVES,
RHEUMATISM, etc.
“ WORDS OF WISDOM.” This Free Book about the
Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40 pages of
useful information, and will be posted in plain cover
absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address— The Irvine Homoeopathic Co., oorner Hunter
and Bligh Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
30 Days' Trial.
à
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
1 lustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
; Iso Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German- Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
(AS*
<y / Per Bottle
hmj Postage^
WASHINGTON.H .SOUUC9
160 PITT STREET .
SYDNEY. A\
r Cures all BYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor STEP HEN BREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
$
WHEAT SEASON, 1899-1900
All Grain held in Trust on Account of
Consignors .
Storage Accommodation—Spacious and Unrivalled.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Ag-ency Co., Ltd.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS: 222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Donned,” London. London, jes.c.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the .Financial Market of London by
frank: ja.fB.vis
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.s. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CO ERIE & CO., Queen ,reet, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to tlie Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
<5J
rtsiv foa
99
COMBINES
WHISKY
PERFECTION OF QUALITY .
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
3
0^
WH£ fl£
WHRT IS CATARRH ?
n
M EDICATOR.
is inflammation of the
v - / ' lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. Jt injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away t le small
frontal bones of the skull. 1 he putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
fJrinnp At.r»
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment, by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?? Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“ COMMON SENSE EAli Bit UM ”
THE
DEAF
w Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. 'Many have been
benefited after faying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-ds.v for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. OH A Lil IiRS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
DRUNKENNESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Tbe B. ai>d N.Treatment
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying'to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence."
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Tbe
9f
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
*“““““ For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— ‘‘No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 48*, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
TORONTO.
CANADA.
A
high-grade farm implements and machinery.
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
Bluthner
PIANOS
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
—ON—
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
BLUTHNEB
FIA3XTOFOKTES
Grand and Upright.
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months,
Price, 2s. 6d.
Post Free.
The
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed free to
any" address.
-S)(n2 \[
a l°s
W. H. 6LEN & CO
; • r . „ iStyf.. • ■v • • r . ...... . • . ■
"J
359 G-eorg*e Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 1 Collins St., Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
£
Newmarket H. March a
100,000 Subscribers at S.
To TATTERSAU*
Please allot me
Name
.shares in above.
Address.
: s
Newmarket H. (special).
£O,OOO Subscribers at 0,
To TATTERSAIiL.
Please allot me,
Name.
jshares in the above.
Address
March 6.
Australian C.
00,000 Subaorlbera at O.
£
t
Address.
£
Maitland 0. March 9.
25,000 Subaoribera at 5 a
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address
> s
.shares in the above.
\
/
Rosehill 0. March 31.
60,000 Subscribers at 3.
To TATTERS ATT.
Please allot me
-4 • *
*- " % *
Name
shares in above.
'-i
s
Doncaster H. April 14
25,000 Subscribers at A.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me.
Name.
.shares in the above.
Address.
Sydney C.
April 16.
60,000 Subscribers at A,
To TATTERS ATT,
Please allot me.
in the above.
r .;,4;
Name.
Address
I i I \
C* May 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
.shares in the above.
Address
full particulars read our Printed Circulars
; '■ - - *
' Si \ ’ *'
Address “Tatter sail,” care Cteo. Adams, Hobart.


“Melb.” : The Atiten7EUST, not Purves’s
eating-house, but the booky shop, threatens to
croak. Pastor Abemethy, as chairman at the
general meeting, this week, said' the subscribers
number less than half the total in 1890. When
Garnet Walch was secretary he brought in 150
subscribers almost at one slap. The impression is
that this concern will be taken up by some syn-
dicate, brought up to date, fumigated, and the
mummy ism taken out.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion / If so, under the skin you have poison that defies ali
tne remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
rr allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
t U O w S T l,b 7 ,it to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CUKfc, \Ou. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSIIdPFER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Leet,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis.
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
A? - T s £L , ?n’ l "o Gr ?? t Britain > l/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
AIBKKI <3, tarringdon-street, London, England.
Agents t ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trad** mark of the Grasshopper on a
green la Lei on each box. (Regd. copyright).
7 71 $6
/W'C'oe
ILJJS;
I
■ 7 >*~1
bx®^
Beware ! »
QFl/AnATlONS,
AGE
MARKS
Why do you
sit calmly and
just let your
hair all fall
out or get
gray and do
nothing to
stop it ? Is
this common
sense? Not a
bit of it. No
need of losing
your hair in this way. And
there is no need of your look-
ing old before your time,
either. The hair may be
pres erved
and made
beautiful
by giving
it the food
found in—
It always
restores
JOSIA
JI^H
tm
color to gray or faded hair.
Your hair may have all the
dark, rich color of early life.
Then why not have it so ?
rrerared hy Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co,, Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAiS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable In all
, cases of ansemia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
. for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET, “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/* has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
ROI I) BY CHEMISTS AU. TH* WOBI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
mum
GO TO HEI.T.-
l(i()l-AMi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real irood stamps, sendto
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st„ Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
AOStraliao Provident Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our I\ew Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Ilead Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
a
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-j 70/- per Set.
KdT Send for Price List. ”®Ji
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
á
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBO URN E-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams Ac., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE’S PLAN.
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
M ELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,”
says :—
Most
decidedly .
use ‘KOKCV
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriß, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless,~Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i 2 6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO,. LTD,.
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING- M
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, LcL, London
KT.S.'W. Carriage
Note our New Address :
&r. Saddlery ]VTanf.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us. a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, RUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, i. 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, fill.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S ADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled bj' any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPKCIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf «r
Jf.S.tV. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
â
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORTSED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
(C
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from Thjc But.lkttn Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What Matter the Tears?
A fig for old Time and the swing of his sickle,
A fig for his furrow's, his locks that are gray;
There was never a knave in a perilous pickle
But found a road out if his heart was but gay.
Let Age come along with his direst endeavor
To plant his old Hag where the gay banners hung,
We’ll flout him and rout him by singing for ever—
“ What matter the Years if the bosom be
young?”
There are bosoms right blythe in their sixtieth
summer,
There are hearts that are old when their years
are a score,
To the one every Spring is a joyous new-comer,
To the other she brings but a burden the more ;
If the wrinkles must come let them come with our
laughter,
Our voices may crack, yet our songs shall be
sung,
And the Lamps of the Past give a Light for
Hereafter —
What matter the Years if the bosom be young ?
Why bother our brains with the journey behind
us?
Let’s look with a smile at the vista before;
Let every fair vision that greets us remind us
How Earth is as jocund as Earth was of yore.
What hearty old hero would weary with whining
As backward a glance o’er his shoulder he flung ?
To the man who would live there’s no time for
repining—
What matter the Years if the bosom be young ?
What matter the Years if around us the daily
Sweet breezes sweep in from the islands of
balm ?
What matter the Years if we meet them but gaily
And take our gray hairs as a victor his palm ?
What matter the Years if they bring us unpalling
The echoes of chimes that we formerly rung
All rising and falling and tenderly calling—
“ What matter the Years if the bosom be
young ? ”
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Jack of Hearts.
Lips and eyes of English lasses, till the sail’s
unfurled,
Kiss the lass we love the best all around the
world ;
Every port a sweetheart, white, or black, or tan,
Hearts are broke and mended by the sailor man.
Toast to-day the English eyes, kiss the English
lip,
Just another glass ashore, then to join the ship ;
Day must soon give place to dark, blue eyes yield
to black,
And a lass may miss her sailor when the ship
comes back.
For dusky arms will hold us, dusky lips be kissed
When in the Southern Islands we grind the Devil’s
grist;
Silver moon and starlight and shady palms could
tell
How men from off the trader knock at the gates
of Hell.
Underneath the palm-trees many trysts are made,
Many lovers parted underneath their shade ;
Many vows are spoken on the coral shore,
Many vows have broken as they broke before.
Many a daring lover underneath the palms
Quaffing sweets of loving in his dear one’s arms ;
A kiss of deadly hatred, a knife flash in the moon,
And all is still as death again beside the still
lagoon.
The roving blood hath breeded the black lust in
our heart,
The devil holds our hand in his though other friends
must part ;
The ghosts of many sweethearts have waved the
ship good-bye,
The Devil comes aboard with us, we part not, you
and I.
Lips and eyes of English lasses, shining teeth of
pearl,
Tell the same old story to the English girl ;
Faithful to the faithless, knows not of black or
tan,
Some hearts can’t be mended by the sailor man.
C.P.Q.C.
The Land of the Long - Ago.
There are shadows into the distance,
There are hands held out in woe ;
Into the night shines the gleaming light
Of the Land of the Long Ago.
There are voices out in the darkness
That ring with the sorrow of tears,
And hot eyes ache for the drifting sake
Of the things that are lost in the years.
With their faces turned to the morning,
And their hands out-held to the glow,
We hear the beat of their restless feet
In the Land of the Long Ago.
There are sorrows and deeper sorrows
Where the gladness of life should be,
And hearts have cried for the turn of the tide
Of Grief on the dreamy sea.
High over the Vale of Silence
Lie purple clouds that steep
The moonless glow of the Long Ago
In the glory of passionless sleep.
E.V.W.


Lightest Wines
Australia.
in
Th® Australian Ujidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
, , ESTABLISHED 1871.
T HI u- u • lETT ’ ,n add,tion to transacting: all the usual forms of Assurance, Is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
r'r s -j on °X Proportion of premium In the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood,
ti. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £213,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TatterSall’S Hotel
■Pitt Street, Sydney# W, J. Adams, Manager,
Pick out what is best in all the
other Sydney hotels, and you
have Tattersall’s.
Tariff—los. per Day.
£3 per Week.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
THE
Battery managers'
' FRIEND'
R.A.HERVEY.
171 CLARENCES!
Of'catfest demand
Cameo Cigarettes
Because the Best.
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
mm
ELECTEIC
DETONATOES
and
EUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine..
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. JDalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria,
NOBEL’S Sportifyg BALLISTITC.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
mm
11=
Sr‘»/
**
&
?r
Sfe
f-y^
$
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING- BALLISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over >£looo more than any other powder. —Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PAR VO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs . Brabant & Co.
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 71 TONS GREATER than during 1898
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading- Brand in N.S.Wales.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
CHAMPION - - - The choicest of Gfold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
CONQUEROR - - - The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
BONANZA CIGARS - - Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
.7- (made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 21.—N0. 1044.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1900.
Prick 6d.
uottWslwuU UnlUtuTahl iXen uou-'tle ftcased yet kloonnn platy-
Mti Mpi footin' lijddite M yermmh \
'fefon dou brush utr hues off Jwfi ftu.rt(tft Supphe'uhr '
4or a jenUetnun bihuts Sufferin' jwmJfje droimL \
DAY OF INTERCESSION—A HINT TO THE TRULY GOOD.
Sunday last was observed throughout the Protestant Churches as a day of intercession in connection with the war. It was “ a day set apart specially to intercede with the God of Battles to guide
the issues to the promotion of righteousness and equity, and to the furtherance of Hie kingdom."—NEWS ITEM.
Now, rain is wanted in Australia almost as much, as the. “promotion of righteousness" m South Africa,


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia, for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
- (Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Otlice Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tim Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed, to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents o f this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not. extending two columns in
length, or, sail, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendi.no MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. ItlacJe and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — E. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IF estralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is notv
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some d.egree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition ol The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1900.
A Visitor from the Sunset.
Bigjohn Forrest has come and gone like a
large and somewhat cross meteor. On the
way he has been burned in effigy by his own
admiring subjects at Albany (Westralia), and
been refused admission to an hotel lest he
should pollute the premises, and a cabman
has declined to have his cab blighted by the
insertion of John therein. The Forrest
mission to the East has been a failure. As
a natural result of that failure and of the
W.A. Premier’s Federal attitude (which is
partly one of hostility and partly.one of dis-
tracted and intense wobble) the Separation
movement on the Goldfields is moving more
vigorously than ever. Four Federal dele-
gates have sailed for England to help push the
Commonwealth Bill through in its entirety,
and another delegate will probably go very
shortly, the provinces that are united in the
bonds of brotherly love and trustfulness being
naturally anxious to have a delegate apiece
in London, lest one of them should get at
the others for sixpence when they weren’t
looking. The anti-Bill scheme of sending a
mission to point out that the minority
should boss the majority has fallen through,
for the time at least. So, apparently, has
John Forrest’s idea of appealing to the
British Government to upset the Bill which
was accepted by the five Eastern provinces,
and to substitute one which Bigjohn and
his own little crowd have devised, and which
they have not yet ventured to submit to
their own people, and which their own
Legislative Council cast dow r n the stair with
contumely. Also G. R. Dibbs has publicly
cursed the Commonwealth Constitution.
And that is about where the Federal problem
stands at time of writing.
• ■'* r *
The attitude of the Federal party in these
late negotiations with Westralia is easily,
defined. It wants to make an absolutely
United Australia—if possible a United Aus-
tralasia. If the Forrest Government, and
the people who partly follow it and partly
shove it in front of them, will come to any
definite and reasonable terms, and won’t
demand quite all the universe, the eastern
Federalists are willing to concede something
to ensure Westralia’s adhesion. They will
probably be found willing to concede a good
deal.. If terms can’t be made with the
erratic Big John the Federal Parliament will
almost certainly lend all its influence and
every possible assistance to the Goldfields
Separation party. The Separation party is
strongly Federal, and the new province,
when created, would certainly join the Com-
monwealth. So the Commonwealth Govern-
ment would assuredly aid it in every legal
way on the ground that the next best thing
to a wholly United Australia is an Australia
as nearly united as possible. Whether the
Commonwealth Government would go fur-
d° illegal things also in the cause
ot Westralian Separation remains an open
question. Probably it would if the induce-
merit was large enough.
7 * * * ♦
W hether Westralia will join the Common-
wealth as a whole, or otherwise, depends
mostly on whether John Forrest’s new lot
of promises are any more reliable than his
previous assortment. Forrest helped, off
and on, for nearly four years in the construc-
tion of the present Commonwealth scheme.
He demanded special concessions on account
ot the peculiar situation of Westralia, and he
got them. He went back to the wastes and
wilds of Groper Land, declaring himself
fully satisfied with the concessions, and an
ardent supporter of the Bill. Also, he went
back pledged to submit the Bill to the
people. Then the big man began to wobble
like a considerable idol with feet of clay. He
discovered that in all these years he had been
wholly ignorant of what he wanted and what
his own province urgently required. He
ascertained that he hadn’t known his own
mind or that lie hadn't one, and that, he had
been blankly ignorant of the conditions and
necessities of the country wdiere his whole
life had been spent. He broke his promise
about submitting the Commonwealth Bill
fairly and honestly to the people. He
drafted a new Bill which wasn’t submitted
to the people either, and his own Legislative
Council threw it out and refused to sanction
any negotiation with the Eastern Provinces
on the basis of Forrest’s new Bill. And
then Forrest came east with his new scheme
in his hand and the aspect of a great diplo-
matist in his eye, to interview the other five
Premiers on the subject.
* * * •
The concessions which Forrest wants are
not very much in themselves. He desires
that W.A. shall be permitted to retain its
present border tariff in full for five years,
and to good Federalists, who hope to see the
Commonwealth endure for 20,000 years or
more, five years are a mere pin-point of
time, and not worth a moment’s argument.
Also, he desires that the Federal Govern-
ment shall guarantee the construction of a
transcontinental railway to Perth, and con-
sidering how badly such a line is wanted for
defence and other purposes, the best thing
the Federal Government could do would be
to guarantee the line, even if Forrest didn’t
want it. These are the principal concessions
demanded, and if the W.A. Premier had
known his own alleged intellect sufficiently
to ask for them while the Commonwealth
Bill was in course of construction, he would
probably have got them with very little
difficulty. But the First Groper’s incredible
capacity for being too late prevented this.
Yet, even at the last moment, if he had come
east with a positive assurance from both
Houses of his own Parliament that they
would accept the Bill providing these altera-
tions were made, something might have been
done. But. the First Groper’s amazing
knack of being too early got in the way
here ; he started for the east before he had
any such assurance to offer, and thereby
made even worse confusion than before.
* * • •
The case which Premier Forrest laid
before the political leaders of the eastern
provinces was therefore something like this :
I assured you before that the old Bill was quite satis-
factory. I didn t know my own mind about it. I now
assure you that if you grant these new concessions they
will make the Bill quite satisfactory. You have no more
before 06 * now m y own mind now than you had
Westralia won’t accept the old Bill. You have mv oosi-
tive assurance to that effect. At the same time it hasn’t
had a chance of saying whether it will accept it or not
A very large section of it is ready to tear the province in
want it get th<2 ° ld BlU * This proves that the People don’t
The people haven’t had a chance to say whether thev
will accept my proposed new Bill or not, but I assure you
that they will. This assurance is quite as valuable as the
other ones.
One House of W.A. Parliament has expressed itswillinsr-
ness to submit both Bills to the people on equal terms.
This proves that my own new Bill is the only one it will
accept. The other House has rejected both Bills. This
P r g ° o ves my new Bill is the only one it will accept
I might have come along with my proposed new Bill
before you had your referendum, so as to give you time to
submit it to your people. With my usual luck I didn’t
Now that your people have accepted the old Bill and no
other, I ask you to override and annul their decision bv
submittmg my new Bill to the Imperial Parliament in-
stead of the one accepted. If you do this your enraged
people will probably throw you out at the earliest oppor-
tunity, not on account of the difference in the measures
which isn’t so very great, but, by reason of the slight put
upon them. And if you take this risk, and accept
my new Bill, and the Imperial Parliament passes it,
and you run the chance that some of your own peoples
will refuse to accept it after the Imperial Parliament has
passed it, and that the union of five provinces which you
have built up with such infinite labor may be wrecked in
sight of port—if you do all these things, I can offer you
no positive evidence that my own Parliament will accept
my own new Federal scheme after all, or that things will
be any further advanced.
Premier Forrest laid these matters before
the politicians of the five federating pro-
vinces, and went back a much-surprised man
when Holder and Lewis and M‘Lean and
Lyne and Philp didn’t see things in the
same light.
* * * *
The Bulletin holds that the eastern pro-
vinces should certainly grant Westralia the
transcontinental railway and the five years
continuance of its separate tariff if these
things will ensure its adhesion to the Com-
monwealth. Five years, as already men-
tioned, isn’t long, and the transcontinental
railway will be a national benefit, and the
rounding-off of United Australia is cheap at
the price. But it is useless to start chang-
ing the constitution in order to secure the
adhesion of Westralia until Westralia has
proved that it is going to adhere. Westralia
should first pass an Act setting forth that it
definitely and absolutely joins the Common-
wealth on these terms, and that, on their
acceptance by the Federal authority and
the issue of the formal proclamation by the
Governor-General, Westralia thereby be-
comes part of the Commonwealth without
any further legislative action on its part; It
should pass that Act and get the assent bf
its own province by referendum before it
expects the Federal Legislature to start the
work of amending the Constitution and the
much larger business of obtaining the assent
by referendum of five provinces. If the
Federal Legislature moved first, and took a
huge and costly referendum of five provinces,
and altered the Federal Constitution, and
then John Forrest wobbled again, and
proved a second time to have acted in ignor-
ance of the feelings of his party and his
country, the situation would be eminently
ridiculous. In any case there is absolutely
nothing to be done by the eastern provinces
till their own Federation is consummated.
After that the alterations which Forrest
desires can be effected if three out of the five
pi ovinces assent, and the votes in the affir-
m'iil Hre a ma i orit y the total votes
polled. To make the alterations before the
I edeiation of the five provinces is consum-
mated would require a separate majority in
each of the five provinces instead of in three
only. In any case it is absurd to even con-
sider the amendments which Westralia is
supposed to want until Westralia has said
definitely that it does want them, and that
they are all it wants, and that it will come in
on these terms. No Premier except Forrest
would have arrived here with a despised and
rejected scheme—rejected, at least, so far as
his own Legislative Council was concerned—
to submit it as the solid and emphatic
demand of the people who had just thrown
it out, and of the other people who had never
been allowed to say anything about it.
Freedom and the Church.
The erudite author of such works as “ Hop O’ My
I humb and the “ History of Little King Pepin ”
is also probably responsible for the story of the
ultra-cautious old lady who, upon leaving her
nome, and locking up her children within, told
• play with the fire, drown themselves
in the bathroom, fall down the coal-hole, eat the
jam, bite the cat’s tail, or put beans up their
noses. All these things, except the last, they had
clone; but here was an untasted and promising
experience When that old lady returned shl
lound her house m unwonted order—and all her
numerous progeny suffocating. The old lady is
euphemistically called ‘ ‘ The Church. ” She never
lets well ? alone. And, in speaking of the
Church, the word is used in a large and liberal
sense, with no special application to any one of
the many alleged Christian Churches throughout
the earth The Church of Rome is, however,
probably the greatest enemy to mental freedom of
them all, though the Church of Scotland and the
Church of England have also persecuted the
prophets of progress and liberty. Even the
sober followers of John Wesley are parsimonious
m their granting of some measure of that
mental freedom they themselves found it
so hard to wrest from authorised dogmatism in the
very recent past. To enjoy complete intellectual
liberty the church of the believer must consist of
a congregation of only one member, who is also
his or her own absolute hierarchy in every grade.
In times of prosperity and the easy flow of wealth,
when nothing of moment occurs to stir human
passion and to range men into opposing camps,
the Church jogs gently and quietly along, and
men see in it only an agency operating in the pro-
motion of aesthetic religiosity, and dispensing a
rather conventional amelioration of the lot of its
poorer adherents. In days of strife and bitter
opposition of interests and ideas, the scene is
changed ! The Church ” then appears, as in the
tune of the scientific martyr Galileo, in the stern
garb of the inquisitor.
* * * *
When Darwin published his “Origin of
Species, the Church uttered its anathema
maranatha and the great biologist’s wife sat
ionely and deserted behind drawn blinds, shunned
and fled from by the Orthodox. There is so little
intellectual freedom within the pale of the Church
that even its greatest sons, men devoted to the
building-up of its power and its influence, draw
circumvariations round tabooed subjects, and
mentally lie to their own questionings. But the
greatest minds, be they ever so devout, must in
loyalty to themselves assert their right of in-
dividual liberty. _ Thus Buskin, news of whose
death was received only the other day, broke
utterly with the creeds when he entered upon his
tremendous and Quixotic crusade for the better-
I£ ei^u Of T^ Ulnamty ’ He saw all to ° clearly
that the Reformer must have absolutely indepen-
dent ground whereon to stand while doing battle
for his own ideals. Smaller men are crushed by
the contemplation of their temerity in daring to
think their own thoughts, and, like Hugh Miller
who committed suicide because Geology was not
twm brother to Genesis, humbly beg the pardon
of the Church because dogma and demonstration
are ever determined dissentients. As the Church
cannot keep her own children within the pale
neither can she retain those whom she has cap-
tured. An instructive cablegram received here
the other day stated that Cardinal Vaughan
head of the Roman Catholic Church in England’
had prohibited his clergy from administering the
sacraments of the faith to Professor St. George
Mivart. This gentleman was- converted to the
Church of Rome when only 17 years of age. He
is a brilliarlt scientist and aii accomplished nian Of
letters. For years he was regarded as an Orna-
ment of the Church, which was vastly proud Of
One of its sOns who was accepted On equal terms
by the men Of light and leading throughout in-
tellectual Europe. He is known to the scientific
world as the author of “Contemporary Evolu-
tion,” “The Origin of Human Reason,” “The
Genesis of Species,” “On Truth,” &c. On the
17th October, 1899, he wrote a long letter to the
London Times, entitled “The Roman Catholic
Church and the Dreyfus Case,” in which he
censured the conduct of tbe Vatican in no
unmeasured terms. Hence these tears ! Mivart
is an outcast, a renegade, an excommunicant.
No priest may give him solace or spiritual succour,
even in the article of death, unless he recant and
submit to an intellectual auto-da-fe.
* * * *
The Church is the same friend to mental free-
dom that she was in the days of GaIIEEO ! Agaiii
a press-interviewer approached Cardinal Moran
in Sydney, the other day, and endeavdred to draw
that astute ecclesiastic touching his views dn the
War in the Transvaal. The Cardinal has dbj ected
to definite expression dn this subject for sdnle
time ; but ndw he Ms spoken. Cardinal Moran v
is an Irishnian, and ah English-rule-hMng Irish-
iriaii at that. During the ’9B celebration he ex-
pressed himself as being proud of the fact that
sdihe df his male relatives carried a pike for the
sake of Ireland in the days of ’9B. Dozens of
times has the Cardinal spoken with no uncertain
indication of the trend of his sympathies. But no
logical brain can justify Ireland without justifying
the South African Republic. The Cardinal can-
not, however, do the latter; for the Boers are Pro-
testants. In the Transvaal no Catholic need
apply. To be true to the principles of the ancestor
who carried a pike in ’9B, Patrick Francis
Moran must approve of the Boers. To be true to
his “Church,” the Cardinal must damn them—
and he damns them accordingly. The ancient
Greeks had a tradition to the effect that while
Lycurgus graved bis statutes on tables of brass,
Solon carved his on slabs of wood. The latter
lawgiver’s reason for his practice was that
no law should be binding on a community
longer than the endurance of so rapidly-decaying
a material. So should it be with a faith. It
should be edited every decade. The “ church ”is
like a poor goat tethered to a stake by a rope
stretching over nineteen centuries. The stake
may originally have been a very good stake ; but
the goat is getting starved and lean by the weight
of the lengthening cord which drags him down.
That cord is full of knots and splices. It has been
worn to its last strand in places by dragging over
ruts and stones and rocky ground ; but it grows
daily heavier, and the stake is so far away that no
one knows now where it was originally driven—or
why.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
M'Lean’s Idea.
Premier M‘Lean, of Victoria, scored a notable
point in the struggle over the Factories Bill, and
did it by what might almost be described as a
stroke of genius. In fact, M‘Lean may now con-
sider that his reputation as a tactician has gone up
fully 150 per cent. Tne 48 Rich Landlords were.
a.s a matter of course, bitterly hostile to the Bill
Above all, they loathed the clause which provided
that the minimum wage, now applicable to a few
trades only, might be indefinitely extended with-
out further Parliamentary sanction, the Governor
(which is another name for the Government) being
empowered to appoint boards to fix a minimum
wage in any industry by mere proclamation. As
the Government is responsible to the Assembly,
an u Assembly is a democratic body
to be henceforth elected by one - man - one -
vote, this assuredly meant a wide • exten-
of f'i? e minimum wage principle, and the
48 Rich Landlords hate the extension of almost
anything. Therefore, after counsel had been
taken with Levi, Embling, Cornelius Job
Eatable and other bright spirits, the Bill was
returned to the Assembly with some 50 amend-
ments. Lhe Assembly assented to 29 minor ones,
and a conference between the two Houses brought
about some kind of an agreement on others. But
over the crucial point— the creation of new Wages
Boards-—there was a deadlock. The tipper House
vi) 16 coura ge of its hidebound opinions, and
didnt dare to absolutely reject the Bill, or to
absolutely prohibit any further extension of the
minimum wage principle; but it suggested that
the minimum wage should not be extended to any
trade besides the few now affected unless ct
'majority both of the employes and the employers
petitioned for the extension. As the employers don’t
want to be compelled to pay any higher wage than
at present, and it would cost incredible expense
to hunt up all the employes in any trade, and to
get the signatures of a majority, and to collect
positive proof that the persons who signed were a
majority, this was almost tlie same as rejecting
the clause altogether. If the Council had stayed
here it might have been on solid ground, but it
remembered that the great multitude outside was
in dead earnest over the Factories Bill,- and it
funked a second time. It abandoned its first idea,
n' 1 j- SaU - objected to was the insult to
its dignity by placing the whole power of extend-
ing the minimum wage in the hands of the
The Fagan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the dim and distant ages of long ago men said
That Christ the King had conquered and the
Pagan gods were dead.
He died to save His people and that sacrifice
sublime
We celebrate by eating eggs, his birth by panto-
mime.
He preached the curse of riches and he blessed the
poor and meek—
“lf any man should smite thee turn to him the
other cheek.”
And the grateful nations kneeling to keep Hi 3
precepts swore.
Then lusted, fought and swindled just exactly as
before.
Pagan G-ods! Your ancient glory shines behind
the veil as bright
Venus, Bacchus, Mars and Mammon, still youi
altars are alight,
For on stock exchange and market, in theatre and
bar,
In barracks and in bawdy-house your holy temples
are.
Ye are the real Immortals; ye are the gods of
men ;
As deathless as our passions; ye we worship now
as then.
Like polished wood and varnished we have all a
Christian stain,
But Christ’s only on the surface-; the Pagan’s in
the grain.
NOMAD.


Assembly, Tbe two Houses were equal in power
and dignity, therefore the Council proposed that
the minimum wage principle might be extended
to any new trade with the assent, by motion, of
loth Houses. The Council assured everybody
that it had no hostility to the Bill, or to
the minimum wage; all it desired was to
preserve its own rights and prevent the Con-
stitoosh’n being blighted. The idea was absolutely
legal, fair, and logical, yet everybody knew it
meant de traction to the main principle of the
Bill, for the chances of the Council assenting to
any motion for the extension of the minimum wage
was practically nil. Then the astute M‘Lban
came to the front with a suggestion. He proposed
to make both Houses absolutely equal by enacting
that the minimum wage might be extended to any
new trade on the motion of either House, so that
even if a bigoted and Tory Assembly refused to
move in the matter the liberal-minded Council
might over-rule it and extend the blessings of the
Act to everybody. The Council for a moment was
going to reject the idea with rage, but it was
pointed out that it only wanted to maintain the
equality of the two Houses, and this was
absolute equality, and what more did it want ?
So with wrath in their souls the 48 Rich
Landlords said they were very much pleased ;
and unless they can find some new hole to crawl
out by, they will have to remain that way.
Only the old Irreconcileables, Levi and Sachse,
stultified themselves and practically admitted that
it wasn’t the flouting of the rights of the Council
that induced their opposition, but hatred of pro-
gressive legislation. Then the life of the Bill was
limited to two years and a session, but that
matters little. If the Trades Unions, backed up
by the Anti-Sweating League, choose to bestir
themselves and get the Act extended in all pos-
sible directions, as they almost certainly will, m
two and a half years’ time any attempt to und#
the Factories Act will mean red revolution.
♦
The Boer Spectre in Australia.
A recent item from the Australian Star
(Sydney)
That seems to have been a notable stabbing affray at
Cumnock, 17 miles from Molong, Dr. Ross’s electorate,
wherein, it was thought, people had been greatly
educated. Boer and British, and German seem to have
been mixed up in it, and in the end a knife flashes, and
while a Scotchman is literally saved by his shirt, for we
are told it was slit in several places, the poor German
goes down with a thrust in the groin, which proves fatal in
a few minutes. It is as bad business as could be imagined,
but only what is to be expected, and will certainly occur
in some other places than Cumnock, unless various
gentlemen of Boer proclivities mend their ways. How is
it to be supposed a peppery military gentleman feels
when a pair of unfamiliar lips approaches his ear with a
“ Ladysmith is down, Ha, ha 1 ” He is content, probably,
with “ You lie, you dog,” but that sort of thing is often
rather initiative than conclusive.
Whatever the above was intended for it certainly
reads not only like a broad attempt to justify a
murder as “only what is to be expected,” but a
cordial excuse for further murders as things that
are bound to happen under the circumstances.
Just now a crazy section of the press tries to jus-
tify many crimes of violence by the off-hand
assumption that the victim was a “ Boer ’’—which
is reckoned sufficient excuse for almost anything.
It talks as if Australia was reeking with Boers—
yet the whole Boer nation consists of about
150,000 of intensely stay-at-home people,
and they are so _ few and so non-migra-
tory in their habits that it is probable
there aren’t six of them in all Australasia.
And in the present case, according to evidence
given at the inquest, the whole indecent semi-
excuse and attempted justification—if it doesn’t
amount to actual encouragement —rest on pure
invention. The deceased wasn’t a German or a
Boer, but a Swede. He apparently showed no
sign of taking any special interest in the war. He
didn’t say “ Ladysmith is down, ha ha !” in the
ears of any peppery military stranger. There was
apparently no military person there. The
only offence disclosed in the Sydney daily
paper report of the inquiry was that the
Swede leaned against a post aud said
nothing in particular. But his mate, David
Pert, who worked with him on the same station,
was drunk and had a fight; Being hauled off he
frew angry and tried to stab the Scotchman who
auled him off. Failing in that he rushed blindly
at his mate, who was mooning foolishly against
the post, and knifed him fatally ._ That was the
story told at the official inquiry, and it is
as unlike the Star’s yarn as can be imagined.
The “Boer,” the “military person” (a certain
section of the press seems to imagine that
generals and colonels and majors are stream-
ing all over Australia now, even at quiet,
out-of-the-way little Cumnock), the insult to
our country, the noble yearning to repress dis-
loyalty, are apparently all efforts of a wildly-
frenzied imaginatiQn. Just now, the imaginary
Boer, appears to pervade everything. Even the
Melbourne man who wrecked a £l7. window, the
other day, pleaded for special consideration, on
the ground that he was trying to hit some kind of
a Boer that he met in the street, and struck the
window instead.
■ —♦
The Bushman—" With a Character.”
“ Cato ” on the above astonishing subject:—
A great .many people are justly waxing sneerful and
sarcastic anent the way the N.S.W. Bushmen’s Contingent
is being enlisted and managed. Out at the Randwick
camp the whole course of training appears to be waste-
ful, ridiculous and ineffective Instead of scouts, there is
a silly attempt made to turn out a regiment of light
hussars. The men are accustomed to act on their own
initiative (the most valuable quality a scout can possess);
but this is not according to the text-books, so their scout-
ing value is being industriously destroyed in teaching
them to “ dress ” by a drill-marker. J. B. Robinson, of
South Africa, says that we must have men used to Boer
methods, who can fight “ on their own,” fire at a moving
object, judge their own ranges, ride anyhow, tumble off
instead of dismounting according to Cocker, and vault
into the saddle without the aid of a stirrup. At the
Randwick camp the bushmen are being taught to act in
military concert, in units of 125 ; to fire at fixed targets
with an incorrectly-sighted rifle (the Lee-Enfield), the
eccentricities of which are known only to men who have,
used it so continually that the allowances necessary to be
made have become a matter of individual calculation; to
shoot at measured ranges ; to acquire a military seat in
the saddle; and to mount and dismount according
to the standards of the Imperial riding-schools. What
a farce it all is! Then, too, this half-bushie, half-
horse-marine must arrive in camp with a “ char-
acter,” just like any poor pinch - beck clerk at
fifteen bob a week, and find his own ink. Two Contin-
gents, and various bits of Contingents, have left for the
Transvaal, and never a man of them was required to '
supply a docket from his “ boss.” A soldier —“ with a
character ! ” Kipling, with all the Imperialistic silliness
that his name implies, is by no means a fool. He calls his
hero “An absent-minded beggar,” and depicts him shirk-
ing all his responsibilities, deserting the mother of his
illegitimate child, and doing generally every disreputable
thing that can be done. Who cares ? War is a butcher’s
trade—a horrible, revolting, sickening thing, for which
nothing can be said. The warrior’s much-lauded courage .
is an attribute he shares with every beast of prey. Under
existing conditions the soldier is, or appears to be, a
necessity. But a soldier—“ with a character is not
wanted —unless the character is sufficiently bad to fit him
for his trade. The best soldiers in the world were
the sweepings of the Parisian faubourgs during the wars
of the Revolutionary Committee and the Napoleonic era.
The finest fighting men that Wellington ever led were
the reckless Irish troops that he had to terrorise into a
semblance of discipline by cat and gibbet. In the
American civil war whole regiments of outlaws and out-
casts on each side made the forefront of battle a hying 1
hell. The men who have nothing to live for care little
about dying. It is the “ gentleman ranker ” who has lost
his last throw who goes down to death in a transfigura-
tion of glory. “ Old Nick’s Own ” is an incomparable
legion. After all, it is only the Christian who spends his
life in fitting up the furniture of his soul for future use
who fears to die. The one thing needful is the soldier
with a character —a damned bad one. But this is a
digression. Let us return to our jumbucks ! The men m
camp allege that impersonation in riding tests has
repeatedly been carried out with success. Many complain
bitterly that they have not been afforded a genuine
shooting test. They are used to the Winchester—a weapon
which they understand. They are given a new arm, the
Lee-EnfielcL, with which to undergo the shooting test;
but they are not allowed time to learn its use. Thus inferior
shots who already know how to use a Lee-Enfield easily
pull through. These things are, however, minor matters.
The system of management and selection is wrong per se.
There should be no interference by committees, secre-
taries, members of Parliament, or anybody else. The
Bushmen’s Contingent Committee should attend solely
to roping in” contributions. But its members enjoy
being considered experts in the art of war, and mess about
the camp in the character of amateur Ministers of
Defence. The secretary is a full-blown Moltkh,
and the chairman is little short of a Todleben. By
the way, it appears that Mr. Absentee Dangar’s con-
tribution of £lOOO entitles him, at this late day, to a first
place as a suggestor of the Bush Contingent. This is pure
fiction. In 1884 the Sydney Daily Telegraph and Even-
ing News published proposals from Harry Stockdale for
the raising and equipping of a troop of bush rough-riders,
and the D.T., in particular, raved largely and pictur-
esquely in whole columns about the value and usefulness
thereof. In conclusion, it is interesting to note that the
dare-devil riders of the back-blocks are to be led to death
and chocolate by several officers whose wide experience of
the bush of the polo-ground is beyond question.
*.
A Tote Lesson.
Parliamentary champions of the tote would do
well to preserve a record of the Adelaide Racing
Club’s meeting on February 3, where results
panned out as follows :
Starters. Amount in Tote. Dividend
Ist race. 17 £950 £3l 13s-
3rd „ . 15 £1577 £l6 6s.
4th ! 7 £1077 £8 3s.
sth 16 £1286 £l2 16s.
6th ;; 17 £l2lB £l2B 16s.
To the punters of Vic. and N.S.W. have
gained their sad experience of “ the odds ” from
betting with bejewelled Ikey, the above figures
will read like a fairy tale. Fields for the four
flat races were not larger than they get m an
ordinary way at Randwick, and in two. cases the
winners carried stable money. That is to say,
they were backed in an Ikey Mo way of speaking,
which means that a stable commission executed
with Ikey would not have returned better odds
than 7 or 8 to 1 on the average. The general
public’s little bit would be invested at, say,
an average of 5 to 1. The fourth race (a
steeplechase) produced only seven starters, and
the winner was “ fancied, ” therefore no punter
nesds to be told that the price at Randwick or
Flemington would not have gone higher than 2 to
1. In a field of seven jumpers no horse that carries
even the smallest of stable commissions is likely to
start at longer odds than 7 to 2. The winners of
the first and last races on the above list were out-
siders, the latter a very rank outsider. . Ikey
might have laid 15’s to 1 (which is Ikey’s idea of
‘ ‘ h’any price ”) against him , but not more than
10’s and 12’s to 1 against the other. The man with
the big nose and the.big sapphire on his forefinger
considers himself fairly reckless when he offers
“10 to 1 against some of ’em” in a field of 17.
Note the difference between the A.R.C. tote
betting and the betting that might have been
expected from bookmakers on the same events.
Tote
Dividend
Amt. after Ikey] Mo. Dividend.
Amt. on deducting Including
Staked Winner 10% Punters’ Stakes.
Ist Race ..£950 £27 0s £3113s £27 at 12 to. 1= £351
3rd ..£1577 £B7 0s £l6 6s £B7 at 8 to 1=£783
4th (Steeple)£lo77 £ll9 0s £8 3s £ll9 at 5 to 1=£714
sth „ ..£1286 £9O 0s £l2 16s £9O at 7 to 1=£720
6th „ .. £l2lB £8 15s £l2B 16s £Blss at 15 to I=£l4o
£6lOB £2708
Less 10 % 611
£5497
Taking, then, these five races run at Adelaide last
Saturday week as being particularly favorable
examples of the tote’s virtue, we find that the
machine returned £5497 to the public at large, and
retained £6ll for the benefit of the Club. Where-
as Ikey Mo would have retained £3400 for himself
on the day’s transactions whilst benefitting the
club to the extent of a few pounds paid for admis-
sions—lkey being, of course, a collective noun.
And, again, whereas Ikey’s ill-gotten profits are
spent partly in the luxurious maintenance of non-
productive citizens who use much foul language,
and are partly sunk in unenterprising investments,
such as city house property —the profits of the
successful long odds punter are likely to be turned
to good account. Take the special instance of the
6th race, where the tote paid odds at the rate of
127 4-5 to 1 to the few people who risked 205., 10s.
or ss. on the forlorn hope. The winning gee-
gee, Antarctic, had not run for nine
months, and was evidently thought to be not
yet fit. Owner, trainer, jockey, and wide-awake
people in general were of opinion that Antarctic
couldn't win. The fellows who put the £8 15s.
into the tote were mostly casual ‘ ‘ sports ” of the
“up-country” type—people who can afford to
throw away a trifle on the off-chance. And they
are the very people who, when the off-chance
lands the long odds for them, turn the lucky £5O
or £lOO or more to productive purposes on the
land or in business. They would not back the
same rank outsider with a bookmaker, for the
odds would not tempt them. The Bulletin’s
calculation assumes that Ikey Mo at Adelaide
might have laid £l3l ss. to £8 15s. against Antarc-
tic. More probably he would have scooped the
whole pool, so the tote in Antarctic’s case was
worth a full £1096 to a few of the least undeserv-
ing gamblers in the community.
The Abolition of Street-Corners.
The great recommendation of Democratic rule is its
enthusiastic willingness to hit the necessary head.
If improvement in any social, or political, or econ-
omical direction can be brought about by abolishing
something—well, Democracy abolishes it. Now
The Bulletin has made an important discovery,
and calls upon the Democracy to abolish street-
corners. There is hardly one transgression in the
whole crimson calendar of crime which cannot be
traced to the existence of street-corners. In
short, the street-comer is the comer-stone of vice.
Abolish the street-corner, and a future opens up
before struggling Humanity far transcending
anything dreamt of by E, W. O’Sullivan or
‘ ‘ General ” Booth. As an institution, the street-
corner is a danger and a nuisance, even to the
best-intentioned and most moral. There is many
a man with a swelled head and a taste of rat-fur in
the mouth who would be 10s. 6d. better off if
there hadn’t been a comer, where he met a friend
the night before. There are hundreds of married
folk who would now bo happy and single if Fate
had never provided a comer at which an appoint-
ment could be made. The street-comer is an
assassin lurking in the shades of night, and a. pes-
tilence stalking at noonday. It is the invariable
site of the public-house, the temperance-hall, the
police-station, the pawn-shop, and the Salvation
Army lodging-house. Thousands have been hur-
ried into their graves by the creditor who waylaid
them at some horrible intersection of thorough-
fares. Let us abolish corners and save the young
and rising generation who congregate m their
tens and twenties to spit and fumigate the air.
They are always there, these boys. They live on
the comers, and the comer as a place of residence
is the sole cause of their existence. Then on the
corner, every Sunday morning, gathers a crowd of
men in boiled shirts, to talk politics and. criticise
the Lord’s Anointed and other people m autho-
rity. The street-corner is the trysting-place of
sweethearts who ought to be at school; and, m
the middle of the road opposite, the Salvation
Army camps, and booms its big bass-drum, and
clashes its cymbals, and blasts its bugle-horn.
Sometimes, however, the German Band usurps
this stand of iniquitous advantage and slaughters
Strauss, or outrages Tosti, and takes a subtle re-
venge for the trouble given its country by the
French in 1870 by making unrecognisable hash of
the “Marseillaise.” It is dreadful to think of
the amount of money which has been paid away,
and the number of creditors who have been found
waiting at these places. If streets stretched on
for ever in straight lines, or curved lines, or
crooked lines, there would be no comers ; and no
appointments could be made, and nobody would
ever get married, and nobody would ever have a
drink, and youth couldn’t foregather to yam and
expectorate and smoke cheap and nasty cigarettes.
The world would be at rest, and nobody would do
anything to hurt his neighbor, for it is only a
street-corner that one ever finds out that thero is
such a thing as a neighbor to worry about. More-
over, nobody ever dreams of telling another body
that he or she will meet him or her 500 yards
or half-a-mile along a thoroughfare. The abolition
of the street-corner would be a distinct gain
to the Temperance Party, as well as to the
Social Purity People. No prosperous ‘ pub.
ever raises its brazen plate-glass front save at
the intersection of roadways, so as to secure
a corner entrance. But it is mainly in the interests
of futurity that The Bulletin insists upon the
abolition of street-comers. It is .at these choice
places of resort that the hoodlum is manufactured
and prepares himself to be the parent of future
generations of hoodlums. There he foregathers
and hurls threadbare and unoriginal profanity at
the decent passer-by, the while he leans against a
friendly post, sits on a doorstep, or rests lieaviiy
against his own angular shadow. The abolition
of the hoodlum in his countless generations will
be contemporaneous with the abolition of the
street-corner. And if the corner cant be
abolished, sharp spikes should be made, to stick
out of it so that it can’t be leaned against, and
nobody should be allowed to have a shop there
except an undertaker.
rr+
An Ingenuous Idea.
The Abgtjs has a sweetly ingenuous idea where-
by, it has no doubt in the world, Melbourne
Tramway Co. can be induced to adopt the eight-
hours principle which it has been legally bound to
adopt all along. The co. has to make a certain
annual payment to a sinking fund so that, by the
time its lease expires, the fund will be large
enough to pay off the debt incurred by the Tram-
ways Trust for the construction of the lines. The
■ Argus proposes that the co. should agree to grant
the eight-hour day which it agreed to grant from
the beginning but didn’t; also, perhaps, an in-
creased wage; and should make up the loss by
reducing its payments to the sinking fund: And
as, with the reduced payments to the fund, there
wouldn’t be enough fund accumulated when the
company’s lease of the lines expires to pay off the
debt on the lines, the Argus further moves that
the company’s lease should be extended for a num-
ber of years till there is enough sinking fund
accumulated. But why on earth should the lease
be extended ? Supposing the Victorian Parliament
resolved to enforce the eight-hours’ day. and the
minimum wage, and supposing it resolved, as an
act of grace, to let the co. save the extra expendi-
ture, or most of it, by reducing its payments to
the sinking fund —how do these things necessitate
an extension of the lease ? All Parliament need
say to the co. is this: “If we let you pay a
smaller contribution every year, by the time your
lease expires the fund won’t be large enough to
cover the tramway debt. . All the same, you go
out when your lease expires. Then the Tram-
ways Trust will take over and work the lines as
agreed, and it will make up the rest of the sink-
ing fund itself out of earnings. Your desperate
anxiety to stay in possession, and to take £24,000
a year or more out of the concern in dividends for
many years longer than you are entitled to, solely
in order that you may hand us over the trams
free of debt, is very touching, but we would
prefer to stick to the letter of the agreement
m this matter, and take over the business
at the date now fixed. We will pay off. the
balance of the debt out of the £24,000 a year which
you would otherwise annex . for yourselves as
dividends. Your proposal is simply that because
Smith owes Brown <£s2o, it is advisable for
Brown to pay Smith an annuity of £lO4O at the
rate of £2 a week for 10 years, in order that he
may stop £1 per week out of it and so get back his
£520, and thus avoid losing the money. We pre-
fer to get rid of Smith, having no use for him,
and lose the money. It is £520 cheaper.”
That light and pleasing institution, the Victorian
House of Landlords, last week, with the discreetly-
concealed approval of the Age and the cordial en-
thusiasm of the Argus, quietly shelved the Tram-
ways Amendment Bill. The Honorable (within
the province) 48 have not the pluck to openly de-
clare their disapproval of the 8-hour system, so,
after passing the second reading, they shoved the
Bill on to a select committee of enquiry, well
knowing that as the session closed in a few days
the committee couldn’t inquire in time. Also, they
well knew that the men dared not give. evidence
before a committee for fear of losing their billets.
Therefore the evidence would be mostly on one
side. The only new suggestion was that offered
by Bargood, who proposed that the point at issue
should be left to the Supreme Court to decide.
The suggestion does credit to the Upper House as
the only reasonable notion that has emanated
from that body for many weary years, and it would
have had some practical value if the originator had
also suggested ways and means for carry-
ing it out. Of course the Tramway Co.
would be represented before the court by
expensive lawyers, while the men must be utterly
unrepresented; for they simply dare not take
action themselves. If any did give evidence they
would probably ere long receive the noble order of
the sack —for not cleaning their car windows with
sufficient vigor, or missing the fare of a non-
existent passenger, or gripping the rope too
hastily, or for some other cause equally plausible
and counterfeit. Meanwhile, The Bulletin would
observe for the manyth time, .that the m 2
section ’of the 1883 Act states in so many words
that “ the days of labor shall be eight hours,
and so the co. has deliberately, wilfully and
continuously broken its contract; wherefore the
most feasible plan would be for some of „th®’ex-
tracting municipalities to move the Supre
Court to determine the contract, on account ol tne
said breach, in wliich case the bone-grindmg cor-
poration would probably come to terms and to
reason in very short order.
Nothing has yet happened to cast any light on
the mystery why Victoria, Tasmania and Maori-
land, of all places in the world, should have taken
the Contingent disease so badly, and broken out
into such a huge moral and political boil about tne
duty of Australia to help the mother-country, to
stand by it, to make sacrifices for it, to die tor
it if necessary, and to make its enemies their
enemies also. They are all Protectionist pro-
vinces. They are all doing their utmost to
damage Britain’s interests in the matter of trade
for their own selfish gains. In trade matters, they
all treat Britain as an enemy. So far from show-
ing a penn’orth of gratitude to, or consideration
for, the mother country, they give to Britain s
bitterest enemy exactly the same consideration
that they do to Britain herself. They have prac-
tised from 10 to 25 years of intense hostility, and
they are still practising it, and they profess to
believe that all these years of unfriendliness
can be wiped out by a little incoherent con-
versation about their desire to die for the
country they have systematically kicked and. by
sending a little awkward squad to South Africa.
N.S.W., in this respect, is no better. That pro-
vince has practised a kind of Freetrade be-
cause it thought that Freetrade paid best,
but it has extended the same freedom of trade
to Britain’s worst enemies as to Britain itself.
When Lyne and Philp and M‘Lean and
Seddon all treat Britain as a hated foe, and
are willing to wreck Britain’s commerce and
industries if they can thereby make their own
provinces a little richer, and when their whole
policy is based on an eternal struggle to rum
Britain for their own provinces’ advantage
under these conditions their alleged desire to
perish if need be for Britain’s sake, when
Britain is in no serious difficulty, is somewhat
humorous.
♦
The Public School Department of South Australia
is at last making an effort to give its teachers a
better education before turning them at large
upon the province’s young idea. Until a few years
ago many of the schools were in the hands of gentle-
men who had made a failure as butchers or bakers,
in spite of the fact that they could cipher and
write a good round hand and swing a cane. When
the late Inspector-General Hartley took charge
his first care was therefore to train the teachers m
the science of teaching; and now, when pretty
well all the ex-butchers have gone to join the
angels, new-chum professors of the local University
are horrified to find the schools manned hy men
and women who know how to teach, and would do
splendidly if they only also knew what to teach.
So a closer union, much needed everywhere, has
just been effected between the Public School
Department and the University; and now when
pupil teachers have finished their course , m the
schools they go to the University as a regular part
of the system.
“ Gunner” on the N.S.W. Bush Contingent:—
The Bushranger Contingent farce is being played but in
N.S. Wales to its natural conclusion. The personations
by which men passed their shooting and riding tests by
proxy have been found out—at least, some of them.
Why they were not found out before by the “ keen and
earnest ” officers is a mystery. How, for instance, could
one man pass the “ riding 1 -test ** six times in the names of
others, and then be himself rejected at the seventh
trial ’ The thing seems incredible unless the officers were
stone blind, or somebody winked very hard on purpose.
The idea that any man could come up a second—not to
speak of a third, fourth, fifth and sixth time without
recognition looks incredible. It is equally incredible
that a man—if the riding test was of any value at ail-
could ride six different horses without a fault, and be
“ ploughed,” as the absurd daily paper says, because the
seventh time “he chanced upon a new and raw horse.
This is a distinct admission that, the. way things were
done, a man would be allowed to pass if he happened to
be on a quiet horse, while the same man would.be
rejected if the horse he was put on wasn’t quiet.
The daily paper seems to say as much. If this
is a correct view of the case, the whole business is
a fraud. The pretended selection of men supposed to be
good riders and shots was only a blind. No one who
really knows the bush population believes that good rifle-
shots are numerous among them. A great many even of
those who make a trade of kangarooing prefer a shot-gurt,
as the more generally useful weapon, to a rifle. There are
no large wild animals, and few savage men in Australia,
to make the rifle a necessity, and it would be little known
if match-shooting had not brought it into fashion. Th.e
Australian, on the average, is a moderately good rider,
but not quite so good as in some countries where railways
are fewer ; he is a very moderate shot, for he lives in a
country where he hasn’t to defend himself from savages
or dangerous animals ; and he is a very inferior tracker,
for most of him has nothing in particular to track.
Melbourne Tramway Co., which works its con-
ductors and gripmen 60 hours a week, and which
recently circulated a plaintive printed howl against
a proposed reduction,, donated two hundred
guineas to the Patriotic Fund at its last week s
meeting. Therefore, the prospects of the widow
of the man who is killed at the war are so much
the better, and the outlook of the tram conduc-
tor’s widow can’t be any worse, for the corporation
of sweaters on wheels never supplied her with
any outlook. But, in the main, the sums that go
to the Patriotic Fund are robbed in other ways
from the sick and aged and helpless. As Melb.
Argus remarks :
One curious feature about the generous subscriptions
to military charities is that dll other charitable funds are
falling off and suffering seriously.
Which is all true, barring one point only—there is
nothing curious about the matter. When people
have a lavish outbreak of giving in one direction,
they mostly save in another as a matter of course.
The rich people who give to the Patriotic Fund
will be little or no poorer in the end. The
sacrifice will fall on the aged and the sick and the
incurable, who will go to gaol more vigorously
than ever this year because the impoverished
hospitals and asylums can’t take them in. The
great art of passing on the blame and shoving
along the loss and the responsibility always ends
when the loss and the responsibility have brought
up on top of those least able to bear them.
Scottish item in support of The Bulletin’s
theory that the manufacture and sale of grog
should be a State or municipal monopoly:—
At the village of Hill of Beath, in Fifeshire, the public-
house has been for some time managed by the people
themselves. The statement of accounts, as submitted to
the West Fife Licensing Committee some six weeks ago,
showed that the income for the past year had amounted
to £2210 Os. 2d., and the net profits, after meeting all
expenses, were '£562 18s. 7d. Out of the.profits the electric
light had been introduced into the village, a bowling-
green was being made, a considerable sum had been,
expended on the village reading-room, and other
ments carried out.
If Sydney had a nrnnici] ml grog-selling monopoly


the KTBW POLICY op
Tl>* tytitOal Life losoraocc Co. of hfewYork
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Lo in at o per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full in mrance.
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Baker#Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
r 'rzimliMt
.. . THE CELEBRATED .. .
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE.
'■ * S> : . ■, .
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
260 Co ins-st., Melbourne.
375 George-street, Sydney.
81 Queen -ST., Brisbane. 65 Rundee-st., Adelaide.
Fowler s Traction Engines
å
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sole A gen ts :
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde "Works, Granville.
The u Thistle ” Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
under good management the rebuilding of the
tattered city and the construction of high-level
bridges to North Sydney and Balmain could be
gradually effected out of the profits. Then the
Public Thirst would at least leave some good
results behind it. At present the community
reaps very little from the profits of the retail
trade except a large crop of “ blanky.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (24th). .. “ Henry V.”
Royal “Trilby.”
Lyceum “ It’s Never Too Late to Mend."
Criterion Bickards’ Co.
Opera House “Bip Van Winkle."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Theatre Boyal “ The New Barmaid."
Bijou Bickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Briton or Boer."
A dramatised version of Charles Reade’s
novel, “ It is Never Too Late to Mend,” was pre-
sented at Sydney Lyceum last Saturday night,
when a large audience spread itself up to the ceil-
ing, and fell down noisily at intervals, and was
reproached audibly by other people, to do that
morally-entitled production all honor. “It is
Never Too Late to Mend” will probably have a
successful run, partly because it introduces the
bush and the mopoke and the laughing jackass
and the man who nas jim-jams, and other bits of
Australian life, and partly because there is a good
deal of prison in it, which gives people a home-
like feeling, and makes them think of grandpa and
Auld Lang Syne. The fact that it is a very badly
constructed drama will also materially help to its
success, as Billjim and Jimbill and the other
literati of this great country like their drama
with lots of loose tags about it, and in a general
state of disrepair. The number of loose tags
about Charles Reade’s production as dramatised is
infinite. The play opens with a realistic farm-
yard stocked with hens and pigeons and the tail
of a dog. Every now and then, on first night,
the characters would stop telling each other that
the farm or the girl or something would be theirs
by fair means or foul in order to heave that dog
round, and every now and then that character
would forget his part, and retire, leaving nothing
but his tail waving rhythmically among trie hay as
before. The tail of that dog is symbolical of
other irrelevant details in the story.
• * * •
For instance, there is a supposed-to-
be pathetic scene when, after quarrelling an
irrelevant quarrel with his brother, the hero
bids a long and weepful farewell to the church
bells, and the ancient farm-house, and the
hens, and the pigeons, and the tail of the
dog, and then at great length gives his fiancee to
his brother to be a sister to him for the excellent
reason that he is in love with her too. Thereupon
the audience naturally concludes that the brother
will be discovered either basely betraying his
trust or else nobly doing something or other to
save her from the other villain. Whereas, when
the other villain does come along and deceives her
with false reports, the brother isn’t anywhere
about doing anything, and he seems to have
dropped out of the play altogether. Several
people drop in and out of the play in this casual
sort of fashion, like the Jew who is driven
from his ancient homestead and revenges himself
by wandering about inside the walls, presumably
without food and drink, for several years. The
prison act is a huge, irrelevant detail all in one
fjiece; also, the dance of the native Australians
which is a skirt-dance without the necessary
ingredients), and a very original aboriginal whom
the weepful hero rightly declares to be as good as
himself, and the modern fireplace which somehow
makes its way into the bushman’s hut of the early
days. The play also suffers from the want of nice
girls for the more or less nice young men to marry.
As it is, there is no nice girl for the brother, or
the reformed thief, or the good young clergyman
who rolls his pious words in act 2. There is only
one nice girl in the play, and even she is not per-
fect, for her name is Susan.
* * * *
Miss Dora de Winfcon takes the part of
Susan, but as the supply of nice girl is not only
limited as to quantity, but also as to duration,
she has little to do except to look nice one time in
a blue dress, and another time in a white one. She
not only looks nice, but is nice both times. The
hero, being a weepful one, is not played by John
Saunders. Mr. Saunders is congenially cast as the
interesting young scapegrace who is rightfully
thrown into prison. The fact that it is the man
who really did the forgery who is thrown into
prison is one of the redeeming bursts of originality
m this painfully-disconnected drama. Mr. James
Cathcart, specially engaged for Isaac Levi, the
Jew, does that irrelevant detail with much force,
and if he is allowed to cut down those long
monologues about his sainted Leah and the
ancient homestead he will probably become
as endurable as he always deserves to be.
But the people who want to linger on in their
dilapidated homesteads because their ancestors
lingered there, and because the caterpillars and
flies are the descendants of the caterpillars and
flies that their grandsires were wont to jump on,
don’t touch a responsive chord, seeing that this
prosaic generation has lost all liking for dilapi-
dated roof-trees, and has no reverence for the family
caterpillar whatever.
*« * *
The pantomime is slowly drawing to a
close at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and the days of
the pantomime donkey are soon to be ended. For
the next ten months or so we shall only have the
common donkeys to amuse us—the donkeys you
meet in town councils and temperance meetings
and gatherings to holler about the small things of
this world. It won’t be necessary to hurl the
Transvaal war into the next production, which
(after a week’s closure of the big theatre) is
a revival of “ Henry V.” “ Henry V.,” besides
being a spectacle of great brilliance with a horse
in it (and therefore the only piece of Shakespeare
that takes really well in this land) is the story of
an English King who wanted to annex France.
When he discovered that France was a good coun-
try to have a moral claim to, Henry made out a
moral claim accordingly, and proved that he,
Henry V., was, somehow or other, the real heir,
this claim being frankly admitted by himself and
the English clergy and nobility, and other parties
who would be benefited by the loot. (The fact that
the French couldn’t see the point shows what an
ignorant lot they were.) Accordingly, after hav-
ing made sure from all his fellow-looters that it
wasrightto loot, Henry V. said his prayers and went
out and looted in a Christian and honorable manner.
His great chance to loot arose out of the fact that
the 1 rench king of those days was an idiot. And,
by way of strengthening his claim, Henry V. mar-
ried the deranged man’s daughter, and brought
the insanity into his own family, and died leaving
behind him a pitiable insane son, who couldn’t
hold either the stolen kingdom or his own one.
And thus the curse came home to roost, and, as it
was a very large curse roosting on a very small
king, the latter collapsed beneath the weight, and
the curse sat on his tombstone afterwards, its
working-hours being from nine to six, with an
interval for lunch.
** * *
“Tess,” the girl with the small Past, will
shortly be giving place to “Trilby,” and, though
“Trilby” has more Past, and bare feet into the
bargain, the present scribe looks forward to the
change with regret. “Trilby” gives a white-
washed and rose - perfumed representation of
student life as it isn’t in Paris, while “ Tess,” to
some extent, is set in a surrounding of hay and
turnips and real agricultural squalor. The girl
Tess is Family ’Erald herself, but her mamma,
and her manoeuvring to get her daughter settled,
with or without the marriage ceremony, were
badly wanted in dramatic literature just now.
There are many people writing plays ostensibly
in favor of the poor, and showing how noble the
poor are and how superior in morality to the rich
squire or the wealthy baronet, and it never occurs
to them that, if the poor are so much better than
the rich, then poverty is an excellent thing. There-
fore the exacting squire-landlord, and the sweating
factory-employer, and various other personages
who keep these good people poor, and consequently
virtuous, are doing a noble work, and should be
encouraged in their grinding propensities instead
of being treated with contumely, as they are at
present—in dramas.
*# * *
“Rip Van Winkle” up-to-date, wherein
the Dutchmen of Sleepy Hollow revile their
descendants of the Transvaal, who weren’t going
to be born for many years, will probably last a
little longer at Sydney Opera House. On the
whole, the show deserves better patronage than it
gets, though the chorus still manifests a desire to
hide behind itself, and wears a lost and worried
look when it is saying how joyful it is. Also, the
opera is still in a state of fluctuation. While
many of Planquette’s ditties are yet unsung, some
of the interpolated verses have been already
dropped and others have arrived in their stead.
Likewise the little heads that were not golden
seem to have shot up considerably of late, and the
girl who is two captains and a blue Dutch ghost
or so gives an impression of being a different girl
somehow. However, Howard Vernon and Maud
Hewson (who brings a Pollard atmosphere into
the surroundings) and the man who tootles some-
thing on a clarionet are all just the same as before,
which is fairly good news.
** * #
At Sydney Criterion Miss Maud Needham,
with bare arms and neck, sings a variation of the
*' Absent-Minded Beggar,” which, considering
that Miss Rickards also gives a variation of the
same literary gem within a few minutes, is just a
little too much Beggary in one night. The
Macarte Sisters are three Teutonic-looking ladies
who do various things between a steel wire and
three large Japanese umbrellas. Two of them
also hold a steel wire in their teeth while hanging
by their plump legs and playing a mandolin and
guitar, and the other sister stands on the wire and
plays a third instrument. Ludwig Amann has
added General Buller to his portrait-gallery, and
judging by the noise, Buller is only about one
degree less popular than the fat, make-believe
lady supposed to represent Victoria Regina.
Altogether Ludwig Amann is about the most in-
teresting person appearing in the Criterion just
now.
** # *
“ New Barmaid ” seems to do pretty
good business at Melbourne Royal on account of a
delusive title and a general disposition to accept
whatever offers itself m the musical-comedy line.
As a matter of fact, there is very little barmaid
and a lot of irrelevant song and foolishness in
Sheridan s latest show, but an occasional stageful
of girls covers a multitude of sins, and the two or
tliiee jokes that come in the second act are better
late than never. “The New Barmaid” has not
improved on acquaintance, all the same. It
suffers dreadfully from a varicose vein of senti-
ment running through the centre of its feeble nar-
rative, and the reason why the amateur young
man with the tall, commanding nose can get
adored by two simultaneous barmaids is as great a
mystery as ever. The serious baritone aforesaid
has cast aside his tow wig since the first night and
is now holding to the right barmaid and despising
the wrong ’un in a natural manner as regards his
head of hair. But in all other respects he remains
no more human than before. A good actor would
need to do all he knew to look pleasant in the
same part, probably, and when it comes to the
crude, mechanical occupant of a baggy dress-suit,
whose enunciation leaves much to be desired, the
effect is depressing. John F. Sheridan, as the
waiter who turns millionaire and takes to plum-
colored clothes, is most cheerful but never exhila-
rating. The same remark applies with a little
more force to Fred Sinclair, also with a little less
emphasis to Miss Gracie Whiteford and other
people. Looking around for someone who is
brighter m this case than in ‘ ‘ Little Christopher
Columbus,” the present writer merely shakes his
box of intellect (such as it is) and wipes a tear-
drop from his other eye.
** * *
At the Alexandra a great whistling and
the clatter of many feet is heard six nights a week,
and Dam pier wears the red shirt of a riotous life
for all the garment is worth. “ Robbery Under
Arms ” was always a joyful incident on Saturdays;
this time it is going strong between the booms,
therefore the threatened production of “ Briton
or Boer ” may possibly be held over until the 24th
instead of the 17th. But if the demand for Star-
hght and Warrigal, and the decease of Jim,
&c., _ should unexpectedly slow down, the
question of “Briton or Boer” will be put
to the Alexandra multitude on the earlier
date. Meanwhile Alfred Dampier invites
the public at large to come along and vote for a
play by the Immortal Bard. Three plays are
under offer—“ Merchant of Venice,” “Hamlet,”
and “The Winter’s Tale” —and the intellectual
cherub who sits up aloft is at liberty to ask for
the one that will give him the biggest shock for
his money. Present writer votes for the “ Tale,”
on the ground that Shylock and the Prince of
Denmark are too much addicted to wearisome
quotations.
** * *
Some Transvaal War Pictures were added
to the Bijou programme on Saturday night, with-
out eclipsing the rest of the show. Five of the
pictures are alive, and two of them look as though
they might have been filmed in South Africa, but
the Spy who emerges from a shanty and gets
shot in cold blood by six hazy Tommies is
probably a sordid impostor who fell down
for eighteenpence and a pot of beer by special
arrangement with the photographer. Talking of
beer the IS T ewsky Family are still singing “ 0
Mr. Porter ” in a foreign accent, also the Absent
Minded Beggar continues to accumulate boodle
for the Fund. In fact the boodle average has been
raised by the new system of sending round the
plate for the audience’s credit’s sake, whereby they
are robbed of the opportunity to land a coin of
the realm in somebody’s eye.
** * *
Manager Williamson, who recently wished
Melbourne good-bye for a long, unlimited period,
announces that he will be back again at the Prin-
cess’s on Saturday (24th) with “ Little Red Riding
Hood.”
** * *
A farewell concert to Alfred Moulton, the
composer of “ Le(amine,” will happen at Melb.
Town Hall on Saturday (17th). Moulton has had
more pluck than luck in his tuneful undertakings,
and his friends are making an. enthusiastic effort
to farewell the young man in an imposing manner.
Melb. Tramway,Go. falls in badly over its
big appeal to the Lrivy Council. After sending
Isaacs ’Ome on a handsome fee, and with the
necessary transcript of the case ahead of him,
Vic. Full Court found that certain formalities
hadn’t been complied with. The Privy Council
can, of course, still decide that it may be appealed
to, but that’means two costly actions in London
instead of one, preparation of fresh documents,
probably an additional big fee for the ex-Attor-
ney-General, and, at all events, a long delay.
In reference to a gruesome par. which ap-
peared in Theßulletin several months ago about
an alleged shipment of cats, in a schooner, from
Albany (W.A.) to Eucla, The Bulletin receives
this letter:—
Reading in one of your papers of last Sept., I wish you
to correct a statement you there make referring to me,
which I had nothing to do with, respecting a shipment of
cats from Albany to Eucla, as I am the only schooner
trading between Albany and Eucla, therefore I take it as
a gross insult upon me, as I have never taken any cats
from Albany. Trusting you will see into it, as I cannot
allow an article of that sort to appear in print either
against me or my vessel.— F. Douglas, master Grace
Darling, Albany.
The paragraph in question was taken from another
paper, the name of which was given. The Bul-
letin never had the faintest idea what vessel
carried the alleged cats or whether there were ever
any such cats at all. In fact it never supposed
there were any such cats, and merely quoted the
item as an interesting bit of fiction. It never
desired to annoy any respectable mariner by say-
ing that he carried cats, and it now withdraws
these cats absolutely. It never heard of the
schooner Grace Darling being in the cat trade and
if anything it said seemed to suggest that that
vessel carried cats at any time, the statement is
unreservedly retracted. In all future cat narra-
tives in this paper the animals will be carried on a
raft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Cow-Shaking Government of N.S.W. has
been moved to explain why it offered its £1,000,000 of 4
per cent. Treasury bills in London at £99) (with a two
years' currency which makes the interest really £4 ss. 3d.)
while the N.S.YV. investor can only get 3 per cent, stock
at £lOO. The Australian' Star reports John See as
speaking thus : “ In response to some criticism which has
appeared in a section of the press, he points out that the
money was required in England to meet obligations
accruing there, and nothing could possibly have been
gained by selling the bills here. Indeed, it would have
involved a loss, because in the first place it is doubtful if
they would have realised 99.) here, and then the Govern-
ment would have been compelled to send borrowed
sovereigns, or their equivalent, to meet London obliga-
tions, which would have meant the payment of a large
sum for exchange. The object of the Government in
placing the bills in London was to serve the best interests
of the colony, and, considering the disturbed state of the
money market, Mr. See thinks there is every cause for
congratulation."
* * * *
Now, in the first place, there are .about
£13,000,000 in gold lying in the banks of N.S.W. and
Victoria alone, and though this money can’t safely be in-
vested in practically interminable securities at 3 per cent,
yet a short-dated 4) per cent. State security would almost
certainly have been rushed. Such securities are remark-
ably scarce just now. Secondly, when N.S.W. was
able to provide about £200,000 in the last seven months
to buy 3 per cent, securities it is still more probable that
4) per cent, securities would have been rushed. Anyhow,
Melbourne Board of Works can get pretty large sums locally
at about 3), and its security is infinitely worse than that
of the N.S.W. Government. Also, seeing that a previous
Lyne-See Government found it possible to raise far more
than the sum now wanted locally at 4 per cent., when
N.S.W. was in far worse straits than it is in now, the idea
of getting the cash here doesn’t seem quite ridiculous.
As for the statement that local flotation would “ involve
a loss,” it is absurdly thin. If the loan is floated locally
the Government gets income-tax on the interest, which
it doesn’t in England. It saves the cost of remitting the
interest. And by borrowing in London to meet
London engagements N. S. Wales doesn’t save the
cost of remitting the principal to London—it only
postpones it. Some day or other, unless this country is
going to end up as a defaulter, the debt must be paid off
by remitting the money to London, so this expense isn’t
saved—it is merely passed on to posterity. And, apart from
everything else, John See, as a Protectionist, ought to
know' that there is something to be gained by keeping
over £40,000 a year in the country. The short explanation
appears to be that the Lyne-See combination hadn’t
courage enough to get out of a bad old rut, and is now
making bad attempts to explain why it stayed in the rut.
* * * »
Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works, which
is now pretty well loaded down with debt, last week
floated in Melbourne a 3) per cent, loan of £250,000 at
£99 9s. It was offered over £500,000. And John See, of
the N.S.W. Government of Cow-Shakers, actually holds
that the credit of N.S.W. Government is so much worse
than that of Melbourne Board of Works that if it asked for
a million locally at four per cent, (not 3)) it would
probably have failed to get it at £99 10s.
• • • *
The now Tasmanian Premier reckons that the
finances of his island stand as follows :
Deficit on Ist January, 1399 .. .. £256,322
Revenue for 1399 .. £943,606
Expenditure for 1599 .. 870,000
73,606
Estimated deficit, Ist January, 1900 .. £182,716
Estimated revenue, 1900 .. £987,810
Estimated expenditure, 1900 900,965
86,845
Estimated deficit, Ist January, 1901 .. £95,871
Tasmania is certainly wiping off its old shortage with far
more energy than any other province, Westralia only
excepted. The pity is that so much of the wiping-off is
done by charging current expenditure to loans. And it is
a solemn thing to reflect on that if Tasmania had only
shouldered the present burden of taxation as manfully 30
years ago, it need never have had any debt, it could have
paid for all its roads and railways out of revenue, it
would now have no dreadful burden of £330,000 a year to
pay for interest, and it would be, for its size, the richest
and most prosperous place in Australasia. What Tasmania
is doing now proves that these provinces could do without
borrowing if they only had the courage. If Tasmania
likes to continue raising the present revenue and to con-
tinue the present economy after its accumulated shortage
is paid off, it can build its future railways out of revenue,
and when they are built it can go on to pay off its debt
out of revenue. And if it had made the present effort 30
years earlier there would be no debt, no accumulated
deficit, and probably more railways and roads and bridges
than there are at present.
• • • »
For years and years Murphy, M.L.A. for
Warrenheip (Vic.), has worn his boots out pervading the
departments with a demand for a miserable little cock-
spur railway to carry the people of little Bungaree 1J
miles to their racecourse, where about twice a year a
little race-meeting is held. It is the most hopeless rail-
way project in all Victoria, far worse than even the dread-
ful Deddick idea ; but the M’Lean Government, to which
even one vote is a thing of moment, is seriously talking
about building the Murphy railway. Everything—even a
Government that views the Murphy railway seriously—
comes to the man who waits.
• * * *
“Investor”: It wall probably last much more
than ten years, but as the mine exhausts the price of
shares will go down, and it is quite possible that the re-
duction in the value of shares will so largely counterbal-
ance the dividends that you will only get a moderate rate
of interest on your money. Of course, there is always the
chance that after taking a few years’ dividends you might
sell out on top of a temporary rise and do well.
* • * •
H. Benjamin: The co. has very little standing
and its shares have still less value.


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining Water Supplies,
Ventilating* Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-sfc., Sydney.
o> Smoke the Latest
RUTTY’S VANDYCK
CIGARS (ROT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR 1/-
y
c/ GA/?s
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * *
The Insurance Agent, London, writes of _ the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : The
report of this progressive Company just to hand is quite
refreshing from the buoyant, inspiring account it gives of
a successful year’s operations. *
• • •
A revival appears to be in store for the Mt.
Wills district of Victoria. The Maude and Homeward
Bound United Mine is developing well; so much so that
the management has decided to adopt crushing and con-
centrating appliances of its own. Their mill will comprise
ten head of stamps, classifiers and “ Luhrig Vanners
(supplied through W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, the
Salagents lor “ Luhrig” Appliances). The mineral-
ised stone is rich ; recent concentrates averaging as high
as soz. gold per ton.* , , *
The Wilflev Concentrator, lately introduced to
Australia by the Austral Otis Engineering Co. Ltd., is meet-
in*' with much success, users describing it as far and away
the best machine of the day,and the Company is ke P tb usi'y
en*'a*'ed in turning out the machines to keep pace with
the orders. The range of adjustment to suit val ™^ 9
classes of ores is such that the machines are being success-
fully employed to concentrate on tin, copper, silver and
gold ores, and the machines are now working in all the
colonies. The Central Silver Mine, Broken Hill, after con-
sideration of all existing plants, and carefvil expenments,
have finally adopted them and are now putting them in.
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved Properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
♦ • 9
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mini rig requ*"
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
«• British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
lor the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
uurchase, “ hi# prospecting shows (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c . of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
Increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
■works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
Inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
ioints flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead ioints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.
“Prospector” : Like the ancient partition of
Gaul the annual work of the Greenbushes (W.A.) tin
miner is divided into three parts. For four months of the
year he raises no washdirt because there is no water.
For four months ditto because there is too much water.
For four months more ditto because there is no tin.
* * * *
Australian Star, after enumerating the riches
■of the Great Boulder Mine : “ It therefore appears only a
question of time when the Great Boulder will take its
place as the greatest gold producer in the world, and m
our opinion there is a solid pound rise in the shares by the
■close of the year.” The same newspaper a few* months ago
declared there was every reason to believe the Lake View
■Consols shares would double in value in a very little time.
Instead of which they are now just about half their then
price. Had they doubled there is no doubt the public
would have a daily shriek of “We told you so,” but not a
sign of apology is given when it works the other way.
* * • *
Westralian timber eo.’s floated in London are
having a bad time. Only one shows a profit for last
year, others are reconstructing, and in another the
directors say they will be glad to co-operate with the
shareholders to consider what, under all the circum-
stances, is the best course to pursue. They are
all too heavily capitalised already, and too many are in
the field, hence they are cutting each other’s throats.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co.. London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markv/ald
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney•
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
“Bonnie Dundee Mill, Charters Towers. I
find the Billett’s Patent Tuyere effects a great saving of
labor and fuel and requires no attention, as it works with-
out water.: —S, Bellow, manager.” Particulars frotn W.
Dewhirst, Broughton Lane, Sydney.
A feeble, undecided movement is now going on
among the municipal fathers and grandfathers of Mel-
bourne for the purchase of the local gas-works and their
conversion into a municipal undertaking. Accormng to
the company’s Act of Parliament, the corporation may
buy it out on 12 months’ notice, the price to be 18 times
the average dividend paid in the last three years. The
average div. for the last three years has been 8 per cent.,
so the Corporation could now buy fully one-third
cheaper than it could have done in '95 when
the average of the previous three years was
nearly 11 per cent., and for much less than
half what it would have had to pa3 T in 1892, when the
average of the previous three years was within a fraction
of 20 per cent. If the corporation bought at present
prices it would get 5J per cent, on its money, selling gas
at the same rates that the company does. It could bor-
row the money at 3J per cent., and the other 2 per cent,
could form a sinking fund to pay off the debt, so that in
course of time, without increasing the price of gas or
taxing anybody a single penny, Melbourne would have an
asset worth £2,000,000. That is to say, it could do these
things unless electricity or some other new discovery
killed thejWhole business in.the interval and left it with a
big debt and a lot of scrap iron instead. It is quite
possible that 20 years hence the Melbourne and Sydney
Gas Co.’s will both be worth only the value of the land
they possess, and their chairs and tables and buildings,
and the scrap-iron in the big gasometers.
* * * *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne), after a temporary check last half-year, is
again progressing on the road every good bank should
travel. The profits for the half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1899, were £ls7s—the best record since 1894. The
profits and losses of the Australian D. and M. Bank of
late years have been: —
Profit. Profit.
June, 1894 .. .. £5097 December, 1896 .. £978
Loss. June, 1897 .. .. 911
December, 1894 .. £5632 December, 1897 .. 1051
June, 1895 .. .. 7566 June, 1898 .. .. 1807
December, 1895 .. 2616 December, IS9B .. 1400
Profit. June, 1899 .. .. 1267
June, 1896 .. .. £69 December, 1899 .. 1575
The profit is equal to 7s. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ capital, and it raises the profit balance to
£B3B0 —which is the only semblance of a reserve-fund the
A.D. and M. Bank now possesses.
This institution is now paying £3 Is. 3d. per
cent, on its reconstructed deposits all round. It arranged
to renew £7O out of every £lOO till 1910 at percent.,
and to repay the other 30 per cent, without interest by
three equal instalments in 1896, 1899, and 1901. As a
consequence, before the first instalment was repaid the
average interest was £2 9s. After the first instalment
was paid the average interest was £2 14s. 6d. The pay-
ment of the second instalment raised the average rate to
£3 Is. 3d., which is where it stands now. Next year,
when a third instalment is paid, the interest on the
balance will be £3 10s. per cent., and will remain there.
Therefore the A. D. and M. Bank is increasing its profits,
despite a steady rise in the average rate of interest pay-
able on deposits, and this is at least something to its
credit. Assuming that a sound bank which isn’t paying
an extravagant rate of deposit interest should be able to
earn 2£ per cent, on its really existing capital, it seems
that the A. D. and M. Bank has, on present values,
£126,000 of capital actually surviving, and that
the other £773,000 requires to be written off as lost to put
things on a perfectly sound basis. But as the institution
is obviously able to pay all its deposits (now rather less
than £500,000) in full, and as it doesn’t weaken the de-
positors’ security by paying dividends, and as it probably
makes the shareholders feel better to imagine their capital
is intact, the present arrangement hurts nobody. More-
over, a slow improvement is always going on, and if the
shareholders only wait long enough, and the management
falls into no more pits, the rise in values will bring back
part of the lost capital, and the rest will be made good out
of accumulated profits, and no writing off will be required.
Seeing that the A.D. and M. Bank has ten years before it,
the policy of patiently nursing the assets is certainly the
best one. The institution has already got nearly enough
cash together to pay the last instalment on non-interest-
bearing deposits due in 1901, and it is building up a small
business again in new deposits. To any person named
Job the gradual recovery of the A.D. and M. is an interest-
ing study. And one of its directors is named Job.
• • * *
The balance-sheet of the Royal Bank of Queens-
land (already noticed in issue of 13/l/’00) appears in the
advertising columns of this issue.
* * * »
The London Bank of Australia gives notice of
its intention to repay another instalment of its recon-
structed deposits. According to the second arrangement
made with the old depositors their money was repayable
—lO per cent, in 1899 ; 10 per cent, in 1901 ; 10 per cent,
in 1903 ;10 per cent, in 1905; 30 per cent, in 1911; and
30 per cent, in 1917. The 1899, 1901 and 1903 instalments
have all been repaid far in advance of the due dates, and
it is now proposed to repay the instalment due in 1905.
When this is done, only £1,956,410 of the reconstructed
deposits will remain to be dealt with.
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.
shows another slight improvement, the profits for 1899
being £ll,6l4—the best up to date. These figures com-
pare with some previous earnings as follows :
1891 .. £654 1896 .. £7,209
1892 .. 3125 1897 .. 10,016
1893 .. 4384 1898 .. 11,531
1894 .. 4740 1899 .. 11,614
1895 .. 6536
A sum of £1750 is added to reserve for renewal of plant,
making it £5750 ; £1250 is written off works and plant: a
dividend of 10 per cent, per annum absorbs £8438, and
the other £176, added to previous balance, leaves £3809
to carry forward. The directors have done one notably
wise thing during the year ; they have called up addi-
tional capital and paid'off all their debentures (£35,000),
and the co. is now working entirely on its own funds.
And now, having a credit balance of £3809, it is about
“ up to ” these directors to do another wise thing, which
is to start writing off, with all convenient speed, that
paper or goodwill asset described as 11 Parliamentai y
rights and concessions, £15,000.” This isn’t a tangible
asset, and for that reason it should be utterly extin-
guished at the earliest possible date.
The doings of N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co.
Profit. Profit.
June, 1892.. .. £lO,OOB December, 1896 .. £1,086
December, 1892 .. 10,015 Loss.
June, 1893.. .. 6,220 June, 1897.. .. 50
December, 1893 .. 2,532
June 1894.. .. 33 December, 1897 .. 519
December, 1894 .. 1,109 June, 1898 .. .. 284
June, 1895 .. .. 4,998 December, 1893 .. 591
December, 1895 .. 6,075 June, 1899.. .. 625
June, 1896.. .. 2,507 Loss.
December, 1899 .. 1,5<5
The last dividend of about 2} per cent, was paid at
December, 1898. Previous one at December, 1890, was
about £3 6s. Bd. per cent. But the directors still allege
that they have hope. The principal other thing they have
just now is £35,000 which has just been borrowed on de-
bentures.
* * ■* *
The once great concern of James M‘Ewan & Co.,
Limited, has fallen upon e' il days. It was floated into a
co in 1887, capital £350,000 (ordinary shares £250,000,
and deferred shares £100,000). In 1888, it paid 10 per
cent, on ordinary shares. In 1889, 1890, and 1891, it paid
10 per cent, on ordinary and 5 per cent, on deferred
shares. In 1892, it paid 3 per cent, on ordinary shares.
Since then, it has paid no dividends, and has accumulated
so many losses that it is proposed to write off £275,000 of
capital as gone. But the great trouble has been the
inability to earn the interest on £150,000 worth of 6
per cent and £83,000 worth of 5 per cent, debentures, and
certainly interest at that awful rate requires some earn-
ing And it is difficult to see how the writing-down of
capital will make the earning of the debenture-interest
any easier.
* * • *
The Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney) shows a
profit of £55,628 for the half-year ended 31st December,
1899 There is a most remarkable regularity about the
earnings of this old-established and deep-rooted concern,
as witness this list of recent profits
June, 1892 ..£46,011 June, 1896 ..£46,873
December, 1892 55,623 December, 1896 54,898
June, 1893 .. 46,233 June, 1897 .. 48,435
December, 1893 54,765 December, 1897 54,742
June, 1894 .. 47,661 June, 1898 .. 47,922
December, 1894 54,588 December, 1898 54,155
June, 1895 .. 48,357 June, 1899 .. 46,995
December, 1895 53,701 December, 1899 55,628
The usual dividend at the rate of 15 per cent, per annum
(the same 15 per cent, which has been paid as long as
inhabitants who are as old as they have any business to be
can remember) absorbs £51,135, and the other £4493,
added to previous balance, leaves £6799 to carry forward.
The Australian Gas Light Co. has earned its dividend wi h
such mathematical regularity all these years that the
reserve fund has stood at the same £110,450 all the time,
and the only change of any importance is that the balance
carried forward was £7780 at December, 1892, and has
diminished to £6799 at December, 1899.
* * * •
Mining (that is to say, share-dealing) business in
Adelaide is sicker than the patient was whom they
quarantined there for bubonic plague ; and if it weren’t
for a little English business in leading Boulder stocks the
whole Stock Exchange might just as well go crab-fishing.
The worst result has been that the fillip given to
prospecting in the Far West has died out. \\ orturpa, of
course, was bound to fizzle out; but a few copper shows
were worth honestly worldng, and some of the best of
them have been abandoned. Certainly the Yes-No atti-
tude of the Govt, with regard to the ore-reducing works
at Port Augusta has had much to do with this. As to
these proposed works the latest is that the Govt, geologist
is “ making inquiries in Europe.”
The land of fierce extremes. In a few hours the
other day 4in. of rain fell in the very district of far-west
N.S.W., where three weeks before the overseer and book-
keeper of Packsaddle station perished of thirst. This
summer has added fearfully to the victims of the droughty
tracks. And as for sheep, the losses in western N.S.W.
alone cannot be under 1,100,000.
. * » » »
B.H. North, which has been working for 12
years and has paid precisely one dividend in all that time
(and that was only a matter of £2OOO or so) figures in the
Vic. “ Patriotic ” Fund list for £lOO. If some poor beggar
of a miner was turned into pulp under a fall of this co.’s
ore, and the widow and eight children asked for £2O, the
directors would probably faint; certainly they would
point out how long the mine had been unprofitable, and
how utterly impossible it was to satisfy the request.
Most of the other B.H. co.’s have also manifested a sudden
interest in battered men, and widows, and fatherless
children ; and as their own mines have a steady output
of battered men and widows and fatherless children these
co.’s will, no doubt, be kept pretty busy in the future
writing out cheques to relieve them.
Melbourne shareholders in the Broken Hill
South are supporting Broken Hill shareholders in kicking
against the policy of secrecy adopted by the Adelaide
directors. The Bulletin has 17 times (more or less)
kicked about the same thing ; but it hasn’t put all the
blame on the directors’ shoulders—it has held general-
manager Greenway largely responsible. Anyhow, the in-
disputable fact is that in connection with every mine
“bossed” by Mr. Green way shareholders are starved of
information-Lean’t, indeed, tell from the reports whether
the ore-reducing plant is doing good work or bad, or
whether the mill and the men are saving most of the
metal or tipping most of it on to the waste-dump. Of
course this policy has aroused suspicions. Thus Block 14
is a buyer of ore and concentrates, and the South is a
seller ; Mr. Greenway professionally controls both, and
some of the directors of Block 14 have been appointed
also to the South. So there, in the absence of very ample
particulars of all transactions, yph have the basis of a
very pretty scandal. If the writer had any suspicion at
all of the honesty of Mr. Greenway and the directors he
would be able to understand why they should continue
the present keep-it-dark policy ; but as he hasn’t he can
only put it down to natural secretiveness in the one and
natural cussedness in the other. For all that, he doesn’t
believe that the results from the South mill are so good
that those responsible for them could afford to be proud
of them if they were plainly stated; and that appears to
be the very firm local belief, too.
* * • # *
B.H. Water Supply shareholders have decided
not to accept the offer of £300,000 for their works made
by the B.H. municipality, though the directors advised
them to. That day shares were quoted at 275. 6d. ; the
price offered meant about 335., in addition to profits made
pending the completion of the bargain, and in addition
the co. was to retain its accumulated cash, book debts,
&c. The directors knew more than the shareholders did ;
but they couldn’t talk freely—couldn’t foul their own
nest. Four things might have been thought of that ap-
parently weren’t. (1) The co.’s rights run out in less than
20yrs., whereupon the works cease to be the co.’s, and the
latter gets no compensation. (2) Profits can’t be expected
to go on increasing, but instead will probably diminish.
The last two or three years have been particularly
droughty ; and the mining companies which conserve in
their own dams nearly enough water for their own use in
rainy seasons have been dependent upon the Water Co.,
whose profits have therefore been unusually high lately.
(3). The mining co.’s, or some of them, are prepared to
assist the municipality to carry-through another scheme,
ensuring cheaper water for their mills. (4) The cost of
restoring the mains and removing the silt, as well as of
filtering the water so as to pass the Health Dept., will
probably entail very heavy expense shortly. The directors
had considered these and a few other points, and recom-
mended that the offer be snapped up ; but some others
who had their eyes glued on to the pretty fat divs.
which the co. is now paying held out for £350,000,
and there is not the least likelihood of the municipality or
Govt, giving that.
* * * *
Inverell (N.S.W.) : “ The biggest mine at
Bo«-gy Camp, the Star of the South, has closed down for
six months, throwing 200 men out of employment. This
will cripple Boggy Camp.” Said the co. contracted to
sell its output of diamonds at 6s. per carat, and as tire
local diamonds are now bringing upwards of 20s. it deter-
mined to shut down until the contract time had expired ;
an easy way of bringing about a law-suit. There is
another yarn that it is on account of the difficulty of
keeping the ground up, timbering being very cosily.
* * * *
!‘F.” : Latest news from Cooma copper show
not so encouraging as a few months ago.
* * * *
“F.”: Lake George again giving signs of life.
Captain’s Flat is 22 miles from a rail station, whence
fluxes, materials and supplies are forwarded. During the
winter months the roads are woeful, hence the difficulty
of profitably working the mines. But still worse is the
fact that nearly all the firewood for a radius of 14 miles
is already appropriated or exhausted. It is L.G.’s mis-
fortune that the ore is not rich enough to make up for
heavy expenses of working. Having failed as a gold show
and as a silver show, it is now on its trial as a. copper
mine. Writer’s opinion is that it will be found guilty and
get a heavy sentence.
Victoria’s coal output for 1899 was 262,380 tons
—the largest to date. But while the output grows larger
the price realised per ton grows smaller. This is tne vie
torian coal record up to date Value
Quantity Value per
Raised. Ol h
Tons cwt. £ s - a -
To 31st Dec., IS9O .. 55,079 10.. 62,954.. 19 3
During 1891 .. .. 22,834 3.. 19, <3l .. 17 3
„ 1892 .. .. 23,363 7.. 20,044 .. If 2
„ 1893 .. .. 91,726 0.. 49,167 .. W »
1894.. ..171,65915.. 94,999.. 11 1
„ 1895 .. .. 194,226 10 .. 118,400 .. 12 2
„ 1596 .. ..226,562 3.. 113,012.. 911
„ 1897 .. .. 236,276 17 .. 108,640 .. 9 7
1898 .. .. 242,859 10 .. 103,099 .. 8 6
„ 1899 .. .. 262,380 0.. 113,522 .. 8 8
Totals 1,526,967 15 £793,568
Victoria’s principal coal supply is still imported, ana, as
the local and imported article keep about the same P r,c ®"
level, the drop in the price of local coal also snows ve y
clearly the drop in the price of the imported article, in
the good old days of the coal-importing ring Victoria paia
an appalling figure for coal, and the reduction isn t by any
means wholly owing to the general decline in values, in
1891 the average value of N.S.W. coal at the pit-mouth
was Bs. Bd. per ton, and the importing ring managed to
make the price in Victoria 17s. 3d.—a difference of Bs. ia.
In 1899 the average price of N.S.W. coal was ss. sd. at tne
pit-mouth, and in Victoria it was Bs. 8d. —a difference or
3s. 3d. only. In eight years coal has gone down 3s. 3a.
per ton in N.S.W. and Bs. 7d. per ton in Victoria. _ine
finding of a local supply, small as it is, was mainly
responsible for the change. The ring had to drop its
prices like a burst balloon, lest so many coal-mines nugno
be opened in Victoria that the market would be lost alto*
gether.
An East Gippsland correspondent The
much-advertised Mt. Deddick mines are before the pu nic
again in the shape of a proposal from an English co. witn
£375,000 capital to build a line from Cunmnghame to
Deddick on certain conditions. Ex-Mines Minister r oster,
as chief barracker, is trying to bluff the Government into
some decisive action that will get lone, forlorn Deddick
its railway. In connection with which I again ask wnac
has become of Govt. Geologist Ferguson’s full and ex-
haustive report on the Mt. Deddick mineral field ? Ican-
not call it a gold-field, for 1 really don’t know that a
pennyweight of gold was ever found there. Althougn
the Argus and Age promised to publish Ferguson s re-
port, they have maintained an ominous silence anent tne
burking of it. And the numerous notices that have been
published in these papers eulogising Mt. Deddick mines
have been so worded as to give the public no real informa-
tion whatever. Metallurgist Jenkins, when he visited tne
mines, condemned them utterly. Perhaps it might in-
terest you to know that there has been no work done on
the Mt. Deddick claims this last 12 months, yet the care-
taker has a horseback mail service to his own cheek bi-
weekly most of the time.”
* » *
As deep sinking and prospecting advance, more
amalgamation of Bendigo co’s will certainly be heard of.
In dozens of cases the area held is so small that separate
shafts involve a great waste. At present, Noith Old
Chum and New Chum and Victoria are trying to arrange
amalgamation ; and it will be a very good thing if it comes
off. Other amalgamations are quite as badly wan tea.
♦ * * *
Spite of the excitement in the tin market and
the rush for old Tasmanian tin ground, are dead
compared to the roaring days of Bischoff, the Bast Coast
fields, and Heemskirk. Most of the graft is done th
paper now. Frock-coats, bell-toppers, and spats have
taken the place of blueys, gartered moles and ankle water-
tights. Trial Bay, the precarious port of Heemskn kt n-
mines, is lifeless and almost tenantless. The old steamer
Wakefield, which used to make frantic rushes for the hole
between the Trial reefs, lies caked with mud on the Hats
near Launceston wharves. She will never breast the
West Coast breakers more. In her died one of the oldest
pioneers of the Coast, John Brown, with the V lirnm nmf
able alias, the discoverer of Brown s Flams goldfield and
numerous smaller finds. John, who had never left the
coast for 20 years, was on his way to Hobart for medical
advice on ati ket subscribed by the boys. He was watch-
ing a four-handed euchre party, with a glass of grog at his
elbow. “ Come, old sport,” said one of them, nudging
John, “you’re not drinking. Wake up. But the old
sport never did wake up. He sleeps where the button-
grass waves above Strahan ; and nearly all his old mates
have been tucked in safe and snug since then.
♦-* * *
The Tasmanian Smelting Co., some three miles
from Zeehan, on the Strahan Railway, has spent £<5,000
on its works, and is now running two silver-lead furnaces
on ore from Zeehan, Dundas, Mount Reid and other
places, mostly purchased while the works were being
erected. It is a German concern, uses mostly German
coke, employs Australian workmen, and has a good lime
flux quarry beside it, but, unlike Mt. Lyell, Cockle Creek
and Cobar, has no good permanent mine with a smelting
base at its back. On account of this want it is extremely
doubtful whether it will live long enough to pay divs. on
its great initial outlay. Certainly the mines are not-
numerous enough to maintain a public smelting works,
and from the quantity going past these for treatment else-
where it would seem unable to compete with other c o S-
better situated with regard to wages and fluxing material..
*** • . .
Briseis Tin Co., Tasmania : Little Langford has
admitted that, after all, the London flotation was not a
success, and the underwriters have been stuck with the
shares. “ And they are very well pleased to keep them.
They are bound to say that, anyhow. Underwriters are
not given to crying “ stinking fish,” but the heart-broken
cry of “ fresh fish ” is too old to be* respected. *
Advico to companies wasting tens of thousands
in looking for copper in the Mt. Lyell district : If it is nofe
found on the tops or sides of the mountains, no use driv-
ing tunnels into them to look for it. *
Emu Bay Railway is now running in conjunction
with the Waratah line as far as Roseberry, but it will be a
long time before they reach the terminus. The cuttings
on this line are so steep that some serious landslips may
be looked for in heavy weather, when its maintenance will
be a very costly item. Another very disagreeable feature
is the first-class single fare—26s. 3d. for less than a 70-imle-
ride • vet if it were double the amount the railway cam
hardly pay from a passenger point of view, and its charges
will have to come down very considerably before it can
hope to pay in any other direction. #
Queensland mining, always stagnant at New
Year is now hardly worth writing about. Woodlarks,
that mysterious alleged deposit on an island, alone keeps-
a rumor going on the dreary surface. Croydon has at
last o-ot a few feet of water in the dam, and next month
should show some big returns. Q. Menzies down to-
4s. 6d. . . •
Shareholders in Horn Island met the other day,
and there was the usual hifalutin about prospects. But
an experienced man, lately through there, tells another
tale —and there is no reason why his should be untrue.
He says that, in Victoria, the claims would hardly be
touched ; vet the expense of working them in N. Queens-
land is between two and three times as great. The stuff
is'noor—s or 6 weights-and not likely to improve ; also,
the "old is of very low quality. Finally, the management
isn’t either up-to-date or energetic.
* * *
Q mining returns for January : Charters Towers
moil ton! of quartz for 15,8140 z.; tailings, 1<,4670z.
(Jan., ’99, gave total of 33,8480 z.). Croydon gave 20400 z.
from 1268 tons of quartz; tailings, 5840 z. Clermont
(alluvial) returns only amounted to 3480 z., as against-
9680 z. for Jan., ’99. Gympie crushed 3203 tons for 34500z.5
tnilinsrs 5700 z (Jan., ’99, crave total of 20400Z.J.
Morgan put out 17,0840z5. from 22,906 tons ; taihngs,
3550 z. Total Q. yield for Jan., 1900, was 59,8610 z.,
64,6840 z. for Jan., 1899-an increase of 517/oz. Charters
Towers calls for January £11,792 : dividends £22,950
Crovdon, no calls, no dividends. Eidsvold, calls £2/ ,
dividends. Mount Morgan, dividends £29,167, no cans.
Gympie, calls £9422, dividends £3924.
Black Blag Co., Westralia. The English share-
holders have apparently seen the last of this concern, for
which they paid something like £lOO,OOO in cash, spent
another £lOO,OOO in machinery and developments, passed
through the vale of several reconstructions, and have
now gone into peaceful liquidation. In 97 the directors
told the shareholders that all they wanted was vigorous
development, and no time would be lost in carrying these
views into effect, as the directors are perfectly com ' u ‘ l -ed
that the property is certain to become a steady subs tap
tial dividend-paying mine and that the shares will become
very valuable.” Last year they sang a somewhat different
tune. “ The directors regret to state that the Black r lag
properties have proved upon development to be unworthy
of further working, and there is not one but what has
proved an absolute failure. Under these circumstances,
there is only one course open, and that is to recognise tne
fact that any further attempt to work not only these pro-
perties but any others in the Black Hag district must
result in absolute loss.” Here endeth a great lesson which
will be quite forgotten in the
Frank Carrie-Swain Gardiner, than whom, of
course, there is now no greater mining authority alive .
“ The failure of the Kalgoorlie sulphide plants is all non-
sense. You bring me the metals and I will find a process
of treating it. When your sulphides come in you have
the best proof of permanence in the world. It is impos-
sible to pick the eyes out of properties and expect prices
to be maintained.” According to this shining light, there
are not more than 25 competent mining managers in tne
world, and very few of the 25 are in Westralia, and mostot
the managers there are as corrupt as they are incompe-
tent. F.C.S.G. is said to have offered to take ovei 100,000
Lake View Consols shares at £2l, with the proviso that he
controlled the mine ; so that all its operations should
be conducted honestly no doubt, and never an
attempt made to pick out its eyes. What about Went-
worth mines three or four years ago? But perhaps Gard-
iner had nothing to do with that. If he hadn the W»sthe
victim of it, for there was a time in the history of that
mine when it produced over half-a-ton of g°kl per inont
for not more than three months, and there was an awfu
slump from IC.OOOoz. to less than 4000 just at a time when
newspapers and other foolish things were saying the half-
ton of gold a month business could be maintained in-
definitely. “ Bring me the ore and I will treat it, is all
rubbish/ He has innocently overlooked the question of
cost, which has everything to do with treatment. T
public were led by ignorant though innocent newspapers
to believe that the sulphide plants of Kalgoorlie weie
going to be a great economical and effective success. In
both respects they have been so far a failure, hen ce the
trouble which, combined with the eye-pickmg policy,
brought about the awful share collapse. Arid even
Gardiner’s “ yabber” won’t shift the trouble an inch.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
MERGEFS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS. *
SOFT FRAME FELT HAT.
7/6,
STRAW HATS.
From 2/9,. 3/6.
r IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
- - , UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6.
George & Barrack CVIIMn/
Streets, OIUNEY
TRADE MARK.'
CAMERAS
FROM
ss. to £5O.
L__i=
Pat Does this fflean?
PHOTOGRAPHIC APPLIANCES
IT IS AN
GUARANTEE of Quality and Efficiency
and therefore bears GREAT WEIGHT. y ’
It also proves that the Goods were supplied by
Harrington & Co. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Branch—34 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne Agents— Craven & Co., 179 Collins Street.
Agents throughout the Colonies.
Society
“THEY ALSO SERVE WHO ONLY STAY
BEHIND,"
HEROINE : “ Why didn't you go to the Transvaal,
Ted?”
HERO : Oh, hang it; you know somebody's got to
stay behind and look after you women!”
The young man of 'Victoria who, a few
years ago, was told to “go on the land,” and who
obeyed to the extent of going to the mallee, which
is more or less land, has spent the last good while
Wishmg he hadn’t. He was going tomake the
he Si + l6 m * i ree - vcars > or > at most, four; so
* . trouble to P ut UP a decent house—he
and the missus camped in the cow-shed, and beds
were made for the youngsters in the reaping-
niaclune Ihe four years, though, have run into
SvwT the y °j man > who is getting bald and
wrinkled now, and whose speech is mainly reproach
and X% W< Th 1S StlU cam P ed in the cow-shed,
frornto freebled youngsters ha,ve slopped over
from the reaping machine, and now fill the waggon
well. The only things he can safely reckon
upon growing are mallee and debts—the former
m. spite of all the ploughing and burning and
hacking he can crowd into every twelvemonth.
A few of him have lately mustered enough energy
to throw the farm at the bank, or the storekeeper
or whoever it is he has been working for during
the last few years, and then has appealed to “the
court to clear his character of the mallee stains,
and flies, and debts ; but most of him is ‘ ‘ going to
hang on tdi next season.” They: have hung on
already like a dead man at the end of a rope on
an uninhabited island, and the 15-bushel harvest
Has always been coming next season.
* * • *
From Adelaide Advertiser, Jan. 31 :
t i VO !ar " e gridirons have been sent from Pre-
toria to the Boer commandant at Kimberley for the pur-
pose of roasting Mr. Cecil Rhodes and Dr. Jameson. P
llns is not only unreliable, but misleading. The
average Boer never eats grilled meat, such being
against the teaching of the Old Testament. All
the British captives are boiled, from time to time,
m a huge tank in Kruger’s back yard and made
into an appetising hash, and it is not likely that
any different course will be followed in Rhodes’
case. As for Jameson, the Advertiser has
already made a hash of it, as he is not at Kim-
berley at all, or anywhere near it.
Eller : Sydney Art Gallery has lately
been thronged with the fair sex, 'tearing their
clothes m their desire to press through the excited
multitude and have a look at Gov. Beauchamp’s
o ection- of snuff-boxes and daggers. After
several attempts I managed to reach the glass-
case and have a glimpse of the collection, which,
after all, was not much to look at. Yet I came
across one girl so lost m admiration of a bejewelled
rnaaf °+i s r-, P r °f° u hdly and reverently
mashed on the boy-Governor, as to declare that if
he wanted to stab her with that particular weapon
she would bare her lovely bosom for the blow and
feel happy. It is only now and then you come
across a real devotee like that. J
Some humorists of a sort in
J i southern city recently persuaded
the fat, hot lady cook at a big local
hotel that her presence at an im-
pending ball would be essential to
its success. One of the humorists
promised to call for her and act as
her escort, and the lady took it in
dead earnest, and had an amazing
bright green dress with spots on
it made for the occasion. The
humorist, of course, didn’t call.
Instead he went to the ball, and
related the incident with insane
glee to a crowd of fellow-wits, and
they cackled greatly over the mag-
nificence of the joke. While they
were in the midst of their enjoy-
ment a large green apparition
struck them dumb like an Irish
writing on the wall. Mary Ann
had come by herself, and argued
the point successfully with the
door-keeper, and was now sitting
in front of them waiting to be
danced with, and wearing a loud
peal of thunder in her eye because
nobody spoke to her. The first
dance, no one took any notice of
Mary Ann, but after that, her
terrible expression convinced them
that something would have to be
done to avert a scene, and a con-
sultation was held. An unknown
male person of truculent aspect
• ‘‘ bet you gents
fcl, he said, in tones with a large
thick knob at the end of them,
*“ at you’re not game to dance
with the fat woman in the green
frock. ” “ I’ll bet you £1 you won’t
do it, said one of them, by way of
an inspiration. The stranger took
the bet promptly, and danced with
Mary Ann, and that terrible
woman was pacified for the mo-
ment. But it was a long night and
a long programme, and cook Mary
had rage in her eye if she was
neglected for a single dance, while
it she was neglected for two con-
secutive dances she started down
the_ floor with the obvious intention of
™ an who invited
er. Then that troubled humorist bet the
H a 3 er -4.n n fi, the /x Pound that he wasn’t game to
dance with the fat woman m the green frock, and
there was another respite. Altogether in the
course of a dreadful night they bet the unknown
£BTo?’tw\ dldn *i!?°> k 3 uite like a gentleman,
V■j at wouldn t dance with Mary Ann,
and he danced with Mary Ann every time. Also
the bets with distressing regularity!
A ext day it leaked out that he was Mary Ann’s
brother, but the news wasn’t a surprise 7 The
nendish persistence with which he insisted on
being paid for dancing with the cook had already
prepared them for almost anything.
■I * * * *
S.S. : Heard on Port Melb. pier on a
recent bunday: “ I’m going out of this. This
place is too beastly loyal to live in.” “Why
where will you go ? ” “ Back to England ! ”
* * *
‘‘Melb.'’: Downright cruelty to animals
tne police m their heavy, wooden sort of uniform
these dog days. Why not a light kharki ?
“IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING .”
The people who are doing best out of the
war just now are the clairvoyants and palmists.
The favorite yarn nowadays goes something like
this: “A dark man in whom you are interested
will soon take a long voyage. I hear cannons and
guns, also artillery. There are batteries and com-
missariat going off. I see men in red kharki
fighting. I see a .grave and men are firing a salute
over it. There is a body.” Here the woman
visitant falls in a dead faint, and when she re-
covers she pays her Is. and shudders herself out.
X hen the next one comes in, and the clairvoyant
sees _ another body. One or two seers make a
speciality of seeing the dark man come back in a
colonel’s uniform and a Victoria Cross, but
strange to say, they do no business worth mention-
ing compared to the ghoul who always ends up
with a grave and a.body after hearing the loud
reports of the commissariat.
T * *
“ Scotty the W.” : These three things—
yea, four—l have seen and do not understand.
Ihe smell (visible) of the suburbs of Melbourne •
the free lunch and cigar with pint of beer for 3d. •’
the wherewithal for long-sleevers ; and, like my
prototype, the way of a larrikin with a donah.
“P.” : The churches are sin-
gularly lacking in humor, and it
seems that the smaller the de-
nomination the greater the de-
cency- The Free Presbyterians,
of Victoria, who are quite dis-
tinct from the big United Presby-
terl?ll?’ lately published a report
of their progress. They have only
three small congregations, and are
unrepresented at Melbourne— the
bt. Kilda congregation being ex-
communicated for “contumacy”
a few months ago. And yet this
little handful of uncoguid have a
bpanish Evangelisation Fund,”
noless, to which the sum of £3
ss. was contributed during the
year.
* * *
“ Domino ” : Standing at
Geelong railway-station I was
struck with the appearance of a
Hibernian porter who was ex-
citedly yelling : “ Begorra, whin
shall I see Clack ? ” I concluded
that Clack owed him money, and
was, therefore, dodging him; but
was afterwards informed the Bir-
regurra, Winchelsea and Colac
train was about to start.
* * *
The origin of the bubonic
plague in Sydney has been traced
to a flea that was on a rat that was
on a ship that lay at Circular
Quay. The police are on the trail
of the flea, and believe they have
a clue. Meanwhile persons keep-
ing fleas on their premises are
cautioned against allowing them
to associate with outsiders. Any
flea that can’t account for itself is
liable to grave suspicion just
at present, and ought to be iso-
lated.
P.D.” : Oue thing I will never forget in
connection with the first Vic. Contingent. Late
on the inebriated night of, the warriors’ departure
I saw a lone, unmistakeable Dutchman standing
outside a Melbourne city pub. Watched him for
a full fifteen minutes without detecting so much
as the movement of a muscle in the square-built
figure, and finally came to the conclusion that it
was a true patriot engaged in cursing its cruel
fate. Whether ’twould be nobler to run amuck
up and down the crowded street, punching madly
at the populace, or to bow to the inevitable and
go silently home— that was the question for the
figure to decide. Probably prudence prevailed,
but Dutchy was still there when I heaved a sigh
and took a tram. I left the hopeless unit brood-
ing over the injustice of the situation. The air
was thick with the beery strains of “ Sons of the
Sea” and “Soldiers of the Queen,” likewise
“Rule Britannia,” yet the intolerant Majority
would have shed this honest patriot’s last drop of
blood rather than allow him to express his feelings
HE WANTED MORE.
IST JOHNNY: "By Jove! she's immense. Do we
see any more of her to-night?”
2ND DITTO: "Oh, no; she wears the same costume
right through.”
re Kruger and the Boers. He had my sympathy.
I couldnt have sympathised harder, not even
though lie had been a Britisher in Amsterdam
listening to the comments of the local population
on the latest cable news of a Boer victory,
* * * *
One Australian soldier who had a wife at
home and a lady that he was unmarried to in another
suburb, was undone by the war. He had always
previously managed to prevent the pair meeting,
but they both came to see him off, and the explo-
sion happened on the wharf. Just after he had
been affectionately embraced by his real wife, and
warned to wear flannel next his skin, and the rest
SEA-DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, let us sit here, Love, and watch the moon !
How soft her light is on the starry sea
Whose murmurs make for us a magic rune,
As if it were the mermaids’ melody
That from the singers in their coral caves
Is drawn up by the moonlight on the waves.
A fairy vessel with a fairy crew
Moves to the niusic in the lonely light.
Her masts are silver as she passes to
borne phantom island in another night 1
And pencilled shades they cast athwart the stars
As though the sky were lined with bronzy bars.
Ah Love, and this is life that comes and goes.
Aor leaves a trace upon the mystic main •
Lome like a dream and gone where no man knows
aii ® lomental ’y mood of joy and pain— ’
All that we are and all that we may be
A phantom vessel on a phantom sea I
R. CR. FGRD.
ONE LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A long, straight, ironstone road that stole
Beneath the simmering phantom sea,
A loping fence that seemed to be
For ever straining to a goal,
A sage-green plain dissolved to grey ;
The sun—the pulsing sun alway.
We had one vagrant clump of furze,
Gold-flecked, and in its odorous shade
I clasped her girlish form, and laid
My first enchanted kiss on hers.
Swift wasted hours, so sweet we fain
Would waste life thus and call it gain.
There’s much of her that’s vague to-night,
It was so very long ago ;
But she was fair, and this I know—
Her moist, shy eyes were wells of light,
Her mouth, deep-cornered, did disclose
The shadows of a wounded rose.
She was the first. Were’t true to say
She is not all ? I say this much,
No kiss of lips or cheek, no touch
Of tender hands, no gleaming play
Of wanton hair but holds for me
The fragrance of a memory.
Sweet, does the flowering furze to you
In golden days recall again
The passion by the grey-green plain ?
For me—ah, yes, I swear ’tis true !—-
One love has been, one only here—
One love and some revivals, dear.
EDWARD DYSON.
THE POEM AND THE DREAM.
A charming poem’s just a lovely dream ;
,_. lfc c , omes we know not why, we know not whence •
Tis glamor-wove with many a wondrous gleam ’
Of starry light from heav’ns of innocence :
It tips with gold these peaks of leaden Day
It sweeps away these bounds of Time and Distance
And leaves us, till its Memory fades away
Forgetfully contented with Existence !
P. LUFTIG.


Hardyßothers
Large Stock of Solid SILVER Goods,
suitable for Wedding Presents, con-
sisting of
Fruit Spoons, Candlesticks,
Sweet Dishes, Rose Bowls,
Salt Cellars, etc., etc.
Catalogues Post Free on application.
Jewellers & Silversmiths,
13 Hunter Street, Sydney; and at Brisbane.
Refreshing S
Invigorating!
ADD A LITT
a
pONDY'S
u Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
the Effect is Magical.
Beware of Colonial Imitations
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID.”
The foil owing name & address
should be at foot of label:
[ Coniy & Mitchell, 65, Gosw ell Rd„ London, Eng.
“ APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for " Regime®
for the Obese ” Card, published by the Apollijjaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
Ware imitators,
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
Watch the bottle, and object unless you get
ZETZ. The Queen of Natural Waters. Long
life and happiness in ZETZ.*
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE
Mr. Fraok Scoior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
files by post.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
of it, a flushed, smartly-dressed young woman
raced up, and grabbed him at the gangway, and
hugged him all over, and expressed her emotion
in a voice that demanded public attention. All
this time the lawful wedded one was looking on,
temporarily paralysed with amazement, and the
man was glaring stonily out upon the world kite a
log of wood. “Oh! you darling, darling by,
good-bye ! ” sobbed the clinging female. 1 had
to come: I couldn’t stay away—l just couldn t.
At this juncture; the wife found speech, an
shrieked “Woman!” and the soldier-boy tore
himself loose, and fled up the gangway, leaving
things to sort themselves out. And there is one
man gone to the front who hopes the war will last
at least seven years.
* • * *
A Melbourne business parson called one
of his travellers into his office on a recent after-
noon, and, swelling himself visibly, said: _1 am
sorry to say, Mr. Jones, we have complaints ol
you, sir. It has been brought under our notice
that you are in the habit, of uttering anti-Britis 1
sentiments, sir. Now, this is a loyal firm, ill
have you to understand, and we do not wish to
have our name associated with disloyal senti-
ments, sir. It is useless for you to deny it; you
were heard to utter pro-Boer opinions, sir, in a
store at B , and may consider yourself dis-
missed, sir—dismissed!/’ “But, gasped the
traveller, “that store was kept by a Herman, a,
red-hot Boer sympathiser, and you wouldn t get
an order out of him in a month of Sundays if you
abused the Boers over his counter.” The boss sat
down and resumed his natural dimensions Bear
me, is that so ? Well, well, I suppose it is all in
the way of business. We’ll say no more about it,
Mr. Jones.” *
Of all Australian cities, tired Adelaide
seems to have the Jingo-plague worst. Most
likely this is because Adelaide hasn t much to do
at present, for, though the wheat has been reaped
and the big pumpkin cut, only a little has been
sold yet, and money is not free. Also, Harassed
Holder is snapping up at the Treasury every fcIUU
he can get at 3| per cent.; and, as there isn t any-
thing doing in shares, a large part of Adelaide is
busiest at meal-times. Moreover, there is so much
street and so little of everything else m Adelaide
that, if some kharki moves in one part of it,
every other part of it can see what is going on.
So all the day long there are people hanging
round, and talking about Roberts and Kruger, and
occasionally yelling, and breaking out at intervals
in “ Rule Britannyer ” ; and they call it Royalty,
whereas it is mostly laziness.
“ T.D.” : Half the street-beggars I
encounter in Melb. have formerly importuned me
in Sydney. One man informed me yesterday that
he arrived from England six weeks ago, and
couldn’t get work and was therefore starving ; but
as he had made me the repository of similar con-
fidences on three previous occasions in the
harbor city, I doubted. Other day I saw a
worn and weary family collecting bread and meat
at E. Melb. back-doors who used to wail Ihe
Fisherman and his Child ” on Sydney streets until
the very dogs howled in misery. How do these
penniless importunates get about ?
A curious little war-story is published in
the Western Mail (Perth) under the title “ Com-
mandeering.” The writer, a lady
living on the Natal border, tells
how an advance-guard of the
Boer army called in and the
leader assured her that no
harm would befall her or her
family as long as they re-
mained quietly at home.
(Deserted premises were
mostly looted.) They offered
to pay for everything they
took, including some
horses. One horse which
they had seized upon
was the property of the
lady’s little boy, but
when he threw his
arms round the
animal’s neck and
cried, the officer
gave it back. The
writer promptly describes
this kind-hearted individual
as a “scoundrel.” He and
the other men who offered
payment for everything were
likewise called “scum.” Also,
she adds : “ None of the women
folk experienced any indignity
from the Boers. There was no-
thing to shock one’s nerves or
morals. . . . They are
and as such should be fought,
And yet if a British officer hau
given back a horse seized
for military purposes
because a child cried
over it, as this Boer
“scoundrel” did
Kipling would
have made a
beautiful poem
about him.
“Have you
any one depend-
ent upon you ? ”
a Maoriland
would-be contin-
genter was asked. , , . ■,
“Only a publican,” said the earnest but red-
nosed one cheerfully.
* * * *
S.M. Herald in its “ War Notes ”
The Law Times calls attention to the fact that a soldier
may make his will on the battlefield by word of mouth
even though he be a minor. Witnesses are unnecessary.
In other words, it is legal to wink at a girl in the
dark when the girl isn’t there. But what good is
it?
A marriage-certificate covers a multitude
of sins and the want of it uncovers them again.
For instance: At South Melbourne court the
dav the police placed m the dock a fine-looking
young woman charged with riotous behaviour
Lid behaviour consisted in wrecking the window
of an hotel because the licensee refused to
produce on demand the body of accused s
lord and master, who was said to be
having refreshment inside. J.ne
bench sympathised with
her deeply and obviously.
“Were you locked up
all night ? ” it inquired.
It proved she had
been. Then the bench
asked her if she
and her dissipated
and sinful husband
still lived together,
and learned that she
still endured him
with Christian resig-
nation. The bench
consulted together,
and looked sad. It
was just starting to
say that it was a
very grievous
thing when a
husband took to
evil courses like
this, and that ac-
cused’s conduct,
though technic-
ally illegal, was
obviously due to
an earnest Chris-
tian desire to res-
cue him from the
Pit. But just
here the con-
stable tendered
the quite ir-
relevant in-
formation
that the
parties
weren’t mar-
ried— they
only kept
house together,
and the indig-
nant roar with
which the bench
fined her a good
deal and sixpence,
also costs, and warned
her not to come there
again or she would be
severely dealt with, was
memorable.
One of the most pathetic /'
itemc of the war news is the con-
stant wail from our Lancers at the i,
front for “meat.” Young Australia gets so muc£
meat, and gets it so cheap,, that when he fin
himself where there’s only biscuit and jam to fall
back on his cry for cow-meat can be heard all over
two continents.
Dear Bulletin.— When strolling through
a Sydney suburb on a recent Sunday a house with
a lovely balcony garden caught my eye. -Lhe
home of some sweet refined woman, I mentally
commented, and when presently out came a
beautifully-dressed pretty little fair-haired
woman I was satisfied with my judgment.
But, alas ! a few seconds later she was
joined by a fat bruoe of a Chinaman who
' caressed her Mongolianly. I passed
on, wondering how the Chows do
it!!—Jimmie
GHEEBY!
BILLY FROM THE "ROUKS" : “Eh! missus, if yer
don’t lift up yer skirt a bit , it’ll get orl over
mud.”
In Queensland it is strictly forbidden by
jaw to supply kanakas with grog. Yet the kanaka
always appears to be able to procure an abun 1 -
ance of liquor-thanks to the mediation of his
spider-patron, the Chow. Ah Cabbage contrives
even to carry a fair supply o'f grog in his vegetable
cart now and again.
A FOOTBALL ENTHUSIAST.
MRS. JONES: " He said before I married ’im I
teas the goal of his ’appiness.”
HER FRIEND : “Never mind, my dear; they all
say that."
MRS. J. (weeping) : Ye-cs-but ’e keeps a-kickin'
’is goal.”
U X.L. ’: This is how a storekeeper collects
his accounts in the cow-raising districts of
■NT S W -—A man owed me one pound two and
threepence for goods supplied. He had owed it
me eleven months when I began to press for it. 1
tackled him first on 2nd September He said he
was "lad I had brought the bill and told me to call
any day next week. I left it till the 10th, when I
found him out. I called on the 12th ; hewas out
again. I called on the 16th and met him. He said I
hid better leave the bill and he would go through
it I looked him up on the 23rd to know how far he d
got. He said there were several items wrong and
that he would call on me about it. I waited till
the 2nd October and then called on him. He was
out He was out on the sth when I called again.
Also on the 7th. In fact, he was the outest man 1
ever knew. I met him on the doorstep on the
10th. He told me to come next day. b.ext day
he went to Sydney for six weeks. On the Ist
December I spoke to him in an angry tone of
voice and said I had waited a long time. He said
he thought I had. He gave me a glass of sherry
but did not settle. On the 15th he sent for me.
I ran there and arrived out of breath. He gave me
another order but no money. I told him on th
18th that I really expected the mattei to be
settled. On 4th January he told me he expected
to come into some money in the; course of a week
or two On the 25th he filed his schedule. One
day last week he went through. There were no
assets. Yesterday he bolted with another man s
wife. , * » *
Chairman Fitzaribbon, whose stinted water
supply is making his name synonymous with
drought in Melbourne, is now threatened with the
envy” hatred and all uncharitableness of the lovers
of five suburbs. There have been several fires at
Williamstown pier recently, and for lack ot water
they have burned far into the night, to the detri-
ment and disgust of persons dreaming love s young
dream on the foreshore across the bay. lor
instance, at 8.30 p.m. one recent bunday a fire broke
out in the sheds near Williamstown pier, and
burned till nearly 11. At 8.30 lovers from Port
Melbourne, South Melbourne, Albert Park,
Middle Park and St. Hilda, were just beginning to
wander in affectionate droves and herds up and
down the sands opposite. They like dusk and calm
and absence of riot. The glare at Williamstown lit
up three miles of sand, and three solid miles of
young man and best girl. It gave away the whole
show. The fierce light that beats upon a throne
was nothing to the red glare that beat on these
miles of man and girl, and no one could mabelovo
comfortably under such conditions. After a,n
hour’s waiting the crowd trailed home unrefreshed,
and Fitzgibbon was that night the most unpopular
man in five suburbs.
One of the most striking funerals seen in
Melbourne for many a day was that of the -Little
Lonsdale-street houri, who died from tlmettects
of a fall from an “ unknown gentleman s bike,
accelerated by various things. Evidently ail the
deceased young lady’s gentleman friends turned
up to follow the white-plumed hearse, and they
were there in all sorts and sizes. The late
residence of the girl was carefully shuttered, and
on the door was a black-edged card with the
device “Closed in consequence of a death m the
family.” * * *
Melbourne had 851 inquests last year —
which is pretty good, even for that City of Sudeten
Death. The good old fertile Yarra still yields an
excellent crop for the coroner’s reaping, though
there was a falling off as compared with 1898.
There was one suicide by drowning, eight acciden-
tal drowuings, and 40 plain ‘' found drowneds.
Among 40 cases of proved suicide H were by
sawing of the throat, 10 by gunshot, nine by hang-
ing, seven by poison, and the doggy river only got
one. There were five verdicts of murder, and only
one murderer was hanged. One curious point is
the varying fashions in suicide. There were three
cases of wilful and premeditated perishing by
charcoal fumes in ’9B, _ and none in ’99 ; seven
intentional drownings in ’9B, and one in
And yet the uncomfortable exits by gunshot,
hanging and cut-throat all increased considerably,
Out in the backblocks this would be intelligible.
Where there is no nice clean water to drown m
the man of hurried exit bounces uncomfortably at
the end of a brief rope almost from necessity.
But in Melbourne there is all Port Phillip at hand
to supply a cool green bed and a soft pillow—-yet
people prefer to dangle in a hot suffocating shed
or under a tree where caterpillars rain on them in
their last moments.
* * *
Victorians who have noted the case of
private Ratcliffe, will be curious to know how the
second contingenters are getting along with
swaggersome Colonel Price.. -Ratcliff e gave Pi ice
an early opportunity to air his war discipline.
The young fellow’s horse fell on him when they
were being embarked (a mishap which perhaps
ruined the whole military effect m the Colonel s
opinion), and he had to go into the ship s hospital,
Two days later a vaccination came due, but Hat-
cliff refused to be lymphed on the ground that he
was still feeling pretty bad after his accident.
Doctor reported case to Price who gave the rebel
invalid ten minutes to decide whether he would
get vaccinated at once or atherwise. He chose
otherwise, and Price thereupon sentenced him to
be put ashore at Albany. The culprit showed
himself as mild as a water-melon when he realised
the awfulness of wanting to postpone vaccination,
also the doctor interceded for him, but Colonel
Tom Price was determined to make an example oi
the fellow, by G-d ! Tom Price’s progenitor
used to make examples of the convicts m days of
vore until at last he was done to death by a party
of penal stone-breakers at Williamstown, whose
effigies are (or were) a feature of Kreitmayers
waxworks. „ *
* * * *
Lists for the “Patriotic” Fund have been
sent round the Vic. public schools, and State-
school children, girls as well, as boys, have been
dispatched on begging expeditions for pence from
door to door —surely about as bad a training as a
child can possibly have. ,
A Melbourne lady last week summed-up
her husband’s character tersely in the police-court:
“ He is unworthy of the name of dog.
• * * * ,>
“ R.” : The Bulletin alludes (3/2/’00) to
the “democratic West Coast” of Tasmania.
There is now no democratic coast m the island.
There is likewise no democratic centre ; nor outer;
nor magpie. All the democratic paint has heen
wiped off the surface of the land, and a coat of
blood-red streaked with howls is there instead.
That “patriotic feeling” is gradually driving us
all mad. The best democrat m the island would
sell his brother to the sweater for Gel. and give the
proceeds to the Patriotic Fund- Writer imagined
he was a bit of a democrat. . But he is also
changing—changing into a jumping jingo, haunted
by a thousand red snakes all named Joubert. We
cannot help it. None of us can help anything.
We are just drifting down the stream to the tune
of “The A.M. Beggar” and the jingle of those
little tamborines. We are all going mad- It is
quite hopeless.
IN THE LAND OF NOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the land of Nod the sheep,
Out of countless numbers, leap
Singly through a narrow gate;
Voices inarticulate
Slumberous rhythm always keep.
Winds, witli drowsy murmur deep,
Lift the leaves ; and fountains weep
Tears monotonous as fate,
In the land of Nod.
Handmaids of the god of sleep
On us boons uncounted heap :
She who flouted us of late
Hath red lips insatiate—
Heart’s Desire is very cheap
In the land of Nod
LEONIDAS.


The Event of the Month!
Hlark Fog’s Fair
&
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
The
Infallible
Exterminator of Bedroom Insects.
is now obtainable from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 The
Strand.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
msm
m
&
<2
Zl in -\^t
All Drapers Everywhere.
BUMS TEIS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 13, 1900.
My Dear Mtee, —
Are you tired of Bushman ? Or may I inflict a
few impressions on your long-suffering soul ? For
a long time I have been saying : “No, I will not
go and see that camp. I haven’t the slightest in-
tention of going out to look at the Bush Brigade
frying on a Rand wick sandhill. Everyone else
in the city may go. J won’t go.” This went on
till last. Thursday, when I went. Yes, and it was
the day they started to charge sixpence for ad-
mission. May I attribute that to the care the
Fates are taking of the bushies, warding me off till
my visit was a contribution.
What surprised me to the verge of stupefaction
was the first glimpse of a body of bushies drilling.
Imagine a great field of sand and worn grass, a
dull sky and an evil wind, and in the middle of
the field a long, wavering, irregular line of men of
all shapes and sizes and clothes. A short, fat man
in a straw hat next to a lank weed in a dirty shirt,
moleskin trousers and a slouch hat, and beyond
them both a man in an overcoat with a red hand-
kerchief round his throat. On and on along the
line this variance of dress continues. Oh,° the
power and the glory; the subtlety of uniform.
You have to see these men drilling to understand
even the outside of regimentals.
Soldiers, soldiers! You can say the magic
words over and over as often as you like. As Ion"
as you look at the moleskin trousers, the slouch
hat, the straw hat and pot hat, and the navy-blue
suits and the dirty shirts, and the overcoat and
red handkerchief you will never get a thrill. Is it
possible that the smartness of cut and continuity
of color impresses itself vividly until a man must
look a soldier to be one in a woman’s mind ? I
don’t profess to solve this troublesome problem,
only go out and look for yourself, Myee, worship-
per of heroes, after the tailor has touched them.
And if this is a purely feminine feeling and
distinctly ignoble, I found something very like a
masculine counterfeit of it the other day. “I
want a girl to look sweet and pretty in a muslin
dress , her hair, with the sun on it, slipping over her
shoulders, a large hat throwing a shadow over the
garden of her face.” That’s a leading English
novelist who professes to voice the emotions of
his own sex carefully.
If white muslin is to remain for ever a man’s
ideal, presumably because it hangs at the very
other end of a man’s clothes-line, how will he like
the threatening fashion? They say that every-
thing is to be kharki-colored, hats, blouses, skirts.
Of course it’s only a modification of the ever-
present fawn and tan, which, by the way, has always
been supposed to have some superior reserve force
of elegance, lady-likeness, genteelness, and the
present-day “smartness.” The woman who can
always sport a fawn frock, summer and winter,
has solved a little of the “ perfect lady ” mystery.
Speakingof fashions, I pine to put in a plea for the
fringe. Oh, to save it from the hands of the enemy.
Alas, I’m afraid it’s too late ! The cruel visions
that haunt Sydney streets nowadays have injured
the fringe beyond repair. The commonest of these
cruel visions is a sador hat worn on one side, tied
round with a blue or orange scarf. The fringed
ends fall over the hair, over the ear, over the neck.
They fall in an odious clump against the side of
the face. The effect is as if the wearer had put all
her clothes on her head.
The uniform supplied to the N.S.W. bush
brigade includes a large brass pirate-kinglike
buckle which a thoughtful crowd of organisers has
placed exactly over the spot where a bush ie keeps his
dinner. As an ornament the buckle is a failure
but it is good ballast and will answer admirably as
a long-distance target.
S [Celinski’s concert for the Bushmen came off last
.Thursday. What a queer little person Celinski
is 1 Her bushy hair bouncing out all round her
little thin face, a short, pale blue silk frock, and a
scarf arranged oyer her shoulders—she didn’t look
in the least like the “ Australian Star” as she de-
scribed herself in the ad. last week : “ The camp
will be arranged like a Bushman’s camp, in which
will appear Australia’s Star, Celinski.” The camp
turned out to be a weird collection of gum-trees,
stuffed kangaroos and ’possums sitting straight up
and looking at nothing, and a billy swinging from
three crossed sticks. In the audience was a big
portion of the Bushman Contingent, but as far as
I could see, that camp didn’t make anybody home-
sick. . Pretty Miss Hilda Bevidge recited
“Banjo” Paterson’s “Man from Snowy River”
as if under great pressure. (I feel sure the pres-
sure didn’t come from the “Banjo.”)
Let me pass over briefly the most sorrowful
accompanimenting I have ever tried not to hear.
It may have been the piano, for it sounded wicked,
even under Celinski’s skilful fingers. Or it may
have been that it didn’t profess to be accompani-
menting at all, but a deliberate running away
from the patriotic song. In which case let us
forgive and forget. Naturally, all the songs were
patriotic. Nina Osborne, kindly lent by Mr.
Williamson, gowned herself in black with notes of
green, and sang the weary, weary “ Beggar” in a
tired way, as if life and that piano were too much
for her.
Next to me sat a god—or should it be “ gods ” ?
He listened to Nina Osborne’s little piping
with shuffling boots. “I’ve ’eard Dolly Vane
and ’Arry Rickards and Noney Rickards and Ikey
’Ollander and Nina Hosborne and ladies and
gents at Woolloomooloo and Manly Beach,” he
was saying impatiently to the gods on his right.
I couldn’t restrain my curiosity. He seemed to
know such a lot. “ Which do you like best ? ”
He started, reddened, then answered me like a
lamb. “Dolly Vane’s the best of a bad bunch.
She sweats when she sings it! ”
Apropos of musical doings, I have just received
some tickets that deserve to be memorialised.
They are for Miss Tracey’s concert at the
Y.M.C.A. next Wednesday, and that concert is
not in aid of the Bushman’s Contingent, or for
any sort, kind, species, or description of Absent-
Minded Beggary whatever.
By the way, there is a Jewish woman in Sydney
who has achieved a hard-earned reputation. She
says it came accidentally at first. When she
found she had it she cultivated it; but now she
has to scheme and manoeuvre and work to keep it
alive. At any moment it may wither away. She
has to keep her ears and eyes shut, as you may
imagine when I tell you that her peculiarity con-
sisteth in never having read or heard “ The Ab-
sent-Minded Beggar.” Talk about the house on
the sands that the wind and the tide abolished !
Her case seems to be far more precarious. At the
mercy of not only the winds that waft things into
the ear, but in peril of every piece of paper that
bloweth as the wind listeth.
Last week I told you of Florence Schmidt’s
engagement at La Scala. Further particulars
have reached me since then. She triumphed over
La Scala management to the extent of getting a
splendid engagement. The opera was “Rigo-
letto. She was to appear as Gilda, the prima-
donna’s part. Everything was settled. Then a
few days before her debut a cold got hold of her
throat and settled there. It also settled her first
engagement, for she lost her voice and was utterly
unable to appear. That was just a few weeks off
the end of the season. However, before the throat
trouble her voice was described, even in Milan, as
one that must eventually come to the front, and
her friends in Australia will be glad to hear that
her debut is to come off at La Scala at the begin-
ning of next Italian opera-season.
The Beauchamp’s bit of portrait gallery at the
receptacle for Sydney’s artistic talent is useful as
showing how that ultra-refined flower of culture
was evolved. Beauchamp, first of the name, is a
gentleman of rotund and robust tendencies, his
large countenance expressive of little else than
meat and drink. By judicious selection in mar-
riage he evolved something higher—an educated,
butcher-looking personage, the sort who thumps
tables at socialistic debates and believes inequality
in wages till he suddenly discover: that his ability
m earning wages is greater than 1 u other chap’s.
So by continual judicious selection, the B. family
gradually came quite naturally to the elegantly-
waisted Yere de Yere young man who
now occupies the vice - regal seat. The
family evidently gets its good looks from
the female ancestors. The late Countess Beau-
champ is our Boy in Petticoats. By-the-bye, how
ridiculous is that Rip Van Winkle idea, so often
met in novels, wherein the old man coming back,
after a 20 years’ exile, thinks he sees his wife
standing by the well, or somewhere, and finds out
after labored explanations that it is his grown-up
daughter. A girl is practically never like what
her mother was at the same age. If the face
shows a resemblance, then the figure is invariably
quite different, slimmer or of more generous build
of the father s build, in fact. A son, on the
other hand, like the Beauchamp Boy, often needs
nothing but the dress to reproduce mamma
exactly.
A brilliant wedding to come off next month will
be that of pretty Miss Lottie See and young Sam
Hordern, a nice-looking, curly-headed boy, with a
youthful complexion. I hear that a thousand
guests are going to be asked to help make things
hum.
Speaking of weddings, their romance is reviving
nowadays. For instance, Lieutenant Stanley
Ryne was married last week to Miss Maud
Mackenzie, and leaves with the Bush Contingent
next week.
Mention of a Sydney belle, who married a
wealthy Englishman some years ago, has cropped
up rather curiously in evidence given before a
certain Royal Commission going on just now.
Her father, a well-known tramway official, was
being examined, among other matters, as to
whether he let his girls travel free on the trams.
Something was said about circulars he had sent
out thanking the tramway men for their kindness
to his daughter, the ex-belle. He explained that
he had merely gone to the railway yards after her
wedding and thanked the men in person for their
kindness. “Kindness in reference to what?”
asked the mystified Judge Rogers. “ Kindness in
helping her in and out of the tram when she used
to go to school! ” answered the father. But, even
to a woman, it looks as if the gratitude ought to
have been on the side of the men who did the
helping.
Mark Fov’s Fair continues to be a unique
attraction.. Twenty thousand purchases a day are
going on just now, and the doors are shut every
ten minutes to minimise the crowd that look on
Foy as the special benefactor of the female race.
Among bargains I was struck with a rare lot of
real torchon lace going for the least sum possible,
blouse silks, and a great variety of those scarves
with fringed ends without which no woman can
live nowadays.
A weird weaver of religious yarns, named Silas
Hocking, seems to have been writing to the Eng-
lish papers last December to unfold a proposition
to the War Department—namely, that as this is
the season of peace and goodwill, we should show
it due reverence by stopping the war. Don’t
know whether this was meant to impress the
Boers with our magnanimity so that they would
forthwith burst into tears, and surrender without
more ado. But what a farce is this Dickens idea
of doing good for the sake of a certain season, like
those mad philanthropists who let the poor starve
all the year round in order to give them a big,
uncomfortable and greasy gorge at Christmas.
Or like that other piece of idiocy when, some years
ago, a few prisoners were let loose out of gaol
because a certain Queen happened to have just
finished fifty years’ continuance on the throne.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“A ‘bad impression ’ has been created in Mel-
bourne by the revelation of the fact that Gov.
Brassev persistently declined to subscribe a penny
towards the Melbourne Hospital during the whole
term of his residence. But from the very first,
the old gentleman was on bad terms with the hos-
pital. The first month lie was in Victoria lie was
asked to perform the opening ceremony in con-
nection with the new operating theatre of the
hospital. Being used to the English way of doing
things where a Royalty never ‘ opens ’ anything
less than a new Town Hall, he declined. ‘God
bless my soul,’ he said, ‘er—um —they’ll—ah—be
asking me to open a—ah —er —um —new —er—um
—what-d’ye-call-it next.’ He quarrelled with the
hospital over the matter, arid worked up a big
fund for the aid of the rival ‘ Alfred.’ That
gave him an excuse for not subscribing to the
Melbourne Hospital—and the Dropper was always
glad of an excuse of that kind. One Vic. Minister
summed up His Ex. lately : ‘lf I was as mean as
him, I’d go and patent mvSelf as a gold-saving
appliance.’ But none of these things were said
while the Aged Mariner was with us. Then he
was described as a kindly old gentleman, and
people said that the amount of money which
dropped out of his poekets while he was falling off
showed his disposition to be generous—almost
lavish.
“ Lord Dick, in new baggy checks, is trying to
look busy as aule-de-camn to the Understudy-
Governor. Although we know the Waxcellency
is only just out of fly-blisters and into button-
holes again, there is really not a fly-mark on the
cards. It will seem odd to see the fragile aide
in his new r6le at the head of the Maddening
crowd after the old familiar place in the Brassey
troup, his eyes straining anxiously over the heads
of the crowd, searching for someorie necessary to
the show, his arms laden with the De Vere’s
wraps, and his lips uttering a string of explana-
tions to this one and the other like any busy
Susan Ann on a picnic morning.
“ Miss Edith Campbell, having travelled twice
on the Continong, now switches a skirt-tail in
true Parisian fashion ; so the tying of her nuptial
knot was an event in these dog days of patriotism
and temperature. All the naice people fore-
gathered at the Scots’ Church on the afternoon of
the 6th, and the show was a very great show
indeed. The bride is one of many daughters who
keep up East Melbourne's' reputation for brilliant
frocking, her father being an extensive station-
owner. The bridegroom (Dr. Lionel Norton
Hoysted) has been healing the sick and tired arid
dilapidated in a small country town somewhere.
“Hebrew circles jubilated last Tuesday (Otli)
over the double knotting of two fair Chosen—
Sadie and Minnie Pearlstein —to Casper and
Abraham Harris, respectively. The brides' are
sisters, but the grooms only namesakes. The
wine-spilling ceremony took place under a canopy
at the Masonic Hall, where Israel usually con-
gregates on such occasions, and the kissing duet
followed, the handshaking" of guests bringing tip
the rear. All the guests got out of each other's
noses’ way in a wonderful fashion, considering the
dense throng,of invited and the excitement that
prevailed. It was an evening (7 o’clock) shivoo.-
“ Evening-dress with hats was prescribed for
the hitching-up of champion (tennis-player)
Kearney and Miss Edith Mackay of Albury! to
happen on Wednesday (14th) of this week. The
ceremony came off (D.V.) at the Australian
Church at 8 o’clock, and the rest of the ‘racket’
at Menzies. After that a trip 'Ome, and the
bridegroom will anchor in Edinburgh awhile, to
get through his fifth year of medicine. The bride
is brOad-shouldered, and towers to ever so many
inches higher in the world than champion Gus.
“ ’Tis said that Miss Stainbridge, the Daylesford
heiress, is to be married to Mr. Cobb Cox, of
N.S.W., in April. The wedded pair mean to live
on the bride’s estate at Daylesford, where a new
residence is to replace the present unpretentious
cottage, nestling in the heart of its lovely garden.
“ Mrs. Fraser, the golden-haired Melbourne lady
with the expansive bosom, has been committed for
trial on the charge of filling up the head of her
loving husband with lead at St. Kilda. Lately she
was treated to a little further excitement by a
brother-in-law of the doctor turning up to claim
the child. He was repulsed with great loss by
the lady journalist now managing the household.
Mrs. Frazer is best described as a lady who suffers
from great excitement, and she was'probably ex-
cited when she named two of the houses iii her
terrace. Her own residence is styled ‘Eitali’
and the next door house ‘ Resarf.’
“It is positively dangerous for a man in the
Victorian public service just now to have any
other name than Smith, Jones, Brown or
MacPherson. Complaints are made that men
with ‘ foreign-sounding names ’ are being pressed
by heads of departments to take mysterious oaths
that they will not breathe a word disapproving of
the war. Many of these men are Australian
natives, but so much have they been harassed that
protests on the subject have been made in Parlia-
ment. It is an offence to be seen eating German
sausage, and the Public Service Board has its eye
on those who drink imported lager beer. Many
German .Tews are thinking of putting ‘Mac’
before their names, to make themselves right with
the public, and Duncan Abrahams and Donald
Mac Goldstein are near possibilities.
“The sympathy of all Australians is decidedly
with the men who have left for the Transvaal as
individuals; but what can be thought of the
wealthy alleged Australians who have gone to
England to volunteer among the gentlemen of
Britain in the Yeomanry Cavalry Regiments there?
The man who is so ashamed of his birthplace that
he will travel 10,000 miles in order to dissociate
himself from it is far better dissociated from it for
good.
“One of Melbourne’s weightiest Junos loops
long golden chains about her person, and a couple
of ponderous hearts dangle over her kopje.
Round her throat, which is exposed in delta
fashion, are pearl strings, and on her billowy
bosom gleam daggers of the valuable yellow metal.
As she moves, the chains and alarm-bells make a
music as though she were a patriotic song, and the
bystanders gaze upon the large lady with awe.
Walk in her shadow along Collins - street, and
count the hats that are raised en route and the
male admiring eyes that travel from delta to foot,
and you get some idea of the charm flesh and gems
hold for the ‘ brutal sex.’
“To judge from the frequent promenadings on
the Block of a veteran politician—the baldest of
bald bachelors—and a Scotch ballad-singer, the
ancient beau is in training for his debut on the
Parliamentary concert-platform on the 22nd. If
n °t —well, something more serious may be ex-
pected. Since last Cup-day, when the singer and
the spouter lawned it together, they have been to
all appearances ‘ walking out together ’ or ‘ keep-
ing company,’ and nowadays profane old acquaint-
ances dig the old dog in the ribs, and ask when it
is coming off ? And at his age even a well-pre-
served man can’t stand inueh digging.
“A young man, fair and freckled, with reddish
hair and pale, submissive countenance, carefully
conveyed a blushing damsel into an American
carriage on the St. Kilda (Vic.) platform, the
other day. He deposited the young lady in a seat
and assured her she was all there. He was not
going by the train himself, and when the porter on
the platform stirred up the bell as a hint he made
an altogether unnecessarily feverish scramble for
the door, and got off without wishing his girl fare-
well. When he reached the platform the fact of
this omission occurred to him, and thinking
probably that his seeming coldness would be pain-
ful to her, he scrambled on board again remember-
ing that, he had only four seconds to farewell in.
Passing to the fifth seat he hugged a lady in great
haste, and kissed her on the left 6ye. Then he
got off so rapidly just as the train was moving
that the man who ran after him only kicked the
atmosphere after all. In fact, the flying gentle-
man possibly doesn’t know even yet that he was
intended to be kicked, or that he had kissed the
wrong girl, unless the right girl told him at their
next meeting. Probably she did. The right girl
generally does.
“At Melbourne Royal, Celia Mavis as Hebe the
I irst is far more dashing and dressy than Maud
Denny, the New Barmaid. Maybe the latter in
her role of an innocent little thing, driven by
poverty to professionally quench the thirst of the
‘ Owlets,’ means to look ‘ neat but not gaudy.’ If
so, she succeeds wonderfully, thanks to hair
tucked over her ears, flat-chested grey frock and
utilitarian muslin apron. Still there’s something
pleasing in said coy counter-nymph after all.
“Celia Mavis’s snappiest gown is of palest pink
satin and silk-guipure of the same color, uncon-
nected with wearer’s upper chest except by the
frail link of a shoulder-strap of violets. With her
flashing eyes, thin lips, and white shoulders, this
same ‘ Brenda,’ formerly of the ‘ Owlets’ Club,’ is
a lifelike portrait of the handsome vixen whom it
so often pleases Providence to call to the bar.
“Grade Whiteford’s lady-journalist is a rollick-
mg, gay-plumaged ‘ good sort,’ a type intermediate
between those two barmaids aforesaid, the angel
and adventuress respectively. The expensively-
upholstered stage-scribe discards a fetching ball-
suit for a pale-green, garden-party frock and
I uscan hat decked with roses. Altogether, she’s
a allo^ier feather from local penwomen,
who, as a rule, are careworn and conventional, or
else affable and untidy.-
“Miss Whiteford’s summer hat should do a good
work among touring Victoriennes, many of whom
seem to hold that hideousness is inseparable from
holiday-making. A while back, when sun-bonnets
were in, surrounding beaches were disfigured by
grandmothers and their female descendants unto
the third and fourth generation, all with their
heads tied up in clumsy pink-cotton bags, evidently
bought up cheap at so much per dozen. Last
summer, in the haunts of the Naicest, children’s
broad-brimmed white-muslin hats, worn by ‘girls’
of all ages, made all but a few look flat-headed and
frumpish. The washable ‘tile’ is now let loose on
the masses but in jaunty, mannish shapes, known
as ‘ The Ladysmith ’ and ‘ The Kimberley.’
Except to a Cherry Ripe face, these hats are
cruel without a veil, and a veil and a Tom-and-
Jerry tile are not in keeping somehow.
~y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.
There is in Italy a village peopled almost
entirely by retired organ-grinders, all living in
comfort on money made in England. An Italian
used to (may still) have a hand-organ factory in
Clerkenwell, London, whence he was wont to
hire-out these infernal machines to his miscreant
compatriots.


HALF-SICK Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post. Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
à
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before,taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
JUST A MINUTE, PLEASE!
Tired men, whether suffering from physical or
mental fatigue, delicate women, growing girls and
little children find Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa a unique
beverage of inestimable benefit. The nauseous
drugs and disagreeable medicines associated with
ill-health are, in Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, replaced
by something which is pleasant and nice, with a
distinctive flavoring of its own which will appeal
to the fastidious and over-nice palate of the
invalid, and its soothing effect renders it an ideal
“ Pick-me-up.”
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, by taking the place of
stimulants of an ardent nature, has made happy
many a home which otherwise to-day would have
been wretched, and the ultiihate effects of which
it is impossible to foresee. For breakfast, dinner,
supper —indeed at any hour of the twenty-four—
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be found light and
refreshing; it leads the way among all beverages,
and nothing can equal it.
The unique vitalising and restorative powers of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa are being recognised to an
extent hitherto unknown in the history of any
preparation. Merit, and merit alone, is what is
claimed for Dr. Tibbie’s Vi-Cocoa, and the pro-
prietors are prepared to send to any reader who
names The Bulletin (a postcard will do) a dainty
sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-
paid.
Dr.*Tibbles’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
Chemists, Grocers and Stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa Limited, 269 f George-street; Sydney.*
The Fountain of Youth,
Nothing to equal it.
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
See that you get ZETZ.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sure that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia:
C. E. Newman
Kino -St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Joseph Cook, N.S.W. ex-Minister, has
taken to hymn writing. A couple of his effusions
have just received their final polish.
John C. Neild, M.L.A., writes to say
that the author of a recent Bulletin par. about
his old-age pensions report is a “ howling idiot.
Edmund Barton is a Sydney native, 51
years old ; and he has never visited England till
now—when he goes as N.S.W. delegate to backup
the Commonwealth Bill in the British House of
Commons.
Lyne, senior, ex-member of Tasmanian
Parliament, was 90 on Wednesday; Lyne, junior,
N.S.W. Premier, is 56. Lyne, junior, is a grand-
father, Lyne senior is a great-grandfather, and the
four generations of Lynes are doing well.
A British soldier named Crick, the light-
weight champion of his regiment, fell at B.ens-
burg after bayoneting something like half-a-dozen
of the enemy. It is now “upto ” a heavy-weight
burgher named Haynes to fall upon a few Bri-
tishers and die heroically with a scalp in his teeth.
William Bell Allen, of the Bushmen’s
Contingent, is son of “Soapy” W. J. Allen, ex-
M.L.A. of a Sydney suburb, and grandson and
namesake of William Bell Allen, the first Protec-
tionist member of N.S.W. Parliament. Grand-
father Allen would wear no garment not manufac-
tured and made in N.S.W., and as a result his
wardrobe showed some lack of variety.
“TO THE PURE, ALL THINGS ARE
PURE.”
MURPHY : “ I’m, awful fond of your wife, Paddy.”
PADDY: “ Shure, I'm not surprised at that; I’m
fond of her myself.”
Lansdowne, British Minister for War, now
civilising the Boers, has an alleged ancestor
who went forth on a famous occasion to
similarly civilise Ireland. This ancestor, one
Eitzmaurice, assured England when setting out
that he would “make the Irish cough before he had
done with them.” He collared a lot of Irish terri-
tory, which his descendants or namesakes to-day
hold. And he helped his relatives to slices. His
father-in-law, a physician named Petty, he made
land surveyor. This latter received a penny an
acre for surveying the lands wrested from the
Irish, and he surveyed such a vast quantity that
in two years his fees amounted to £B4OO. Over
2,000,000 acres passed to the Crown under the hand
of this single individual.
Baron Emly, who, for his views about the
Boer War, has been deprived of his J.P.-shipin
Ireland, is son of a politician who made a con-
siderable mark in his day. William Monsell was
M.P. for Limerick from 1847 to 1874 ; President
Board of Health ’57; Vice-President Board of
Trade ’66 ; Under Sec. Colonies ’6B to ’7O; Post-
master General ’7O to ’73. He was also Lord
Lieutenant of Limerick and a Privy Councillor.
Was created Baron Emly in 1874. In 1854 he was
associated in the Aberdeen Cabinet with two
others who became notorious. In connection with
some Irish matter the three, John Sadlier, a junior
Lord of the Treasury, William Keogh, Solicitor
General for Ireland, and Monsell, who then held
some minor office, retired from the Government
amidst loud plaudits. In a few days, however,
the three resumed office. Sadlier afterwards
swindled on a huge scale and suicided. Keogh
became a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas,
and a most obnoxious one. He attempted the
murder of his valet, Curran, in Belgium, and then
suicided. Monsell enjoyed life in the House of
Lords and died a few years ago. The present
Baron was born in 1858. The only title which he
held that could be taken from him was his J.P.-
ship and that was removed with great vigor.
Of six Australian Governors, Tennyson
and Gerard Smith have been the only ones giving
any value for their pay of late. Gor'
manston, being sick and unable to fish, may be
dropped out; but Lamington, Beauchamp, and
Brassey are on self-selected holiday absence.
Brassey draws salary till April, and, as matters
look, Beauchamp is not likely to trouble about
much more work.
A son of Baronet O’Loghlen is a member
of the Vic. Bushmen’s Corps. He is five-foot-four
inches in his boots, and was in a wine and spirit
business in the city up till recently. The corps
contains many men who have “roughed it ” in the
Domain, and gathered bush experience in Fitzroy
Gardens. And it contains one, anyhow, wnose
bushiness consists chiefly in his business dealings
with the rum shrub and the sheoak.
“ H.” : Last night I heard Victorian
Government Geologist Stirling, in a lecture to the
A.N.A., make a rather important statement. It
is currently believed that the former Vic. Govern-
ment Geologist, Selwyn, since of Canada, reported
that deep mining in Victoria would never pay.
Stirling says Selwyn gave a directly contrary
opinion. There was a Board of Inquiry in 1852,
composed of Selwyn, M‘Coy, and Pan ton. The
last two were responsible for the unlucky dictum.
It appears now that the Charters Towers
(Q.) J.P. whom some of his fellow J.’sP. want
shifted out of his dignity for “disloyalty” is also
secretary of the local Workers’ Union. Which
explains many things. The Towers workman is
as powerfully loyal just now as the Towers mag-
nate—but the horrible “disloyalty” of wanting
to keep up wages is in him. Just now everybody
who wants to keep up wages is pointed at by the
Fat Man as a Boer emissary and a fiend hired by
“ Krugger.”
The. Marquis of Normanby once told an
Australian friend that when Governor of Maori-
land he arrived at the conclusion that Hori
Grey carried lying to the point of a fine art.
Though ‘‘ Norinanby, Governor,” had been
whip m the Commons to a Liberal Ministry,
he lost no opportunity of making himself
disagreeable to the Graham Berry Radical
Govt, of Victoria. It is curious that during
His Ex. ’s stay in Australasia none of the
newspapers ever mentioned the origin of
his family. About the year 1770 a British
war-ship’s carpenter named Phipps be-
came acquainted with the locality of a
lost treasure vessel, which had been sunk
on the Spanish main or in Indian seas.
Leaving his country’s service, he got to-
gether a small party to search for the gold,
which they found. Soon afterwards he
was a prominent colonist residing in New
York. When the war of independence
broke out he sided with the British, and
was knighted by the Imperial Govern-
ment. That was the founder of the Nor-
manby family. The peerage was not created until
1838. The father of Gov. Norman by, when
British Minister at Naples, built a theatre and
became an ardent supporter of the drama.
The family estates were thus squandered,
and, as a consequence, three Australasian
provinces had“to submit to the discomfort
of being presided over by the sour and
impecunious proconsul. The Marquis
known to Australians was desperately
hard-up; when he died in England his
property was sworn to be of the value of
£3OO.
“Melb.”: Apropos W. G. Clark, demised,
ex-Footscray M.L. A. Here is the real story of
the loyal incident. Clark edited the Footscray
paper, owned by A. T. Clark, the Williamstown
M.L.A., no relative, although the names were
strangely coincident. W. G. Clark was credited
with writing an article on Quean Victoria, de-
scribing her as an “obese old lady.’’ For this,
Moodie, from South Africa, horsewhipped A. T.
Clark, who appears to have known nothing of the
article till it appeared. Zox called attention to
the matter in Parliament. Kerferd, representing
the Government, urged that no notice should be
taken of it. Zox bounded up. The white waist-
coat absolutely flamed. “ What ! Mithter
Speakah ! An attack on Her Grathiouth Ma-
jethty ! ” Kerferd could only groan. Zox plunged
in and filled a column in the Akg us before he was
finished.
Matthias Larkin, the almost forgotten
Matthias of the South Melbourne Building Society,
is still alive. He looked the whole world in the
eye lately in Melbourne Insolvency Court, a
plump, cheerful-looking man, hardly aged in the
least by his varied experiences. When Matthias
went under years ago there was a general im-
pression that he had a vast sum of money planted
somewhere, and meant to lead a life of revelry
thereon when his troubles were over. This theory
rested mainly on the fact that the footsteps of a
lot of cash were believed to have been traced
going to Matthias, and the track of it coming away
again wasn’t at all noticeable. But the search
made in ’9l and ’92 wasn’t a very careful one, and
since then people have died and documents have
dropped through cracks. Moreover, Matthias
points out that he couldn’t file a proper schedule
at the time because he was locked up and hadn’t
access to his books, and he has since forgotten
many things. So-the Insolvency Court can’t hope
to get much satisfaction out of the plump and
comfortable-looking saint who had that regrettable
misfortune some years ago.
THE FAT-HEADED POLICEMAN AGAIN.
“Walk on the footpath? Do you think I'm-hie-
Blondin?"
Died at Chudleigh (Tas.), recently, Daniel
Picket, aged 88. The old warrior’s offshoots in
the district are almost uncountable, and he- had
applied for the license of his old pub. 48 times,
and got ’em all. His son Gloster fought the his-
torical battle with Norman Cameron, of the Miles
incident fame.
“ Cockaigne ” : Last mail fetches news of
the demise of Baroness Burdett-Coutts’s elder
sister, Mrs. Monev-Coutts, aged 94. They were
daughters of Sir Francis Burdett. James Coutts,
a millionaire banker, had three daughters —Ladies
Bute, Guildford, and Burdett. He disinherited
them for their contumely of his actress-wife,
Harriet Mellon, who got the whole. She after-
wards married the Duke of St. Albans, and when
she died left the Coutts money to Miss Angela
Burdett, with a comparatively trifling chip off to
her sister. Miss Angela also took the name of
Coutts, and having married a clergyman named
Money, the strange compound name arose.
“ Tau-Rikarika ’’ <'n
the late John Ruskin: —
I remember about 16 years
ago some children’s Don’t-tease-
the-cat-and-dog Society in a
London suburb had a president
who, being a friend of John
Ruskin’s, persuaded the great
man to address the youngsters.
I scraped in as a child, swal-
lowing the indignity. The room
was an old-fashioned drawing-
room with a great bay window,
in the centre of which sat Rus-
kin with a stream of sunlight
flooding his snowy hair and
beard, and the two prettiest
children he could find seated
one on each knee. And he
told wondrous yarns of domes-
tic pets in a friendly garrulous
way that won every child’s
heart and attention. Never-
theless Ruskin ..was —like
William Morris capable of
fierce outbursts of temper,
and it is said that in later
years he would, in a rage, take
the coal-scuttle and empty it
with ferocious a tie down the
stairs, then ring the bell and
abuse the maid .or her careless-
ness. Anent Ruskin’s enthusi-
asm for detail and finish, he
made one lady artist happy for
life by telling her she could
paint peacock’s-feathers better
than anyone else in the world.
His own drawings are exceed-
ingly delicate, and scrupulously
exact, and should have won
fame had not Ruskin the
author dwarfed Ruskin the
artist. About a year ago I
picked up in a Sydney shop an
old “Friendship’s Offering”
(1844) in which are two of
Ruskin’s early drawings, ex-
quisite in their delicacy.
Primarily a moral reformer,
Ruskin used to be wroth that
the critics would persist in re-
garding him as the purveyor of
sugar-cakey scene-pictures to
young ladies’ academies. Few
recognize what influence he
has had in humanising econ-
omics. “ You manufacture
everything there,” he cries in
his “ Stones of Venice ” tirade
against the factory system,
“except—‘men.’” That was
his real message. That the
main object of a State’s exist-
ence is the production of honest
and happy men and women.
Nothing very new, indeed.
Aristotle, of course, had said it before. But it needed
saying again, and saying with that mixture of passion
and paradox which is the charm of Ruskin’s work.
London Daily Chronicle critic gives a
glowing notice of Loureiro’s picture, “ The vision
of Saint Stanislas,” which he sent from Melbourne
last year to the international exhibition of re-
ligious art at Brussels. It is said to be the most
striking picture of the show. And yet Senhor
Loureiro in Melbourne is chiefly remarkable for a
number of portraits of local children —hard, un-
natural juveniles—painted to order in the giddy
boom times when fashionable artists could afford
to support a circle of admirers on afternoon tea
and iced coffee. Probably Loureiro didn’t feel
impelled towards works of religious art in those
times.
The fashionable Melbourne aboriginal,
Larney “Blair,” just deceased, counted at least
one thrilling experience in his weak little exist-
ence. He was one of three Queensland lads, dis-
covered by some stockmen standing buried to
their necks in sand, their little black polls being
the only portions of their bodies visible. Camped
close by were blacks of another tribe, who, having
stolen the boys for the purpose of refreshment,
were engaged in getting th(f gas-stove alight, and
fetching the dinner-service into the dining-room.
The stockmen dug up the three an! carried them
off. Whether the other two little niggers ever got
a footing in society writer knoweth not.
Higgins’ motion of want of confidence in
the M‘Lean Government (Yic.) was not ap-
proved of by the gentleman who, in the
capacity of clerk, bosses the Legislative Council.
Jenkins is a magisterial person, and when he is
annoyed the big building at the top of Bourke-
street totters like a thin tree in a gale. Jenkins,
as was proclaimed throughout Parliament House,
had made arrangements to go to Maoriland on a
holiday, and the no-confidence motion upset his
plans. To try and oust a Govt, is a small matter,
for which Higgins may be pardoned, but is
there hope of forgiveness for anyone in Victoria
who offends Jenkins ? Which reminds that a
knighthood for Jenkins is being negotiated in the
proper quarter. It may come off too.
The Rev. ,J. H. L. Zillman has resigned
the secretaryship of Sydney Citizens’ Unemploj ed
Board and his seat on Reid’s frozen-out Advisory
Board, and steers once more for America. lhe
Yanks made him an LL.D. last time he was there.
The Rev. Zillman should know nearly all the
theology extant. He began as a Wesleyan, was
ordained in the Church of England, deflected to
Congregationalism, returned to the 0. of England,
and has of late been co-adjutor to Parson Walters
in the Unitarian Church. He has ministered in
most parts of the world, and here he has held forth
in Queensland, N.S.W., and Vic. A couple of
months ago he induced 1000 unemployed to visit
Chalmers Church, Sydney, to listen to a new kind
of service, but those who went didn’t care enough
for the entertainment to keep on going.
Another pioneer Barrier prospector,
George Rowe, has died in the West —as poor as
most of ’em. Every new mining township lias a
good-natured fellow who does most of the hard
work in connection with the semi-public move-
ments —progress committees, hospital committees,
sanitary committees and so on. Rowe was this
good-natured'' fellow in early Broken Hill. He
wrote 10-page letters (that probably weren’t read)
about the need of a watering place at Dead Dog ;
when the hospital committee was “ broke ” be and
another paid die bills themselves; and when
typhoid p<> .juts over flowed the canvas humpy
that passe*. for a hospital he turned his own camp
into a ward. He gave to his own affairs just
enough time to get hold of about two dozen
claims, which were all duffers : and the disap-
pointment was not good for his health, which was
never up to much.
“ M.” moralises on John See :
John See, Chief Secretary in Lyne’s Cabinet, is of much
political and more bank note. He was the eleventh can-
didate on the poll for Federal delegates. I was outside
the D.T. office in King-street when, the mass of returns
having come in, the crowd thinned to a few hundreds. It
was after midnight, and B. R. Wise was tenth on the poll,
about 4000 votes ahead of See. Presently Wise and See
appeared on the other side of the street in the full glare
of the electric globes. Wise was nervous, but confident,
and wore a smile that meant more than he cared to ex-
press. See tugged away at a big briar pipe between his
strong jaws, but no smoke curled upwards, for there was
no fire in the bowl. G. T. C. Miller, 45th on the poll of
49 candidates, looked about as cheerful as a punter who
had plunged on the last of a long line of stiffs ; and sick
of gazing at his sorry score of 2000 odd, he glanced up the
street to see if there was a dog in sight. His eye caught
ALLEE SAME.
“She ain’t married, is she?"
“No; but I don’t think she misses anything!"
John See. “ Now, just look at See,” he said. “I never
saw him so dejected. Why doesn’t he take his gruel
philosophically ? ” Then he moved forward to
console See. “ Monaro ” Miller was himself be-
yond the reach of consolation. Undismayed, how-
ever, by his tantalising position on the poll, so near
and yet'so far, John See ably and energetically fought for
the first Bill, and subsequently for the amended Bill. He
was more enthusiastic and public-spirited than some of
the “chosen ten.” Without being an orator, he is a
platform success, chiefly because he confines himself to
three or four convincing points, and drives them home
with a hard, distinct, decisive voice, against which inter-
ruption is of no avail. His broad body, big face, and
black hair carry weight and magnetism. Moreover,
everybody is persuaded See is in downright earnest. Men
of his breadth are always credited with being in dead-
earnest. If Reid bulged sideways instead of forwards,
even he might get a reputation for sincerity. But John
See would be in dead-earnest even if he were a thin man
or a living skeleton.


For
that
Tired
ca-jimgftrmraßiLM-**.
Feeling
take
SCHNAPPS.
FRANZ
JOSEF
LAGER
■■ :
m
m
WATSON’S
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin. — ln answer to your cor-
respondent’s question as to where he could get a
set of artificial teeth “ for a horse ? ” Almost any
of the second-hand dealers in Bathurst or Liver-
pool streets would readily make the desired swop
•with him if it was any kind of a horse.—o.
A BICYCLE BUILT FOB TWO-IN NATAL.
“ Re duck-snaring (8., 8/4/’99) :
A similar method to that described by “ Nell Cook ” is
in use in many parts of Australia. The natives will sus-
pend a net across a waterhole flanked on both sides by big
trees, with usually a man hidden in the foliage on each
side to lower the net, which will fall to within a yard or
so of the water. The others drive the ducks in the re-
quired direction, and when the wild fowl strike the net
it is suddenly lowered into the water so as to entangle
the birds, whereupon the hidden men quickly descend,
swim out and secure them. The mesh of these nets—
which are quite equal to best European manufacture—is
about 2in. wide. Another simple but more remarkable
mode was practised by the aborigines of the Coorong, an
arm of the sea 90 miles long by from one to two broad,
which used to be literally covered with wild fowl. These
natives were wont to construct a small, circular screen of
green boughs which a man would place around him so
that he could not be seen. Hound his loins would be a
belt of native cord drawn fairly tight, and he would swim
gently amongst the wild fowl, pulling them under water
by the legs and tucking their broken necks under his
belt. Another plan used on the Coorong and Lake
Alexandria near the Murray’s mouth is for a blackfellow,
also wearing a girdle of native twine, to swim quietly
under water, breathing through a reed until he can get
under the ducks, and serve them as in the other case.
The whole thing looks very simple, but these natives are
veritable fishes in the water. They also used to kill the
ducks on the inland waterholes with boomerangs.
‘ Trotter ” : We hear a lot about a
Governor travelling in a drag in the back country,
and lie is looked upon as a sort of hero for doing
r ‘ ,4. 7, , e k® 6 * l travelling without any drag!
j- e^tr? r& ken Hill with 3s. Cd., making for Menin-
die (76 miles) per boot. Tramped 36 miles with
only a spell of 15 minutes, and struck a wretched
shanty at 9 p.m. Here had a drink of a miser-
able decoction called beer, slept in a hard bed, and
breakfasted off goat chops and damper, washed
down by a black stewed substance. They live
hard, these back-blockers. You only pass two
houses m the 36 miles, and one is empty. The
country is one vast desert, entirely devoid of trees
or herbage of any kind, except a shrub or two
here and there. There isn’t enough wood in 36
miles to boil a billy, while water is nowhere. Add
totheseahpt, dry wind carrying clouds of red
dust before it, and one can imagine what a tramp
lor 12 consecutive hours at three miles an hour is
like; no shade for a spell, and to camp is out of
the question without wood or covering. In the
whole distance I did not pass a living thing bar a
lew goats a mile or so from the only shanty that
wasnt deserted. That house looked like a
battered pelican m a wilderness. No birds
except a wretched crow or so hovering
over the decayed carcase of a sheep. No travellers,
fine miles further on struck a station. Entered
hut—men at dinner—no friendly greeting here,
only a crushed and heart-broken grunt and the
remark: Help yourself.” Stewed mutton,
damper, brownie, tea in a bucket—into which you
dip your pannikin men with a sour, worn, de-
pressed look ; meal finished in perfect silence. Six
miles further on met another “curse” in the shape
of a plague of caterpillars travelling from the
Darling m countless millions—in fact, it was im-
possible to take a step without killing a dozen or
so, which the others greedily devoured. What
they live on,. except each other, is a mystery.
I here were miles of them. Ado wn-trodden and
soul-weary variety of rabbit dwel Is here also. At
the end of another 23-mile stretch, struck a house
which m former times was an hotel. A man was
camped here looking after it, and making a living
by giving the use of the floor to a stray passer-by.
belectors ‘ ‘ live ” about here, and they must have
the hearts of lions and insides of emus. Seventeen
miles further on made Menindie. Was glad to see
it, arid yet it is an awful country where one is
glad to see a place like Menindie. In any other
land one would be almost as pleased to see Hell.
* * * *
“ J.W.” : Witnessed fight between two
gins, arising through dispute over dog. No. 1 gin
threw handful of sand into No. 2’s face; argument
followed ; then fight in real earnest, each using a
carved stick flinch diameter, and two feet long.
Gin No. 2 led off by hitting a terrible blow across
face (enough to kill any ordinary white) making
nose bleed and knocking out two teeth. Then
No. 2 held her head down to get her share, which
was an awful whack across head —could hear report
of blow i-mile away. Eventually No. 1 was
knocked out, after an engagement which lasted 15
minutes. Bamng the first blow in the face every-
thing was done decently and in order, each lady
presenting her head m turn. Each lady was
pounded on the skull about 13 times.
* * * *
Rel. Clark ’ : One of the quickest ways
to start an argument in a bush camp is to assert
that the death-adder has a sting in its tail. I my-
self have seen the alleged sting—a yellow, long-
looking spike, and it has a suspicious appearance.
Personally I think he uses it as a toothpick.
A peculiar
bush accident is
reported from
the Dark River
district (Victo-
ria). A young
axeman, named
Rogers, was
felling a giant
bluegum for the
sawmill. He
had rigged a
scaffold, and
was cutting the
butt at a height
of about 12ft.
from the
ground. Sud-
denly the trunk
began to split,
and the tree
came down.
One half of the
divided butt
shot under the
man on the
scaffold, and
scooped him up
as a youngster
scoops up a bit
of clay on a
stick. Then as
the tree - top
struck the
ground the butt
shot up throw-
ing the man at
the sky like a bolt from a catapult. He fell many
yards from his starting place with one fractured
leg and many scrapes, bruises, and abrasions. The
victim says he felt as if he were being bucked off
a horse as big as a church.
* * * *
“Scotty the W.”: There is a sort of
reaction m the way of larrikin oaths in Melbourne.
Ihe up-to-date larrikin doesn’t really curse now
but he has invented curious out-of-the-way ex-
pressions that are satisfying, yet not actually
“language.” The strangest I have heard is
God s trousers ! ” Personally, I think “God’s
boots ! would be shorter and more snappy, but
that is a mere opinion. “ God’s trousers ! ” serves
as verb, adjective and noun. It also does duty as
curse and interjection. By-and-by it will come
m likewise as a pronoun. It expresses incredulity
as much as anything else, or surprise with a da ah
of incredulity. “ God’s trousers !” isn’t by any
means insulting; it rather suggests a desire to
argue the point in a friendly way. If said
decisively it means “impossible.” Therefore, in
time, “God’s wardrobe ! ” as more extensive than
the mere trousers, will probably be blank insult,
and equivalent to calling the other party Ananias.
PROVERBS OF THE BLOCK.
JOHNNY: “Fine feathers make fast women!”
Yucca ” : Re brown snake and four-
year-old-child yarn in recent Bulletin. Have
met buffalo-hunters from Northern Territory who
tell of brown snakes, non-poisonous, with which
the little niggerB have great sport, playing with
the wrigglers all day long. Sometimes a snake
will get cross and bite. Then the kiddy runs
howling to its mother, who will in turn come and
bite the snake—never kill it.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— lie H. J. M’Cooey’s
reference (8., 14/1/1900) to the crow’s death by
poisoning— not once have I seen a crow succumb
to strychnine, and I was poisoning these croakers
and hawks once as part of my daily work.
Strychnine killed the hawks all nght, though.—
Sam. 0.
* * • •
A new Bulletin contributor writes :
Would you inform me what rate you pay for contribu-
tions to your “ Personal ” and “ Aboriginalities ” columns,
and also for short stories, real facts, or just the ordinary
Queensland facts.
The distinction between real facts and just the
ordinary Queensland facts is interesting.
* * * •
“ T.8.L.” : In reply to “Eller” (Bul-
letin 27/l/’00), to the effect : “Can any reader
give me a remedy for stopping a horse’s teeth
from coming out ? A friend of mine has a moke
only four years old, and every tooth in his head is
loose. Regarding the above, I may state for the
good of mankind, and this man in particular, I
have for many years successfully studied and prac-
tised dentistry in horses, and have always found
that the most simple and .sure cure for the com-
plaint which “Eller” mentions is to keep the
horse’s mouth closed perfectly tight for, say, two
weeks. At the end of that time examine the
mouth, when you will find the teeth are set quite
firm, and that not one has been lost. In fact, you
will find your horse completely cured. Of course,
I presume your horse is alive at the present time’
as I do not profess to cure looseness or falling out
of teeth m a dead or stuffed horse. I shall take it
as a great favor if “ Eller ” will write me whether
the treatment I prescribe is successful or not.
* * * •
In a little bush town near the head of the
Castlereagh, in South Australia near Tasmania,
the newspaper-man and the butcher are perpetually
at warfare. The former periodically tramples
upon the political views of the man of beef in
print, and the latter generally retaliates by calling
a meeting, allegedly to “ see about getting a rail-
way,” but really to point out that but for the
heartrending incompetence of the editor they
would have had a line years ago. Not long since the
bush took its butcher seriously, and deputed him
to send a telegram to the Works Dept. A week
passed and no reply came. The townsmen waxed
indignant at the snub, and abused the G-ovt. for
three hours at a special meeting. Just as they
were adjourning the butcher jumped up. “ Great
Heavens!” he groaned, “I forgot to send that
telegram. I had it in my pocket all the time.”
The meeting fixed the butcher with a withering
eye, and then read the telegram. It ran : “Us
wants a ralewy. (Signed) John Flush.” Since
then the veiled invective of the editor is still
poured on the bptcher in the columns of the Dry-
plains Star, but the butcher takes it like a Chris-
tian.
• * * •
“ Dubbo ” : Considering the large number
of your 40-cat-power aboriginality contributors
fed on backblox snake and salt-bush and belar
’possum, it is remarkable that I have read nothing
good, bad, or indifferent of the “bilby.” Am
acquainted with certain parts of the country
where the bilby abounds, yet 19 out of 20 residents
never saw one. Perhaps some of your ’possum-
eating liars will oblige with some solid and in-
teresting information about the bilby and its
habits, and give snake-eating a rest. The bilby
is apparently a cross between a bandicoot and
porcupine. Surely some of you out-back scribes
have eaten bilby-pie, or been pursued for three
miles and bitten on the seat of the pants by the
animal l Please don’t all yell at once !
* • * *
“Ex-Trooper”: Re elasticity of snakes.
Some years ago, when stationed at D , I heard
my 3-year old child in the next room laughing and
saying—“Pitty nake ; dink a mi’k.” Good God !
Snatching my sword and hastening noiselessly
towards her, I was horrified to see a huge carpet
snake drinking from a cup, which she held in her
tiny hands. Raising his head, the reptile at once
realised he was in a tight place, and endeavored
to save himself by rushing into a tighter one—a
small hole, the diameter of a sixpence, in corner
of room. All but his tail disappeared. This I
grasped, and, obtaining nails and hammer from
my wife, securely fastened him to the floor. (The
Bulletin, under like circumstances, usually
secures its snake by a gold chain to the family
plate, or heaps on its tail the suit of armour which
a revered ancestor wore in the crusades. But this
is an interruption.) Then with a crowbar I raised
the board and killed him. Marvellous how he
managed to squeeze his body through so small an
opening. For days afterwards the baby cried
bitterly for her friend and companion. (The
Bulletin can quite believe this ; its own baby was
inconsolable for weeks when the shark that used
to come and smile at her every morning died of
old age complicated by Bright’s disease.)
* * * *
“ Pelican ” : Once shot a crow ; shattering
wing-bone dreadfully, but no other wounds. Not
wishing to kill, decided on an operation. An-
aesthetics not being procurable I made that crow
deplorably drunk out of a whisky bottle, and
when victim was somnolent conducted a successful
operation. Next day Mr. Crow ate scantily, but
drank much water. In a few days he was all
serene, save that the sight of a bottle would cause
him to beat a hasty retreat, rending the air with
lurid crow swears. He had sworn off.
THE GIPPSLAND NYMPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The run was left two days behind, and we
Were weary of our sport. Above the sea
We camped on piled, white, wind-swept sands where shade
For sleep was by the writhing- ti-tree made.
The night was like the ghost of some fair day,
So wan and still. By every object lay
A black, mysterious shadow, and no cry
Of bird profaned the dream of sea and sky.
The world was ours—none others to transgress
The sanctity of those dim distances.
My mate lay heaped grotesquely, and to me
Were left the night, its dreams and mystery.
To right and left, the low misshapen trees, '
Like frantic dwarfs with twisted arms and knees,
Streamed inland to the shrinking bush, with tales
Of ocean’s peace, or mad, malevolent gales ;
In front a silver drift of bay, as wide
As fancy is, and, ’tween low mounds beside,
A clear lagoon, so quaintly spread it shone
An aureole some sweet saint’s head upon—
A mimic sea, with cliff and shoal and dune,
And tiny continent, and fretted moon.
It might have borne in other lands than these
The purple sails of fairy argosies.
An atom in the gulf of night I seemed,
And worshipped prone, and, waking, vaguely dreamed,
Till some white wonder sharply rose, and brake
To antic stars the bosom of the lake.
With rapt amazement presently I saw
A vision of such sweetness that dear awe
Took fast my heart, and straight I felt to be
A creature of an Old World century.
A radiant maid, so tall, so dazzling white,
Her beauty shamed the moon, shone in the night,
Knee-deep in dancing waters, showering fair,
Swift stars from out the darkness of her hair.
She couched again, and laughed in childish play
That gemmed her loveliness with tender spray,
And, spelled in faith, I lingered on my knees
To see the fauns come trooping from the trees.
It was a sylvan brook in strange old Greece,
Where naiads lurked, and satyrs broke the peace ;
The breezes lisped the pleading notes of Pan,
And through the glade an angry maenad ran ;
A centaur drowsed, half hid among the boughs—
(And I was hunting Hogan’s missing cows !)
I rubbed my eyes, the moon’s fair circle shone
On dreamless waters, and the nymph was gone 1
Next day I wandered there again, and strove -
To woo the lovely naiad from the grove,
And mooning by the edges of the land
I found a buckled garter on the sand 1
EDWARD DYSON.


DURING
1899
ă
The De Beers Company raised the price of diamonds three times —the aggregate of
the three represented 33%. We bought loose diamonds before the rises, and now hold
the largest stock we ever held. We have made-up quantities, but we are still offering
DIAMOND RINGS and Jewellery Ornaments at prices less than London.
Plain Figure Cash Prices.
Write for Illustrations.
FAIRFAX ® ROBERTS,
VICE-RECAL JEWELLERS,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
KALYDOR
For the S kin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a*nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
>
“ Yam ” : Know a suburban vet. who has
a great reputation as a dog-healer. His pro-
cedure is refreshingly simple. When an aristo-
cratic poodle is brought to his hospital suffering
from prolonged gorge he shakes his head doubt-
fully, and promises to do his best; but as soon as
the affectionate owner departs the vet. proceeds
to spank and shoo his patient all over the shop,
and then for a fortnight diets the brute mostly on
water and regular spankings. Then it is sent
back a hungry and humble poodle good tor
another spell of gorge,' and the vet’s, guinea is
cheerfully handed over.
IN “PUSH” SOCIETY.
SNIPPO : “Ow are yer, Jinker ?”
JINKER: “Not too gangrenie.”
SNIPPO: “ An’ ’ow's yer missus? ”
JINKER: “O! she ain’t too Bubonic."
Noman went to the homestead to see his
friend Box, the squatter. Box was at the nearest
pub., and as N. was leaving Mrs. B. offered him
an overcoat, new, as it was beginning to rain.
Arrived at pub. N. found B. making merry with
a couple of commercials, and himself “chipped
in.” Presently B. sneaked a newspaper into the
overcoat pocket and dropped a lighted match in,
N. pretended not to notice until the coat was
ruined. “ Don’t matter,” he said then, “ it’s not
my coat.” “Whose is it ? ” asked B. “ Must be
yours. The missus lent-it to me as I was coming
away 1 ”
• • • *
“8.5.”: “W.H.S.” (B. 13/l/’00) avers
that a 4ft. black snake, in jumping at him, cleared
“quite 3ft.” Perhaps ! Have killed hundreds
of snakes, but haven’t seen a jump among them
all to equal that. Tiger snakes are the most
active, and they mostly jump round —suddenly
change ends—but I haven’t seen any snake to
jump its own length. Also, some dogmatists say
that Australian snakes strike, which conclusion
they have probably come to after experimenting
with a hard stick. The reptile’s teeth slip off and
it goes at it again, apparently striking. Try a
.snake with something soft enough—say, a nice,
plump barmaid —and he’ll bite.
In a certain Wiin-
mera township the
Mayor was giving a
private friendly din-
ner, to which lie in-
vited Mr. Malachi
O’Something, a popu-
lar celebrity and a
breeder of choice
pigs. Malachi, in a
blue-and-white-
striped coat and pig-
stained trousers,
arrived somewhat
late, and when he
arrived he found to
his surprise that the
company consisted
mostly of bank offi-
cials. Malachi had
been round all the
banks that day in
the matter of a small
overdraft, and was
soured by failure.
He refused to be
seated, saying, “Mr.
Mayor, when ye
asked me to dine wid
yez, I expected to
meet gintlemen, and
not a lot of pawn-
brokers.” As he was
leaving the room with dignity an orange
struck him on the back of the head, and
turning back, he said quietly, “I don’t know
which of yez it was threw that, but I’ll take the
nose of the nearest pawnbroker on chance ” ; and
seizing on the most adjacent manager, he wrung
his boko with such dexterity and violence that his
face was appalling to behold afterwards, and ex-
perts said it could not have been better done with
a spanner.
* * * *
All that were left of a mob of sheep shifted
from a dried-up waterhole on a far-west N.S.W.
station, the other day, were freely marked with the
excreta of crows. The horrid birds generally perch
on a fence to await the poor brutes’ final struggle—
and they don’t wait long sometimes —but the
starved animals’ state was apparently so hopeless,
in this case, that the birds got to closer quarters.
There are few more horrible sights in the bush,
where horrors are many, than that of a tottering
ewe standing over the still-struggling lamb whose
eyes a greedy crow has just plundered ; and you
don’t need to go far to see it.
A unique sporting contest came off in the
vicinity of Baimsdale (Vic.) less than a month
ago. A difference of opinion arose between two
young men relative to the usual thing. The usual
thing was pretty, and had hinted she would marry
the more useful man of the two. This was the
programme the contestants went through : start-
mg°from scratch they ran half-a-mile, then jumped
a four-foot fence three times, after which they
carried each a bag of potatoes a distance of
200 yards, milked two cows, cut a ton of five-
foot wood, and dug three post-holes. _ According
to the programme, in the case of the rivals scoring
three points each in these events, they were to
fight to a finish. They did tie, and preparations
were made for the trial by battle, but they were so
exhausted that neither could strike a blow, and the
whole carnival had to be declared off. Which is a
pity, as it leaves the girl with nothing definite to
go upon.
“ Gunner ” on military hospital management:
There are some things about N.S.W. contingent manage-
ment that badly want looking into as soon as Bill Lyne
and John See can collect their few scattered senses from
the wide extent of country over which they are now
spread. When the next lot of contingent is sent off it
would be just as well to guard against the little slips that
occurred to the second, How came it that two of the men
had to be landed and sent to the Adelaide Hospital, where
both died ? One was a case of typhoid which must have
been incubating for several days and was most likely
caught in camp before embarkation. What on earth were
the doctors doing ? The regular army surgeon keeps a
very close watch on the health of the men under his charge,
not only those who are reported sick, but those supposed to
be well, are periodically inspected. With proper care Mee-
han’s typhoid should have been detected before embarka-
tion. Some of the trouble is accounted for in a letter sent by
volunteer Taylor to his father at Parramatta. Taylor
says he had no food on the day of embarkation. Presum-
ably no breakfast was cooked at the camp. The company,
officers, and sergeants, who probably got their personal
wants attended to, were too much excited to think of the
rank and file. Then there was the long, hot march-
rendered hotter by the delirious, shouting, perspiring
crowd who filled the streets. Taylor says he didn’t
manage to secure for his empty stomach any of the beer,
biscuits, and other things the crowd was said to
have so freely given; anil when he got on board there
was no food available. He was almost fainting with
hunger. The ranks were broken, and no one was
there to restore order. He threw himself on the hatch,
dressed and accoutred, hot and perspiring as he was, and
slept till morning. There were all the conditions for
developing a particularly fine case of fever or pneumonia.
Guerilla Minister See and his officers are not to blame if
the victims are not more numerous. They did their part
in the way of neglect. Then, the savage punishments for
surreptitious smoking, neither time nor place for smoking
being appointed. Two days and three days cells were
awarded—it seems to be the idea in N.S.W. military circles
that smoking is a crime—almost as great a crime as
breakfast. A sound knowledge of human nature has a lot
to do with soldiering, and the man who goes about the
world with his ineffable nose in the air is not necessarily
the best officer—he is generally the very worst.
r*
In a regiment ordered to the Boer war
there was a corporal who had already served in
South Africa, and he was asked by his comrades
what sort of a place it was. He pondered deeply
for a few moments, and then summarised —“Rum’s
cheap ! ”
The Bulletin, according to Sydney
Catholic Press, has been saying that “British
soldiers are generally wounded in the back.” This
is the C.P.’s usual clumsy invention. The
Bulletin never said anything so absurd. What
it did was to reprint an alleged “ educated
Syrian’s ” statement that the 9th Lancers, at
Omdurman, were wounded principally in the
back. But it also printed an ex-British cavalry-
man’s demonstration of the worthlessness of most
of the aforesaid Syrian’s allegations. •
A MOONIE (Q.) RIVER SKETCH.—A MOONIE SQUATTER
INSPECTING HIS RUN.
Said that a Mrs. Otillie Homeyer applied
to the Supreme Court at Brooklyn (New York) for
a separation from her husband on the ground that
he resolutely abstained from “ tubbing ” ever since
she married him nine years ago. The husband, a
farmer, claimed to have taken a bath occasionally,
but the Court made out an order for separation
with alimony and costs to Mrs. H. America is
the paradise for married women.
“ Yon Kotze ” : I don’t like to contradict a
bishop, but Rev. Stone-Wigg, of Papua, is consider-
ably out with his Dinner Island yam. That name
was originally the property of little Samarai, per-
haps because the discoverer boiled his billy there,
or the word “ dinner” appealed to his imagination
as a term with poetry m it. The Chinese horror
happened on another island, one of the Entre-
casteaux group I believe, where nearly a hundred
yellow folk with tails, shipwrecked with a labor
vessel destined for a Barrier phosphate island,
ended their existence in the local cookpot, only
a few escaping to tell the long pig narrative.
ANOTHER BRITISH RETIREMENT.
Savor riding horse down street; house has a hatit of flicking the flies off his stomach with
his hind leg. Jack feels a sudden upheaval, and, looking round, secs old
at the fly trick. Quoth the sailor: ‘"Old 'ard, old man; if you're a-goin' ter start
a-comin ’ up inter the riggin’, let me get ashore, for Gawd's sake!"
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Nestor: Rather crude, but not without traces of
power G.O.C. : Don’t want to call you any “hard
names.” Stuff’s pretty good, but would require too much
alteration... .S.W.S. : Noliterary value... .E.O.A. : Lacks
life and movement... .Cosmo : Verse mildly pretty and a
trifle incoherent. Prose sketch, somewhat above medi-
ocrity Thespis :No trace of literary aptitude John
G. : “ Maritha,” good material, but you haven’t the
dramatic force to do it justice... .Louie L. : “ Redux
may do ; the other is weaker in versification F.IL :
Looks too like a chestnut.... Joe W. : Pretty good stuff,
but would require too much recasting.... Amb G. : Funny
enough in places, but too much dam-lie is wearisome....
Lee-Metford : Curious how almost every intolerant Jingo
who writes to us does it anonymously. Why are you
ashamed of your name and address ?... .N. A. J.T., Welling-
ton (M.L.) : Can’t very well heave bricks at M.L. engine-
drivers for travelling slow where it is certain and sudden
death to do otherwise. Where the country is fit for fast
travelling, as on the Canterbury Plains, writer has known
the mail to do 45 miles per hour, and that was many years
ago T.S.L.G. (St. Kilda): “I enclose two original
jokes.” And then we opened the envelope and found two
funerals.. ..Country Yokel : As it happens, it is a lady
who writes that part of the paper at present. And, per-
haps, being a lady of some experience, she knows as much
about the work as any country yokel can do. Which
member of the company are you ?.-.. .T. J.W. (Out-back) :
Bagman-tank yarn is a fine Queensland lie of immensely
long standing....H.R. : “Two Gardens” pretty verse
with good moral, but we want something stronger
Smyth Right: Doubtless the splendid loyalty of Warrack-
nabeal is doing a lot to “strengthen the hands of the
Queen’s Ministers.” Britain was nearly losing heart and
hope over the Napoleonic war till it heard that the shoe-
less nigger militia regiment at Barbadoes was standing
firm—though it had only one musket and no ammunition.
R.H.: Noble irregularity about metre, and the
attempt to make “small” rhyme to “lips” is a pathe-
tic struggle against the inevitable O.P. : William
Winter and no other wrote “ Orgia.” What your deceased
friend did was to copy the lines into his scrap-book when
The Bulletin reprinted them some 13 years ago. If your
deceased friend stated he wrote them, then your deceased
friend has probably gone to the father of such state-
ments E.: Not badly written, but not intrinsic in-
terest enough Ranger: No thrill Treh. : Commen-
tary wants life and piquancy G.P.B. : Verse flat....
Becky: Prose ditto Zucht: Considering Austin
Kipling: Alas, you can’t kipple... .Italicus : Not nearly
good enough Cecil W. : “ Answer.” weak. “ Boy ”
under consideration S. Partridge : Well-written, but
too slender Jack-Shay : But then The Bulletin doesn’t
want Queensland Laborists to sacrifice any of their
principles. It wants them to get more principles
H. : “Heart” will hardly pass W. Brenta :We
gave Mulhall’s figures with the page where they were to
he found, so your charge of possible “ misquotation ” is
childishness. Anyone can find out whether they were
misquoted or not. Mulhall doesn’t say when the
respective lines were built. But it isn’t a fact that rail-
ways are always cheaper to construct now than five or ten
or twenty years ago. Extra cost of land resumptions
through increase of population, the varying cost of
labor, etc., may easily make the new line much dearer
than the old one Pera: If the war, as you allege, is
certain to be right because the British Government
wouldn’t have gone into it otherwise, then evidently
Salisbury, Chamberlain, Balfour and Co. are infallible.
In that case, what is the need of God ?
Bill: Paragraph about a utensil not generally mentioned
to hand L.W.G.: (1) And, according to the papers, the
volunteers for S. A. Bushmen’s Corps are largely below the
age fixed, and therefore can’t possibly be accepted—unless
the rules are altered. (2) Do 1000 (a whole thousand)
volunteers prove much enthusiasm ? (3) As to your state-
ment that The Bulletin attributed the scarcity of S.A.
volunteers to “ pro-Boer sentiments,” just produce the
paragraph in which The Bulletin made the statement —
or else call yourself a liar Eric Morton : Swagman and
dog both getting into the sere and yellow ASolus:
Don’t mind a good hymn now and then. Ordinary hymn
is a drug in the market Bullocky: Thanks
Thirsty: Russia, Prussia, and Austria divided Poland
among them. (Poland isn’t anywhere in N.S.W.)
H. M. : Sad as a best girl with a boil.
Maria N. : Severely correct, but deadly tame
S.A.D. (Randwick): That’s just how the verses made us
feel C.H.P.S. : Beautiful sample of modesty, isn’t it?
.... H.S.R. : Many thanks.... Fossicker : One or two good
items among them J.E.H. : Thanks C.P.R. : The
only genuine Old Dad on a Farm is Steele Rudd s. Your
bogus Dad is a fraud, and Charlotte (who is seduced by a
toff) is a poor substitute for rugged Sal with her bare feet.
Poowong : Eight verses like this :
'*”l wandered one day by the river
And I found a seat ’neath an overhanging bough
And then I soliloquised
How life seemed all a rush
.L. J. 0.: Wasn’t worth inking a nih over Tussock :
May condense and use M.J.O. : Ten pages about a
ghost turning into an aged horse with a white nose. May
you. turn into an aged ghost with a red nose!... .H.M
Not amiss; may see the light Watts: Groby, will
consider W.A.P. : Bulletin doesn t answer such
purely technical questions. Try the T. and O. Journal.
Miranda : Looks as if you’d begun at the end and
finished in the middle... .Pons.: Yes ; but mere cocka-
doodle-doo never convinced anybody... .Helen Mac: No
desire to “ scathe ” such a modest little effort. We re-
serve our lightnings for the literary “bounder. ....
Armado : Even with a large shell-rent in it, a balloon
would collapse only gradually, unless the injury were in
the top so as to allow the upward pressure of the gas to
tell. Bullet-holes, unless very numerous, have little
effect Simon P. ! Merely sonorous balderdash
F.J.N. (Geelong): (1) The statement that The Bulletin
“ sneers at everything British ”is a foolish lie. But the
jingo is in such a state just now that a paper which
doesn’t say John Bull is a trifle higher than the arch-
angels raises his bile. (2) Please quote the paragraphs in
which The Bulletin said it is “ an honor to be a German
or a Frenchman.” You couldn’t find them to save your
life. (3) The Bulletin doesn’t “ like to see British
soldiers shot down.” And, being less bloodthirsty than
you, it doesn’t like to see any other soldiers shot down
either. It isn’t sufficiently butcher-like in its instincts to
be a real “patriot,” as you understand the term....
Matchbox: Some doubts whether “Prayer” is quite
becoming to a quiet family paper like this. Still—here
goes:— , . ,
G.P. (Brisbane) : Unusable. “Mother,” as an institu-
tion to address poetry to, requires genius, while very
ordinary capacity can get off a passable ode to a best girl.
.... The Man : Sex-problem yarns need delicate treatment
—not assault with a hammer and a gum-sapling
S.E.J.C. : “He died and became dead” is a remarkable
closing line. Wasn’t he dead enough that you must ruh
it in like that? Symbol: Sorry to say nowhere near
the mark.... .F.W.O. : Postal notes or stamps accepted
with exchange added.
Lord God 1 who seest all things, hear
Australia’s earnest cry and prayer ;
Lord, 'tis a cry not born of Beer,
But Faith that we are all Thy care.
Thou knowest that the savage Boer
Hath dared against John Bull to stand.
Lord 1 wipe Majuba off the score,
And every Boer from off the land.
Thou knowest, Lord, our power and might,
Thou knowest their infernal cheek.
Lord, ’gainst their Wrong help Thou our Right;
Help us—the strong—against the weak.
Lord, guide their bullets to the dust;
Lord, steady every British gun ;
Shake not in Thee our faith and trust,
Help two, O Lord, to batter one.


A RISE IN THE BAROMETER.
BRITISH LION: “ Strikes me that I'm getting my tail up again!”


1. Club Waiter: “Thecab is at the door, sir, and you’ve got just seven
minutes to catch the train at Redfern.”
Barton : “Oh ! hang it, tell the cab to wait a minute, there’s plenty of time.
By Jove, this mushroom-sauce is superb ! ”
3.—“ Hang it all, that precious resignation !
Forgot all about it; do it now. What a J
wobbly cab. Give it up! ”
—Never mind! I shall write out that
resignation while waiting, for something to turn
up.”
4. Barton (on being dragged in through
window just as the express is moving off) :
« Well, this is what I call being the soul of
punctuality ! ”
s.—Train stopped at Moss Vale 20 minutes for re-
freshments. Toby tarried too long at the seductive
sandwich, and got left.
J- —Engine-Drives : ‘‘Have you seen any-
thing of Mr. Barton about ’ere?”
Toby : “ That’s my name.”
_ Driver : “ Well, jump aboard, quick; I’ve
■ been sent back for you.”
Toby : “ How lucky ! I began to be afraid
that I should miss my breakfast at Albury.”
B. —At Albany. Barton : “ Now, look sharp, my hearty, and
we’ll catch her yet. '* (By Jove, these watermen are lazy devils.!
I’ll beguile the time by writing my resignation for the Hastings ! ”)
% —Barton (aft6r a day’s sight-seeing): “ That’s right, Ishmael,
send him along. I’m sorry to hurry you, but I’ve a dinner engagement to fill and
my resignation to write before thje Orizaba sails ! ”
TOBY’S PROGRESS.
It is reported that Mr. Barton actually did catch his steamer after all.


BLIGHT. BLIGHT.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment —beyond
doubt the best remedy ; over 50 years’ reputation
and still unrivalled. Sold everywhere, in pots 2s.
eaoh. Never be without it.*
Mrs. Grundy, of England, Australia and
other parts of the empire, is a mild, broad-think-
ing lady compared to her Mexican cousin. A
young woman of Mexico city recently grew tired
of life and heaved herself into eternity from one
of the towers of the cathedral. The tower was
100 ft. high, and there was no mistake about the
matter. And this is how the Mexican Mrs.
Grundy rose up in the columns of the right-
thinking press and reproached the remains
To commit suicide thus ; to give herself up voluntarily
to an unconditional exhibition of herself ; to violate de-
liberately the respect which the human being owes to
him or herself, is to go beyond immorality in principle to
immorality in form. In addition to the crime of putting
an end to an existence of which God alone is master,
there is the indelicacy, the impropriety of having sur-
rendered the inviolable respect which the fair sex owes to
itself, and having in broad daylight and in a public place
invited the multitude to a disgraceful exhibition. When
a woman has resource to so indecent a method ; when she
ceases to dread the gaze of the crowd ; when she thus
virtually authorises the violation of her modesty ; when,
instead of burying a knife in her heart, she prefers a
form of procedure, of which the first consequence is a
more or less complete exposure of her nakedness, she
gives proof of an immorality as gross as it is indecent.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
, +
Weary, oh so weary,
With it all,
All the days are dreary,
How they pall.
Nothing makes life a more “perfect misery”
than a torpid liver. The head is heavy ; the eyes
burn; the tongue becomes coated ; normal sleep
fails ; drowsiness and nervousness make it difficult
to drag one foot after the other; the appetite
suddenly leaves one, and pains often come m the
shoulder blades. It makes both the days and the
nights long and wearisome. But you need not
bear any or all of these symptoms unless you are
really anxious to. Warner’s ‘ ‘ Safe ” Cure is made
for just such conditions, and never fails to cure.
New, loudly-lauded so-called remedies are rapidlv
disappearing, but Warner’s “Safe” cure goes
steadily on, curing all who give it a fair trial,
and easily holding the proud distinction of being
the best liver regulator and kidney healer in the
civilised world. It performs no “miracles,” but
simply cures.
Warner’s Safe Cure makes Weak
Women Strong, and Sick
Women Well.
Business, Robbery, etc.
There are printing firms in Sydney where com-
petent compositors work 13 hours a day for 255. per week..
The comps, referred to are not boys or tum-overs, but
men with families who have been for years members of
the local Typo. Society.
* * * *
Notice in a Paddington (Sydney) hairdresser’s
shop : —“ Haircut, 3d. ; shave, 3d. Satisfaction given- off
hair returned.”
* * * *
“ Hilary ” : My friend Jones has a trust account/,
yhieh he works thus : He draws a cheque for £l, which
he cashes'at the hotel bar, and has a good time until the-
cheque is presented at the bank ; then a mysterious visit,
from the bank-clerk informs him a few shillings must be
paid in or liis cheque will be dishonored. Thereupon
Jones goes to another pub., calls for a blank cheque, and,,
making it out for £l', cashes it, has a drink with a friend!,,
and then goes to the bank, makes his account good, and!
lives happily till the next cheque has to be met, when the:
same business is gone through'again. Simple, isn’t it ?
Extract from letter from Darling River, N.S.Wr
“ I often think that if the Vic. butter-makers knew whafe
a market they were missing in this quarter, they’d go mad..
They send' 16,000 miles, get a return of—say Bd. a lb. for the:
very best. We are glad to get rubbish: at Is. 6d. to 2s. a lb,
in the centre of Australia. N.B, —The river being up, I
got a case, not too rank —cheap—at a shilling.”
* * * *
The acme of cheapness. In Sussex-street
(Sydney) one establishment provides bed, breakfast and
use of bath for 6d. a night or 3s. weekly. At same place,
a shave costs Id. and a hair-cut 2d. Three-course dinners
for 3d. are common in Sydney ; in Melbourne 4d. is the
cheapest feed writer has noticed, but in a Flinders-street
hotel a glass of beer and a cigar costs 3d., with a “ dig” at
the counter-lunch thrown in.
» » * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph says that “quite a
lucrative business is springing up in Sydney—the collect-
ing of cigar ends in large quantities and the turning them
out again as new cigars. We have been shown a specimen
of this nature, bearing a well-known brand. It is composed
of stale cigar ends, carefully enwrapped in an enticing
cover, and stuffed at both ends with good tobacco for a
distance of about half-an-inch.” But what sort of palate
must the smoker have who is deceived by this sort of
thing!
» * * *
A good deal of the “ Lost ” advertisement busi-
ness is sheer puff by people who would like to make it
appear that they frequent fashionable haunts and possess
expensive jewellery, which they advertise as having been
lost between such a swell place and such another ditto.
Of course,-as the articles have not been lost at all, the
reward can be'pitched as liberally as is thought fit.
• * ¥
“R.W.8.” : Time-payment employes have some
queer experiences. Recently knew of a couple sent to re-
cover a piano which had been taken about 70 miles from
Sydney to avoid payment. The men presented them-
selves at the house disguised as tramps, begged some-
food, rushed the place, and collared the piano—but had to.
camp by the roadside with it all night, a real freezer.
* * » *
What’s the N.S.W. Lottery Act worth when
you can go into most tobacconist-shops and back your
fancy number in the poker-machine—which, by the way,
is always marked “For Sale.” Of course the police know
quite well how much it isn’t for sale.
* * #- *
Geraldton (Q.) banana-planters offered to
guarantee £2 per week as salary for an inspector of
bananas for shipment. Minister Ohataway declined the
offer, but appointed a Brisbane man at a salary of Is. per
190 bunches. On present figures this means equal to
£3OO per annum. And the duties mean one day’s work
per week!
» » * *
Dear Bulletin. — He prevention of railway-seat
“ jumping,” how would this do : At back of every seat
have a number fixed, with a duplicate in front of it,
removable like a date in a date-case. Then, when pas-
senger has occasion to leave seat, the possession of the
duplicate should establish his right of resumption. I
don’t say this system is perfect, because the “ drummers”
who want the whole compartment for “nap” would
simply remove the duplicates of vacant seats and say the
occupiers were temporarily absent. Also, the duplicates
might go off with the passengers—as the “ 16-marble ”
departs with the pool-player—if the guard can’t collect
them with the tickets. Still, the arrangement should
serve all ordinary circumstances.—O.O.
• ■_*'.* »
In a Riverina court, recently, A sued B for
wages; B sued A for absconding from hired service.
Thus, the only local solicitor : “ I appear for B in the first
case, your Worship, and for A in the second, and I’ll ask
that both be heard together." And they were ! with
result that this forensic genius had to suppress on behalf
of each client what he was bound to adduce on behalf of
the other, thus securing a defeat for both.
* * * *
Alfred, Benjamin, and Charles, with their
wives, Dinah, Eliza, and Fanny, go to a fair to buy hogs.
Each pays as many shillings per hog, as he or she buys
hogs. Each man expends £3 3s. more than his wife—
Alfred buys eleven more hogs than Eliza, and Benjamin
buys twenty-three more than Dinah. What was the name
of each man’s wife ?
* * * *
If the landlord influence in N.S.W. Parliament
be, as some members aver, too strong to allow repeal of
the law which empowers a landlord to mulct an arrears-
tenant removing his furniture in a multiple value of that
furniture, at least the Scotch variant on such cases should
easily be carried. There the law provides that the land-
lord shall intimate to the runaway tenant that, except he
bring back the furniture or pay the rent, the sheriff will
convey the goods back at the tenant’s expense. And this
is regularly done.
• • * *
At one time a squatler or cocky was glad to
have the company of an agent for a day, just to kill time,
but things have altered a lot. One squatter near Welling-
ton (N.S.W.) was recently visited in one day by over 20
agents—wool, tea, life-insurance, machinery, and stock.
His total for that week was 73.
* * * *
A widow, contemplating a boarding-house, pays
£lBO to an agent for a house. The agent pays the money
into his own account at the bank—he says under a
special arrangement. The bank, where the agent is over-
drawn, hangs on to the money. Agent gets two or three
years for stealing the money—but the bank keeps the
stolen property. Meanwhile the widow (between 60 and
70) is penniless and has to look to the State for help.
“ Business, robbery, &c.,” all right.
* * « •
“ Grobung” : Present writer has just worked all
day for a blood-sucking solicitor—earned for him £lO 10s.
and received for it little more than half the odd shillings.
Therefore am now breathing fire and brimstone—also
treacle, which is what I have to pretty well live upon.
And as there are scores of solicitors making £2OOO or £3OOO
a year clear, who pay their clerks barely enough to exist
upon, I am going to let a few cats out of the legal bag.
Consider, O layman, the net fees charged by solicitors.
Conveyancing branch : Preparing wills from £2 2s. ; time
occupied, from 1 hour upwards. Preparing transfers
from £2 2s. ; time occupied, from 1 hour. Preparing
leases from £4 4s. ; time occupied, 1 hour. Preparing
mortgages from £3 3s. to £l2 12s. ; time occupied, 1 hour.
Re last item, a mortgagor who borrows (say) £lOO on his
home has sometimes to pay a procuration-fee of 5 per
•cent., in addition to solicitor’s charges of (say) £4 45.,
and also pays generally 10 per cent, interest. Total cost
to mortgagor : Solicitor’s charges, including procuration
fee, £9 9s. ; registration fee, 12s. 6d. ; 1 year’s interest at
(say) £lO. Total, £2O Is. 6d. £2O odd out of £lOO 1
Over one-fifth gone before touching a penny. Talk about
“ the Jews ” 1
• * * •
A Maoriland magistrate, after hearing a usury
case, gave judgment for repayment in instalments, the
paying of which will extend over 170 years. “ Well, you
charged 170 per cent.,” he said to Mosesh by way of
explanation.
» * * •
Sussex-street morals : It was with great trepida-
tion that Porkins, of Richmond River, consigned 26 pigs
to Going and Gone, salesmen, of Sussex-street, Sydney,
for he had heard of the doings of “ The Forty Thieves,”
and distrusted the firm’s announcement “ that cheques
were forwarded to consignors on day of sale.” But he
duly advised the consignees of the shipment, and drove
the pigs to the wharf himself. Two or three days after-
wards he was delighted to receive a curt note, enclosing
cheque for top market-price of 20 pigs, and “regretting
that six had died on the journey.” He rode into town to
bank the cheque, and, looking in for a yarn at the s s
office, was bowled over when informed that they had not
been able to ship his pigs, which were waiting for next
boat. But Porkins soon got his second wind. He drove
six of his pigs back ; tipped a steamer-hand to see that
the other 20 were duly delivered “alive ” to Messrs. Going
and Gone ; and then, two days later, when he found the
cheque had gone through safely, he wrote to say that
“ he would keep the ‘ six dead pigs ’ until they got a little
fatter."
* * * *
More Sussex-street morals : —Harrodepe prides
himself on his wheat: and has a reputation for clean stuff
He shipped a few hundred bushels to Sydney and thought
he would come down and look after it. He met a crony
on his way to Sussex-street and presently sold 1000
bushels off his own bat. But he arrived at the sale too
late to withdraw the goods and had to bid for them him-
self, buying in at 2s. lid. He did so in the name of the
man to whom he had sold, and presently, calling on the
consignee, was knocked over with the news that his wheat
had been sold for 2s. 9d. per bushel. There was a little
row in that office when he produced the sale-note with
the bag-marks duly noted and proved that he had bought
his own wheat at 2s. lid. But Sussex-street gets easilv
■over that kind of surprise.
* * * *
Ai i insurance-yam with perhaps a more-or-less
•challengeable moral. Some years ago the agent and
doctor of a certain mutual assurance co. struck a N.S.W.
country town, of which the agent was almost a native
They made a long stay, combining business with pleasure,
and insured four lives, with these results Ist. Middle-
aged man, notorious lushington, and given, when in
liquor, to threatening other people’s lives with’a revolver
and his own with poison. Yet, knowing all this the
agent took his risk for £5OO, and the man suicided while
his policy was in the post undelivered. 2nd. Elderly man
also inveterate toper, and given to furious drivino-’
through which he had broken a leg three times. Fell Hi
soon after insurance, and the doctor who was called in
simply said there was nothing to be done for him, as he
was a complete wreck and couldn’t live a month He
didn’t. 3rd. Man weighing 20st., and subsisting princi-
pally on beer. Died suddenly a couple of years later
4th. Young man who forfeited his policy after hearing of
the other insurances. To same place same co. soon alter
sent another agent. He insured yet another drink-wreck
who had made several attempts at suicide. This new
wreck died soon after insurance. Agents or doctors who
did not depend on fees and commissions would either
have rejected these lives or so loaded them as to make
the loss less.
♦ « « t
“Bargo” : The other day saw a man who had
met with accident carried, apparently dead, into shop
close by. Undertaker’s cart passing .at time pulled up
and undertaker went in. Returned 1 ’
in couple of minutes, and
jumped into cart with re-
mark to his driver, “Not
our bloomin’ dashed luck l
The beggar’s only
stunned 1"
THE FEMININE MYSTERIOUS.
“ Well, I wash never sho inshulted in me life. She
cut me dead in the street I Can't understand
thesh women.”
A Sydney medico, speaking of the business
side of practice, says:—“ A doctor will trust people longer
and more foolishly than any other man on earth. He
will go on trusting people for years until they leave him
on account of hating him because they have owed him so
much and so long. Then they will go to another
physician and pay him with little or no hesitation.”
* * * *
Attention has recently been called in the press
to the prevalence in Australia of adulteration with
glucose (starch-sugar). Hardly any sweetstuff is free
from this extremely deleterious substance ; and the fact
that a tin of alleged jam can be bought for 2Jd. is due to
the other fact that the cane-sugar it is supposed to con-
tain is mostly represented by glucose.
* * * *
Ever since the days of the Melb. boom, a big
financial institution has gone on honoring the cheques of
a certain broad-backed character who once boomed
greatly down South. The bulky one has not grievously
misused the privilege, and yet he has never wanted for a
shilling so long as a cheque-form existed, for the good old
inexhaustible bottle of the bank’s coffers has shelled out
very patiently. But with improving times the directorate
deemed that the errors of six years back would be about
forgotten, and a week or two ago they informed the
portly debtor that his account had run dry. The stout
man simply smiled, and bringing into the manager’s room
a big black bag, he calmly proceeded to recite the docu-
ments which would be most certainly submitted to the
Insolvency Court when he filed his schedule. The
directorate listened with an impatient air for a time,
then the cold perspiration began to start from the brow
of one after another, and eventually the chairman coughed
and remarked that, under the circumstances, the board
had decided not to be too hard on him. Whereupon the
ex-potentate snapped up his bag and went out to have a
cheque initialled ; the bank had taken up the wide man’s
burden once more.
* * * •
The “tied” houses evil has been effectively
legislated against in Maoriland by the Alcoholic Liquors
Sale Control Act Amendment, 1895, as quoted hereunder
in brief. 1. No covenant agreement, etc., binding any
person to buy exclusively from another person any fer-
mented or spirituous liquor is valid. Any bond or bill of
exchange given to secure any such covenant shall be void.
2. Every deed in which such a covenant appears shall be
read as if the covenant were not inserted. 3. Every
estate, right, etc., declared to be divested by non-per-
formance of said c mdition shall be in no way aff icted.
4. Every estate or right of entry, etc., arising by virtue of
breach of such coven int shall be absolutely void. 5. Any
person entering into such an agreement or covenant may
apply to the Supreme Court and prosecute a suit for the
cancellation or rectification of any deed containing such a
covenant or any bond or bill of exchange given to secure
performance.
* * • *
A purse-trick man struck a Western (N.S.W.)
town at show time, and for the first two days raked in
the cash, but on the third morning, when the sharper
was trying to do business on his hotel verandah, the
crowd wouldn’t bite. The publican, seeing how things
were, winked at the spieler, and then bought four purses
in succession ; simulating great delight as he inspected
the contents. This “ buttoning” gave the crowd a start,
and the Sydney “gun” did well for a while. Later
the publican remarked to th; monte-man : “ That was a
good snap, kiddin’ ’em I was buyin’, eh ? Now, let’s have
that four quid 1 There’s a bloke in the bar wants a cheque
cashed.” “Not much!” slid the fake-man. “Yer
bought the blanky purses all right, and yer don’t get a
stiver out of me ! ” And he didn’t.
* * * *
Pity the sorrows of the poor compositor. A
rugger-driving newspaper proprietor from northern N.S.
wales was in Sydney lately looking for hands to do 80
hours work per week for 30s. And he qot them 1
* » * *
A Sydney firm of money-lenders that once
scorned to open its books for anything under a £2O loan,
now does most of its business in loans of £l, to be repaid
at ss. per week in 6 payments, when another £1 may be
advanced.
* * * *
The London Commissioner of Police warns the
public there by means of letters to the press against
advertisements of various kinds. For instance, against
advts. offering a prize to any person who guesses some
obviously simple cipher or puzzle ; advts. offering a lucra-
tive sleeping-partnership in a good business; advts.
asking for loans on security of pawn-tickets ; and so on.
The caution applies to Australia.
* * * *
A prodigal Vio. batter-factory owner. From
Melb. Aon (30/11/’99) ;
]V/T ANAGER wanted, to work creamery, Alexander
Turbine, through s .aimer, convey cream to fac-
tory ; salary 20s. week.
Thus the German manager of a big Austra-
lasian smelting concern : “In my country, if you
tell a man to work harder, he will do so, but in this
country, he will say, ‘ Go to Hades ! Give me my blanky
time.’ Also, in my country, if you meet one of your
employes, he will take off his hat to you, but in this
country he will only mutter curses to himself, as
he passes by.” Well, it is hard to believe that
every Australian curses his em-
ployer, but it is a mighty good sign that
(this being a country where it is not the
custom for men to uncover their heads
to one another in greeting) it is not the
Australian habit to take off your hat to
your boss. In fact, the boss, if a “white
man ” and not a pompous ass, would bitterly
resent such an act of servility.
Malle : A man of wide experience was
lately in Sydney looking for a billet, and was “ put on to ”
one as foreman for an up-country contractor on a Govern-
ment contract. He paid his own fare from Sydney, and
when he reached camp was duly engaged at the regal
rate of 7s. per day. Work was just starting, and the
evidently-inexperienced contractor left everything to the
foreman, who found that there were no tools, and that
the workmen were engaged at ss. a day, supplying their
own axes; also, that 11s. per week' was charged for
tucker, consisting chiefly of bread and honey, the latter
being obtained by felling nests near camp. Repeated
applications for more tools having no effect, the foreman
smelt a rat, and intimated that he wanted his wages, and
meant to draw them fortnightly. The boss became
derisive, said he had no money, and that none of the men
would receive any until he got “a draw.” Then the
foreman stated that there would be a lot of red trouble
if he did not get paid, and that he would end his engage-
ment, anyhow. The contractor kept out of sight on
Saturday, but on Monday approached the recalcitrant
with a lordly air, remarking that he seemed in a great
hurry for a few shillings, and might just as well have
trusted him for a bit, &c. Then he proceeded to pay him
665. in one half-sovereign, some silver and coppers, and
two cheques, one signed by another person on a bank
hundreds of miles away. Minister Young created much
fuss about the minimum wage, but it would be better if
strict inquiry was made into a tenderer’s financial stand-
ing and antecedents before a contract is let.
* * * •
“H.F.”: Running a Sydney laundry is not all
bliss. When writer started he had no business, when
business came he could get no ironers— i.e., sober ironers.
An unsober fact; the better a woman irons the more she
drinks. If she doesn’t drink she can’t iron ; and as the
tipplers have no load-line for liquor, the shirt-bosoms
singe, and the buttons fly. In desperation I appealed to a
neighboring matron : “ Keep these wretches sober and I
will give you 10 per cent.” For a month the new super,
worked like a charm, and if she secured enough under-
skirts and blouses to last her natural life it was not my
funeral. Then I came one morning and found her dead-
drunk, and the washers, wringers, folders—all on a howl-
ing spree. Within six hours I disposed of my business at
a huge sacrifice for spot cash.
In a certain N.S.W. district dwells an ingenious
citizen who makes a good living selling corn-cure (a secret
preparation, mostly OH2), as results of use of which he
exhibits a bottle filled with removed “ corns ” preserved
in spirit. One night, however, in vinous garrulity, he let
slip the information that the said trophies were—sows’
teats 1
• * * •
A Maoriland farmer, conveying some new fur-
niture to his place, broke the leg of a chair, and when
next in town asked the cabinet-maker for some glue to
repair the damage. He received about a halfpenny-worth
and was told how to apply it. About three weeks after-
wards he got an account—“ To supplying glue and advice
how to mend chair, Is. 6d.”
* * * »
“F.H.” : Re “C.F.’s” simple mariner (8.,
25/11/’99). I struck that ingenuous person in Sydney over
two years ago. Then he was a young man, and accosting
me at Belmore markets, enquired the way to Railway
Station. Half-way up Pitt-street the ring was found —
that time wrapped in a pawn-broker’s receipt for £3 15s.
He offered it for 305., but finally came down to 10s. I
asked for a look at it, and walked towards a lamp-post,
where a “ bobby ” stood ; whereupon my benevolent
friend made a grab at the ring (which he didn't get) and
vanished.
The Liver and Lights Theory of Life.
“ Ghifpith ” writes on germs and misery ard other
topics:—
Editor Bulletin. —ls our hygienic position to-day so
much better, after all, than that of three centuries agoj?
Is not science, so-called, a little bit overdoing it in these
days? There are, I believe, about a thousand different
forms of cancer all, I presume, incurable. Also, we are
constantly being warned against the bacteria and microbes
that lie in wait for us at every turn, and every few weeks
we hear of some new antidote to these manifold evils.
By inoculation we are told we may protect ourselves
against this or that disease, but if we were to take all the
precautions that are suggested we should be the most
tattoed people on the face of the earth. And even then
we should get little satisfaction, for the fashions in
diseases and in their cures change as rapidly as the
fashions in dress or in ships of war. The fashions of to-day
will ten years hence be obsolete. When I was a boy
vaccination was supposed to secure life-long immunity
from small-pox. Then we were told that it was good only
for seven years, and now, I believe, the immunity is sup-
posed not to last a quarter of that period.
Then, as to what we may and may not eat and drink,
if we were to follow the various rules laid down by
medical authorities our feasts would be like Sanciio
Panza’s. No sooner should we be preparing to fall to
than the dish would be removed as unwholesome. It is
true that every day horrible disclosures are made about
some of the food sent into the market for consumption.
But we go on eating all the same, and we worry through
somehow. And, no doubt, we should do even better but
for the doctors and the quacks.
After all, has not much of our so-called progress in
material, and especially in medical science, been the
swinging back of the pendulum a little too far from the
monstrous fooleries and superstitions of the old theo-
logies ? Frpm him of the old-time puerilities we were glad
to accept anything that promised more reasonableness,
and our credulity has been played upon by the
modern scientist much as it was aforetime by
the priestly mummer. Instead of “ original sin ”
we concern ourselves about “ heredity and environment.”
Instead of the Devil seeking whom he may devour we
have innumerable disease germs on the look-out to take
possession of us. Instead of prayer and fasting we have
inoculation and patent medicines. It is only about two
centuries since a paper, read before the Royal Society in
London, began with the remarkable statement—" Now,
we all know that Hell is in the centre of the earth.”
Modern Science may laugh, but it hazards statements
just about as ridiculous. The old Theologian told me I
was a child of wrath ; and the New Scientist tells me I
inherit gout and rheumatism and other choice heirlooms
from my ancestors—and I don’t believe either of ’em.
But I would sooner inherit sin than rheumatism. And
when we test the Liver and Lights theory of life by
apparent facts there is not much to boast of. It is
claimed that during the last half century the aver-
age duration of life has been appreciably lengthened.
But averages are very misleading ; and, in any case, it is
no comfort to me if I am living in a district where only
six inches of rain have fallen in the year, to be told that
the average fall is 20 inches. In the same way, it is not
comforting to be told that, if the Liver and Lights condi-
tions of existence are observed, I may prolong my life—
when the said conditions are to me impossible of fulfil-
ment. The sum of the matter appears to be that the old
theological idea of life was, “I am in a very unhappy
plight, born in sin and shapen in iniquity, with only the
hope that by the aid of the priest I may get safely to ‘ the
other side,’ and reap some indefinite sort of reward.” The
Liver and Lights theory of fife, on the other hand, is, “ I
am exposed to germs at every step, and liable at every
turn to have masked batteries of microbes open upon me ;
but if I take such precautions as will make life a misery in
itself, I may hope to some small extent to prolong that
misery 1 ” Is there no truer theory of life than either ? I
think there is ; and if The Bulletin can stand it, I may
some day promulgate it.— Griffith.


There was almost civil war in Cairns the
other day. An autocratic P.M., indignant that a
reporter should dare to enter his court neatly clad
in spotless shirt and light cool trousers, ukased in
a voice of thunder that the Press should wea,r a
coat in future. And Cairns about December is a
veritable vapor bath, temperature anything from
95° Pahr. to 110°. The wealthy Chinese are the
only folks in N.Q. who know how to dress.
N.Z. Times prints a pome on the Aus-
tralian Contingents by a local pote. One verse
runs as follows :—
Us gumsuckers and cornstalks, and us Maorilanders too,
We’re wanted where the bullets shower and fly,
And I guess we are a-going just to do what we can do,
Ready, if we’re needed, for to die.
Truly war has no horrors like the bards who write
about it.
FOR
3CK SHOOTIHG«
always use
CANNON ITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN OASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Rackham’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines .
SOLE AGENTS—
MEM BIOS. * BltC, tu.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
As the merits of ammonia become under-
stood its use spreads in many directions. Its
cleansing powers are as great as they are healthy,
and a tablespoonful of Scrubb’s Cloudy Fluid
Ammonia forms a refreshing and useful addition
to the morning bath.*
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality, when the “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) can he relied on as a real Highland
thorough matured, and of guaranteed uniformity:
Missing Friends.
TO GUS and ANNIE.— Bo write to Mother
and sister Nell (Swansea), who are anxious
to hear from you.
THE MINER’S GREAT WANT
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
“ Koerstz Patent Klondyke Quartz Crushers.”
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, capable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the finest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5. No. 3, with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6O.
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No. 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
|
FREDK. MASON , SOLE AGENT. |
Also for |
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes.
ą
ǻ
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNE V
The No. 2 Miner’s “Klondyke” Crusher, Price £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20a ;
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Kevleaa Lever,
25s ; Silver, £2 2s : Hunters, £2 10s.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£l, £i 10s, <5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated 80. k.
/''THE
LOW WATCH
SET WEEN ME
2.THEE WHEN
SfMSQ
KIZPA
AKSEMI
mother -
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21a.
Gold Post Card Charm, Penny
Stamp, 10s ; Silver Gilt, 5s 6a.
Any Name or Motto Free.
n
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d ;
150., 255. Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255; 15c. Gold,
355, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, ss.
Links, 9c. Gold, 215.; 15c.
Gold, 35s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12s 6d.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 150. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any-Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Rinps.
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 108, £3, £3 10s.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6'd; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £'7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2
o*o
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rjibies, £2 10g.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “ Gold Sword” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls*
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2 53.
* A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s Cd.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 7 opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, SOs ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
TRY
US.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting: Keyless, 255, 30s, -£2
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £ 3, P 4, £5.
Superior Quality, Hi, £<, .8, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12s 6d.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d.
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 8 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
stronfr and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s Gil. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
TTTrna-.nT. a sags LEA.DIWG- JE WELLER & SILVKRSMI H,
mcpi fly OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS
Georse.*tr ee t (NEA..ULY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SY3DNE-
The Only Way.
“ Jack Shay ” about strikes: —
A stupid inability to learn from experience seems to be
the chief characteristic of Labor Unions and leaders—and
God knows, their experience of strikes has been as ample
as the results have been bitter and unprofitable. After
all the disasters and defeats which labor has suffered in
the past through the dependence on this barbarous and
antiquated method of industrial warfare, the genius of
labor reform is still content to rely on it; and a few small
strikes have just been settled, while others are projected
or in progress.
If no better or more equitable weapon were at hand,
absolute necessity would be sufficient excuse for strikes,
but even so, these strikes are only small affairs—merely
fights over particular applications of general principles.
No one of them has much moral or material effect outside
the district and union in which it takes place. And that
they have been in certain cases successful is principally
due to the fact of their being too small affairs to be worth
the notice of organised capital. All the same they involve
a grievous waste of energy, and by fighting in isolated
and. singular cases the labor forces are always leaving
themselves open to easy and disastrous defeats.
Again, their results have no permanent value. The
master who gives to-day can withdraw to-morrow; and
he has always at hand a more or less useful force of
wasters and free laborers to assist him if he decides on a
reduction or a lock-out. And master and free-laborer
and union-man alike in any of these affairs are subject to
no law. They each and all can strike, lock-out, or work
at their pleasure—-to the danger and annoyance of large
numbers of people not implicated. They can declare war
to-day, make terms of peace to-morrow, and repudiate
and go to war again the day following.
And yet the Early Closing Act —a severe and permanent
check on the rapacities and inhumanities of a certain
class of employers—was won without a strike. Not a
meal, not a day’s wages, was lost. No dislocation of
business, general ill-feeling, or destitution. The “ free
labor” shopkeeper cannot repudiate it. He cannot
intimidate the weak or treacherous into aiding him in
defeating it as he might do in the case of a mere formal
agreement. The Act is statute law, and it has policemen
and judges and gaols and fines to back it up. And so
might a Minimum Wage Act, and an Eight Hours Act.
Likewise a Child Labor and Wages Act.
If all the labor secretaries, and presidents, and trea-
surers, and Labor-members—all the disorganised units of
labor—would combine, and agitate, and fight at the
ballot-box, in the Press, on the floor of Parliament, a
g'eat and permanent industrial victory could be won.
uohes, M.L.A., with his Early-Closing gold watch as
guerdon, is a leader ready to hand —and Parliament, vid
the ballot-box and public agitation, is the Way and the
Life—the only way in which a labor-battle of any value
can be fought to a victory of no transient kind ; but sure,
permanent, and widespread in its benefits.
♦
“J. Perry Koff ” cordially approves of various
things:—
Though hitherto not an admirer of Australian political
procedure (which has seemed to me subversive of proper
authority and discipline) yet I feel obliged to express my
unbounded admiration of the determination of the Lynb
Government to suppress free speech so-called. A long
residence in Russia qualifies me to speak with authority
on this subject. I was ever deeply impressed with the
far-seeing wisdom with which the rulers of that country
suppressed all unnecessary expression of public opinion—
in fact, there is no such nuisance as public opinion
tolerated there at all, and, as a consequence, the labor of
governing is much lightened. And it is surely most
wise and just that irresponsible persons (such as civil
servants and the public) should not be allowed
to criticise adversely the actions of their rulers; so
even at the risk of shocking such worthy ~ persons
as may yet entertain foolish British prejudices,
I take this favorable opportunity to suggest that an Act
be at once passed, making it penal for any person at any
time to comment unfavorably on the action of any
Government, or of any individual of such Government —
minimum penalty to be three years’ penal servitude. In
the case of civil servants—an additional flogging. Such
an Act would simplify matters exceedingly, and the secret
societies which would doubtless come into existence could
be dealt with, as in Russia, by an efficient system of SP I®* 1 ®*
or secret agents, in which service I, for one, would ne
g-lad to utilise my extensive experience m that direction
of course, for a proper remuneration, I have long tried
to impress my views on the present British Government,
but so far without avail, as I see those arch-traitors
Morley and Clarke (ex-civil servants, too, by the way;
are still at large, not to speak of thousands of others
equally guilty. This state of affairs is painful to
an upholder of law and order like myself ; but it is at
least encouraging to find the N.S.W. Government at
length waking up to a sense of its responsibilities, and I
now live in hope of seeing Federated Australia governed
on pure Russian lines.


TftE Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo, Roe xC?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEACHER&C? cvn ,. rv
82* pitt st SYDNEY.
ASK
FOR
sun
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
fKOWS
A
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pietures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Hooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
c
I
mm
SKILFULLY FITTED SPECTACLES.
* All Sights. All Prices. Send for Sight Tester, “Free.”
I<l6ld and opera aiasses ’ Telescopes, Microscopes, Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers, Hydrometers, Levels, Compasses, Rain Gauges, Wind
Gauges, Ear Trumpets. Prescription Orders skilfully fitted. SIGHT TESTED FREE. F 8
Geo. C. Penboss, 119 Pitt-street
c
between Hekald
and G.P.O.
),
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Dickson, late Q. Premier, is to be trans-
lated to London as Federal delegate. It is quite
possible that he will stay, as Q. Agent-General and
Tozer will return to active politics—or rather to
the somnolent politics of Bananaland.
“E.K.” : You might inform your readers
that the dam Boers are not black ; their cities are
not walled in ; and the free-born Britisher doesn’t
require to be at home at 8 p.m. or be locked out.
A reader of The Bulletin (with two sons at the
High School) told me these things.
The R.C. Bishop of Kimberley gives his
reasons for approving of the war :
The prejudice of the Boer shows itself principally as re-
gards the Catholic Church, and, secondly, as regards the
civilised habits of European nations. The Catholic Church
is his bugbear. Catholics are heathens to him. They
worships snakes and wooden images.
Numbers of Russian Finns are just now
arriving in Queensland —a result of autocratic per-
secution. Mostly big, intelligent-looking men,
but woefully handicapped by the fact that they
speak no English. Don’t seem to care to work
for wages, preferring to take up land and go in for
farming.
‘ ‘ Democrat ” writes from Christchurch
(M.L.) to propose the formation of a Federal
Transvaal corps of veterans, to consist of men of
40 and upwards, each of whom has a credit
balance at the bank of at least £5OOO. As a means
of enabling a very loyal class to express its loyalty
in a quite unmistakeable fashion, the idea seems as
full of good points as a drove of porcupines.
Now that the full returns of the recent
Maoriland local option poll are in, it really seems
as if the time was coming when no sinful man will
be able to get a drink in all the thirteen degrees of
longitude from South Cape to the Three Kings.
The total vote for continuance of the present
number of licensed houses was 143,777 (4197 more
than in ’96); for reduction 109,822 (15,267 more
than in ’96); for total abolition 120,932 (22,620
more than in ’96). If the no-license vote keeps
growing at this rate it will boss the situation by
1905 and the last gleam of beer should vanish over
the horizon about 1906.
Though M‘Lean is nominal Premier of the
double-headed Vic. Ministry, Shiels has collared
what was always the Premier’s room in Turner’s
day, and M‘Lean
hangs out on the
clothes-line in the
back yard, or
something like
that.
BECAUSE HE HADN’T ANY.
FRIEND: “And how did you come to give up your practice?
MEDICO : “ Locality much too healthy. Why, do you know, the last year we were there we lived
on a broken collar-bone!”
“Alias”: Out of respect for the great
Australian adjective I beg to suggest that the
motto on the Federal coat of arms be “Blanky
soit qui blanky pense.” Also that the said coat of
arms consists of a crow rampant on two dead gum
trees, cattle and sheep crouchant (very much
crouchant, also dead) beside dried-up creek, bush-
fire and large debt in background. Inscription,
“1.0.TJ. et mon drought.”
J he Bananaland Government is sometimes
reasonably quick in striking departed electors off
the roll. Lately a very prominent labor supporter
changed his address, and inside three days he was
struck off as having “left.”
After viewing the doings of many Aus-
tralian Treasurers, it seems that the small boy
with a banana-barrow displays far more business
ability than the average experienced city man
when he starts fooling with public money.
“E.K.” : This happened to me in a bush-
man’s camp. I had had two drinks and I rashly
s^a j : “ Well, I think this war’s unnecessary,
and 111 tell you why ” Just then something hit
me and I sat down, and about twenty men
threatened me with fists and palings. '“lt’sdashed
lucky for ye,” said the spokesman grimly, “that
ye hve in a country where there’s freedom of
speech. Shut up ! ”
Both Houses of the Victorian Parliament
have passed the measure providing that no penalty
shall apply to members of local government bodies
who have illegally used the ratepayers’ money in
contributions to the Patriotic Fund and the Bush-
man’s Corps. But by a hideous oversight the Bill
does not secure against prosecution any bank
official who misappropriates the depositors’ money
for the same purpose. Consequently the war
funds will suffer and the patriotic fervor of the
people will be deprived of a legitimate outlet.
The Queensland planters have apparently
come to the conclusion that the alien will have to
and that soon. Consequently they have
dropped the old cry that the white man cannot
possibly do the work, and taken to cautiously ad-
mitting that sugar can be raised by white labor,
provided the State pays a £5 per ton bonus. As
a matter of _ fact, it can be grown profitably
enough by white labor with the existing protective
duty and without any bonus, but it is no use ad-
mitting that until it becomes certain the bonus is
unattainable.
“T.” : I suggest that a public Lion’s
Mouth, Venetian pattern, be established in some
dark corridor of the G.P.0., where anonymous
complaints may be dropped stealthily. Now that
the Education Department and the War Depart-
ment receive anonymous reports, complaints and
backbitings, and solemnly investigate tne same, a
recognised public receptacle where spies and
informers can lodge their communications, and a
large van to come round and remove them just
before daybreak, are obviously required to com-
plete the system.
There are some remarkable points of re-
resemblance between the British and the Boers—
especially in religious characteristics. For in-
stance, the Doppers have a firm belief that they
are descended from the lost 10 tribes of Israel,
and, by a singular coincidence, a rather numerous
sect in England is possessed of the idea that the
English come from these tribes also. And while
Britain and Boer are considering their possible
descent from the IQ. tribes that were lost, the two
that weren’t lost acquire a steadily-increasing
power over both of them.
It was stated in a certain Assembly,
t’other day, that there were men among the con-
tingent bushmen who could shoot the ear off a
kangaroo at 1000yds. Writer, watching Q. con-
tingent warriors lately, saw one marksman hit the
ground about 15yds. in front of him every time he
fired. Two other’ members of same contingent
fell off their horses every time they commenced to
gallop. It was a funny performance.
Ex-Chief-Secretary Peacock—he of the
horse-laugh—reckons that the empty gaols of Vic-
toria prove that place to be fast developing into a
Earadise. In recent years the gaol at Kilmore has
een closed and turned into a butter-factory. The
gaol at Portland is closed, the gaol at Ararat con-
verted into a lunatic asylum, and Maryborough
had only six inmates in the year. This means
that either crime is diminishing, or there aren’t
enough police to catch criminals, or that previous
Governments dotted the country all over with
gaols without first inaking sure of offenders to put
m them.
N. S. W.
Gov. Gazette
of a few days
back, contain-
ed a notice
which would a
few years ago
have made
“Proputty”
face the wind
and howl itself
hoarse. The
boundaries of
a certain piece
of land in Pad-
dington were
minutely des-
cribed, and as
the land was
for sale the
Government
notified the
public in effect
not to buy, as
houses built
upon it would
be unhealthy.
The reason
given was that
street sweep-
ings and house
refuse had
been deposited
on the land.
How many
terraces in
Sydney have
been built on
the sites of
rubbish heaps?
“Proputty”
has evidently
fallen on evil
days, and
seems to be
too heart-
broken to cry
out as was
once its cus-
tom.
Little Fred Pirani, of M.L. House of
Reps., who is a thorn in Premier Seddon’s side at
all times, wrote to a Ch. Oh. (M.L.) paper when
the second Contingent was forming—
I would also suggest that members of the Legislature
and their sons be given the first opportunity, and that the
minimum height should be reduced considerably.
If Seddon had snatched the opportunity by enact-
ing that members of Parliament not over 65 and
not less than five feet high might go without medi-
cal examination, he might have got. rid of his
enemy for a year or more. It was a splendid
opportunity wasted.
Premier Lyne’s payment, without the
authority of Parliament, of £lOOO to cover Barton’s
expenses as N.S.W. Federal delegate to England
will probably be the subject of a joyous row when
the Assembly meets'and the bright eye glass of G.
Reid looms up in Opposition. Lyne’s promise
that no delegate should be sent without Parliament
being consulted will make difficulties. Of course
the necessity for a delegate arose at a time when
Parliament couldn’t be consulted—but Lyne didn’t
foresee that, and a Premier’s business is to foresee
things—especially when G. Reid is waiting for him
round the corner.
“ Melb.” : Journalist Walker shoves out a
little pamphlet on “Our Kilted Soldiers,” the
men, of course, with the whitewash brush in front.
The only point that need be lingered on is his fear-
fully significant demonstration of how the High-
landers have sunk in numbers, through Land
Monopoly. Walker shows how, in the first forty
years of the nineteenth century, the little Isle of
Skye yielded 24 Generals, 40 Colonels, 60 other
officers, 10,000 soldiers, and 121-pipers. And now
there are only about 10,000 people in Skye alto-
gether. The rest have been evicted to make room
for deer or sheep or grouse.
“Parliament stands further prorogued,”
and so on. The very appearance of these recur-
ring Gazette notices in all the provinces proves
the general slipshodness of Australian Parliamen-
tary methods. Why does not Parliament, before
scattering, fix the date of its .next meeting ? Or,
why, as with the law courts, is not the year
divided into working and idling periods ? In Con-
tinental countries there is a statutorily fixed day
for the opening of most of the Legislatures. In
France, Senate'and Chamber of Deputies must
meet every year on the second Tuesday in
January. They may be called together earlier by
an order of the President, but they cannot delay
later. Similar rules obtain in other Parliaments.
And in most of them there is also a rule that the
Houses shall remain in session for a definite period
out of the 12 months. They may remain longer,
but cannot rise earlier. Australian Parliaments
tumble all over the year, beginning in no par-
WHEN THE EMPIRE GALLS.
“Couldn’t you take Johnny to the war with you , uncle?”
“I’m afraid he’s too young for the Bushmen.”
“ Well, couldn’t he go in the mounted infantry?”
ticular month and ending at no particular time.
This may have served when there was no payment
of members, and the notion still prevailed that
Parliament was a genteel club, but it is out of
place in present circumstances.
The unexpected has happened in Victorian
politics, and the name of it is Higgins. Just
when the M ‘Shiels Government was almost getting
safely into recess the Anti-Federal Higgins moved
that the Anti-Federal M‘Lean be ejected be-
cause —
The near approach of the Federal elections renders of
supreme importance the solidarity of the Liberal-party,
and the existence of the present Government, being aft
obstacle to the unity of the party, is contrary to the best
interests of the country.
Considering that the present obstaole to unioh is
that the M‘Lean-Shiels Liberals won’t follow
Turner, and the Turner-Peacock Liberals won’t
follow M‘Lean, it is difficult to see how the-
putting up of Higgins, who isn’t supposed at pre-
sent to have any following at all, will aid matters.
Still pretty nearly all the prominent men in the
House, bar Higgins, have tried their hands at
Governing, and there appears no valid reason why
liggins shouldn’t have a turn. Moreover, there
never has been a Henry Higgins Ministry in
Australasia, which is another reason for trying
one. Juggins Ministries have been plentiful
enough, though. Tasmania, too, has had a Dry
Ministry, and wet Ministries—some of them
Ministries that almost lived in a nool of beer—
have been very common.
Treasurer Shiels, of Victoria, has been
trying to glide over the difficulty of Victoria’s
war bill, without facing the honest fact that the
present generation shouldn’t shout so much about
its desire to make sacrifices for the empire if it:
won’t "make the one sacrifice that is really
required, by taxing itself sufficiently to pay its
own military expenses. Out of every 100 Vic-
torians 99J stay at home and don’t sacrifice them-
selves personally in the war, and if they won’t
sacrifice their money either, but pass the bulk of
the bill, in some shape or other, on to their children,
where does the glorious and noble sacrifice come
in ? Shiels gets over the trouble with the cat-like
step of a financier who has skipped on thin ice
before. He starts by assuming that the revenue
will he £138,000 more than Turner assumed it at.
That covers most of the trouble. And then, by
not paying anything in reduction of this genera-
tion’s great accumulated deficit, but leaving so
much the more for its children and grand-children
to pay off, he comes out about square or with a
very small shortage. So, indirectly, the bill is-
passed on as usual. Posterity won’t be called on
to pay the actual bill, but it will have to pay an
equal amount more of the old deficit, which is the
same thing.


■®
ir
tX.
Ki
llllllliulltillljllllu /
pri—-
A LLA
We Stock
The Best Selection
in Australasia of
( PIANOS
\ ORGANS
MUSIC
/ VIOLINS
\ CORNETS
BANJOS
/ GUITARS
\ FLUTES
IT COSTS YOU
NOTHINGS-
to examine our Musical Goods and
get prices of Pianos, Organs, Yiolins, Cornets,
etc., etc.
We can supply all your musical wants,
and are pleased to see you if you require only
a violin string. ■ —-
Call or Write for CATALOGUES.
W. N. PALING *C° • L TO 338
6EOR6E STR€€T,
sypHcy
And at
Brisbaoc
Newcastle
national Cash Register
A National Cash Register protects
the cash
It protects the customer.
It protects the shopkeeper.
It protects the books-
It protects the assistant-
: % '• h\
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
Prices from £5 to £6B.
Full information
on application to
NatioQal Casb Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
V-'
I
CYCLING
Is made safer and more en-
joyable by riding a machine
fitted with
rpUNIQPTYRES
which excel all others for
Speed . . .
Comfort and
Durability
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months
SEND FOR
A COPY
of our Interesting Artistic
Booklet, “All About Dun-
lop Tyres for 1900,” posted
gratis upon application.
The Dunlop pneumatic Ts re C°- of Australasia [td.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY*;
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
CjV*
■S':
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3VT.S.-W.
(|)ont depiete fl.s I. Go., £ti
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
The City Mutual Life
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 Gsorge Street ( {acln f- r Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their'combinations.'
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
an <1
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. oj London.
I Fidelity Guarantees. Finp. LiaDilty. j
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc. {
W. M‘Millan,'M.P., A. W. Mbkks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St. . SYDNEY.
Pertli, West Australia.
SPLENDID BUILDING BLOCKS,
50 x 150, only £5 each, on easy terms, no
interest. Title, Torrens’ Act. Adjoining Bishop
Gibney’s Estate and the Perth Commonage.
Plans post free from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Auctioneer & Sworn Valuator under the R.P. Act,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Qumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoi) & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New Branch T ales }95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors- —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING-, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. BuitNS, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765-assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 17, 1 p.m.
-Buninyong, Tues., Feb. 20, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., Feb. 24, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Feb. 20, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FBEMANTLE
Buninyong-, Tues., Feb. 20, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., Feb. 17, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., Feb. 20, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 24, 12 Noon.
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., Feb 17, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 24, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all I'orts received Daily.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King 1 Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« TrCist€€s, €xcc6torS,
AND
Agg«KV Coippaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12/’991 ... £3.163,938 10 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Don. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Itishopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aarency at VVyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL EIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED..
"Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Cuarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black,- Esq.
William Alfred Cowes, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K, Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fiked deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests, money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes tlie agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary-
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : .Messrs, ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
'T . 1 vtFConhell-stfeet, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows„
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
LaUjety and Company, Ltd.,
- AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY,
I^N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leavs Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer. Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
MOANA
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
4000 March 14 March 19 April
3158 April 11 April 16 May
3158 iMay 9 May 14 June
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their iourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
N
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHER
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety arid Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & GO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER D'EWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
'
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls # Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
n. B€NJAMIN and SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNE Y MAItKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
BS3" MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any , address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHABD COQ,
J. C.~ YOUNG & CO.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDESTEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton, Frid., Feb. 16-
. i :
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Feb. 24.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Feb. 16.
For BRISBANE >43. S. Adelaide. Sat.. Feb. 17.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, arid will connect with the P. and O.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing orily two berths.
Best & Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields,
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
__Gb_S. YUILL & CO., Ltd., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS -Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, MiWtfily.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly,
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from itbe Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp ,& Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE - A.U.S.N. iCo.. Ltd,, Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of :the .above Company will
be despatched .as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
. * Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £B5 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to 1110.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Uorner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
pddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCES’I'ON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cirrent Rates.
CHIKTA. and JAPAn!
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPANY, Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
-from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin
Steamer. ITns | Coriimander' |l.eave Sydney.
EASTERN .. 3600 W. Ellis March 10
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M‘Arthur ... April 5
EASTERN ... 13000 P. A. Helms ...April 28
1 i
The above steamers wer - specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilhourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37. Pitt-sLreet, Sydney.
n)‘|liiraith, fl|‘
PROP. LID.,
REGULAR LINE OF . STEAMERS.
A*, .‘t-saaCrti’Sji i
'acharn & |o.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rales and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. P.cpr.eta-y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNF, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SMI),
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay. India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES-
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
ENGLISH
I Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
i the passengers for London and give- them every assistance
i in landing and passing their luggage .-through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN. TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. apd O.
■ steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
4 Queen’s CorrieU Pit-1 Street, Sydney.
r IT BEASrUR-DK^lfCYrihilfcipai'Agent.


Publications.
ffO nasfhma ~
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Go., Sydney.
Medical.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
TAKE THIS ONE!
This SUSPENSORY will fit you.
It won’t slip or hurt. It will last
longer than any other SUSPENSORY
in the world.
This SUSPENSORY
is made right. Every
buckle, every piece of
elastic, every bit c*
material is perfect.
Don’t look at the
price
alone.
Look
also at
what
the
Erice
uys.
€'
O
TAKE
THE
O.P.C
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended bv the
Medical Profession throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2—0.P.C., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands .. .. 5/-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ .. 7/_
No. 4 „ „ „ Silk . „ .. .. ?/-
No. 5 „ Fancy ~ ~ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
ID® - Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
o“ 117 Clarence-st., Sydney.
Ipsg
¥
flu J
GREAT
THIRST.
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
Lime Fruit Juice
AND CORDIALS.
Montserrat Lime-Fruit Juice either
with water or Aerated Water is a delightful
thirst quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B. —Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents :
Sydney— Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell & 00.,
E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
Newcastle— D. Cohen & Co.
And of all Chemists everywhere.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
m
it
v
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
m M m
mb ma. n
,W
..
SPARKLING
ter
m
iSSP
mi a
U
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street, Sydney.
MEMORY
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
ft Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas.—‘l History
was always my dread in exams., but by your System I
have just gained 92 per cent, of the possible in it. With
your System no one need fear the examiners.”
Mr. R. Hutchins, Hunter-street, Sydney.—“ It is of
inestimable value to those about to matriculate, and to
civil service candidates. It will always repay a hundred-
fold the small fee invested.”
æ
ǽ
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 oooh.
PLAITS gild TAILS,
S(Hn. lone, 6/8. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
•orited up, ?/6 per or.
We are tlie cbeapestio A 4»
Walla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w:n:wig*«ii.'
110 W ILLIAM Stbeet,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
.
Seed stamps tor full Prioo List.
Prgtspt atteation'giveD to Country Ordsm
D.S.MAIR
SP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2,6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 8/6, 9/6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Diarr ond
Ring. £4 los. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked. .
Note address— 6B4: George Street, Sydney.
Myjw A Dm UTC UUCP x^aiaAcr!r o;ir
iIMiU UiOhhOh RHEUMATIC FEVER.”
West Australian Barcoo Rot.
“ORIPPIjESD AND BENT,"
A-ILTOTIEdCIEER "VICTOET FOE OLIEIUCIEIN'TS TOUsTIO
The Case of
Mr. JOHN HUGH JONES
(From “ The Australian Star”)
Close to the park, and within sound of the
ocean rollers when they thunder on Waverley
cliffs, the reporter found 29 Fitzgerald
Street, the home of Mr. J. H. . Jones,
plasterer, and an old resident of the district.
While making an appointment to meet Mr.
Jones in the evening the reporter was glad
to hear he was away at work, for a man who
has to go plastering must be pretty sound in
wind and limb, and it was a fair inference
that, however sick Mr. Jones had been, he
had made a good recovery Later, oh being
seen, Mr. Jones expressed his perfect will-
ingness to relate his experience, and the
grpat trouble,he had gone through. ■, -•
I was one of the great crowd who went
u West Australia during the boom; my
trade was brisk there, but even in Perth the
living accommodation was frightfully in-
adequate; my wife and I had to camp in a
tent; this, combined with the poor food and
bad sanitary arrangements, was, I have no
doubt in my case, the cause, and that of
thousands of others, of serious, often fatal,
illness. I first got a touch of the Barcoo
Rot— you can yet see the scars on my hands
—then I was struck down with the fever ;
in my case it was rheumatic fever, and I was
removed to the Perth Hospital. Here I was
very kindly treated for two months, when I
was sent home and attended there for three
months more.”
“ And did they cure you ? ”
“ They cured the fever, hut they did not
make me a healthy man I was like the
shattered wreck of a man, and in a terrible
state with a complication of disorders I have
never heard of in any other case. Altogether
I had five doctors, and I am sure I must
have drunk buckets of the medicines they
ordered, and finally they gave me up as
hopeless and incurable.’'
“ What were your symptoms ?”
“I was crippled and bent up. I could
not stand straight, prostrate with weakness
and without the strength of a little child.
My eyesight became so weak I feared I was
going blind. My hearing was affected to
deafness. I had cold sweats and fainting
fits, and my digestion seemed ruined. Most
foods 1 dared not touch. And this was not
the worst.”
“Not the worst, Mr. Jones ; it appears
you were as bad as a man could be.”
. “So you might think, but my most serious
symptom, and what alarmed the doctors the
most, was violent palpitation of the heart.”
“ And did they do nothing for you ? ”
“No; they were very kind, and I am
sure they did their best, but after giving me
all kinds of drugs they gave me up as
incurable, and finally they advised my return
to New South Wales, saying the voyage
might do me good. But, privately, a doctor
warned my wife, who nursed me, that my
heart was dangerously affected, that she
must prepare herself for the worst, for it was
unlikely I should reach Sydney alive. And
although at the time this warning was kept
from me, I had little hope for myself. I
remembered having heard that heart disease
in a dangerous form is the frequent legacy of
rheumatic fever, and I had lost all hope, was „
utterly prostrate and wearied out with myi
long sickness, and felt as near to ‘ slipping
my cable * as a man can do and still live.”
“You did not die on the voyage, how-
ever ? ”
“No; I struggled through and managed
to get back to Sydney more dead than alive,
but there was no substantial improvement.
I seemed to be lingering, and a hopeless
invalid.”
“And was it then you took Clements
Tonic ? ”
“ Yes ; my sister, Mrs. Hapgood, came to
me and advised me very strongly to try it;
but I had no faith in medicines, as I have
told you I had taken so much physic in
Western Australia without benefit that I
had come to hate the sight of it. But my
sister was resolute and confident, and her-
self brought me a bottle of Clements Tonic.”
“ And how did it affect you ? ”
“ I began to mend at once in a wonderful
way. My appetite improved, the deafness
and dimness of sight began to leave me, my
colu sweats were less frequent, and, most
irnpo: ant of all, the violent heart palpitations
were diminished. Some of my old vigour
returned, and I began to put on fiesh, and J
wanted this badiy enough, for I was little
more than a skeleton, weighing only seven
Btone, a stooping cripple of skin and bone,
and I may here say that after taking
Clements Tonic for two months, my weight
had increased to nine stone. So that you
can form an idea of what a rapid and almost
miraculous change took place in my con-
dition. One by one all my distressing
symptoms passed away, my health was
restored, and finally I became so strong that
I was able to go.back to my trade.” .
“ How many bottles did you take}”
<* I took seven or eight of the large bottles
altogether, and they cured me as you see me
now.”
“ And you are sure it was Clements Tonic
that caused your wonderful recovery ? ”
“I am sure. What proof can be plainer
than my case, and as I have never read in
all your testimonials one that resembled my
own, I feel it is only common gratitude and
justice to give you one so that others
affected like myself may obtain a like
relief, and you have my free consent to
publish this in any way you may leem
best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, John Hugh Jones, of 29 Fitzgerald Street, Waver-
ley, in the colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of, my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also oontains
my full permission to publish the same in any way:
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment, oonsoientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and parsed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
An Act for the more effrotual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits."
r
Declared at Waveriey this ml) day of May, iIOA
before me, . *
AS. GREEN, J p.
Dear Bulletin.— “ Jack Shay” (B. 20/l/’00)
in his laying-out of secret societies has thrown a
brick of no ordinary size at a society that cannot
by any stretch of imagination be termed a secret
one, to wit, the Hibernians. This institution
has no pass-words, no ridiculous initiation cere-
monies, no long rags, no grips, no signs, no
flummery. Its meetings are open to the press and
the public. Its officers are termed plain president
and vice-president, treasurer, secretary, etc., and
nobody connected with it trails behind his name
the empty distinction of P.G.M., Gr.W.C.T.,
X.Z.8.Q., 8.E.E.R., or other empty gorgeous-
ness.—W.J.B.
“Never bolt your bath-room door.”—
Lady Traveller. This has been inserted before,
but another generation arises which knows not
Joseph.
“ Narranghi Boori ” :
Saw the battle of Spion Kop fought after school t’other
day on a vacant patch of land at Paddington (N.S.W.).
The British general had a good deal of difficulty in getting
his forces together. Nearly all the warriors wanted to be
Boers. Thought this unaccountable, till I remembered
that the young Australian is a thorough sport, and has no
use for the vanquished. However, after much persuasion
a company of the least stubborn and worst soldiers were
induced to have a mock bleed for the British flag. When
the last Briton was dragged out of a disused water-pipe
and made prisoner the Boer leader claimed a victory.
The whipped general offered an excuse for his defeat, but
was unlucky in selecting it. “I knoo I ’ad Buckley’s
chance from the start,” he shouted ; “ why, I had all the
rottenest men in the crowd ! ” The men got angry, and
snorted a lot, and the last I saw of the British general he
was flying down a lane before a raging blast of road-matal
from his own army.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
iQfltitQza Co6gl).
DO YOU want to ride with the Leaders or flock
with the Followers? Better
RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS and keep in front.
fl
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New Smith Wales Headquarters Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
N.S.W. BRANCH: 385 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Strand Aroadk.
a
RED BIRD BEARINGS
Each ball runs in a separate case by itself and does not come in contact
with its fellows; result, a saving of over 50 0 / o in friction. With this
hub.it is impossible for the bearings to jam when axle nuts are tightened
and at the same time they oannot work out of alignment.
In other bearings, the balls run together in one cup; as a result,
they rub one on the other, causing friction and wear.
Our Catalogue will teach you more about this great feature.
Manufactured, Sold & Guaranteed by
Che Goold Bicycle Co v Ctd.,
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
Australasian Branches: 64 King-ST., Sydney, Heap Office in Australia
261 ColunS'ST., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Come and see our line of SECOND-HAND CYCLES, all makes, at the price of the tyres.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Backing favorites would be a great game if one
could only sort out the right meetings to do it at. A
punter wants great discrimination and the use of a private
prophet. At recent Randwick meet—l 2 events— not a
first choice scored, whilst at Moorefield on Saturday
favorites snared four of the six races. Books scored in
the first event when the Newcastle nag Cast Iron went
out at “ any price ” —what Isaac calls any price, though it
isn’t so very much after all—and downed a scorching
favorite in Gameboy, but then backers took a hand. The
promising black gelding Battlefield went out at “ two’s ”
in the Kogarah Stakes and finished alone, hard held ;
Jeannette, a pretty Lochiel filly, was first preference for
the Stewards’ Mile, and won ; and Payten’s Skien Dhu,
though not at the head of the betting, humped a lot of
coin to the front in the Nursery. Everyone punted on
the Jeweller nag, Goldsmith, for the Moorefield Handicap,
and he did his preliminary with the books yelling the
Hinglish odds of 11 to 8 against him. He won a beautiful
race by a head from the game pony Arquebus 11. who
started at “ tens ” and carried the hopes of the Ring.
“ Ex-pony ” Expectation was the only one backed for the
final Welter, and he ended up a good day for punters by
downing two other “little ’uns” in Beauvoir and Loch
Katrine. And yet, good day as it was for backers, the
tote would almost certainly have given better returns. It
is an awful kind of favorite on whom the tote doesn’t pay
better than 2 to 1.
• • * •
“ X.”: Trieum, a mean-looking filly by Tridervt,
was made a pot for the Moorefield (Syd.) Nursery Handicap,
but she failed to run into a place, the winner turning up
in the 4to 1 chance, Skien Dhu. Skien Dhu lengthened
from a short price to 4 to 1 (where there is no tote 4 to 1
is reckoned quite a long price) much to the consternation
of her backers, but the stable money went on at the last
moment and the filly won in handsome style.
* * * *
Gameboy’s many backers were not at all satis-
fied with his run in the Flying Handicap at Moorefield
(Sydney) on Saturday. Gamehoy entered the straight in
good position with Oast Iron, and although the latter ran
unkindly all the way from the distance, he made an easy
win from Gameboy, who finished in vastly different form
from that shown when he won on the same course on a
previous occasion.
r • • • *
N.S.W. reps, fell short of expectations at Caul-
field (V.) Saturday. Argyle, least thought of, secured
Warren Hurdles with the crusher of 12.12 up and at the
remunerative price of B’s. Will be interesting to see how
much more weight the handicapper will pile on. Stand Off
looked the best of goods for Oakleigh Plate, which he won
last year, but a 20 to 1 chance in Veneda, by Escutcheon—
Happy Bride, downed him. Other N.S.W. horses —Haut-
boy and Cabin Boy—ran nowhere. Neckersgat—Miss
Mostyn colt, Rothwell—one of last year’s batch of
yearlings sold by Mr. S. Hordern—easily gathered in the
Alma Stakes from Sydney-owned gelding Hoop Iron.
Murrabrine was last in Salisbury Steeplechase, and
Waterloo did little better in Woodcliffe Handicap—Drama
being fourth.
• • • •
“X.”: Brown, commonplaee-lookingLochiel geld-
ing Arg.vle’s lumping of 125t.121b. to the van in the Warrein
hurdle-race at Caulfield, on Saturday, stamps him as the
best hurdler N.S.W. has raked up since Kiora. Argyle is
another illustration of the horse that’s a failure on the
flat proving a snorter over jumps. Less than a year ago
Sydney trainer Burton drove him out of his stable into
the saieyard, where young Bill Kelso invested tw'enty odd
notes in him, and bought a little gold-mine. His record
over hurdles is six starts and—six wins.
* • » •
Old Disfigured showed a bit of form again in
winning the Woodcliffe Handicap over 7 furlongs, but
Scorn, who appeared to be carrying some of W. R. Wil-
son’s coin, cut up badly as usual. Public faith in Scorn
is not quite dead yet. All the same, punters will not rush
in to back the big St. Alban’s horse for the Australian
Cup until they find him going for the race, and then they
will probably want a respectable price about him.
• * * *
Old Seth Ferry, the doyen of S.A. racing men,
had £1 in the tote on his horse Antarctic, which Drought
the big dividend of £l2B the other day. There were only
eight backers of the rank outsider. One, a prominent
tooth-smith, put a “ quid” on because his wife’s dress
happened to be identical with the jockey’s colors 1 Ferry,
by the way, is the man who kept horse-racing alive in
Adelaide by running meetings at his own expense during
the dreary days before the totalizator, when the Adelaide
.Cup was run in Melbourne. He now trains the biggest
string in Adelaide, most of them his own horses.
• • • •
M.L. Hobson Handicap case crops up again.
This event was run at Takapuna J.C. Summer Meeting
last year and start was disputed. Only two nags—Bluecap
and Bacchus —completed the course, others pulled up
thinking it a false start. Starter insisted that it was a
fair go, but stewards ruled otherwise and ordered
another race. Whereupon starter immediately threw
up the job and a substitute had to be found. Owner
of Bluecap refused to send his nag again. Halberdier
won. A protest was upheld by the A.R.C.;
then Takapuna J.C. appealed to the chairman
of the Racing Conference claiming that its attitude
was correct. A court set up by Sir Geo. Clifford ruled in
favor of the appeal by .endorsing Takapuna people’s
action. A.R.C. kicked and sought English authorities’
opinion, asking : “ Can stewards upset starter’s declara-
tion and order a race to be run over again ; or, in other
words, is not the starter’s decision as to a start or no start
final?” Reply came that “if the starter declared the
start good it must stand. The stewards could not break
their own rules without an imputation, of malpractice.”
Unfortunately M.L. Racing Conference verdict, which 99
out of every 100 racing men will tell you is wrong, goes.
♦** •
Gelding Doctor, winner of Takapuna (M.L.)
Cup, t’other day, has had an eventful career. When 18
months old, and while running in a paddock, he hurt his
back so badly that owners for a time thought of shooting
him. He was left alone for a year and then given to a
looal medico, who used him as a hack, but by-and-bye
got scared about that weak back, and fearing the animal
would break off short in the middle returned him to the
donors (Messrs Duder) with . thanks. Nag was then
named Doctor. After being hacked about he was put
into work two years since, and last season won at Eller-
slie(M.L.). Subsequently a pot of money went on him
two or three times, but he wouldn’t act up to track work.
Then the small boy fiend with a catapult got in some of
his handiwork on one of Doctor’s hocks, sending him to
the hospital again for a time. This fact and the fear that
there would be no bidding prevented owners from putting
him up at auction early in January with his stable mates,
Cuirasette and Halberdier. Doctor is by Cuirassier—
Hune, and is 6yrs. old. Among those behind this chronic
invalid in the Takapuna Cup, Jan. 29, was Dan. M‘Leod’s
crack three-year-old, Miss Delaval.
• * • •
“ Y.” : Been amusing myself poring over Maori-
land and Queensland tote records, and am satisfied that
the sober Maorilanders are bigger gamblers than the
allegedly rackety people up North—or else they are a lot
more prosperous. Total put through at recent Auckland
Summer meeting was £63,645 —a record for four days in
this patch on the globe. Most ever invested in Queens-
land was at Eagle Farm, Brisbane, when money totalled
somewhere about £22,000. Yet Brisbane is a much larger
place than Auckland. The top figures for a Queensland
two days’ meet are £16,000, planked down at a Charters
Towers J.C. annual meeting. Betting over weight-for-age
Auckland Plate the Other, day was an eye-opener. Only
three started—St. Jlario, (whom Seahorse beat by a head
for M.Li. Derby), Explosion (winner of Auckland R.C.
Handicap) and Seahorse. Sum speculated reached £l9OO ;
dividend, £960 Seahorse, £672 Explosion, and £268 St.
Ilario. At Auckland Trot (a week before), £9461 went
through in three days.
* * * *
Launceston (Tas.) Cup annexed by Eiridsdale
Wednesday last, was first contested 27 years ago. Strop
and Swiveller each got away with it twice. Leo, Stock-
well, Rhesus, Sheet Anchor, Hobart, Duration, Ruby and
Comedian were other top-notchers that won. Swiveller
(9.5) and Duration (9.7) are the only two who have better
performances to their credit than that of the latest
winner. Last season Eiridsdale started a dozen times for
five firsts. “
*•» * *
The following advt., from a Westralian paper,
speaks for itself—in fact, it yells for itself :
A NNIVERSARY HANDICAP SWEEPS.
The DRAWERS of WANTAGONG in above
sweeps are notified that- if they want a Start it is
advisable to COMMUNICATE with,
Yours truly, GEORGE REX.
Still wanted—an arrangement whereby all sweeps are
drawn on morning of race, so that the drawer can't com-
municate with the owner, however badly the owner wants
to be communicated with. While the owner c m get a
bit of the sweep, the practice of scratching the horse
unless he gets it will continue. When he can’t get either
a bit of the sweep,“or Buckingham palace, or the planet
Jupiter, then he wpn’t-scratch his horse for want of-the
one, any more than he will for want of the other, two.
* * * •
A few years ago, when pony-racing was rampant
in Sydney, a certain big punter hailing from Northern
N.S.W. was the man to follow always. Shop doubles
were big things in those days, and if an owner had some-
thing pretty good.it paid him to take the whole of the
“card” with it. None were more prominent at this
business than the aforementioned b.p., and as he was
cute, and knew how to place them and when to come with
his “bit” better than most people, he waxed fat at the
game. By and bye he felt that, having taken so much
out of the Ikeys’ bags, it would be the proper thing to
picnic them, and they were picnicked accordingly in
a most lavish fashion. Sporting scribes felicitated
the b.p. on his good fortune in being able to feel
that it was his duty to thus entertain the backer’s
natural enemy, at the same time remarking that if he
still found himself in that happy situation when the anni-
versary of the occasion came round, a grateful but much
astonished crowd would be glad to hear from him again.
But the inevitable happened—the same old inevitable—
and in about a year the great punter took a back seat.
He was rarely seen on a racecourse, and his back seat got
so much further back as time went on that he became
quite invisible and people forgot him—writer among the
number—until he was happened upon at Randwick during
recent S.T.O. Anniversary meeting with the “Tommy”
over his shoulder, and yelling out the odds raucous-voiced
as the most leather-lunged of the pencilling brigade. Also
he was doing bigger biz than many of them. He’s got
the right end of the game this time. The other end is no
good.
* * * *
Horse against cycle events were again in evi-
dence at Brisbane Cricket Ground on Saturday. Wheel-
man Shaw took Healey’s place. Previous conditions ob-
tained. In the mile-race Shaw, paced by a quad, led the
whole distance and won by 20yds. Texas Jack changed
mounts once. Times: cycle (flying start), 2min. 0 2-ssec. ;
horse, 2min. 3sec. Two miles was exciting. Horses and
pace were changed in second lap. A bad pick-up by tan-
dem resulted. When Jack made his second change cycle
led by a quarter-lap. Just as quad picked Shaw up for
the last round a dog baulked the pace, and the Texan
flogged his prad to the front —getting there with two
lengths iii hand. Shaw protested that the horse had cut
many yards inside at the last corner, and the judge de-
clared in his favor. Times : horse, 4min. 17 2-ssec. ;
cycle, 4min. 18 2-ssec. Five miles struggle was hot all
the way. Jack had several re-mounts. Clyde ultimately
won by over 100yds. Cycle, llmin. 13 l-ssec. ; Nag,
llmin. 25 2-ssec. Shaw thus appropriated the three tests.
• • - * m ... .
M.L. bruiser Otto Cribb put up another win at
Golden Gate A.O. (Sydney), Saturday night. He fairly
roughed and pummelled the life out of Ned Burden, and
had him dead to this planet in the fourth round, when
referee M’Donald took a hand and stopped the in-
terview. Cribb bore down upon the enemy from
all quarters and in all manner of ways ; he swung
the left, whirled the right, got back with the “La
Blanche”—in short, jabbed, banged, thumped and upper-
cut anywhere and everywhere an opening showed. He
stretched Ned out three times in the first round,
four in the next, and still the Sydney lad
stayed on deck, smothering his face with both arms or
doing a “ Botany” round the square when things became
too lively. The third was the star round, and will not
soon be forgotten by those who saw it. Burden tried
Cribb’s own game and stood up to it, while the mass of
sweltering, frenzied men around the ring swayed and
roared with excitement. Assault, battery, and audible
stoush were served out on both sides in big chunks. Sud-
denly, those who hadn’t seen Otto at it before yelled
“ Burden wins ! ” Ned was more than holding his own
then, but, a few seconds later, and during a sharp rally,
Cribb stepped back, and, coming instanter, just chipped
the chin beautifully, sending Ned prone for 9sec. Just
prior to this occurrence, a smashing right broke Burden’s
ear. Otto was atop from the inception of round four.
Midway through he jabbed a left with a ton of power
behind it fair on to Burden’s “ boko,” dazing him
momentarily, and causing the red port wine to gush. A
weighty swing from the same quarter landed on the solar
plexus with a thud, and down and out went Ned. Cribb
quitted the ring looking fit enough to carry out the same
contract three times over.
* * * •
“Old-Timer”: Saw Otto Cribb and Ned Bur-
den fight on Saturday night. Burden was fit as a fiddle-
fitter than he has been for a long time. Cribb could have
been a lot better, but he fairly went through his man-
mowed him down, in fact. Burden was loaded up to the
brim with grit, stood an awful thumping, and gave
enough to silence most ordinary men ; but Cribb is no
ordinary man ; hitting him seems about as useful as re-
proaching an Alp. Writer agrees with Larry Foley that
the M.L. pug. could fight every night in the week, and be
all the better for it. He is “iron-bark” Burge on
an improved scale—that is to say, the marvellous
capacity for taking punishment and the stubborness
of resistance are there with the addition that Jim
was not so clever. Worth mentioning, too, that Otto
shows out better every fight. He opposed a skilful quick
man in the last battle—one who was reckoned in the
running for the lOst. premiership of the provinces a year
or two back, and whom that alleged champion, Herb.
M’Kell, now in America, cleared out from. Cribb’s
methods upset all accepted ideas of training. He is
camped with a party at Manly, spends a great deal of
time round town and eats at any restaurant fancy dictates.
One of the Ikey fraternity has offered to stake £2OO that
Otto licks any ten-stoner on the continent. Bald-patched
old Jim Barron wants a go but he’d be “cold pie” as
“Cocker” Tweedie has it. Besides it is wrong to strike
the aged. Melbourne Tot Higgins should put up a good
fight and Peter Murphy, fit and well, might prove a snag
lor the Maorilander.
* * * *
M.L. middleweight Tim Murphy, just back
from Broken Hill (N.S.W.), where he settled the several
arid respective hash of Australian Jack Dunne (twice)
and Bananaland Jim Archer (once) in quick succession,
left for the United. States by the Mariposa last Wednesday.
Tim has big prospects ahead, and will be handled by a
good man. He’s got all the go and vigor of his brother,
"‘Torpedo” Billy (whilom world’s champion feather-
weight); but, unlike Billy, is a level-headed, cool fellow,
who isn’t at all likely to get a ballooned head or fly off at
a tangent. Tim tried to drag out Jack Oonlon’s van-
quisher, Mick Dunn, but the N.S.W. 11.4 man wasn’t
taking any just then, though someone offered to provide
100 sovs. for the match.
Announcement at a Sydney boxing-hall re-
cently : “ Gen’l’men, we’re haring a show on the blankth
of this month in aid of the bushmen who are in very dis-
tressed circs.—no, I don’t mean that, I mean in aid of the
Bushmen’s Contingent fund. There’ll be several boxing
abouts and some men-o’-war will give an exhibition of
cutlery exercises.”
» # * *
Mile supremacy of N.S.W., swam at Lady
Robinson’s Beach (Sydney) on Saturday, was little more
than a paddle all the way for Dick Cavill. At 500yds.
Bond clambered up the steps a done man, but plugger
Harry Smith —the only other starter —plugged it out to
the bitter end, and saw Dick pull up 20yds. in front,
which might have been made 60 if wanted. Half-way
through the crowd forgot that it was a race and began to
wonder what had brought them there. The pace was
clocked at 29.12 3-5, a miserably slow performance, which
would have been faster but for opposing influences of
jobbled water and a fresh east-nor’-eaeter blowing across
the course. Trouble was Smith made up his mind for
second prize only, and Cavill, knowing he could sprint
away whenever necessary, didn’t bother himself much.
* * * *
Crack swimmer Percy Cavill went to ’Frisco by
the Mariposa on Wednesday. His ultimate destination is
Paris, and his mission to arrange a match with the
world’s professional champion, Joey Nuttall, during
Exhibition time. Percy only returned to these parts a
couple of months back, after two years’ absence in
“Yurrup,” where, it will be remembered, he defeated
Nuttall in a race in the Seine, and would have beaten
Greasley same day but for making a big divergence in his
course.
* * * ' ' •
R.S.Y.S. annual race for Gascoigne Cup was
sailed over “ outside ” on Saturday, and resulted in vic-
tory for Maoriland Logan-built yacht Aoma, with the big
margin of 22min. 23sec. after handicap deductions. She
was in front nearly all the way, working beautifully the
whole time, and won more easily than any craft in these
waters ever did before.
* ♦ • *
News from ’Ome is that millionaire tea-man
Lipton, owner of the crack yacht Shamrock, purposes
having another cut at the Yankee flyer Columbia, and to
this end has signed for the building of a new yacht to be
ready next year.
• • * *
Latest from “down under” indicates that Aus-
tralasian scullers intend making themselves felt this
season. Erstwhile M.L. champion, Tom Sullivan, has
challenged the London man, Harry Cornwall, to row over
Thames championship course for £2OO aside ; and Charley
Stephenson is out with a defiance to Sam Emmett, of
Wandsworth, for a mile race on the Tyne or the Tees.
Charley has £lOO to stake. Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) Jim
Wray and Bill Haines’ (Old Windsor) are also talking
eloquently at each other. Haines wants a start of 2min.
over the Tyne handicap-course. Cornstalk Jiin isn’t on,
but expresses readiness to row a half-mile for £lOO or £2OO
aside, and, if successful, Haines can have that 2min. in a
second match.
* * * *
Cabled news that Victorian champion pigeon-
shot Donald Macintosh had whacked the big prize of the
world’s biggest meet with Count O’Brien created a flutter
among trap-shooters throughout this section. The win
was Mac’s third effort in the Grand Prix Du Casino.
Writer feels confident that but for “the lateness of the
hour, and consequent failing light,” which compelled a
division, Donald's form would have brought him out on
top. O’Brien, the Count, is a Spanish gent who has
assumed the patronym of O’Brien as a nom de trap, and
must not be identified with the class to which “ Senor Don
Fitz Callaghan ” of the song belongs, though, judging by
their references, some of our pigeon-shooting scribes are
under the impression that he is of that variety. The
prize-money tots up somewhere in the neighborhood of
£l2OO.
* » • „
“W.”: Combat “ Croweater’s ” statement (B.
10/2/’OO) that Mary Ann Noble is “ the best point in Aus-
tralia,” and his placing of him above Trumble on the
“ all-round ” list on that account. Noble’s a handy man
at point, but for brilliance and sureness in that position
he can’t catch lanky Victorian Laver, whose great point
work at ’Ome fairly “ knocks*! ” the Britishers. Even if
Noble was the best he wouldn’t have anything the better
of Trumble in the fielding line so long as Hughie is, and
has been for some time, the best slip on the globe. It’s
only a toss-up as to which is the best all-round man.
Writer is also inclined to favor Noble, but only on account
of his fine batting powers.
* • * *
“ Bias ”: Present stage of Sydney bowling
pennant competitions would be exciting if that calm and
dreamy game could be exciting. There are three clubs
left in. Waverley downed Petersham on Saturday. Each
of these teams now has one licking against it, and two
lickings disqualify. City (the third club in) meets Peter-
sham to-day with a clean sheet. A defeat will put the
last-named out, but a victory will place all three on an
equality. Present position of “B” tourney is amusing.
It has been in progress two months, and Waverley’s win
over Ashfield (Saturday) made point scores equal all
round, which means clubs concerned are back to scratch
again.
■ * * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen’s three-nights
acetylene gas meeting closed on Monday. World’s record
was broken in three heats of half-mile handicap ; fastest
performance going down to the colored Victorian streaker,
Gordon, who put up 57sec. from scratch. Gordon got
away with the final of this from his fellow-Victorian
and scratch man M’Donald by half a length after a severe
finish. Time 57 2-ssec. Principal event of the night—the
ten miles championship of the provinces—looked a good
thing for Gordon. At six miles, M‘Donald, going well and
strong and winning troops of friends, came down with a
crash through the front wheel collapsing. Suther-
land and Mutton were first and second respec-
tively at eight miles. Lewis, Forbes, Gordon, Walne,
Morgan, Wilkech and Megson followed in that
order, Carpenter bringing up the rear. Lewis
tackled the last lap first and dashed along at a
rare bat, but Gordon came brilliantly and looked a
sure thing. Bob Walne now shot out and took a hand.
Yard by yard he fought the bitter battle, and the others
responded till all three were at bursting tension. The
crowd, crazed with excitement, yelled and screeched at
the men. Slowly Walne crept up until one big, hair-
raising roar indicated that he had won, but only by a
bare length from Gordon. Morgan was third, and all
three placed men are Victorians. The clock recorded
23m. 21 l-ssec.
• * * «
“Cecil P.”: Late reference to Lyons reminds
one of a couple of records. About middle ’Bo’s, in a minor
Adelaide match, “Carbine” hit 38 (five sixes and an
eight) off one over. Later, on Adelaide Oval, he and
“ little brother Walter ” put up 60 in 15min.— big Jack’s
share being 50. Always barring C. I. Thornton, he was
the finest hitter ever seen. For fast scoring in first-class
play, Gilbert Jessop is, however, unrivalled. In second-
class cricket, E. M. Grace once made 219 in an hour, at
Thornbury ; but the ground is very small, and in those
days umpires used to fill their pockets with balls, to save
time when the aggressive coroner went in. Seawell made
150 odd, in an hour, at Gloucester city, a year or two back.
W. G. and E. M. have each taken 10 wickets and made 100
runs in one first-class match. Giffen once made 100 and
took nine wickets (tenth run out) against Vic. Another
record : Edwards (an old Adelaide player), at Kinchega
Shed, River Darling, in ’BB, went on bowling when oppo-
nents required half-dozen, with eight wickets to fall.
Clean bowled six men first over; other man took
a wicket; off Edwards’ seventh ball, man was
caught at point. His analysis for innings—seven balls,
seven wickets. Saw it myself. W. G. Grace was the best
bat and best all-round man I ever saw—worth any other
three till 77. Next best all-round men, Geo. Giffen and
A. G. Steel. Best cover, Vernon Royle. Mid-on, Harry
Boyle ; also best length bowler. Best all-round bowler,
Spofforth. Best fast bowler, Geo. Freeman. Good
wicket slows, Giffen. Bad wicket slows —wouldn’t like
to say. Wickets, Blackham. Long-leg, O. E. Green.
General outfield, Fred. Grace as good as anj 7 . Points,
E. M. Grace and Kelly. Oldest players, St. Peter and
Absalom. Leg-hitter, Geo. Parr and T. Horan ; I don’t
mention W.G., though I have seen him and G.F. hit Tys
and Selby, respectively, to square-leg for seven apiece—
all run, no overthrow, Barnes fielding in same innings,
76. Worst wicket-keepers (first-class play), Leaney (Kent)
and West (Mid.). Worst field on general principles,
Stanley Scott. Worst bat, Fred Morley. Most stylish
bat, Edward Lyttelton. Slowest, Lumb of Yorkshire.
Greatest proportion of wides in bowling, R. F. Miles of
Gloucester. Next, Emmet. In any matches, dead-heat
between Hon. J. L. Parsons and me —Parsons once
bowled 7 wides in one over. Best long-stop, Geo. Reid—
looking the other way. Only man to head both bowling
and batting same season —England, Grace (nearly 200
wickets). Australian Eleven ditto, Geo. Giffen.
* • • *
Cycling crank Richardson finished his struggle
round the continent at Perth (W.A.) on sth inst. He left
that city June 5, last year, and was in good form through-
out the journey. White and M‘Kay, wheeling round the
opposite way, reached Perth the day following Richard-
son’s arrival. To beat Richardson’s performance, White
and M‘Kay must be in Melbourne a month hence, and
between now and then throw 2500 miles behind. Their
chances of success appear to be on a par with those of that
unfortunate man, Buckley.
* * * *
“A pedestrian is a man who makes a row when
he is run over by a bicycle.”— American definition.
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, &c.—at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Paling’s), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
As the last two decades are known as the
eighties and nineties the term between 1900 and
1910 will naturally come to be known a*, the
naughties.
The manufacture of J’s.P. is still a flourish-
ing N.S.W. industry. Another early crop of be-
tween 200 and 300 is just being put on the market,
for the unirrigated J.P. grows m the driest seasons,
and he never gets bogged in the tank where more
valuable stock perishes. Every Govt, this score of
years has condemned the honorary J.P., and
every Parliament has applauded the condemna-
tion ; but year after year the system is continued.
Minister See now says that the multiplication is
necessary, because certain signatures are required
for documents under the Land Act. But why,
because a man is wanted with power to witness a
signature, let him also sit on the bench, and ad-
minister laws of which he knows nothing ?
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations,*
The growing feeling that the N.S.W.
Bushmen’s Contingent is chiefly used to provide
kudos for the men who pull the strings, came to a
head at Randwiclc camp the other day, when
there was something very like a riot. Hundreds
of bushmen have been induced to leave their
billets; some have even sold off substantial pro-
perty ; —to come down to Sydney and be made
fools of. Their pet horses have been thrown into
the pool and annexed by pet officers, while they
have had the pleasure of receiving comparative
weeds ; they got no pay, not even tobacco-money,
till they “passed the tests”; and now scores
of them who have passed the tests are thrown out
very much at random, and told to shift for them-
selves.
“ F.” : Lovely woman looks to be largely
accountable for one of the most ignominious little
disasters that has happened thus far to the British
in South Africa. “Banjo” Patterson tells the
story of how a troop of Horse Guards, or House-
hold Cavalry—the tall, commanding creatures de-
dicated to “ fashionable ” military duties at
London and other favorite spots : the steel-breast-
plate men whom the gamins call “potted meat,”
and Tommy Atkins m general terms “feather-
beds ’’—were sent out from Rensburg to do some
ordinarily harmless patrolling, the day after their
arrival in camp. Somehow the irreverent Boers
managed to drop a shell bang in the middle of
the troop, blowing the head off one of their
beautiful horses and upsetting several others.
Captain Ricardo, in command, was among the
fallen and before he could pick himself up and
say, “Don’t be—haw ! —alarmed, my gallant
men,” or words to that effect, the main body of
uninjured “featherbeds” galloped back towards
camp. Somebody had the presence of mind to
take the captain aboard his gee-gee, but the
animal, not being yet sufficiently acclimatised to
carry two big guards at a time, gave up the strug-
gle, and the Boers came down in a mean, dis-
honest v/ay, and captured Ricardo and four of his
doosid fine fellahs. The connection between
lovely woman and this awful calamity is of an
amorous nature, and it dates back to the dear
Guards’ pathetic farewell days in dear old London
and many days previously. These Household
cavaliers will need a healthful dose of hard graft in
Africa to get their nerves fit for bombshell surprises.
There is no special reason to doubt that they will
fight hard for the empire, in a heavy sort of
way, as soon as they have shaken off the effects of
too much patrolling round the London parks,
where they occupy the benches after dark, and
fall into ambushes prepared by their own adoring
nursemaids. Too much love and not enough war
is what’s the matter with the Household Brigade,
and it was bad luck for them to get a baptism of
fire the first time they took their horses out for an
airing.


~1
r*7A']
/'•ir s
<* m:
i. ",i
Ot
DERBY Tobacco wins,
because on account of its
matchless qualities it has
the largest sale of any
Tobacco in the Southern
Hemisphere.
16
DERBY
WINS!
WHAT?
*DERBY Tobacco
WINS
RESPECT
because it is always evenly
excellent in manufacture.
CUSTOM
because it is of superb
flavour. * ♦ •
FRIENDS
because after you have
smoked it you don’t want
any other brand.
m
m
thh
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VA.LUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK 6RIMLEY
Sole DistribGtiijg AgeOt
for ACiStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and. Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street , Sydney .
COUNTRY FOLK
WILL BE INTERESTED
TO LEARN
That we are arranging far 1 <»1
District. Messrs. E. WEBB & CO.
Bathurst .. .. •• ••**** E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
Bourkb .. .. •• •• ~ ** E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
BrewarrenA .. .. • • •• “ ** GUDGEON & CLIFTON.
Cobar .. .. .. •• •• ** ” Mr. J. O. BROWN.
Dubbo .. .. •• •• •• " ** OWEN TURNER.
Gouuburn .. .. •• •• ** ** Messrs. J. H. MARKS & CO.
Mudgbh .. •• •• •• ** ** Mr. F. A. COLLINS.
Orange .. •• •• •• ** ” JOHN WESTCOTT.
Parkes ” JAMES THOM.
Temora .. .. •• •• ** ** ADOLPH ALEXANDER.
Warren .. .. •• •• ** ** Messrs. THOMPSON & BATES.
Yass ..
E. RICH & CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
■jDity. .Within three minutes’ walk ot Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to..
lift*.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
(nee BOLDER).
WARNING. To the MuB, ° Trade & Booksellers.
TIVOLI ALBUM.
NO. 11.
Selling Phenomenal.
Prick : One Shilling
Order Quickly. Very Few Left.
All Warehouses and Musicsellers.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Gee. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 8 NIGHTS ! LAST 3 NIGHTS !
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
little red riding hood,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —65., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
TcSS of tbc P’UrbcnrtllcS.
Miss EDITH CRANE as
Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON as ANGEL CLARE
Mr. TYRONE POWER as ALEC. D’URBERVILLE
Saturday, 17th February, “ TRILBY.”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
■ YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) TO-NIGHT
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in Charles Reade’s Erer-popular Drama,
“It’s Never Too Late to Mend.”
(By special arrangement with Alfred Dampier, Esq.)
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s. __
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
SPLENDID HIT of CHARLES SEEL and MAUD
NEEDHAM. Gigantic Success of
LUDWIG AMANN & THE MACARTE SISTERS.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS, Davy’s Marionettes,
Noni Rickards, Tod Calloway, Bell Ballet,
and all our Great Tivoli Attractions
SAME TIVOLI PRICES. .\ Plan at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC FURORE, and THE MOST
BRILLIANT SUCCESS!
8 Newsky Family 8
TOM COSTELLO, Character Comedian, A Great Success.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY. SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Will Whitburn, Chas. W. Cogill,
and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
Tremendous Furore of Delight! Melbourne Enraptured I
First Time in Australasia of the sharp-pointed, Racy,
Fragrant, Up-to-Date MUSICAL COMEDY,
“ The : New : Barmaid.”
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as WILLIAM WHITE.
GRACIE WHITEFORD as DORA HEATHER.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of
Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL (Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
Business Manager, Mr. George Buller.
REAPPEARANCE OF .-. REAPPEARANCE OF
ALFRED DAMPIER.
Supported by his famous touring Dramatic Company.
SATURDAY, 17th FEBRUARY, BRITON or BOER,
A Powerful Patriotic Drama in 6 Acts.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. 6d„ Is., and SIXPENCE.
"J*OWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
Evening, 17th February,
GRAND FAREWELL CONCERT, TO
Mr. ALFRED R. MOULTON.
(Composer of “ LELAMINE.”)
PRICES- -45.. 2s:, Is.
1 house, Melbourne.
Box Plan at Allan’s Music Ware-
JOHN H. TAIT, Manages.
At Poverty Point.
Dear Bulletin.— ln a recent “ Poverty Point” par. you
prophecy that a touring company, taking out such pieces
as “The Village Priest,” “ Niobe,” and “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray,” will bustle the old-time barn-stormers,
who invariably went nap on “ East Lynne.” “ The Second
Mrs. Tank ” was no great success even in Sydney and
Melbourne. It is a horribly morbid play of the abomin-
able modern and Ibsen school. “ East Lynne,” washy and
sentimental as it undoubtedly is, lays over it by leagues.
Moreover, anent the comparative popularity of the two
pieces, I have seen some dozen or so representations of
“ East Lynne” in Sydney alone, and the house was always
well filled and exceeding weepful. _ If the country is so
ready to receive the higher dramatic culture, how is it
that the Australian capitals are so gross and brutal ?
Othello.
“ E.K.” : One sees a lot of this: —“ In aid of the
Patriotic Fund : General collection, Town Hall (con-
cert, I suppose), £3 14s. 9d. ; proff.-fees, £3 3s. ;
balance in aid of Fund, 11s. 9d.” Yet the collection
seems to be mostly in aid of the “proff”—whatever
“ proff ” may be.
“ Torker ” : Miss Delia Mavis seems to have made rapid
strides in the profession since she was in Melbourne last
(with Henry Bracy’s co.). The fair Delia has grown into
quite a bewitching personage, with a very good voice and
a splendid stage presence. At present she is taking the
part of an adventuress in “ The New Barmaid,” and
develops a very forcible, bold, bad woman, which appears
quite strange to those of the audience who have been
used to seeing her playing the gentle and coy young
maiden.
OircuB-man Rowe made £40,000 in Melb. He lost it all
on a Mexican ranche. Afterwards he drove a coach. He
returned to Melb. as one of the agents with Oooper and
Bailey’s circus, 20 years after he left, and 20 years ago.
No Melb. entrepreneur was ever so liberal to the charities.
He gave the Melb. Hospital £6OO out of one performance.
It is in low straits now, and subscriptions are dying out
owing to the rush and frenzy of Absent-minded Beggary.
Where is the Rowe ?
Manager Rickards has again shed his blood for the
Empire. The other night, when he was exhorting the
public to “ Pie, pie, pie,” some Boer struck him over the
eye with a large contribution, and nearty fractured his
skull. Gore splashed on the stage, and a minion had to
hie him to the apothecary for sticking-plaster and other
things.
“ Gil Bias Smashing and crashing through the Vic-
torian bush conies Hyland’s circus. Four four-in-hands,
respectively driven by the great Miss Hyland, Professor
Hyland, the other Miss Hyland, and Master Tommy
Hyland, while a score of horses and ponies gallop, un-
tethered in any way, after the waggons, with a reliance
on their fidelity to the corn bin. Hyland is the very Vin-
cent Crummies of Oircus men, and gives a wonderful
family show.
“ Melb." : Two years ago I heard a little girl sing in a
most lovely manner, with an expression quite beyond the
classically frigid Miss Oastles. Lately I heard her sing
again, almost badly. The explanation was that her ton-
sils had been cut to improve the voice. Just a little
sample of that knifing of the women which led a French
surgeon to say, “The German surgeon thinks woman
comes from the hand of God with superfluous mechanism.”
“ Melb.” : The Owlets Dlub, in “ The New Barmaid,” is
a reminder of the Owls’ Dlub of yore in this city. It met
at Hockins’s. The members all took fancy Irish names at
the meetings or “ hoots.” The most brilliant owls were
W. E. G. Simons, as Gilhooley ; Murphy, as Desmond
M’Usquebaugh; and Harcourt, as O’Neil Daunt.
Henry Lucy writes that on the occasion of the benefit
to the veteran John Hollingshead, Thackeray’s “ Goal-
hole ” will be reproduced with spectacular effects, and
that the curious, not to say blasphemous, ditty of
“Samuel Hall” will be given in character “after a
silence of many years.” Every reader of “The New-
comes” will remember the Colonel’s denunciation of
Captain Costigan in the Cave of Harmony for singing a
singularly atrocious ballad. Tradition has it that the
ballad in question was this very identical “ Samuel Hall,
Chimney-Sweep.” If Samuel is given in all his original
vigor and William Amelia is there that good man will fall
down dead before the end of verse 11.
“ San Remo ” : In the late fifties and early sixties
dramatic criticism was a good deal more lively in Mel-
bourne than it is at present. Anderson, the Wizard Of
the North, who fancied himself as Rob Roy in a biacK
frock-coat with a bugle-lace bespangled collar, was so
irate about the remarks which his performance elicited,
that he placarded the city with huge bills addressed ‘ To
the knaves, cowards, bullies and hirelings of the Victorian
press.” Now the press roars in its dramatic columns like
a tame butterfly.
Dear Bulletin.— “ J.A.0.,” in Bulletin 20/2/’OO, says
“ when in Italy I heard a story of Rossini.” Now, when I
was in Italy I also heard a number of stories of Rossini
which not only have never been printed, but are, alas,
unprintable. But the most characteristic story of this
composer is at the expense of his indolence. He used to
write his operas in bed, throwing each sheet towards the
foot of the bed. One morning he accidently dropped an
intricate trio which he had almost completed, and it
fluttered on the floor out of reach. Rossini pulled the
clothes more comfortably about him and re-wrote the trio.
He was a tired genius.—J.
“ S.S.” : How absurd of these Russians at Melb. Bijou
(who, presumably, have something novel to give us) re-
lapsing into the ordinary slush stuff of the music-hail
comedian and the silly serio-comic—so called because he
is neither serious nor comic. A company travels all the
way to Australia to show us how the Russians are enter-
tained, and fills a big half Of its programme with a hash
of used-up tunes from the London ’alls, finishing with
“ Ze soidares of ze Kwin, ina lats.”
“ Scenery ? All I need is two boards and a passion.”—
Dumas.
“Jim” : Re coin-throwing. During singing of “A.M.
Beggar,” when in front stalls at Her Majesty’s, one night
last week, was struck “on the top” (where the hair is
rather backward) by a coin, which felt more like ’arf a
brick. Judging by its pace it must have come from the
“ gods.” Result, much loss of blood, and somewhat tired
of “ A.M. Beggar” in consequence. Really think orches-
tra’s salaries should be doubled during coin-heaving
season.
“ G. 0.” : Went to Maud M'Carthy’s farewell concert at
Melb. Town Hall. Next to me sat a youth, aged about 16.
He struck up an acquaintance with me off-hand, and
presently remarked there was a big crowd, and he thought
he would take up a collection for the Bushman’s Fund.
Asked him to whom he would give the money. “ Oh, I’d
give some of it to the Town Clerk and nick the rest ;
nobody knows how much a fellow collects,” was his cheer-
ful response. Told him that if he took up a collection I
and a few friends would up-end him when it was over,
and send every copper that was on him to the fund. He
swore a good deal and called me a “ fizzgig,” but he didn’t
collect.
“ Melb.” : Again apropos comic songs at quasi-religious
meetings. Last night I went to a concert at a suburban
Town Hall in aid of a picnic for the Sunday-scholars
of a tabernacle. There was an overwhelming preponder-
ance of young ladies. A comic gent sang “ They all came
out to play.” He went to bed at a cheap lodging-house,
and no sooner was he in the blankets than they all came
out to play—the Norfolk Howards—which he illustrated
with writhes and wriggles. A benevolent old gentleman
then gave out the list of evangelical meetings for the
ensuing week. Then another comique had ago in. He
sang “ Running up and down the stairs.” Like the other
man he went to bed, of course—comic songs are mostly
beddy and bedsteady—and dreamt he was in the Sultan’s
harem, chasing one of the beauties. He tumbled out of
bed and there he was “ Running up and down the stairs
in an abbreviated shirt.” (Shrieks of laughter.)
Dear Bulletin. —Nellie Stewart’s understudy (Mollie
Lowell) who had to take the principal boy part on the
first night of Drury Lane panto., didn’t make much of a
“hit,” judging from some of the notices. She merely
looked smart and got through with credit. Her chief
song was sung by a double, hidden behind a tree, Mollie
meanwhile opening her mouth and gammoning to be the
genuine article, like Svengali and Gecko when they played
dumb instruments in “ Trilby.”—F.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
David Jones and Co., of George- street,
Sydney, are showing a great assortment of men’s
head-gear at the following prices : —Soft framed
felt, 7s. Gd., Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. ; hard hats,
Bs. Gd., 10s. Gd., 12s. Gd.; straw, 2s. 9d., 3s. 6d.,
4s. Gd., ss. Gd., 6s. Gd. ; silk, 215., 225. Gd., 255. ;
Austral tropical helmets, 10s. Gd., 12s. Gd. Coun-
try orders receive every attention, and the reputa-
tion of D. J. and Co. Is a sufficient guarantee that
clients receive full value for their money.*
That The Australia Hotel has popularised
hotel-living in this part of the world is a fact as
well-known nowadays as the famous hotel itself.
Country visitors to Sydney always had some
objection or other to the chief Sydney hotels.
But The Australia has so supplied every want
that its business has doubled and trebled itself
under the present management, and at the present
moment the hotel has a splendid list of visitors.
The fireproofness of The Australia from tower to
basement has been a big draw—ladies when going
to sleep for the night preferring to feel certain
that they will not be reduced to an ash before
morning.*
When The Bulletin was going to press
the unreliable cable announced that two Australian
war correspondents had gone under more or less.
Poor Lambie of the Sydney Telegraph and Mel-
bourne Age was reported killed, and the only con-
solation which his many friends at this end can ex-
tract is that the cable seldom manages to tell the
truth till the fourth or fifth attempt, being sadly
out of practice ; and therefore there is still room to
hope even when the news has been “confirmed.”
Even cable news that is confirmed two or three
times over isn’t always solid truth. If the report
of Lambie’s death and of the capture of “ Smiler”
Hales proves to be fact it will only go to show
once more that it is a lot more dangerous to be a
war-correspondent than a soldier. Hales always
had a deep sense of his own reliable.ill-luck, though
if he has merely been captured and taken to Pre-
toria his luck doesn’t seem so very bad after all.
Mr. W. N. Willis has commenced business
at 25 Bligh-street, Sydney, as a Land and Finan-
cial Agent. Few persons will grudge him the
plain truth that his ability to deal with each of
these subjects is unquestionable.*
The novelty of having a trade mark com-
bining two purposes like that of Messrs. Harring-
ton & Co., Ltd. (Photographic Merchants) which
appears in our advertising columns, is a remark-
ably good one. The illustration bears great weight
—otherwise guarantee of goods supplied, by them
—while it also contains the name, Har-ring-ton.
Messrs. W. H. Glen and Co., of Melbourne
and Sydney, are growing more and more in popular
favor and esteem. Highly respected throughout
Australasia, and known in almost every home of
New South Wales and Victoria, the firm has done
wonderfully good business with its pianos and
organs; while earning a first-class reputation for
courtesy and strict business attention, the firm
keeps advancing by the best methods, and pleases
everybody who communicates with it by post, or
visits either dep6t at Melbourne or Sydney.*
The Barrier (N.S.W.) Rifle Corps will, if
it is suffered to grow up, be a unique military
body. The organisers have petitioned for a resi-
dent-instructor and for a rifle, uniform, and 300
rounds of ammunition for each efficient member.
So far, all is as per usual. But appended to the
petition is a paragraph calculated to give N.S.W.
War Minister a shock in the chest. “ And we
promise never to use our rifles against our fellow-
men in case of an industrial dispute.” An honor-
able postcript, and one which every Australian
volunteer regiment should paste on the seat of the
enemy’s pants so as to keep it in view.
Bulletin readers will find at foot of
“ Political Points ” page an advt. from Geo. C.
Penboss, of 119 Pitt-street, Sydney. A special
“Sight-Testing Room” has been added to this
establishment, and is replete with the latest scien-
tific instruments for sight-testing. This depart-
ment is under the care of a thoroughly practical
and experienced English optician, who is confident
that he can satisfy all those who have found it
difficult, or impossible, to obtain suitable spec-
tacles elsewhere. He makes a speciality of cylin-
drical and compound lenses, and has a large stock
of frames of every description. He invites the
medical profession to send their presciptions for
optician’s cases to him. The firm’s Sight Tester
is sent post free on application ; and the firm is
sole proprietor of the 1.0. spectacles and folders,
registered.*
REFORMING.
Ah me ! But it comes to the best of us,
The day when it comes to say good-night,
With one eye a-search for the suburbs ’bus
And one eye blinking back to the light.
For I am changing my private shrine
And training to be a Philistine.
I revel no more in an aching head
And frequent hairs of the dog that bit;
For 1 feel like going sober to bed
And getting up e’er the lamps are lit.
I fear me sadly, oh comrades mine.
I’m fast becoming a Philistine 1
And a lawless love and a wild romance
Seem somehow not what they used to be.
I am rather sick of the swooning glance
And the silly gush of the flirting She.
I wish for calm, for a rest supine
In the soft white arms of a Philistine.
And I have not bothered with Fame of late,
Nor taken the world by storm (in dreams).
I have quite forgotten to rail at Fate,
To see the motes and to miss the beams,
Or liken myself to minds divine—
That isn’t form in a Philistine.
And—shall I confess it ? My rhyming art
Is turning over the leaf with me.
I begin to find that a faithless heart
Isn’t necessarily poesy ;
That quite respectable verse may twine
Around the life of a Philistine.
And I am not old, and I am not dull ;
But Spring has passed and the Summer nears.
And oh ! for the charm of the deep, deep lull,
When love is peace and the ferment clears 1
The froth has blown off the pure, still wine
And I am happy—and Philistine.
VON KOTZE.


A.KrKroxjrffCEM:E3Sirx!
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
lole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
IK"
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (id.
à
“I'll Try It." Sole Agents: The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK, “ON OUR
SELECTION.” Six Shillings, Post Eree.
" DOWKIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
TZ-SPA WATER
WAR K,LLS ,TS THOUSANDS,
BUT DISEASE
-*~-ITS TENS OF THOUSANDS
A LETTER FROM A LADY.
Mr. S. A. Palmer, 47 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Sir,—For about two and a half years I was suffering from Inflammation, Peritonitis, and Lung
Complaint, 1 was about five months confined to bed, and attended by seven doctors at various times
but 1 was not improving under their care, I was told that the only means of saving mv life was hv
operation, as they had at that time done all they could for me, but I was then too weak to risk the
danger of an operation.
I could not eat or sleep, and was really in a very weak condition.
I need scarcely say that doctors’ and nurses’ expenses amounted to a considerable sum of monev
As a last resource I was induced to try VITADATIO, and after persevering with eight bottles’
lam thankful to say my troubles have been overcome, and I have been cured. lam now able to
attend to my business, and am willing to give particulars of my case and cure to any lady who mav
be suffering. J y
THOUSANDS RECOMMEND
Webber's
Purely Herbal
PRICE: 6 16 and 3/6. OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
I consider it my duty to let others
know that there is a cure, because
the restoration to health after a term
of illness is a blessing I cannot be too
thankful for. You can use this letter
for the good of others.
Yours sincerely,
(Mrs.) ANNIE V. COHEN.
Tobacconist, 84 Bridge Road, Richmond
c’s7
. «•
/
ECXVH -T.no
IMO 3HA
UcQ
DRUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Prioe, £1; Cut Price, 18*. M.
Db. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR
Is the. acme of perfection. It is the host nerve,
blood and b?&.in tonic that medicalscience con pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no -equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyse,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion. —Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering people as Dr. Clarkson's
Reinvigorator- Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein' l
Vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.'
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidnev
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright’s Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Thfeir regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully-restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
Price—One bottle, 7s 6d ; three bottles, 20s.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed,
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc. .
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors.— By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in-the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Eleotro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charmsof the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter. —Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Beits. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“because I know my health and strength are assured.”
Yes 1 what is of more value than health? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life 1
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. Hughes’s Fitsepilep.
This Celebrated REMEDY' FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the asre.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
File Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic
INWARD or OTTTW A RD PILES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
and obstinate character of
Price 3s. 6d. per box, or 3
* * We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OLE PATRONS
* EREE OP CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Country Trla.l Order reapeotfally Solicited.


Hi" RaSsn)(iSS€o’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies.
Tvr ore marvellously Snccessfnl and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood* Skin* Nerves* Rheumatism* Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etCi
A SPECIAL EEMEDY FOE, EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaiine Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A. Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
m
■ .
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr RasSmUsseN.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to Write arid tell yotl how
your remedies have Cured me.
I 'Uttered great agony With WEAK NERVES ahd
RHEUMATICS; arid 1 sent for some Of yOur ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which Completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I coiild wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am not using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the .scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended Voitr Remedies for a Hfimber of different
Complaints and I have never knoWn them to fail, but tfc
do all that Was claimed for thetth t have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, aS 1 know
they can be depended oh.
You are at liberty to publish this as Well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. j. A. NiELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -1 can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M,L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oeaefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney,
f o Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness—Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just Jrop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMTTSSEN,
647 George-St.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches*
OST OFF
iifflfwfflSfl!
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
Cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
Self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A if aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy Of the Oehturv, atid are uttecjualled as a Permanent and Complete °dre for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency; Melancholia, Nervotts Irntahimj (
ho matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, Bs. and 125., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course; 43s Bd.
Ordinal Course, 235. 6d., posted.
A IfALINE BLOOD PILLS
Will cure the Most Obstinate ahd Constitutional ELOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. TheV remove ahy Taiht ot
Poison from the Blood, ahd entdibate ail Blotches and Soles from the Skill. BOXES, 8S; and 125., posted; This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely frbe from Mercury. Ordindry Gourde, 235. Bd. Special Powerful Double
Course; 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
tjnexcelled fot- Liver and Kidtiey Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, 'Flatulency, Wind, Headachy Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want Of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness; Constipation, and Weakness. Place Is 6d.,
35., arid 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are ah infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthahing the NERVES, and dre especially effectual
for all cdmplaints peculidr to Females; beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, cl ear i rig the skill, arid
bringing about a youthful appearance:
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. fed.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs anywhere.
gPP!
Herr Rassmvssen, Cp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Altaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.O., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
A
Mr. THOMAS MUHIMAH,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
á
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street; Sydney, ih the Odlotiy of New South Wales, do
hefeby solemnly anti sincerely dfeclafe as follows
Whereat 1 suffered severely front a vety troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me s 6 touch that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, ds a last hopq, obtained some of Hkrr Rass-
iftJSSßN’s PuRKIiY Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
vfchich 1 hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME Within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years afro I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN,
CHARLES kOLLiNS; justice of the Peaee,
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resultingjiot only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder 1 ,
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and Posted, 3s. and 6s. '
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6-<. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST.
And important branches as follows :
S9DIES,
â
â
ã


NEW CENTURY NOVELTIES
6 lovely Diamonds,
from 1 10 to £4O each
Smaller Stones,
from £3, £4, £5,
£7 108.
18c., 14 Lovely
Diamonds and 3
Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, 84s.
. EES
Solid Gold.
Set with
5 Lovely Opals.
Special Value. 15s.
1 Diamond and
Ruby, or Sapphire,
18c., £4.
Any Name or
Motto', 9c., 12s 6d,
15s, 20s ; 15c., 20s,
22s 6d, 27s 6d : 18c.,
21s, 255, 30s.
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or
Sapphires from 55s
to £lO.
Solid Gold, with any Name or Motto,
■ and Raised Wishiione, Bell, and
Chain, 10s 6d.
m
Solid Gold, with Raised Bird and
Forget-me-not, or with any Name, 10s 6d.
3*3=
or 2 Diamonds &
1 Sapphire, 30s.
IBr. Gold, 2 Dia
monds & 1 Ruby-
Gold Mizpah, Cross, and Dove BROOCH,
Latest Novelty, 126 6d.
85s
222
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst, 8s 6d.
m
iffllH
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21s.
All Articles sent
Post Free.
ä
å
Bolid Gold, set with
5 Turquoise, 10s 6d, or Pearl
and Turqu ise, 12s 6d ;
6 Opals, 15s and 21s.
LUCKY
SHAMROCK
CHARM,
Set with 1
Pearl, 2
Amethysts, &
1 Topaz, or
Obsidion, is.
GARNET
PENDANT and
Gold Bird
SAFETY PIN.
5s 6d.
Without Pendant
3s.
9c., 17s 6(1. 20s, 2f>s ;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, ss.
With Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Gold, 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
RICHLY CHASKD.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15C. . 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
Solid Gold and Real Opal,
17s 6d. With Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
50 Other Patterns.
9c., 12s 6d and 13s 6d ; 16c.,
255. Silver, 2s 6d pair.
IJJease send for our Illus-
trated Slips of Novelties.
THE HOGSKIN LEATHER BUCKLE AND STRAP WATCH GUARD, SILVER MOUNTED, 5s and 6s 6d ; GOLD, 18s 6d.
Gold Merry Thought
SAFETY PIN, set with
real Pearl, 8s 6J.
Ui
NOTE.—Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET. SYDNEY
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse llerr Rassmussen’s advt. on pave
27 of this issue.*
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BARGOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY ;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TWENTY-EIGHTH REPORT OF
THE ROyflD IHDK OF WEiISMHID, [T9.,
ADOPTED AT THE
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAKE HOLDERS,
HELD AT
THE BANKING HOUSE, QUEEN-STREET, BRISBANE.
OKT WEDNESDAY, 24tb. JAKTUARY, 1900.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Twenty-eighth Half-yearly Report, with a
Statement of the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank, and the Auditors’ Report.
£ 8. d. £ s. d.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interest on Deposits,
providing for Bad Debts, payment of all charges, and reducing valuation of Bank
Furniture and Fittings, amounted to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,321 19 11
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from last Half-year 2,328 13 2
Giving an available balance of 10,660 13 1
Which the Directors recommend should be distributed as follows :
To Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 2J per cent, per annum 4,814 16 9
~ Dividend duty on above 240 14 10
„ Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. 3,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward to next Half-year _ 2,595 1 6
£10,650 13 1
The Branch at Ithaca has been closed, and a Branch opened at Stanthorpe during the Half-year.
By Order of the Board,
EDWD. D. DAY, General Man ager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND, LTD.,
DECEMBER 31, 1899.
Capital paid up
Reserve fund
Profit and Loss
LIABILITIES.
£ 8. d.
.. 885,187 0 0
.. 43,000 0 0
.. 10,050 13 1
Bills Payable .. .. 43,470 18 6
Liability to Treasury for
Notes held in reserve .. 33,500 0 0
Deposits and other Lia-
bilities .. .. .. 810,684 7 9
Outstanding Drafts on Agents and
Liabilities on Remittances as per
contra
£ a. d.
433,837 13 1
887,661 6 2
48,150 16 11
£1,374,679 15 2
ASSETS.
£ 8. d.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers 181,258 9 6
Bullion .. .. .. 47,963 410
Treasury Notes on hand .. 38,649 0 0
Government Stock.. .. 43,123 11 0
Other Bank Notes on hand 92 0 0
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c
Bills discounted and all other Debts due
to the Bank
Liabilities of Customers and Agents, for
Drafts and British Bills current, as per
contra
£ s. d.
311,086 5 3
62,303 11 7
953,109 2 5
48,180 15 11
£1,374,679 15 2
PROFIT A.IXTD LOSa A.CCOUWT
31st DECEMBER, 1899.
Dr.
Cr.
£ s. d.
£ s. d.
To Salaries, Rent, and other
Expenses at Head Office
and 14 Branches .. 8,307 1 4
„ Interest paid and ac-
crued on Fixed Deposits,
Rebate and Exchange
Paid 9,764 12 6
18,071 13 9
„ Balance .. mm - .. .. 10,650 13 1
£28,722 6 10
£ s. d.
By Balance brought forward .. .. 2,328 13 2
„ Gross Profit for the half-year .. .. 26,393 13 8
£28,722 6 10
RESERVE FTJ3STD
£ s. d.
46,000 0 0
To Balance
£46,000 0 0
£ s. d.
By Balance invested in Government Stock.. 43,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 3,000 0 0
£46,0(50 0 0
» J-4. 1 GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.Q.,\
Audited and found correct. F A MULLER, F.F.I.A. (Vic.) /
Brisbane, sth January, 1900.
Auditors.
P. L. CARDEW, Chairman, -
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Aggregate Balance Sheet, made up to 31st December, 1899, and report that we
find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances in the General Ledger at Head Office, and to the
Balance Sheets furnished by the Branches ; these latter being certified to by the respective Managers and
Accountants.
We have counted the Cash, and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane, on the 31st
ultimo, and hereby certify that we have found them correct. The Securities held at the Head Office have, at the re-
quest of the Directors, been examined by Messrs. Chambers, Bruce & McNab, Solicitors to the Bank, and we have
seen their certificate to the effect that they are in order.
We have further to certify that in our opinion the said Aggregate Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and ex-
hibits a true and correct view of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the Books on the 31st December, 1899.
Brisbane, sth January, 1900.
GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.G.,
F. A. MULLER, F.F.I.A. (Vic.)
Auditors.
VISITORS
TO THE -
Paris Exhibition, 1900
We are displaying in our Show R,ooms HIGH-CLASS Dressing Bags and Suit Cases, Dress Baskets, Gladstone Bags, Kit
Bags, Mail Trunks, Travelling Trunks, Portmanteaus, Ladies’ and Gent.’s Pitted Bags, and all Travellers’ Requisites.
RELIABLE HIGH-CLASS GOODS are making this Department famous.
The NEW SARATOGA TRUNK, Fall front. 2 Drawers and Tray.
Splendidly Fitted. 80s; each.
Our NEW BASKET TRUNK, For Skirts and Blouses (a perfect boon
when travelling).
The Latest in Ladies’ HAT BOXES, English Pattern, with fall
front, to hold 6 Hats. 325. 6d. each.
DECK CHAIRS, For Sea Voyages, Extra Strong, with Arms and Leg Rest.
7s. 6d., 10s. 6d. each.
CAMP BEDS, Weigh, when folded for carrying, 161bs. Waterproof, Durable,
Comfortable. 255. each.
VERANDAH CHAIRS, Latest American Novelty, adaptable to any
position. Light and Luxurious. Price 355. each.
GUNS, GUNS and CARTRIDGES.
Sportsmen and others requiring a
really good Serviceable Gun
write for Catalogue.
Note our Reduced Prices. An Immense Stock to choose from.
Amusement and
Entertainment!
EDISON’S GENUINE PHONOGRAH
(By License of the Edison Bell Consolidated Phonograh Co., London).
The “ Gem,” with 3 splendid Records, 60S. The “ Standard,” with Recorder, £5. May be used at Bazaars, Private Concerts and Public Entertainments.
s
119,121,123,125 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Writes a member of the Charters Towers
Boer-war contingent to the local rag :
Mr. Clifton kindly presented the writer with a hand-
some gold watch, and that, together with a large red
white-and-blue handkerchief presented by Mr. Fred.
Johnson, to be returned at the end of the campaign with
Boer blood on it, will never be far behind in the advance.
Ugh ! Why not also with Boer brains on it and
a bit of a Dutch leg ? 1$ this warrior expected to
be a ghoul, going round dabbling his glaring
“wipe” in the blood of tlie enemy’s wounded,
or pawing newly-slain foes so as to get clots and
splodges of red to take back with him ?
“Gunner” writes :
If that ridiculous N.S.W. Bushranger’s Contingent isn’t
killed with ridicule it ought to be. A list of 19 officers
has been published, of whom four are from the Permanent
Artilfery, one is “ late Royal Sussex Regiment,” two are
Sydney lawyers, one is a Sydney volunteer artilleryman,
four are mounted rifles, three “ station managers,” one
“rabbit inspector,” and one “gentleman.” They are
about the queerest lot of “bushmen” on record. And
the commander of this band of hardy, flying scouts who
are to live in the saddle is Lieut-Colonel Airey, aged 56, an
artillery officer with, I believe, no cavalry experience. He
isn’t a bushman either, and as the head of a dare-devil
band of young irregulars a methodical old gentleman
verging on 60 seems rather out of place.
Re a curio of Victorian political history,
“ Cuprite ” writes from Melbourne :
A curiosity in the possession of a Melb. lawyer-M.L.A.
is the original agreement and members’-list of Vic. Reform
Club formed in ’77 “to provide a meeting-house for
Liberals on a common platform.” The elections of the
year gave Berry a big majority, and all the alleged
Radicals of the. time joined the club. Opinions have
changed since then, and some of the great Liberals of the
time are now Tories of the worst sort, and will not now
be proud of their fellow-clubmen of 22 years ago.
Among the signatures are Graham Berry, Mi rams,
W. 0. Smith, L. L. Smith, Prof. Pearson (who signed
“ Subject to remaining in the province ”), G. Collins
Levey, Jno. MTlvvraith (partner of the Tory M'Eaeharn),
Derbin Willder, David Gaunson, J. B. Patterson, H. N.
Alcock, Wm. Lang, Judge Casey, John Fisher, Donald
Cameron , (one time the political god of Yackandahdah,
who rode into Beech worth on a horse shod with
golden shoes), Knipe, S. V. Winter, Francis Longmore, J.
M. Hood (father of the present S.C. Judge), T. F. Drury,
Ben H. Dods, F. F. Baillieu, Garnet Walch, Marcus’
Clarke, Julius Siede, Dr. Crookes, Bryan O’Loghlan, W.
M. K. Vail, Jeremiah Dwyer, and Kone Wang. The last-
named was evidently a Chow, and there is no record of
his entrance fee having been paid, whereas the line signed
by Marcus Clarke is triumphantly receipted. The first
committee of the club consisted of Berry, Collard Smith,
Butcher Patterson, Jimmy Munro, Peter Lalor, Jno.
Woods, Gavan Duffy, arid James Mirams.


Business Announcements.
D. Brabam&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER - SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Sole Agents for
Cellular Underwear.
The only rational form of undergarments for hot weather
Used by the Army Officers, and Medical Corps
on active service.
SHIRTS OF EVERT DESCRIPTION.
SPECIALTY—THE UNIFORM SHIRT.
PYJAMAS, SOCKS, UNDERSHIRTS AND PANTS, .
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
Patterns and Price Lists Post Free.
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Kiondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716}4 and 718 George-streefc, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
XJSE
Spooler’s
.^OONE/?
iROYAL NAVY DRESSING
FDR
i: BROWN LEATHER'
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIR EC lIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, eto.
Medical.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my x
remedy does or does not cure 5
| Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, $
i &c. All you are asked to do is to \
i send fora FREE hottleof medi= ]
’ cine and to try it. I am quite
; prepared to abide by the result. j
| A Valuable and Safe Remedy. J
! APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION, i
| H.G. ROOT, 38, Endslelgh Gdns., LON DO N. |
I4s LiqQor Habit.
IN INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
A Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
EGcrasV
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCRASY
CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
N.B.— Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
(i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inpiXn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Warner *s
hHSafe
Cure
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE
FnEE H.H.WARNER &C° L T JP
PAMPHLET « v »-
FROM MELBOURNE, AUST.
The .
only
Specific
RELIABLE FURNITURE!
CARPETS, BEDSTEADsTnD BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for <£3 10s.
60 others, 6, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, £Q 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Set Best Bedding, £3 15s.
60 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from ab HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 663, 565 and 667 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
The Life of the System.
unfit.
S. FREEMAN > SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY
REGISTERED
Sill
£?iCBR^
nEffecjiveCoi
JLICHTiHfIAWBBrEjWHa
WcakEyb DwikssFV
S3I GEORGE ST
UtHED 185
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising: from any cause whatever.
mmm t —■
ASK FOR —a^
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, See.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes t'
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
•9%
m
'I
'Of)S
»JP'£iaSw£&
'%-■
Pf
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention,
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
i Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 880
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— |
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney j
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Huy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing: in Australia front
Lincoln, Stuart & 00. Proprietary Ltd.
262 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station)*
6000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 4"7-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress '
Suits to Measure, 84 Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 31 -
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergeret te
Suits, any shade, 39/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
\
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys'Clothing’ in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 26. Undressed White Shiris,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2*, 2 11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent's splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hals, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-, Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors. 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to M.-usure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letter", so please don’t he afraid to ask
for an 3’ information. Our book, The Thilosoj hy of Dreg*,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free; Write for them.
Publications:
“Opeii-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney. Post, Is. 7d
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR, EDUCATOR —£5 for £1 ss. The Home
* Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for t'l. The New En-
quire \Y T ithin, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyolopsedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for 12 15s. The History of Australian Bush ran<r-
intr, Is. 3d. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this payer.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sydney.
SEND FOK A
BOOK CATALOfiUE
OP RARE, CURIOUS,
AND LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ILL XT S T H A. TED
ā
TTTITH numerous anatomical
' ’ colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it,' and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ã
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
IBook Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
,201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
ă
FRENCH -
• • NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Editions.
Post Free, 1,3, 2/-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever-bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lod. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 468 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Adi exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writine
FORBIGrKT STAMPS
iUSTRft!
QETS 4 Soudan (Camee) 3s; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B,
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Dear Sir. —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chamber®.
Pltt-Btreefc, Sydney.


Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
JJ-A.JMCOXJS RiJiVIJEDY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
u h? i ve medicin e are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
> Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
u, m ■ i »c its wonaemu influence. Sufferers from anv
n h • Ch - eS -; ??P e P e^ e delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on .... .. .. . , - ...... ....
never Veen hroat-and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain CoUg 18 have been P ro P e rly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
Beware of Coughs!
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold' on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold, i
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
oine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
flolet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hiearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
"Mr. Hearne.— " Katunga, Via
of Rrln’^r l 1 k Very ln , uoh P lease< i with the effects
or 3 our Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of niv chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
th [f e ° f The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
, * now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
chdis l 6r ’ Wh ° '? Bl,fferin ff greatly from bron-
cmtis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
Th , e Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
~ ... „ “ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was vtyy glad when it came
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a .week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused irte such pain' and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir, ’
" Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since wTlutii by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Ilearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
\Vednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the nights rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require a-ny more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but. I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed hy
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLBL
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES P. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
" Mr. W. G. Hearns.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and nsthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous 1 had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS* CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevllle,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry fleariie's
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine 1 quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and 1 have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keepihg very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS- ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEAKVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
LADIES !
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want Human
hair of everv description in stock. ’ Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock:
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . .
liarbers’ Supply Souse.
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “ THE
QUEEN.”
Ask for
WbiSky ai)d
‘Scb^cppc’
SCHWEPPES
( 3dd9MCps,
pOe ApCiejg
J°i >|S^
SODA WATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.PXO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
SYUKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODXJCBRS
OF
FINE SILVER.
mm
.
-
1
■iX&s
■ ■
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO,
N.S. W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.-
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
a
BEWdEI</S FOOD is not only highly ntttf
bat is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, oy
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


“I begin to suspect I am with book.”
—Miss Ferrier, Novelist.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Trice, £7.
THIS MACHINE
Carnage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
-1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart inan.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street.
IF. J. 3f. Oldersliatu, Manager.
(120 PITT STREET); SYDNEY (ONLY).
Nearly opposite G.P.O.
THE
PLUM
fess.
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, ,10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding'. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.IG & AITEBN, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTEY.
ą
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA.
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
CHEAP JEWELLERY.^
•• r-if
Twin Swallow
Brooch, with
Bell or Stone
Pendant, 2/6.
ALL THE
RAGE I
LUCKY CHARM.
Spider, Shamrock, or
Heather, 2/6,
WISH-BONE BROOCH.
With 3 Paris Diamonds, 2/0.
GOLD CASED
WOFtar
BY THE ELITE OF SYDNEY.
ALL GOODS POST FREE IN N.S.W.
<D4
SOLID SILVER
BRACELET,
2/6 and 3/6.
GOLD-CASED
BRACELET,
3/6 and 5/6.
REPAIRS A SPECIALITY.
With Heart and
Buby Eye, 2/6.
Swallow
Broo'ch.
With Heart and
Buby Eye, 2/6.
BAR BROOCH, with Amethyst or Topaz,
and Paris Diamond. Remarkable value. 2/6.
WISH-BONE BROOCH.
With Paris Diamonds, 2/6.
GOLD-CASED BAR BROOCH.
Any Name. 2/6.
With Heart and Handsome Stone, 2/6.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
The wear and appearance of these articles are wonderful, and purchasers in all directions testify to
their delight. Read what one of our clients has to say on the subject:
. I oowoomba, Queensland, 9/1/1900.—1 received Brooch yesterday, and, having shown it to my
neighbors, have much pleasure, on behalf of them, in ordering from you the following goods : 4 Twin
Swallow Brooches and 3 Swallow with Heart; also 2 Walking Stick Brooches.” [The original of this
letter has been shown to the manager of The Bulletin.]
Nickel Watcb and Chain.
Paris Diamond Studs ,
Lady’s Muff Chains .
Sterling Silver Chains
Musical Clocks ...
Alarm Clocks
5/6 and 10/6
1/6 ,; 2/6
2/6 „ 5/6
4/6, 7/6, 10/6
IS/-.
3/6 and 5/6
LINKS (any design)..
Solid Gold Fronts,'
3/6: Silver, 2/6.
J. C. O’BRIEN & CO.,
Agents for the
Manufacturers,
INTERCOLONIAL CLIENTS PLEASE ADD COST OF POSTAGE.
38 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
REPAIRS A SPECIALITY.
Mention The Bulletin.
God’s World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If the Earth were always green, and the Sky were
always bluq,
And the Sea lay calm for ever, and in deserts roses
grew,
If there were no Summer drought, and no blight
in Winter rime,
And the lazy hours fell laughing from the freighted
lap of Time,
Would we love the World the better ? Would our
lives be more sublime ?
If we had all Beauty’s grace, and all Pleasure’s
wealth of joy,
And the sweet was never bitter, and the good had
no alloy,
If we knew no pang of pain, and no cringing
blush of shame,
And the heart of youth and maiden had no hot
desires to tame,
Would we love the World the better ? Would we
love the World the same ?
If we sowed no tears of haste, and we reaped no
thorns of strife,
And there were no notes of discord in the music of
our life,
If we had but gentle arts, and we walked in
flowery ways,
Oh! if every tint were neutral, and if all our
nights were days,
Would we love the World the better, and find
more in life to praise ?
If there were no wounds to heal, and no stricken
hearts to cheer,
Oh ! if Mercy had no mission, and kind Pity shed
no tear;
If there were no deeds to thrill and to weave in
tale and song,
And there were no worlds to conquer, and no
laurels for the strong,
Would we love this World the better ?—would we
love this World for long ?
If there were no mists of Time, and no strivings,
and no fears,
And there were no grim world-puzzles to make
sport of all the years ;
If there were no paths untrod and no frowning
Fates to dare,
If the veil of God were lifted and Eternity lay
bare,
Would we love the World the better in that scent-
less, pulseless air ?
Y.
ANDREW SARD.
One of Providence’s Inscrutable
Ways.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ To be hid from the scourge of the tongue; to be not
afraid of destruction when it cometh.” —Job. ,
He took his overcoat from the hall-rack and tried
to put it on, but the sleeves curled inside out
under his trembling hands; he drew what he
thought was the collar round his throat, and a pipe
and tobacco pouch fell from an inverted pocket.
A spluttering little laugh from the stolid servant-
maid brought him a minute’s furious calm. He
flung the coat over his shoulder, seized his .hat
and stick, and fled like a malefactor down towards
the ferry steamer and freedom. Once he looked
back at a lighted window as if he feared that the
woman who sat within under the light would come
out on the balcony and call him back. But she
stayed as he left her, calm-faced, unruffled,
Eiercing the pattern of the table cover with a long
at pin. There were six brown and six gold bars,
and the woman pierced over and under the bars
alternately, as carefully and consistently as if she
were giving one of her daily music lessons.
Yet her eyes were as blind to the trivial work
as her ears were deaf to that continuous tap, tap,
tap at the door.
Up to an hour ago her soul was full of tender
human emotions, and faith, and love, and high
resolve. Then that man came, and for a short
space her intellect was a blank. He went, and
her intellect was full and clear again, and turned
inwards watching her freezing soul writhe and
shrivel like flower-petals under intense cold, then
finally roll itself into a cocoon that held no
emotions whatever —only dumb animal patience.
Tap, tap, tap.
The woman heard —but nothing could concern
her now. She rose, turned off the gas, pulled up
the blind, and looked without upon the glory of
moonlight lying upon sea and coast-line. Last
night she had looked upon the same scene, resting
her breast upon the balcony railing and listening
with a kind of triumph to the strong, regular pul-
sations of her heart. The throbbing seemed to
blend with the roar of an express train, yet GOO
miles away, that was hurrying her lover to her.
The man had come and gone.
The moonlit was no more than a mountain of
slag.
A louder final knock, then the door was pushed
open and the stolid maid said something in a
frightened voice to the calm-faced woman. What
she said was drowned by a voice from another
room—a voice that demanded to know something,
and himg on the query with a scream of rage.
“ Miss Annis, I wish you’d go to her.”
The maid raised her voice above the discord of
the other.
“ Is anything new the matter?”
“She wants to know all about the gentleman
that called. I could u’t even give her his name.”
Annis Pilcher went into her mother’s room and
faced the strong, angry old woman—whom spinal
paralysis had nailed to her bed for ten years past.
The undisciplined mind of an aboriginal or a
vindictive child, a constitution of steel and teak,
and the temper of a fiend, were the salient points
in the character of the woman whom fate and
nature had made wife and mother. Wife to a man
whom she rasped with her tongue and domineered
with her will until he fled, a drunken sot, to die,
as she heard later, an ocean’s width away from
her. Mother to the broad-browed, gentle girl, to
whom she clung with the tenacity of an octopus
to its prey.
Looking back through the years, Annis Pilcher
could see in the dreamy perspective nothing but
the personality of her mother. It dominated
persons, place and events ; it was always alert to
note and crush the germ of individuality in the
child. It was untiring and terrible in its watch-
fulness lest that child,should think, or speak, or
act for herself. And the figure in the perspective
seemed to be always talking. Her noise domi-
nated every other sound. And though it rang on
many themes the key was generally the same —
discontent. , , .
Amns was twenty when she met her lover.
You shall never marry him,” promised Mrs.
irucner. . ..
Anms, grown suddenly into an individual,
calmly made preparations for her wedding She
had a few hundred pounds left her by a relative,
mi™? sh f. and i ier bank-clerk would have
looked at matrimony from an indefinite distance.
Sh ft all See -’” i raV^b th T T ther ’. “ Nothing
takes place against which I have set my will.
£ od f be jU ,f - he d v Q nf tarid by one
that has never forgotten lnm. You 11 never marry
tb j i ii , ~ , , , ,
Anms and the bank-clerk started house-hunt-
v. , t> -j
T 8 * l e i? ur f d u P l rovlden f oe ca “ e
h ' BShe d ° Wn St ? irS ’i in '
paiMytic. and pr6Sently beCamQ ah °P oless
Annis’s few hundreds went to surgeons, chemists
and invalid-food purveyors. The burden of the
household now fell entirely on the girl. Her
mother had kept a few well-paying boarders, and
Annis had a good many music pupils. The
boarders left, the wedding was indefinitely post-
poned-or until the lover could secure a bank
managership. He was deeply distressed because he
could not afford to marry Annis right off and take
the mother into his home.
* * * »
Annis was 25 when her fiances bank closed its
doors beyond hope of reconstruction. The man
was cleverer than his kind. He had saved a little
money, and he began to work like a tiger at law.
But first he urged the girl to risk something and
marry him. She declined to burden him with the
terrible autocratic mother.
* * • •
Annis was 30 when her solicitor, with a meagre
but growing practice, came down from his back-
blocks and let her find out from his changed
demeanor that he no longer wanted her, let alone
her mother.
“ Well, if I’m not to be pitied ! Really, some-
times I doubt if there’s a God at all, or I would
not be tried beyond endurance ! You cruel, sel-
fish creatures ! Annis, you idiot, come in and
shut the door. Why are you letting in a cold
stream of air on me? And why had Itogo on
ringing, and calling out for the last half-hour ? I
might be dying for all you or that slovenly thing
in the kitchen knew ! Who is that man you’ve
been shut up with for the last hour or more?”
“ It was George Cruden.”
“ Oh, that black-browed Quilp ! Well, what
did he want?”
“ To tell me that he was going to be married.”
Mrs. Pilcher’s expression changed from fury to
triumph, then to curiosity.
“ Who is the girl ? Did he say what she’s like,
or what her people are ? ”
“Neither the girl or her people are of any
interest to me.”
“And you were too selfish to remember that
they might interest me—that a little news might
brighten my living death ! Well, to add to your
other attractions, you are jilted, I suppose. You
have the most extraordinary luck! What are you
doing to those candles? Leave them alone,
Surely I can light them myself. Here, take away
this filthy broth ; it’s nothing but warm water and
salt. No doubt Susan drank the real thing in the
kitchen while you were talking to the man that
jilted you in the drawing-room.” ‘ .
“Susan didn’t touch it. _ It was in a stiff jelly
when I put it on to warm in the dining-room.
“To warm. Oh, it’s been re-heated—and on a
coal-fire! No wonder I was nearly choked with
the smoky taste and smell. I—
“It was reheated on the spirit stove. Did you
bavo r cocoa v »
“Yes It was" raw.”
“Susan says she boiled it seven minutes.”
« < Susan ’-you’re the same kind of fool
70ur father Q uo ting what servants say !As
if that class were not systematic liars.
“Have you done with these oranges?”
“ Aml J in the habit of eating orange rinds ?
T here’s that front | oor b f U again!
Can’t you make that rabble of pupils go round to
i L •. ? „ l L °
“ You mu st know I cannot expect my pupils to
£ j Q r J r r
The stolid maid came in. “Miss Ker for her
i esson ”
Annis turned wearily to leave the room. Her
mot her called after he?, “ You ought to try to get
the Ker girl to refund you the half-crown you paid
for that waltz piece. You spend as much on music
as if you were a musician. Send Susan back to
settle those pillows. No; I said Susan. Your
to ach is so coarse. . ,
That nl S ht cloBed ar ) , e POchm the life of the
young woman And with it died faith and hope
and high resolve. Thenceforth she would be a
music-teaching, housekeeping machine. The in-
dl^A*r was s ’ ain ‘ , , .
°? the morrow began the new year, and as its
>T eek j ent by ’ Ann f’ in her r slck fancy, bkened
} fc and \ ts successors to a crawling centipede of 52
Ifgs. And when the year’s last lagging foot had
been lifted she would gaze back yearningly after
old centipede and wish it had killed her and
taK ® n Wl , n , .
Mrs. Pilcher s native devils, always burly
numerous, were reinforced and reinvigorated by
the fact that there was now no power
behind the gentle, lonely woman who was their
sport. One keen demon made keener the mother s
hearing till she could hear as with an ear-trumpet.
Another smart fiend enabled her to see as with a
microscope. And a phalanx of imps guided her
tongue. But as the years trailed by, Annis would
now and then pause in her treadmill existence to
consider with a curious feeling of satisfaction that
her own spiritual shrinkage was so great that the
native devils could not hurt her as of yore,
Another thing that caused her only contemptuous
amusement was that she was not apparently age-
ing. “lam snowed under!” she would whis-
per ; “snowed under and preserved, just as fish
are kept fresh in a block of ice.”
So, companioniess, unloved, unloving, hopeless,
patient and working—working from daylight till
dark, and after—she went her way, one of the
inscrutable little ways which Providence maps—■
until she was verging on her fortieth year. In
that year, Mrs. Pilcher contracted pneumonia and,
still talking and steeped in self-pity, died.
Like a piece of flesn and blood clockwork Annis
continued her teaching, scarcely interrupted by
the funeral. It was the parson’s wife who broke
in upon her with “ My dear, you must be resigned
to His most holy will. You will meet your darling
mother in God’s hereafter.”
Annis shivered, and gasped “Then let me live
for ever.”
The parson’s lady recoiled, was silent a space ;
then said “ But you are now free and ”
“I am not free. I merely carry a dead corpse
instead of a living one. It is only her voice that
is gone.”
The intervener pondered deeply a minute and
cast slanting glances at Annis.
Presently she asked: “Your mother’s life was
insured, wasn’t it ?”


SHIRTS.
TTor Station and Out-door work our SiLK tsTRiPiS
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per // alf-doxeu, free by post thro ay ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q'laad.
Banjo Paterson’s opinion of the relative
fighting value of British regulars and Australian
irregulars:—
It is a pet theory among Australians that the natural
sharpness and bush experience of our colonial youths make
them better soldiers. Having seen both in action, I have
abandoned this idea. Give me the drilled man every time.
You don’t want the soldier to think for himself. You
have a highly-paid General and a staff of exceptionally-
trained officers to do the thinking. When dealing with
big masses of men the best you can do is to
make sure of each man doing exactly what he is told
and. the less he thinks the better.. Of course, some
special work, such as scouting, would suit our men very
well, but for regulation soldiers’ work you can’t beat the
pure uneducated Tommy. . . . Our boys ride better—
each in his own style. Our horses are unquestionably
better, for this class of country at any rate ; but for com-
bination and effect, we are not in it. An English regiment
is like an eight-oar crew that all pull together. An Aus-
tralian regiment is like a crew that all row on their own
account.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“Ron ” : What has become of the “ 12ft.
monster of the Saurian species quite unknown to
science ’ alleged to have been “ captured by the
in Raglan ” (Maoriland) according to the
fe.M. Herald of October last ? This curiosity, it
was stated, was termed a ‘ ‘ taniwha ” by the
natives, who would exhibit it as soon as the means
of transport could be obtained. Possibly this was
identical with the strange animal seen by a bush-
man, fifty miles from Gisborne, in the previous •
year, which, according to the Melb. Argus, was a
tree-climbing alligator with a head like a bull-dog,
claws and curved teeth —a monster corresponding -
with what the Maoriland natives’ forefathers
called a “kumi.” Not very long ago a large
turtle with an alligator’s head and forelegs
was “discovered” in Brazil and shipped
to the United States for sale, but it died on
the voyage. Investigation revealed that it
was an artificially-constructed montrosity, the
work of a local white who had “planted” his
freak conveniently for the natives to discover.
Biologists have proved that insects can be grafted
into each other, with the greatest ease, and con-
tinue to grow. The double-bodied bee, the centi-
pede with a spider’s head, the earwig-spider-and-
bee combination, etc., are well-known examples.
Ihe operator usually commences work on the
ovum or larva of the insect, and the comparatively
new science of embryology shows that every
opportunity exists for similar operations in the
reptile world. If the Maori’s “taniwha” and
“ kumi ” were not myths, perhaps some local
scientist is working the M.L. back-blocks on the
Island of Dr. Moreau” principles, and some of
his preliminary “subjects” have escaped from
custody.
let
bk:
m
HAVE NEVER BEEN BEATEN
AS A CURE TOR
ALL LIVER AILMENTS.
A CASE IN POINT.
Mrs. May Williams, of 350 Fitzroy-st., Fitzroy, Melbourne, says:— “For years past
I nave suffered much from sluggish liver, which by inducing other complaints caused me a
great deal of misery. Pains in the back and under the shoulder were almost unbearable,
l am sure that at different times I have tried a score of well advertised remedies and
got no relief, -hive months ago, in consequence of hearing some of my acquaint-
ances speak highly of Bile Beans, I decided to try them. I was very bad at the time
with one of my periodical attaoks of the liver. My life was a misery when I began on
Bile Beans, but they acted in a wonderful manner. In three days I felt a decided
C la I n n e i° r better, the distressing symptoms disappeared, the sallowness left my face,
and the hue of health returned. To-day I feel as well as ever I did in my life, and that
has been brought about by three boxes of Bile Beans.; I am sure that if their virtues
were fullyrecogmsed not a house m Australia would be without a box of Bile Beans.”
t'i Beans are an undoubted specific for Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion,
Debility, b emale Ailment, Liver Trouble, Costiveness, Piles, that tired feeling, &c.
ptmble at all chemists and storekeepers, or direct from the Australian Depdt, 39
Pitt-street, Sydney. Price, 13Jd. PER LARGE BOX.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists:
From Dr. REDWOOD, Ph.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., See.,
hate Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“ My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years-—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, amd Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity— to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free. from, all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Fh.D., &c.,
lecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons ’ Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“ I have made careful analyses of Pears*
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
at different shops in Edinburgh,
and I can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any _ foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
“ Yes, a man told me to-day that I would cefc
about £150.” B
“ Well, even if you have to spend every penny
° f . it on a holiday, a holiday you must have.
We 11 risk getting the pupils back. You shall not
so much as look on a keyboard for three months.
m going to pack for you now, and you shall
come with me. ”
Annis went and lived amongst cheerful normal
people who amused and petted her, and before the
three months were up she was herself cheerful
and normal. There were indications that the
tender human .emotions could suffer resurrection.
Her soul was waking from its frozen sleep. Her
fine eyes no longer reminded one of haunted
houses. She began to take an interest in. her
mirror, and would often smile at her reflection
and wonder if George Cruden had altered as little
as the woman he had loved. She never heard of
him save when she read with monotonous regu-
larity of the birtli of his babies.
One afternoon Annis, left alone at the Parson-
age luncheon-table, was staring dreamily ahead,
when her gaze was oaught and fixed by a ray of
sunlight striking a decanter of Red Hermitage at
the other end of the table. A crimson stain was
projected upon the white cloth. Annis gazed as
if fascinated at the wine, where the light showed
it red and. beading. “It looks like blood in a
heart,” she whispered, “ revivified, blood. How
the red patch grows and glows ! It is throwing a
radiance outside itself just as my heart is doing.
I feel as I did ten years ago—no, I feel better than
that, perfectly untrammeled and joyous.”
The parson’s wife came in and put a letter into
the dreamer’s hand. “You are looking so well,
dear—such an improvement,” volunteered the
lady as Annis carelessly slit the envelope with her
fruit-knife. Annis laughed, looking up at the
speaker. “You will have to hang weights to my
feet presently,” she said, “or I shall soar up, and
up, like those pink balloons that the kiddies—
: why what in the world is this letter about! It is
dated from ‘ The Home for Disreputables, Queens-
land.’ ”
She began to read the letter aloud, but her voice
trailed into silence, she finished it to herself and
after a time looked up with the same stony mask
of a face and the untenanted eyes of the past ten
years.
She spoke quietly: “ The manager of the Home
for Disreputables writes to say that my father has
been an inmate of the Home for five years. He
has chronic bronchitis and rheumatism, and is
very refractory. With care, he may live to a very
old age. He is on an interprovincial boat now, on
his way to me. The manager would be glad if I
could send a donation to the Home.”
Hbr vacant eyes rested again on the decanter of
wine. The sUnrays'had slanted elsewhere the
red stain was gone. For aught her gaze could tell
the crystal bottle might be full of ink.
A.C.Q.
The Last Review.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All in the dead of night
The moon with face of white—
Half-hidden, half-revealed—
Shines on a battlefield.
The clouds across her face
In flying squadrons race,
As though they fought on high
A battle in the sky.
Past are the day’s alarms ;
The soldiers on their arms
Sleep sound ; their quiet rest
No cannon shall molest.
No mind of rank they ke ;p,
Captains by privates sleep;
The rifles grimly manned,
The sword grasped in the hand.
Stark symbols of spent fciice
The horseman and his horse
Together lie as still
As stones upon the hill.
.' But hark ! A phantom sound
Goes that grim field around.
Was it the wind of dread
That keens above the ad ?
’Twas not the wind at all—•
It was a trumpet-call
To summon soldiers true
Unto their Last Review.
Rank after rank they rise,
Unseen of living eyes,
And form in order fair
Of marching column there.
Once more the squadrons wheel
In line ; the flash of steel
Is seen, beneath the moon,
Prom Lancer and Dragoon.
The drums begin to beat,
The fifes play piercing-sweet,
A weird and ghostly time,
Beneath the haggard moon.
But who comes riding by
The ranks, with sovran eye—
A figure cloaked and tall ?
It is the General.
A pale horse rideth he,
Whose hoofs move silently
Amidst the blood-stained dew—
It is the Last Review.
As signal of command
He waves a fleshless hand,
And troop by troop the wan
Weird army marches on.
No sound at all is heard
Amidst the ranks ; no word
•Comrade to comrade speaks ;
No converse any seeks.
They look not left nor right.
Their eyes, all ghastly bright,
"' Are fixed' upon the dim
Horfzbn’s far-off rim.
What visions see they there
Of hope or of despair ?
. So goes with noiseless tread
The Army of the Dead.
Y.J.D.
In a Woman’s Refuge.
A lady of The Bulletin’s acquaintance tells this
story:—
Went for journalistic experiences to spend a night at
the Salvation Army’s Refuge for Women, after having
donned a garb of ancient lineage, and trained my front
lock to grow out of a manufactured aperture in a care-
fully battered straw hat. It was an abnormally wet
night, floods rushing to meet each other from different
corners of the street, and I brought a good deal of the
deluge with me when f streaked into the refreshment
room of the Refuge, and demanded “ a threepenny bed.”
The Woman’s Refuge is down by Darling Harbor, in an
old ramshackle building, consisting mostly of sloppy
courtyards. The Army was going to give this place up
with much contempt when it got possession of the Nata-
torium in Pitt-street, but now the big new building with
its modern conveniences is kept' for the men, while the
women roost in the old, close, musty, damp quarters The
room the Lassie led me to was on the ground floor across
a courtyard, and if the rain lasted many hours longer it
was easy to see that each long narrow bed would be
turned into a Noah's Ark. However, there was nobody in
the beds except the lawful occupants. The bare walls
too, were clean, and the room was lit up by some bright
texts over bedsteads and mantelpiece, such as “Come to
the Lord, and other observations to that effect. A cer-
tain amount of pains has been taken in nailing up these
texts, but if the same quantum of labor had been ex-
pended in knocking up a few hooks so that we could drain
some of the deluge out of our garments, perhaps fewer
women would go to the Lord in the way there is no goin°-
back upon. As it was, there were but two methods of
disposing of one s superfluous rags. One was to roll them
up tight and shove them under the bed ; the other to
arrange them round the foot of the couch and let ’em
drip. The latter was my choice, to the great indignation
of my neighbor, who thereby got her feet wet, a thing
she said, which had not happened to her for twenty
years. The Army Lassie here came in and said she hoped
I was a good girl, and told me to cast my burden upon
the Lord (which always seems to me a rude sort of thing
to do). Then she went out, and a number of dubious
characters entered t'll all the 30 beds were occupied.
After which, though fresh air would have been desirable
the door was closed to keep out the rain.
**• * *
The woman on my left was a virtuous woman. She
mentioned this to me quite frankly. She said she was
legally married to her husband because her first husband
was dead. He wasn’t legally married to her because his
first wife was still living-, but her marriage was all right
whatever his might be. I frequently wished that she
had not been quite so virtuous, as the spotlessness of her
character kept me awake. It also led to recriminations
between her and the woman on my other side. This
lydy was half-drunk, and at 12 o'clock the Army
lassies brought in someone universally hailed as
Glyra, ' whose position on a stretcher plainly
showed her condition to be still worse. Olyra was
“ orright ” and gave no trouble, but the half-drunk
lydy and the virtuous woman kept up a fire of sar-
casm and a flow of language all night, from which circum-
stance I propose two reforms : First, that when a lydy
comes in who is only half-drunk, the Army officers shall
be compelled to escort her, to an adjacent brewery and
complete the job ; also, that virtuous women, who are
legally married to their husbands, though their husbands
aren t to them, should he charged extra. Something to
this effect was murmured on all sides : “It’s a shyme ”
said Flossie, “ Ciyra’s keepin’ her mug shut. Why can*t
-'J' 11 * _lt s inyuman, that’s what it is,” groaned the
rheumatic woman, from the far end. “I'm that tired
with the wasliin’, I am.” The animosity between the
two combatants reached a culminating point when, at 2
a.m., the semi-tipsy one discovered that she wanted her
at It was explained to her that a hat wasn’t necessary
an that time of night; she insisted on going
the rounds, feeling every head to find out who was wear-
ing it. But as she . approached the bed sanctified by
virtue there was a gleam of white ; and a long pair of
kangaroo-like legs, shooting out, cleverly landed a crum-
pled and much-disorganised lydy on the cold floor. An
hour later she experienced a similar craving for her
boots, and we had leisure to reflect over what would
happen if she assaulted one of us in mistake for the Vir-
tuous Woman, and wonder if the army officers would
come to the rescue in time or no. Thus passed the night.
* * -- • *
At half-past seven we awoke from the sleep we hadn’t
had, washed a soapless wash, and dried amicably at the
same towel. We brushed our hair with oiir hands (one
bloated aristocrat used a bit of sliarp crockery). Our
breakfast was bread and bjitter—one halfpenny ; a cup of
rather sugarless tea—another halfpenny. The butter
was real butter, but the tea tasted like the sort of feoffee
that tastes like tea, also like various other things like-
wise like nothing very muoh in particular. When we
had eaten and drunk, some of the ladies departed to
hang up what garments, they could spare upon the
clothes-line, though how they expected them to dry in
the fog I cannot tell. The rest of us, including the vir-
tuous woman and Olyra, trailed our sodden and disre-
putable way into the morning gloom.


The Best Family Medicine
Is one that will Purify the Blood, Strengthen the Nerves,
Aid Digestion, and Make the Blood Rich and Red.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
f
%
&
IS
“I wish to say to every one that I have used a great deal of Ayer's
Sarsaparilla in my family. I believe it is the best family medicine there is
m the world.
“ Once, while I was on a vessel trading to the East Indies and also while I
wa ? Lying in Calcutta, I used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for impurities in my blood,
and. with the best results. I always took a stock of it with me when I went on
my voyages. I could not feel safe without it. For eruptions of the skin, boils
and such affections it is a quick and sure cure. I recoinli Jit to everybody
Suffe £l n . g . in the blood, showing itself in any way whatsoever.”
- s , 1S • a * W * A - Lindsay (whose portrait, with that of his wife and
child, is here given), of Stanthorpe, Queensland, Australia, thinks of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. Because of the multitude of such cases, the people call Ayer’s
oarsapariila
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
i- ® ec^ use some other preparation may be called a sarsaparilla is not the
slightest reason that it is anything like “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. If you wish
these quick results, these safe results, these sure results, you must insist upon
getting “Ayer’s.” Make a particular point of this.
AYER’S Sawapanlla
The
ip;
That "Cures.
It Removes Disease by Purifying the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills Aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
ǻ
PLAIN HOME TALK
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
]0 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages
spaas* 2™, I tss far
women both in and out ofiZS * * o ° f nieri and
anticipates a bright future, and wifh'es to enjoy married l«e in
ssstsrr**"* 10 wi,h
Sprwhks and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody, public speaking made easy. Is fid nos t
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is fid. p
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards illns
Is ; post, Is 3d. ' ’
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is. .
How to Become a \ kxtriloquist ; post free Is The
Art of Wrestling, post is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. tsfid post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6,1 posted. Clog dlncing Tutor Is
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals.’ 3s 6d
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d nost free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus Is 6d nos ed
iRSSiTO w “~- A «rf?lgg
*%*£*£“ H “ G “* <only .*™“*»?>
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled. Is6d nost-
C( >mc Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is (id posted
Ciievasse s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted
V i°s 3d R free 06 " S< *° *"* son ff s,
s “»- * «*• ■*»«•
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
the numerous ' SPECIALLY n^nMtESTING^AND^ARFROO^® J-?u d and new ) that
by him are still obtainable as before Want of tSce ltherto .^vertised
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books-most of ? mentioning any in particu-
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK
SIR ROBERT BEHR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO OEIT’Y COMEEXITIOW.
WINES The Best Brands Only of
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS,
SPIRITS.
CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAM's
F Giddiness l'iilnpM V » U H disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Wg of He®!’ Ti“ an . d r Swelling after Meals Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
turbed Sleen ’ and all ?P efclte Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WILL GIVE BELIEF IN* TWENTY MINX
earnestiv invifnd fn <■ ~,r ’ l, 1 ,, IVIIX I BS. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
GUINEA A BOX " B ° X ° f these PlllS ’ and they WiU , be acknowled &ed to be “ WORTH A
promDtlv rlminve aken directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
Muscultr
arousing- wiih n, P ’untmmf the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
are “ faeta ” nrimift ?n C Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
Nervnna and n i -rt t- 'a thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
he world. Alfdhectiofswithtach'BoS 16 ’ ° f my Patent Medieme in
PBEPABED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EHOLANB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is ljjjl, and 2s 9d each.
PetfFUMt
Wm
TORMF IASI
wmm raran
•KOdNcn
WNoaow
«) Nag-Nag
INVALUABLE TO
SWGEJBS & SPEAKERS
fce
m
ä
LEA &
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Observe the
Signature
Blue Ink
ty Qcp os s the Outside
of even B ° ttle '
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
AGENTS : Messrs, VIRGOE, SOX, and CHAPMAN,
and DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ELD-RIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STItJUUT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies pro rtipthj
attended to.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY
H°n^ LOWAYS PILL 'S AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised „ u '
the healing virtuesof these /randmedlc.nes have not
recognised by thousands ol sufferers. In all the md/
ailments of humanity their beneficentactoni«l“ Sry
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY TUFM m
factored only at 78 New OxFORD-ST./Uonlon
chasers should look to the Label on the ,7 ,
If the address is not 523 toeyare
spurious, - “* baQ y a *e
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OF
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
when suffering from a sever?coM°in the'head and Throat im '? ediate relief
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.” upon taklng a few d °ses of yo ur
Bonnington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion
and all Liver Disorders!


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
Citt Office :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
HOTEL
G-eorge and
Market-Sts.
Board or
or Apartments at Option.
ZKEammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS
<s>he Wbbot
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The (Host powerful Driving gelt in the |||orld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India ,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM ... ... 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
æ
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
wcrs PJITEBT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales daring the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents : ■■■rnrtiMto
Wm, Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE DO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process : but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and iff he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke .& Lacy Co. ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & GENERAL MACHINERY. ENGINES & BOILERS.
Repp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Chat Benge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
tngersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
ǽ
Knowles Steam Pumps
Bullock Diamond Drills
Columbia Boilers
Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Bartlett Concentrators
Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
Blake Steam Pumps
a
Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping purpose.
Estimates given for Complete Pump-
ing Plants, including Boilers,
Piping, &c.
Blake Duplex Pump. Sole Age-nts for Australasia :
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Go.
STREET,
SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
BOILER FEED BfcIMP
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
